

401 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1360 words

HEADLINE: Upheaval in the East;
BILLIONS IN HELP FOR EAST GERMANY APPROVED BY BONN

BYLINE: By SERGE SCHMEMANN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BONN, Feb. 14

 BODY:
Leaders of both Germanys today welcomed the agreement of the wartime Allies to join in shaping a united Germany. As if to begin the process, Bonn approved a supplementary budget of $4.1 billion, most of it to shore up East Germany until reunification could be achieved.
The aid package included a reserve fund of $1.2 billion (2 billion marks), and $1 billion for East German resettlers arriving in West Germany. An additional $1.4 billion was designated for immediate use for specific purposes, ranging from credits for small and medium-size businesses to currency exchange for East German visitors.
 
Agreement by Allies
The vote on the additional aid came the day after Germany's main adversaries in the war - the United States, the Soviet Union, Britain and France -agreed in Ottawa to shape a negotiating framework for German reunification. 
It also coincided with the conclusion of a visit by the East German Prime Minister, Hans Modrow, who failed in his effort to get $9 billion, or 15 million marks, in emergency money, and left showing his disappointment. None of the money in the supplemental budget was to be dispersed by Mr. Modrow's interim Government, which ends after parliamentary elections March 18.
Before leaving, Mr. Modrow welcomed the Ottawa decision, which he said was the best means of protecting German and Allied interests. Chancellor Helmut Kohl's spokesman declared that Bonn ''greets the creation and contents of the Ottawa agreement.''
 
Bonn Aide Is Pleased
The strongest plaudits came from a spokesman for Foreign Minister Hans-Dietrich Genscher, who played a major role in shaping the agreement. ''We see this as an exceptionally important development and a great success for the West German Foreign Minister, an important step toward German unity,'' the spokesman said. [In Ottawa, the Polish Foreign Minister, Krzysztof Skubiszewski, called for a unified Germany to remain in the NATO alliance, warning that the nation might otherwise become ''a power or superpower on the European stage.'' Page A18.] The concurrence of these various events underscored the hectic pace of the German drive toward unity. But there was also a sense in Bonn that the agreement in Ottawa, following by two days a go-ahead to unity from Moscow, had lifted the last major historical obstacles to unity, and left the Germans clear now to start patching together their severed land. But even as these hurdles were cleared, signs were gathering that the mechanics of reunification could prove at least as difficult and contentious as winning the political green light.
On the international front, the Ottawa decision still left unresolved the critical issue of the place of a united Germany in the security alignment of Europe. The Western allies continued to insist that it could not be neutral, and therefore that Germany had to remain in NATO. Moscow insisted that it could not be other than neutral.
Also lost in the swirl of the moment were the repeated signals from Moscow that it would insist on maintaining as much influence as possible over the future Germany. The Kremlin's repeated insistence that ''everything must be done so that the threat of fascism never again emanates from German soil,'' for example, was likely to prove more than an oratorical flourish once the talks began.
''These six-power negotiations are going to be brutal,'' a Western diplomat said. ''Things have happened so quickly that many Germans seem to think the rest will be as easy. But the next six to nine months are going to be a very nervous and tense time.''
There was a faint echo in this warning of the first postwar years, when the victorious Allies haggled inconclusively for years over Germany's fate, until in 1948 the three Western Allies agreed on a central Government for their occupation zones, which came to form West Germany. East Germany was formed in the Soviet zone soon after.
 
Allies Trying to Keep Up
The difference, however, was that a defeated Germany had little say over its fate then. Now, it is the Germans who were setting the agenda and leading the way to their union, and the Allies seem to be struggling to keep up.
For now, Mr. Kohl and Mr. Genscher joined NATO in insisting that Germany must remain in the Western camp. But a public-opinion poll by the Wickert Institute found that 9 out of 10 East Germans, and more than half of West Germans, thought a reunified Gemany should be neutral. Such sentiments were not likely to be ignored in an election year.
On the internal side, the mix of intense election-year politicking, a continuing exodus from East Germany and uncertainty over the cost and effects of union tempered expectations with anxiety.
At the center of the action, Mr. Kohl appeared to be barreling ahead toward unity with a single-mindedness that bordered on the aggressive.
 
Cavalier Treatment of Modrow
The attitude was demonstrated in his cavalier treatment of the visiting Mr. Modrow. Evidently sensing that East Germany's caretaker Prime Minister was politically powerless, Mr. Kohl gave him a negligent welcome and used the meeting largely to announce a preparatory committee for monetary union.
Mr. Modrow made no secret of his disappointment. Both he and his delegation seemed especially to bridle at Mr. Kohl's refusal to grant the 15 billion marks that they had requested in ''solidarity aid.'' Asked directly if he was disappointed, Mr. Modrow answered, ''If you say it that way, yes.''
In pressing for monetary union, Mr. Kohl argued that the step was critical to stem the exodus from the East and to prevent the disintegration of East Germany. But to many in both East and West his eyes seemed fixed more on the gathering political race for West German national elections Dec. 2.
Some economists and diplomats in West Germany argued that the call for quick economic union glossed over the complexity and dislocation of the move. Both in East and West Germany, people increasingly worry over the social benefits so dear to the Germans.
 
'Who Is Going to Pay?'
Der Spiegel magazine featured an article on the subject on its cover this week. The magazine cited the popular slogan, ''Germany, United Fatherland,'' and added, ''It could become an expensive one.'' West Germans, the magazine said, were wondering ''who is going to pay for all this,'' if the East Germans' ''wages, pensions and subsidies are also paid in Deutschemarks.''
''And if the strong mark is threatened and Bonn has to go deeper into debt, will taxes rise?'' the article asked.
The anxiety was even sharper in East Germany, where the introduction of the Deutschemark threatened to upset not only savings and pensions, but to drive uncompetitive enterprises rapidly out of business and their employees out of work.
''Someone who speaks quickly and happily only of an unstable G.D.R. or its troubled economy must be asked in the end if he does not want to lower the price of unification to the disadvantage of the people,'' Mr. Modrow said at a news conference Tuesday.
But many West Germans seemed increasingly to accept the prospect that whatever the cost of monetary union, there was no other choice, and to feel that it was best to act quickly.
 
'What Does Economics Count?'
''What does economics count in times like these?'' asked Edzard Reuter, the head of Daimler Benz. ''It's a political decision. I think it's politically correct, and we all have to support it.''
Part of such thinking was based on the fact that little anyone did in East or West seemed to have any effect on the exodus of East Germans. More than 1,800 continue to leave every day, and polling by West German officials showed increasingly that the resettlers simply saw no reason to remain in East Germany, whatever happened there.
The prospect of a democratically elected government's coming to power after the March 18 elections held out little hope for a quick improvement in morale. Officials in Bonn said it would take time for the new leaders to find their way, and West German politicians, locked in their own campaign, were in any case likely to continue trying to direct affairs in the East.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A supplementary budget of $4.1 billion, most of it to shore up East Germany until reunification, was approved by Bonn yesterday, but none of it will go to the interim government of Prime Minister Hans Modrow, who ended his visit to the West after falling in his bid for $9 billion in emergency money. (Reuters) (pg. A18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GERMANY (99%); CANADA (93%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); EUROPE (79%); POLAND (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EAST GERMANY; WEST GERMANY; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); GREAT BRITAIN; FRANCE

SUBJECT: GERMANY, REUNIFICATION OF; FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); ELECTIONS (74%); EXCHANGE RATES (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); CURRENCIES (55%); 

PERSON: SCHMEMANN, SERGE HELMUT MICHAEL KOHL (54%); HELMUT KOHL (54%); 



402 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-21

 
Bonn approved additional aid of $4.1 billion for East Germany, while leaders of both Germanys welcomed the agreement of the wartime Allies to join in shaping a united Germany.
 Page A1

 
News analysis: Germany's stature once reunification takes place has become the focus of Western European governments who are bracing for a Germany rich and powerful enough to dominate European affairs. A1

 
United Germany urged to be in NATO A18

 
Moscow is reticent on Germanys A18

 
News analysis: Moscow lays bare strategic weakness
 A19

 
The Soviet Parliament's opening day of the new session featured speeches on the nation's social and economic crises. But lawmakers decided that they need more time to debate a request from President Gorbachev for stronger executive powers to deal with the crises. A20 
 
 
Angry politics in the Soviet heartland A20

 
Albanian-Serb tension touches all in Kosovo A20

 
Who is Z? Former student points to Berkely professor A20

 
Prague leans toward symbolic in choice of ambassadors A19

 
A large cocaine-processing complex was turned over to the Colombia Government by drug traffickers, apparently in an attempt to grab some of the spotlight that is being focused on President Bush's coming meeting on drugs. A1

 
Nelson Mandela's public remarks have generally fallen short of the expectations of many whites, and some blacks, who had anticipated the kind of inspirational vision that distinguished Martin Luther King. A21

 
Mandela's day: exercise and uproar A21

 
As fear of famine grows in Ethiopia, war imperils relief
 A21

 
An Indian Airlines plane crashed in the southern city of Bangalore, killing at least 89 people. The plane had been in use for less than two months. A3

 
Official Islam proving gentler in Bangladesh A17

 
China replaces leaders of domestic security force A3

 
Japanese grumble before they vote A11

 
Cheney begins Asian trip seen as a prelude to military cuts
 A10

 
Perrier's recall becomes global after new finding D1

 
Shattered East Beirut getting relief supplies A8

 
Monument to '73 war: an Egyptian alamo? A9

 
Mexico and Vatican move toward restoring ties A16

 
Top Swedish party threatens to end coalition
 A15

 
National A22-29, B14-18

 
John Sununu's environmental stands concern some Republican officials as the environment becomes a more important issue for the party. A1

 
California's primary date appears likely to be moved up to a date that would make California the first large state to vote in the 1992 Presidential primaries. Such a move would drastically reshape the way nominees are chosen. A22

 
Reagan Iran-contra role may be clarified with his testimony
 B14

 
Washington Talk: Moynihan idea befuddles Democrats
 A22

 
Contraceptive research in the U.S. has fallen decades behind Europe, a panel of experts convened by the National Academy of Sciences said. A1

 
Curbs on abortion for young gain in two states
 B18

 
Women who work a second job are becoming as common as men. Many find that it is the only way to eke out a working-class life. The change can be seen in Harrisburg, Pa., with its diverse economy and unemployment near the national average. A1

 
Drexel's bankruptcy filing, the largest in Wall Street history, has left a disparate collection of groups owed money, including Japanese banks and insurers and the Federal Government. D1

 
The Rocky Flats Plant, the sole supplier of plutonium triggers for thermonuclear weapons, is facing intense pressure for a full public accounting of accidents and operations that have contaminated the Denver area with plutonium. B15

 
High-risk strategy taking toll on insurer
 D1

 
M.I.T. selects biologist on faculty as President
 A22

 
Two satellites lofted to test laser defense plan
 B16

 
Oil blown ashore in California, aiding cleanup
 A24

 
Mate on Exxon Valdez says tanker was steered into reef
 A25

 
Blacks found more susceptible to tuberculosis
 A29

 
Regional B1-13

 
A suit against six local union groups, union officials and reputed organized-crime figures was filed by the Government in a civil action to end what the authorities say is Mafia domination of the New York and New Jersey waterfronts. A1

 
The focus of Trump vs. Trump, if and when it goes to court, could be four documents of about 35 pages apiece: the couple's pre-and postnuptial agreements. B1

 
Covenant House officials provided a 26-year-old drifter with false identity papers at the behest of the Rev. Bruce Ritter, they said. B1

 
Hynes, taking over Brooklyn job, takes on Holtzman
 B1

 
35 charged in fraud case at child welfare agency
 B3

 
Undercover inquiry at schools assailed by civil liberties chief
 B3

 
Brooklyn man arrested in purse-snatch killing
 B3

 
Doctor named in AIDS suit contradicts point of accuser
 B2

 
F.A.A. inspector stands by criticism of airline in crash
 B10

 
Many New Jersey Blue Cross users may face an insurance crisis when they receive their new bills. Last month Blue Cross received an average 24.6 percent rate increase for individual policyholders. B1

 
Kean's transit plan is called mostly a figment
 B2

 
Arrests are made in Connecticut in sinking of lobster boat
 B5

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (96%); EUROPE (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); ETHIOPIA (79%); KOSOVO (79%); SERBIA (79%); ALBANIA (79%); BANGLADESH (79%); INDIA (57%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); KARNATAKA, INDIA (57%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

COMPANY: INDIAN AIRLINES (53%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); POLITICS (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (71%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (70%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); FAMINE (69%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (66%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (66%); COCAINE (66%); AIRLINES (63%); RELIGION (62%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (55%); 

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%); JOHN SUNUNU (52%); 



403 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 4, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 977 words

HEADLINE: Marseilles Journal;
Murder, Racism, Drugs, Graft: Fact or Folklore?

BYLINE: By ALAN RIDING, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MARSEILLES, France, Feb. 8

 BODY:
The good citizens who are dedicated to rescuing Marseilles from its image as a violent, corrupt, racist and generally-to-be-avoided city are understandably gloomy these days as they try to explain that things are not the way they look.
The problem this time is a body, a body of the bullet-riddled variety that has a way of evoking gang warfare. The victim was a local politician who, the police say, was ordered killed by another politician, all of which also suggests something is amiss in public life here.
Then there is the link to a supposed ''war'' between private health clinics since the latest victim and a man slain here 20 months ago were doctors and two of the men now under arrest for involvement in both killings are also doctors. Control of lucrative clinics, it would seem, was a factor. 
But the problems facing the image builders of Marseilles run deeper. It is not simply that this case has won headlines around France because it fits into what the distraught Mayor of Marseilles, Robert Vigouroux, calls the country's ''caricatured view'' of this proudly cosmopolitan Mediterranean port.
 
More Than Meets the Eye
It is also that the natives of Marseilles are avid students of politics whose daily bread comprises speculation, rumor-mongering and conspiracy-building. And for them, at least, there are enough other loose elements around to convince that much more - not less - is involved than meets the eye.
In the bars that circle the old port, one line of logic leads to drugs. Marseilles's role in the French connection of heroin flowing into the United States ended early in the 1970's, but more recently Government officials have warned that traffickers may be laundering drug money through here.
Political foes are trying to incriminate Mr. Vigouroux, not only because he visited Panama when it was still run by Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega, but also because he appointed the murder victim to be a district mayor and received campaign contributions from one of the suspected killers.
Then there are doubts whether the slain politician, Jean-Jacques Peschard, was after all ''the good doctor'' he was made out to be. Six years ago, his mistress, Christine Barras, disappeared mysteriously and while Dr. Peschard was never charged in the case the police dug up his back garden in search of a body.
 
'It Is All False'
All this has provided a field day for French newspapers intent on showing Marseilles the way most Frenchmen think it is - a mixture of Chicago in the 1930's and Medellin today where life is cheap, politics are crooked and the natives are innately dishonest. ''It is all false,'' the Mayor said.
Two years ago, convinced that Marseilles's poor image was keeping away private investors and contributing to the city's economic troubles, a group of business and civic associations formed an organization called New Outlook on Marseilles dedicated to fighting back. The local Bar Association, which joined last month, has now pledged to sue newspapers that defame the city.
''Why do people get indignant?'' asked Laurent Gilardino, news editor at the daily Le Meridional. ''First, they feel vulnerable. Second, what happens here is often not the fault of the people of Marseilles but of geography. Third, if this happened elsewhere, it would not be blamed on the people.''
Charges of racism, for example, stem from the fact that, in the first round of the 1988 presidential elections, Jean-Marie Le Pen, head of the xenophobic National Front, won 28.4 percent of the votes here. Yet while migrants from North Africa represent almost one-quarter of the port's one million population, racial incidents here are rare.
Having served as the main port of entry of successive waves of invaders and migrants since its foundation 2,600 years ago, Marseilles in fact seems comfortable with its role as melting pot. Its main complaint is economic, seeing the burden of absorbing migrants as one reason for high unemployment.
According to the national police, even Marseilles's reputation for violence is undeserved, with murders and armed robberies here proportionately no higher than, say, in Paris. ''Organized crime is much less structured than people think,'' a police spokesman said.
Michael Anselme, a local sociologist, agreed. ''Criminals don't exercise political influence here,'' he said. ''The underworld is violent but the city is not. There is gang rivalry, they settle their accounts with guns, but they shoot straight.''
Nonetheless, the ''war of the clinics,'' as it is known here, may take some unraveling. A shady underworld figure, Roger Memmoli, has confessed to killing both Dr. Peschard and Dr. Leonce Mout, the owner of a large clinic gunned down in May 1988. He said he did so on orders of Dr. Armand Gallo, who is also a municipal councillor.
 
No Drug Connection Found
The police have also arrested Marcel Long, who supposedly acted as Mr. Memmoli's driver, as well as Marc Galeazzi, who worked for Dr. Mout, and Dr. Jean Couraqui, who owns four health clinics and was rebuffed in his attempts to buy Dr. Mout's clinc. They have denied the charges, although Dr. Gallo has admitted asking Mr. Memmoli to give Dr Peschard ''a fright.''
So far, no drug connection has been found, while Mr. Vigouroux has explained that he visited Panama in 1986 to support a bid for a contract by a local company and received General Noriega in Marseilles when he traveled to France a few months later to be honored by the French Government.
But whatever the final outcome in this case, all the stereotypes about Marseilles have already been recycled. The weekly Le Point even opened its coverage with what it said was the latest joke in the city.
''Herbert von Karajan is dead,'' a man told his wife, referring to the late conductor. ''Who bumped him off?'' his 4-year-old son inquired innocently.

GRAPHIC: Photo: French newspapers have used events like the murder of Jean-Jacques Peschard, a local politician, to portray Marseilles as a generally-to-be-avoided city where life is cheap, politics are crooked and the natives are innately dishonest. Policemen inspected Dr. Peschard's car after his assassination last month. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); PANAMA (79%); 

STATE: PROVENCE-ALPES-COTE D'AZUR, FRANCE (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FRANCE; MARSEILLES (FRANCE)

SUBJECT: CORRUPTION (90%); MURDER (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CONSPIRACY (76%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); ARRESTS (71%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (69%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (69%); MONEY LAUNDERING (68%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (65%); HEROIN (64%); 

PERSON: JEAN-JACQUES PESCHARD (64%); 



404 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: Cheney Begins Asian Trip Seen as a Prelude to Military Cuts

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Feb. 14

 BODY:
Secretary of Defense Dick Cheney arrived in Asia today for 10 days of talks that allies of the United States see as a prelude to a major reduction of American forces in the Philippines and South Korea, and to renewed tensions with Japan over its contribution to the American military's huge presence here.
The trip is expected to be particularly tense for Mr. Cheney, especially in the Philippines, where President Corazon C. Aquino said Sunday that she would not meet the Defense Secretary in a widening dispute with the United States over military aid and criticisms of her performance.
But it will also be delicate in South Korea, where Mr. Cheney arrived tonight. Anti-Americanism often runs high in Seoul, where a giant United States base still dominates a hilltop in the middle of the city, but the South Korean Government has been anxious in recent weeks that a large pullout might be particularly dangerous now. 
 
More Reductions Expected
Mr. Cheney has said repeatedly that he has no plans for immediate, dramatic changes in 120,000 forces in the Pacific, but he has also left open the possibility of significant reductions.
So far the only big reduction announced by the Pentagon has come in South Korea, where two air bases are being turned over to South Korean forces and about 2,000 jobs - mostly support staff - are being eliminated.
But there is a widespread expectation that in the next few months Mr. Cheney will announce reductions of another 4,000 to 5,000 of the 43,000 American military personnel there. Both South Koreans and Americans in Seoul agree that such cutbacks can be made without hurting American strength.
 
How Much Seoul Pays
But there are significant differences remaining. The United States says that South Korea currently pays about $300 million a year for stationing American military in the country; South Koreans say the figure is closer to $2 billion. Most analysts expect that South Korea will eventually be given the choice of paying more or watching half or more of the Americans go home.
South Korean officials say it will be a particularly dangerous time to cut the forces. Kim Il Sung's 42-year-old Government is one of the few Communist regimes so far unaffected by Eastern Europe's upheavals. When he dies, some experts predict a power struggle that could lead to a show of force on the DMZ, or demilitarized zone.
The Secretary's trip to the Philippines promises to be far less collegial. The leases on Clark Air Base and Subic Bay Naval Station, two of America's biggest installations in the Pacific, expire next year and a majority of the Philippine Senate opposes renewal. Worsening matters, Congress recently reduced aid to the Philippines by $96 million, from the scheduled $360 million.
 
An Angry Reaction
The action led to widespread anger in the Philippine Government and accusations that Washington was failing to live up to its commitments. Mrs. Aquino, who has not said publicly whether she favors extension of the base leases, has said that Mr. Cheney should meet only with his counterpart, Defense Secretary Fidel V. Ramos.
The announcement was a slap at the United States, prompted not only by the aid cuts but also by recent American criticism of her failures to curb graft and corruption. Those were also the complaints of dissident military officers who unsuccessfully tried to oust her in a coup attempt in December; the coup failed when the United States called in two fighter jets. That intervention may also complicate matters, because Mrs. Aquino is now widely viewed as owing her tenure to the United States.
American officials say they are scurrying to develop alternatives if they lose the bases. But the bases pump about $1 billion a year into the local economy, a fact some politicians are considering.
Mr. Cheney has said he is not bringing any messages about the base negotiations, but he decided to cut his trip to the Philippines short. ''It's too bad Mrs. Aquino didn't want to host me,'' he said in Honolulu earlier in the week. ''That's her choice. I've got plenty to do there to keep me busy.''
In Japan, Mr. Cheney expected to press for further modernization of the Japanese military.
''We want them to pay more, but they are already covering more than any other country does,'' an American official said here.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); PHILIPPINES (94%); JAPAN (92%); ASIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (52%); 

CITY: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (88%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); MILITARY BASES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); NAVIES (73%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; CHENEY, DICK (SEC) DICK CHENEY (93%); 



405 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 19, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1093 words

HEADLINE: Upheaval in the East: Czechoslovakia;
In Choice of Ambassadors, Prague Leans Toward the Symbolic

BYLINE: By HENRY KAMM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PRAGUE, Feb. 11

 BODY:
Rudolf Slansky, a disenchanted former Communist whose father, the General Secretary of the party, was hanged in 1952 after a Stalinist show trial, has been appointed Ambassador to the Soviet Union.
''It is an excellent idea,'' President Vaclav Havel said in an interview, approving Foreign Minister Jiri Dienstbier's nominee. ''It is exactly in my symbolic and metaphoric way of political thinking.''
Not much less symbolic of Czechoslovakia's radical reorientation of its foreign policy, which until the overthrow of the Communist leadership last December was dictated by the Soviet Union and consistently hostile to the United States, was the appointment of Rita Klimova as Ambassador to Washington. 
Mrs. Klimova owes her survival to the asylum that the United States gave her and her family in 1939, after Germany seized Czechoslovakia. Her father, the late Stanislav Budin, was a noted Communist journalist, and because they were Jews, all the family's lives were at risk.
 
Deep Anti-Semitism
The elder Slansky, also named Rudolf, was chief defendant in a trial that occurred at the height of Stalin's drive against Jews and was marked by virulent anti-Semitism. Mr. Slansky and virtually all his co-defendants were Jews. He was falsely condemned as a Zionist and ''imperialist'' agent.
The new Ambassador spent the war years in the United States, where his father served as an international Communist functionary. He joined the Communist Party even after his father's execution, because he believed the idea of communism to be purer than Communists.
Mrs. Klimova was also a Communist - ''very fanatical, I might even say'' - and both the new Ambassadors were purged from the party after the Soviet-led invasion in 1968, which they condemned. They were enthusiastic supporters of the reforms that brought on the invasion and dissidents until the peaceful revolution of last autumn.
Last November and December, Mrs. Klimova served as the voice of Civic Forum, the movement that led the overthrow of the Communist Government. She was the interpreter at the many news conferences in which Mr. Havel and his supporters proclaimed the goals of their movement.
The future Ambassador was regarded as more than a mere interpreter of the opposition's words into her fluent English, which bears the stamp of her formative years on New York's Upper West Side, together with the lilt of Czech singsong. By her tone of voice and her expressive features, the 58-year-old former economics lecturer added drama and conviction to words that stirred her and disdain to questions that she deemed unsympathetic.
 
'Embassy About-Face'
Mrs. Klimova is expected to have the easier task of the two. ''My main job will be to make the embassy about-face,'' she said as she sorted a chaos of papers in her apartment a few days before her departure on Feb. 12. ''It was concerned primarily with making Americans uninterested in Czechoslovakia and keeping them out of this country.''
Mr. Slansky's assignment will be more delicate. ''The great issue is to finish changing our relationship from unequal to equal,'' he said. The difficult present negotiations over Czechoslovak demands that the Soviet Army withdraw illustrate the difficulties of the 55-year-old Mr. Slansky's mission.
The Ambassador acknowledged ''mixed feelings'' over what lies ahead. But he emphasized that despite the personal and political harm he suffered under earlier Soviet leaders, he bore no resentment to the nation and its present head.
 
Deep Ties to Moscow
''I have of course a personal attitude toward the Soviet Union, but I never linked what Soviet leaders do or what happened to my family to the Soviet people,'' he said, in slow but exact English. ''I always made that difference.'' Whatever his sentiments toward those who decided the invasion of 1968, he said, ''I didn't hate the soldiers on the tanks.''
Mr. Slansky said that above all the Soviet Union must be seen as a superpower on the border. ''Our contacts with that country are part of our lives,'' he said. ''We need to look at it very realistically, not emotionally. Emotionally is possible, but not useful.''
Mr. Slansky said his reflections after the invasion led him to speak for pragmatism instead of political dogma. ''The lesson that I learned was that democracy is completely incompatible with rule by one, totalitarian party, even if people in it have good intentions.'' he said. ''A pluralistic political system is the only way.''
An economist, Mr. Slansky stressed the importance of relations with the country with which Czechoslovakia does 40 percent of its trade. While Prague is seeking to reorient exports to capitalist countries, the Ambassador said its national interest required that it remain on good trading terms with the country that provides 87 percent of its energy needs and most raw materials.
''We need the Soviet Union more than it needs us,'' he said. ''Our interest is to have the best possible relations, politically and economically.''
 
Aid From Washington
Mrs. Klimova hopes to attract American educational and technological assistance, as well as investment. Speaking of Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d's visit last week, she said: ''We told Baker that for the previous Government, the exchanges specified in our cultural and technological agreement were the ceiling. Now we would like to perceive this as the floor.''
The Ambassador was married to Zdenek Mlynar, a top Communist official until he, too, became a dissident and was expelled to Austria. Mr. Mlynar was a friend of Mikhail S. Gorbachev during their student days in Moscow.
''Whenever he went to visit Moscow, I bought shirts and shoes for Gorbachev here for him to take along,'' she recalled. Mrs. Klimova, who has two children and one grandchild, was widowed after her second marriage.
Her commitment to Communism, which made her interrupt her education to work for a year in a factory after her return from the United States in 1946, ''to get close to the working class,'' weakened while she taught the history of economic thought at Charles University in the 1960's.
Ousted as a lecturer after the invasion, she was relegated to the university's accounting office and finally dismissed. She earned a living for herself and her children as a simultaneous interpreter. But when the Charter 77 dissident movement was born she was reduced to written translating only, until she re-emerged as the English voice of the Civic Forum movement.
''My English saved my life,'' the Ambassador said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Rudolf Slansky has been appointed Czechoslovakia's Ambassador to the Soviet Union. (Liba Taylor); Rita Klimova, the new Czechoslovak Ambassador to the United States, opening mail yesterday at her office in Washington. (The New York Times/Paul Hosefros)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); CZECH REPUBLIC (90%); GERMANY (78%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CZECHOSLOVAKIA; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; FOREIGN SERVICE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICS (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); 

PERSON: KAMM, HENRY; SLANSKY, RUDOLPH; KLIMOVA, RITA VACLAV HAVEL (58%); 



406 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 19, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1031 words

HEADLINE: Moscow Pays the Price

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 14

 BODY:
For months now, Mikhail S. Gorbachev has been playing a poor hand so deftly that it has often looked like a good one.
But by giving in to President Bush on troop levels and to Chancellor Helmut Kohl of West Germany on reunification, he has laid bare the strategic weakness of his country in a dramatic way. Beset by economic problems at home, by the growing independence of the onetime satellite nations in Eastern Europe and by the decline of Communism almost everywhere, the Soviet leader has abandoned important Soviet objectives and fallen in line with positions long held in the West.
''They seem ready to to pay almost any reasonable price for peace and stability in Europe so that they can concentrate on their other problems,'' a senior European official said of Mr. Gorbachev and his Kremlin allies. 
Yuri V. Dubinin, the Soviet Ambassador in Washington, objected mildly to the suggestion that his country had ''caved in'' to Mr. Bush, but he conceded: ''It's a kind of interpretation. We have difficulties in our country.'' New Challenge for Bush Unlike his predecessors, who had to calculate their policies on the basis of Soviet strength, taking care to avoid inadvertent provocations, President Bush is increasingly faced with a wholly different problem. Soviet weakness presents the United States with a panorama of opportunity, but he must not exploit his openings so aggressively that he weakens Mr. Gorbachev - or at least so his advisers figure.
Great powers do not ordinarily agree, and agree quickly, to let their erstwhile (and possibly future) enemies maintain more troops in an important area than they are permitted to maintain - especially when the new levels mean a complete reversal of a balance that has prevailed for 45 years.
But Mr. Gorbachev has not only agreed to cut his forces in central Europe by about 375,000 troops, while the United States cuts only about 80,000; he has agreed to allow the United States to keep 30,000 troops in Europe that will not be offset by Soviet forces.
Four days ago, in a last effort to maintain parity, Mr. Gorbachev had said he could not accept the extra 30,000, which struck many Western analysts as reasonable enough.
Only after lengthy negotiations did it seem likely that President Bush could put his proposal across, if at all. Indeed, while Mr. Bush was saying publicly on Monday that he would stick by his proposal and insist on the imbalance, one of his key advisers was saying that perhaps some other way would have to be found to make the point that the allies wanted American troops to stay in Europe, regardless of Soviet troop levels.
It turned out that no other way of delivering the message was needed.
 
A Vast Concession on Germany
On Germany, likewise, Mr. Gorbachev has given up something of tremendous importance. The de facto partition of Germany was carried out in the first place largely because of Soviet fears that a united Germany would seek once more to dominate Europe. Devastated by German arms in World War II, two generations of Russians saw East Germany as the key buffer to the west.
Now Mr. Gorbachev has not only given his hesitant blessing to an eventual reunification, but has agreed to the creation of a structure to oversee security aspects of the state.
That, too, surprised Mr. Bush, who said on Monday that it was too early for a four-power meeting on the future of Germany. Today he conceded he had been taken aback and commented a bit ruefully, ''Things move quite fast there.''
In both instances, Mr. Gorbachev's hand was forced by the disaffection of the former Soviet satellites.
With Czechslovakia and Hungary and Poland all asking that Soviet troops be called home, and negotiations on that subject under way, the deal that Mr. Bush offered may be better, however unequal, to what he could get a year from now. What Mr. Gorbachev has agreed to confers a certain legitimacy on the presence of 195,000 Soviet troops in the so-called central zone of Europe at a time when there are prospects that the actual figure might soon fall below that.
 
Holding the Line at 195,000
As defined in arms negotiations, Europe's central zone embraces West Germany, Belgium, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Denmark and all of the countries in Eastern Europe except Romania and Bulgaria.
Mr. Bush's critics at home have suggested that 195,000 is too high. But the Soviet acceptance of that level makes it more likely that the President will be able to hold the line there, at least for a few months - which is an eternity in European affairs these days.
With East Germany agreeing to a common currency with West Germany and moving rapidly toward informal unification on a dozen fronts, a supervisory role for the Soviet Union in company with the western Big Three may be the most Mr. Gorbachev could ever expect in the way of a brake on any German expansionary tendencies.
Once again, then, Mr. Gorbachev has shown himself the supreme realist, a man prepared to ratify reality when events threaten to get away from him, rather than railing at the moon. But he is fighting a rear-guard action; what he can realistically hope to achieve from his position of weakness at home and abroad keeps shrinking. Softening on German Neutrality? Perhaps the most vivid evidence of that is the significant softening, little noticed in the rush of news in the last 24 hours, of Soviet insistence on a neutral status for a new Germany. Asked today whether the Soviet Union would continue to oppose any association with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, Eduard A. Shevardnadze, the Soviet Foreign Minister, sounded less than confident.
''I think that the ideal solution would be a neutral Germany,'' he said. ''How realistic that is is a question. I would not rule out some NATO role and some Warsaw Pact role.''
East German subservience to Moscow is gone. The next Soviet line of defense, wholehearted East German adherence to the Warsaw Pact, has been breached, and so has the next, the survival of East Germany in almost any form. Now Moscow is apparently even prepared to contemplate some form of affiliation for a unified Germany with the once-hated enemy, NATO.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); GERMANY (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (72%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); EAST GERMANY; WEST GERMANY

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; GERMANY, REUNIFICATION OF ARMED FORCES (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); TRENDS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR; GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S GEORGE WALKER BUSH (94%); HELMUT MICHAEL KOHL (58%); HELMUT KOHL (58%); 



407 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 399 words

HEADLINE: Upheaval in the East;
Who's Z? A Former Student Points to a Berkeley History Professor

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 14

 BODY:
A history professor at the University of California at Berkeley has been identified by other scholars as a likely author of a pseudonymous article asserting that Mikhail S. Gorbachev will bring neither democracy nor a market economy to the Soviet Union.
The article, a sharp critique of Mr. Gorbachev's policies, was published in the quarterly Daedalus under the pseudonym Z. A person who identified himself as a former student at the university said the author was Prof. Martin E. Malia, a professor of European intellectual and Russian history at Berkeley.
The former student, Ken B. Gleason, said he took a seminar from Mr. Malia in 1988 and later assisted him by retyping part of a manuscript used for the article in Daedalus. An essay adapted from the Daedalus article was published on the Op-Ed Page of The New York Times on Jan. 4. 
In a telelphone interview today, Mr. Malia would not confirm authorship, but said he had given a ''long interview'' to Pravda, the Soviet Communist Party newspaper, discussing ideas in the essay.
 
Authorship 'a Bit Complicated'
''To me, the interesting problem is not who wrote the article, but what's in it,'' Mr. Malia said. He said he was pleased that the people at Pravda ''took the trouble'' to study the article and analyze its ideas. By contrast, he said, Americans have focused on the question of authorship and paid less attention to the substance of the article.
Daedalus is published in Cambridge, Mass., by the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. The editor, Stephen R. Graubard, would not identify the author, but said today that the question of authorship was ''a bit complicated.''
''Whoever the author or authors were, there must have been a very compelling reason for the anonymity,'' Mr. Graubard said, hinting for the first time that there could have been more than a single author.
In a letter to The New York Times, Mr. Gleason said, ''Professor Malia's intellectual rigor is widely known.'' He also said that Mr. Malia ''is extremely conservative and strongly anti-Communist.''
The article by Z says that Mr. Gorbachev's policies of economic restructuring and political openness, perestroika and glasnost, have ''only aggravated the systemic crisis they were intended to alleviate.'' The ''instrument of Mr. Gorbachev's reform,'' the Soviet Communist Party, is the basic cause of many Soviet problems, it says.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: DAEDALUS (MAGAZINE); NEW YORK TIMES

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (92%); INTERVIEWS (90%); HISTORY (90%); WRITERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (87%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); TRENDS (71%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT; GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; Z (PSEUDONYM); MALIA, MARTIN E (PROF) MARTIN E MALIA (92%); MIKHAIL S GORBACHEV (90%); STEPHEN R GRAUBARD (61%); KEN B GLEASON (61%); 



408 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 21, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1391 words

HEADLINE: As the Fears of Famine Grow in Ethiopia, War Imperils Relief

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SENAFE, Ethiopia

 BODY:
The intensity of the Ethiopian civil war is seriously threatening efforts to deliver famine relief to peasants afflicted by a drought even more severe in some areas than during the catastrophic famine and mass starvation of 1984-85, Western officials say.
Enough food has started to arrive in Ethiopia to stave off starvation on that order, the officials say. But they are losing confidence that as each side in the conflict tries to deny the other food, the relief will reach the neediest. [Heavy fighting in the last week at the port of Massawa, the main entry point for Western-donated food, halted the delivery of 50,000 tons, enough for three million people for a month. Western relief officials were uncertain whether they could come up with alternate delivery routes before Ethiopians became too weak to walk to distribution points. ''This has the potential of being extraordinarily dramatic and catastrophic,'' said Willard J. Pierson, the head of the United States Agency for International Development in Addis Ababa.] Militia Gets Food First Western officials in Addis Ababa say the Government's relief arm, the Relief and Rehabilitation Agency, started distributing Western relief food to its armed militia before it made its first major distribution to civilians. 
In another incident, a United Nations monitor stood by helplessly at a distribution point in a Government-held part of Eritrea as soldiers rounded up teen-age boys for military service. The boys had come with their families to a food distribution in January.
Here in Senafe, the last Government-held town before the border of rebel-held Tigre, a group of visitors saw militiamen, Kalishnikovs slung over their shoulders, being given large sacks of grain from the depot of the Relief and Rehabilitation Agency. Four United Nations trucks with Canadian and European Community wheat pulled up outside the depot as militiamen heaved bulging grain sacks across their backs or onto the backs of donkeys.
In Asmara, the provincial capital of Eritrea, the deputy administrator of the province, Yishak Tsgaye, said the militia was ''given priority because there is no fixed salary or privileges.'' It is the militiamen's duty to patrol their village in return for the food, Mr. Yishak said.
About ''20,000 peasants are armed on the side of the Government,'' he said. These are given enough food for themselves and their families, a total of 100,000 people.
 
Rebel Warns of Attack
The leader of the Eritrean People's Liberation Front, Isaias Afwerki, warned in an interview at his rebel headquarters in Sheeb in northern Eritrea recently that an attack on Massawa was imminent. Besides famine relief, the Government receives military supplies, mainly from the Soviet Union, at Massawa.
''We can't be sitting around while military preparations are going on around the cover of relief activities,'' the rebel leader said.
The Eritrean leader also expressed irritation that while many more peasants affected by the drought live under rebel control, more Western relief food was being transported to the Government side, particularly through Massawa. Because of rebel military victories in the last two years, only about one million of the more than four million affected peasants are in Government areas, according to Western estimates. Yet about four times more food has been pledged to the Government side.
This lopsided delivery puts the onus on the Addis Ababa Government to permit food to travel into rebel-held territory. So far, the militarily pressed Marxist-Leninist Government of Lieut. Col. Mengistu Haile Mariam has sent mixed signals.
Late last year the Government ordered a warehouse south of Addis Ababa to be emptied of 25,000 tons of Western food so that the building could be used for stepped-up military training. A United Nations official said that a protest was made but that the United Nations had still not been allowed to visit the warehouse to find out where the food went or what condition it was in.
The Western aid officials say part of the price of entering into the relief business with the Government is putting up with such behavior. Who Gets Fed First? Foreign donor governments have known since the 1984-85 famine that relief food was going to the militia. This was overlooked then, a senior United Nations official said, on the theory that the militias were made up of poor farmers who had no other way of getting food.
But with much more serious fighting in the present drought and food playing a crucial role in the war - the side who can amass the most feels the most powerful - food aid to the militias is not quite as benign as United Nations officials argued it was in 1984-85.
''The issue is: who is going to get fed first,'' a United Nations official in Addis Ababa said. ''We don't condone it, we try to stop it, but we don't know that we can.''
Curiously, leaders of the Eritrean People's Liberation Front do not object to famine relief food being given to the Government militia. Mr. Isaias said that virtually every member of the rebel front had a relative on the Government side who was a member of the ''wheat militia.'' They had to belong to the militia to survive because of the scarcity of jobs, he said, adding, ''They are a good source of intelligence for us.''
A senior official in Addis Ababa, Ashegre Yeletu, denied that the Government gave wheat to the militia. ''The R.R.C. assistance goes directly to the needy,'' he said.
 
Distribution Called Justified
The supply of more food to the Government side than to the rebels who control more people is justified on a number of counts, Western officials said. First, the United Nations is the largest contributor of food from Western sources and without agreement from the Mengistu Government it will not deliver food to the rebels. The Government has always denied this permission.
Second, the Government has controlled Massawa, through which large quantities of food can be most efficiently handled. And third, the Western donors have gambled that they will be able to persuade the Government to allow food to cross from Government territory into rebel-held areas.
But the Government has declined to allow the United Nations to carry food across the lines. Instead, it has offered a limited program that would allow a consortium of Ethiopian churches to deliver food to 400,000 people in rebel-held Tigre, where the United Nations says about 1.4 million of the more than four million people in need of food live.
Many of the Western governments, including the United States, are sending food directly to the rebels, although in smaller quantities. So far, 100,000 tons of Western food has been pledged to the rebels and about 390,000 tons to the Government side. The food for the rebels is shipped to Port Sudan, where it is picked up by rebel-owned trucks, many of them Mercedes-Benz's donated by the West, and taken over long and dangerous routes into Eritrea and Tigre.
The United States gives food to the rebels - 50,000 tons so far compared with 115,000 tons for the Government -but does not publicly acknowledge it. Officials say they fear that out of pique that the West is helping the rebels the Government will cut back or halt humanitarian aid to its own side.
Relief officials have described satellite images of Eritrea, Tigre and Wollo, the parched Ethiopian provinces largely under rebel control. The drought this time is more narrowly focused in area than in 1984-85 but is even more intense where it has hit.
 
The Rains Fail to Come
Outside a stone storehouse in Afabet, a forlorn rebel-held town wrecked by battle, about 1,000 Eritreans, many of them gaunt but not yet severely malnourished, milled around waiting for food handouts from the rebel relief operation, the Eritrean Relief Association.
Osman Ali, the 37-year-old father of five children, a tall bearded man with sunken cheeks, said he planted sorghum last August and waited for rain that never came. ''We had only one rain, an hour maybe,'' he said.
The 1984-85 famine was not as bad for him as this year. ''Then we had grass and the goats could feed,'' he said. ''Half my animals died last year. I have two goats left. But I can't sell the goats because they are too thin and no-one will buy them.''
''Anyway,'' he added, ''there's no one to buy them.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Ethiopian civil war is threatening efforts to deliver famine relief to peasants afflicted by a drought. Farmers picked up grain at a distribution center of the Eritrean Relief Association in Feieg.; Osman Ali said he planted sorghum last August and waited for rain that never came. ''We had only one rain, an hour maybe,'' he said. Mr. Ali received grain from the Eritrean Relief Association. (The New York Times/Jane Perlez); map of Ethiopia showing location of Senafe (The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ETHIOPIA (98%); ERITREA (96%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: ADIS ABEBA, ETHIOPIA (92%); 

COMPANY: US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (56%); INSTITUTE FOR FOOD & DEVELOPMENT POLICY (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ETHIOPIA

SUBJECT: FAMINE; DROUGHT; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; FOREIGN AID FAMINE (94%); FOOD CHARITIES (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STARVATION (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); CIVIL WAR (89%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (87%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); ARMED FORCES (70%); FOOD INDUSTRY (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); INTERVIEWS (63%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (53%); 

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE JOHN MAJOR (51%); 



409 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 21, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1207 words

HEADLINE: Some Find Mandela's Vision Limited

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER S. WREN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG, Feb. 14

 BODY:
Since Nelson Mandela emerged from prison Sunday, his public remarks have generally fallen short of the expectations of many whites and some blacks who had anticipated the kind of inspirational vision that distinguished the late Dr. Martin Luther King in the American civil-rights struggle of the 1960's.
It appears that Mr. Mandela has been addressing his message primarily to those blacks loyal to the African National Congress, the organization to which he devoted his life, and only afterward to the broader nation. A notable exception has been his assurances voiced over the last three days that whites should not fear a democratic and nonracial South Africa.
''We are aware of the fears of the whites in this country of being dominated by blacks and we are addressing that very seriously,'' Mr. Mandela told reporters waiting outside his Soweto house today. He expressed the conviction that a solution acceptable to everyone could be worked out between his movement and the Government. 
 
'Loyal' to His Movement
The black nationalist leader, dignified and articulate, has cut an impressive figure as he has clearly evinced a a lack of bitterness over his lost years. But his first words, delivered at a rally in Cape Town, revealed that he has not changed much since he was jailed more than 27 years ago, and neither has the African National Congress.
''I am a loyal and disciplined member of the A.N.C.,'' Mr. Mandela announced. ''I am therefore in full agreement with all of its objectives, strategies and tactics.''
But if Mr. Mandela reflected the views of the Congress through his language, he was by the same token distancing himself from the outlook and style of black groups that have formed during his imprisonment. Mr. Mandela, who abounds in the appeal of a national leader, said he would journey to Lusaka, Zambia, to ask exiled leaders how his movement planned to use him.
He called for continuing guerrilla warfare and Western sanctions to bring down the white Government that freed him and confirmed that he supported the nationalization of mines and other vital areas of the economy, which sent waves through the Johannesburg stock and foreign-exchange markets this week. Here he was articulating policies long advocated by the African National Congress and its ally, the South African Communist Party, which Mr. Mandela also praised.
 
A White Deplores Raised Fist
Mr. Mandela failed to follow the practice, common among Western politicians in a television era, of having different speeches for their political constituencies and the larger world. He displayed consistency in his language, even if it was not what most white South Africans wanted to hear.
''When he came out, I had tears in my eyes,'' said a middle-aged white woman in Johannesburg who had watched the Mr. Mandela's release on television. ''He seemed so dignified and contented. Then his fist went up and I was disappointed.''
Some whites felt that President F. W. de Klerk, who took a political risk in releasing Mr. Mandela, had been damned with faint praise. The black leader called Mr. de Klerk ''a man of integrity,'' then qualified that by saying that he had not done enough.
A white lawyer from Pretoria who voted for Mr. de Klerk said that if Mr. Mandela reaches out to Mr. de Klerk, he might succeed him as President of South Africa. But he added:
''If Mandela comes in with this kind of jargon, he's going to cause de Klerk to lose his power base, and de Klerk's the only man that can save this country,'' the lawyer said, referring to pressure on the President from the white right wing.
 
Missed Opportunity
Other whites sympathetic to Mr. Mandela said he had missed a prime opportunity to galvanize all South Africans. On Monday evening, a disk jockey told listeners of Radio 702, a popular rock-music station in Johannesburg, that the speech delivered by Mr. Mandela ''could have been written for him by Karl Marx.''
Some blacks also confessed to being disappointed by Mr. Mandela's remarks. ''He paid much more attention to what the A.N.C. stands for than what he stands for,'' said a 20-year-old woman. ''He should have come out as an individual because we already know what the A.N.C. stands for.''
So far, Mr. Mandela has barely reached out to other political currents among the country's blacks. By some estimates, the African National Congress may have the support of 45 to 60 percent of black South Africans. But other support goes to the rival Pan-Africanist Congress, which puts strict emphasis on black unity; the Black Consciousness Movement, the Zulu political movement Inkatha, and conservative religious groups like the evangelical Zion Christians.
 
A Call for Unity
At his Monday news conference, Mr. Mandela recognized that Chief Mangosuthu Buthelezi, who leads Inkatha, was ''a figure with a following,'' if not one as large as that enjoyed by the African National Congress. On Tuesday, he called on all blacks to ''unite against the perpetrators of violence'' in Natal province, the scene of factional fighting between supporters of Inkatha and the United Democratic Front.
The Azanian People's Organization, which preaches an ideology of black consciousness, welcomed Mr. Mandela's release in a statement Sunday but hoped he would aspire to a broader black leadership role.
''Mandela would do the struggle a great service if he were to rise above the confines of his organization and preside over the greater whole in striving for the unity of the oppressed,'' it said.
A similar view was express by the National Council of Trade Unions, which is aligned with the Pan-Africanist Congress.
By Tuesday, Mr. Mandela seemed to broaden his message at a major rally near Soweto. His unqualified condemnation of the crisis conditions that apartheid had created in the segregated townships, from inferior education and housing to a high crime rate, was cheered by blacks who knew better than whites what Mr. Mandela was talking about.
Later that day, Gerrit Viljoen, the Constitutional Development Minister whom President de Klerk has entrusted with starting negotiations on a new constitution that would give blacks a political voice, conceded that Mr. Mandela's remarks on armed struggle had not been helpful but observed that he was speaking ''within the confines and discipline of A.N.C. policy.''
Analyzing his first speech Sunday, Business Day, a newspaper based in Johannesburg, said: ''The address for which the country has waited for nearly three decades did not lend stature to a momentous event. It showed how little the A.N.C. has learned in that time, and how little it has moved.''
Why Mr. Mandela chose to give a partisan political speech when a far-larger audience was waiting has been the subject of debate. Some political commentators said he wanted to prove to the African National Congress and its followers that he had not sold them out in his discussions with the Government while he was in prison.
An acquaintance of Mr. Mandela said he had written his speech in prison, but left his copy with his reading glasses in his prison bungalow when he departed and had to rewrite it from memory. If that is so, it is not clear whether it differed from the original.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SOUTH AFRICA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); ZAMBIA (79%); 

CITY: JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (93%); CAPE TOWN, SOUTH AFRICA (72%); 

COMPANY: AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (84%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SOUTH AFRICA

SUBJECT: BLACKS (NON-US) PRISONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); CIVIL RIGHTS (73%); 

PERSON: WREN, CHRISTOPHER S; MANDELA, NELSON MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%); 



410 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: M.I.T. Selects Highly Regarded Biologist on Its Faculty as President

BYLINE: By FOX BUTTERFIELD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass., Feb. 14

 BODY:
The governing board of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology has decided to name a highly regarded biologist from its own faculty, Phillip A. Sharp, as the school's new president, university officials disclosed today.
The officials said Dr. Sharp, a 46-year-old cancer researcher who was a surprise choice, had been picked by the board's executive committee as its nominee for president. The governing board's formal approval is still needed, and it will vote at its next meeting on March 2. But Dr. Sharp is the sole nominee and is not expected to face serious opposition, the officials said. 
The choice of Dr. Sharp, a professor of biology and director of M.I.T.'s Center for Cancer Reseach, ends a heated search that began last summer after the current president, Paul E. Gray, announced he would retire this June. Two of the original leading candidates for the post took themselves out of the running, while professors, administrators and students saw the selection process as a forum to debate issues like the school's close ties to military-related research and a perceived national decline in the influence of scientists.
 
'A Superb Scientist'
Robert M. Solow, a Nobel laureate in economics who served as chairman of the faculty advisory committee on the search for a new president, said Dr. Sharp had been picked because he was ''a superb scientist.''
''One of the most important things for the presidency of M.I.T. is to have the complete respect of the faculty, and Phil Sharp will have it,'' Professor Solow said in an interview today.
Professor Solow said Dr. Sharp had also been chosen with an eye to making the president of the university more of a national spokesman for science and improving the prestige and influence of scientists. ''We have the feeling that science and engineering need to regain the confidence of the country, and Phil can speak from an unassailable perspective,'' Professor Solow said.
Lucien Pye, a professor of political science at M.I.T., said there had been a widespread feeling among the faculty that the influence of scientists in Washington had been slipping since the glory days of the late 1940's, 50's and 60's. In those years James R. Killian Jr. was president of M.I.T. and served as science adviser to President Dwight D. Eisenhower. President John F. Kennedy picked another M.I.T. scientist, Jerome B. Wiesner, who later became the school's president.
Despite his outstanding reputation as a scientist, Dr. Sharp was a surprise choice because he has not been active in campus administrative politics. Professor Pye and several other M.I.T. professors interviewed today did not immediately recognize Dr. Sharp's name.
The selection was also regarded as something of a break with M.I.T. tradition because his field is biology. Most of his predecessors were electrical engineers, physicists or management experts.
But his choice underscores the increasingly prominent role of biology at M.I.T., the nation's premier technological university. Four of M.I.T.'s eight Nobel laureates are in the biology department, and much of the school's new research financing has gone into biology in the past decade with the explosion of interest in biotechnology.
 
Native of Kentucky
Dr. Sharp, who was born and brought up on a small farm in Kentucky and received his undergraduate degree from Union College in Barbourville, Ky., is widely considered one of the nation's top molecular biologists.
For his work in clarifying the functions of genetic material inside cells, Dr. Sharp received the presitigious Albert E. Lasker Basic Medical Research Award in 1988.
David Eisenberg, a professor of molecular biology at the University of Southern California at Los Angeles, who has the co-author of a research paper with Dr. Sharp, described him as ''a scientist's scientist.'' ''I think of him as an extremly able pure scientist,'' Dr. Eisenberg said. ''He is also very good at working with people.''
Dr. Sharp, who received his Ph.D., in chemistry, from the University of Illinois, said he would not comment until he had been officially confirmed.
The initial front-runner for the job was John Deutch, a chemist who is M.I.T.'s provost. But last month Mr. Deutch, who had come under criticism from some professors and students for close ties to the military and to private businesses, withdrew as a candidate.
The other major candidate, Dr. David Baltimore, a Nobel laureate and director of M.I.T.'s Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research, became president of Rockefeller University in New York.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Phillip A. Sharp, a professor of biology, has been selected as the new president of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (91%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (77%); CANCER (77%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (77%); ONCOLOGY (77%); NOBEL PRIZES (76%); SCIENCE POLICY (74%); APPROVALS (73%); AWARDS & PRIZES (71%); 

PERSON: SHARP, PHILLIP A (DR); BUTTERFIELD, FOX JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); 



411 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: Washington Talk;
Moynihan Befuddles Democrats With Idea

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 14

 BODY:
When Democrats don't know what to do, they form a task force. The latest one includes all the top party leaders and committee chairmen from the Senate and the House. It is supposed to decide how the party should respond to Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan's plan to lower the Social Security tax.
After the last meeting, just before Congress left town for a 10-day vacation, Senator George J. Mitchell of Maine, the majority leader, said a consensus had been reached on two points: ''One, we ought to act in concert. Two, we can't agree on what we should do.'' 
Here are some choices:
Adopt the Moynihan proposal. This is attractive politically. It would give middle-income working families a tax cut of about $500 a year. Democrats could compare that with President Bush's proposal to lower the capital-gains tax rate, from which 83 percent of the benefits would go to taxpayers with annual incomes over $100,000, according to Congressional tax specialists. Democrats could also argue, with some good statistics to back them up, that a cut in the Social Security payroll tax (half of which is paid by employers) would generate more jobs and economic growth than a cut in the capital gains tax.
But there is a problem. The Moynihan plan would cost the Government $62 billion over the next two years in lost revenue. For that reason, no influential Democrat has supported the plan. The tax committee chairmen, Senator Lloyd Bentsen of Texas and Representative Dan Rostenkowski of Illinois, actively oppose it. The Moynihan plan will not become law.
Adopt the Moynihan proposal and make up the lost revenue by imposing a value-added tax, or national sales tax. This is what Senator Ernest F. Hollings of South Carolina has proposed. But the Congressional Budget Office has found that the Hollings plan would result in a 20 percent tax increase for the poorest one-fifth of Americans. Upper-income Americans would get an overall tax cut. So this won't become law either.
Adopt the Moynihan proposal and make up the lost revenue by raising the income tax rate paid by the wealthy. This is what the old liberal Democrats would have sponsored. You can almost hear them on the stump: ''Who gets the benefit? You do, the working men and women of America. Who pays for it? They do, the fat cats who live in the big houses and drive the fancy cars.''
The problem here is that the Democrats are gun-shy. For a decade now, Republicans have beaten them about the head and shoulders for wanting to raise taxes. Even though, counting their employers' share, three-quarters of Americans pay more in Social Security taxes than in income taxes, polls show that a vast majority would rather have a cut in income taxes than in Social Security taxes. Why? Presumably because they tally up their income taxes each spring, and so they know how much they pay. Few people pay attention at the end of the year to how much was taken out of their pay in Social Security taxes. So this idea probably won't fly either.
Adopt President Bush's proposal. Following the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings deficit limits, the President would have a balanced budget over all by 1993. After that, he would begin using the surplus in Social Security revenue to retire the national debt.
Even if this did not have Mr. Bush's name on it, the Democrats would probably oppose the plan because it would continue to allow Social Security revenue to pay general operating expenses of the Government through 1996 and because its primary aim is to require further cuts in domestic spending. Since it is Mr. Bush's proposal, the Democratic lawmakers will reject it out of hand.
Remove Social Security from the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings calculations. This is what the smart money says the Democrats will propose. It would mean that the true size of the Government's operating deficit would be immediately apparent, and presumably embarrassing to President Bush. And it would mean the annual budget deficit targets would have to be rewritten.
The last thing the President wants to do now is change the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings deficit targets. Democrats supported those targets when they were drawn in 1987 because they required equal cuts in domestic and military spending. But now military spending is being cut anyway. So the targets have become a way to insure cuts in domestic programs.
If the Democrats propose this plan, President Bush will veto it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available TAXES & TAXATION (91%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (90%); POLITICS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); VALUE ADDED TAX (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); LIBERALISM (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); WOMEN WORKERS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); SALES TAX (76%); TAX INCREASES (76%); BUDGETS (76%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (74%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (74%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); JOB CREATION (71%); TAX CONSULTING (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); FAMILY (69%); CORPORATE TAX (66%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (65%); 

PERSON: GEORGE J MITCHELL (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 



412 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 575 words

HEADLINE: Courage in Colombia

 BODY:
President Bush journeys today to what may be the most security-conscious ''summit meeting'' in history: a six-hour conference on drug trafficking at a heavily guarded naval base in Colombia. To assure his safety, hundreds of undercover agents worked the streets, bars and beaches of nearby Cartagena, frogmen searched the waters offshore for explosives, and handlers of Presidential aircraft tuned up their defenses against shoulder-fired missiles.
Mr. Bush's meeting with the Presidents of Colombia, Peru and Bolivia isn't likely to produce much more than photo opportunities. So why take the risk? Because there is a clear and urgent need to support Andean countries in their struggle with cocaine cartels. The real challenge for the White House, apart from protecting the President, is to follow a symbolic visit with substantive help. 
For years Washington and the cocaine-producing countries did little more than trade excuses. The Andean governments aren't trustworthy, the Americans said. The Americans ought to curb their appetite for drugs, the Andeans responded. Then last summer, Colombian traffickers brazenly assassinated Luis Carlos Galan, a presidential candidate, arousing President Virgilio Barco to retaliate.
A string of successes followed: arrests and extraditions of traffickers; confiscations of real estate, vehicles and airplanes; destruction of cocaine laboratories; huge seizures of finished cocaine and chemicals used to manufacture it. The cartels fought back with bombings and kidnappings, but President Barco stood firm. A leading kingpin, Pablo Escobar, was forced into hiding; another, Jose Gonzalo Rodriguez Gacha, died in a shootout with Colombian police.
These accomplishments make clear that the Colombians are no longer satisfied with excuses. That puts Washington on the spot. The time for symbolic gestures has passed. The moment for a major U.S. investment is at hand.
The Colombian offensive disrupted supply networks, thereby devastating the price of raw coca leaves from Peru and Bolivia as growers found it harder and harder to sell their crops. The price of 100 pounds of leaves declined from about $80 to about $40, and may now be as low as $10 in some places. That vastly reduces the profitability of coca, which once gave humble campesinos plenty of money for four-wheel-drive Toyotas and VCR's; it even threatens coca's viability as a cash crop.
American aid could speed that process. Military support would help sustain the offensive in Colombia and further disrupt the cartel's efforts to shift operations elsewhere. And an infusion of economic aid could energize nascent programs of crop substitution. Reduced profitability of coca greatly enhances their promise.
The drug strategy President Bush announced in January provides $423 million for anti-drug efforts in the Andean countries. That's a big increase over the $61 million budgeted only a year ago, but it's still far short of the need. Some experts estimate that it would take up to $1 billion annually to cure the Peruvian economy alone of its coca dependency.
Washington, of course, need not go it alone; funds could be marshaled from other international sources. But the progress so far holds out a tantalizing opportunity that ought not to be squandered for the sake of America's budget deficits. By going to the summit, Mr. Bush recognizes Colombia's courage - and underscores the need for stout-hearted leadership back home.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: COLOMBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); BOLIVIA (93%); PERU (93%); 

COMPANY: BELGIAN AMERICAN RADIO CORP (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COLOMBIA; PERU; BOLIVIA; CARTAGENA (COLOMBIA)

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; EDITORIALS; FOREIGN AID; COCAINE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); COCAINE (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (88%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (77%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (77%); DRUG POLICY (77%); NAVIES (77%); BOMBINGS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); EXPLOSIVES (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); CARTELS (74%); BEACHES (72%); EXTRADITION (72%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (66%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); BARCO VARGAS, VIRGILIO (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 



413 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 31, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 535 words

HEADLINE: Yes, Cut Social Security Taxes

BYLINE: By Robert W. Kasten Jr.; Robert W. Kasten Jr., Republican of Wisconsin, is a member of the Senate Budget Committee.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
I became a Republican in large part because the G.O.P. offered a responsible alternative to Big Government. And by standing with the American people - liberating them from high taxes and government encroachment - the G.O.P. won three consecutive national landslides.
That's why I can't understand my party's reluctance to support Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan in his effort to roll back Social Security taxes. The issue for Republicans is simple: Are we going to go forward or are we going to turn back? 
Two years ago, then-Representative Jack Kemp, Republican of New York, and I went forward by proposing a payroll tax cut as part of an omnibus jobs and economic growth bill. It was as clear then as it is now that the payroll tax is an outrageous burden on middle-income families.
Since 1955 the basic payroll tax has risen nearly 400 percent. Today, 74 percent of taxpayers pay more in combined payroll taxes than they do in income taxes.
The impact on family budgets has been devastating: from 1955 to 1988, the Federal tax burden on middle-income Americans rose twice as fast as their income. In 1955 a median-income family of four paid Federal taxes at an average rate of 9 percent a year. In 1970 it paid 16 percent, and by 1988, 24 percent.
While we've cut income taxes during the 1980's, most of those savings have been eroded by the 22 percent payroll tax increase. The maximum payroll tax for a one-earner family is now a whopping $6,360 a year.
Moreover, payroll taxes have hurt businesses and workers by increasing labor costs and the prices of goods - which hurts competitiveness -and reducing take-home pay. The high payroll tax has been especially burdensome to the self-employed, who have to pay both portions of the tax. Welfare recipients have been discouraged from taking entry-level jobs by the high tax on their first dollar of earnings.
So, I agree in principle with Senator Moynihan's proposal. However, I believe a more modest tax-cut plan has a better chance of passage. Therefore I recently introduced legislation that would cut the payroll tax for both employers and employees from the current 6.2 percent to 5.3, compared with 5.1 percent under the Moynihan plan. This would save families up to $519 per worker by 1992, while leaving a healthy reserve.
Allowing Americans to keep more money would boost the economy and raise private savings and investment. The Institute for Research on the Economics of Taxation estimates that by the year 2000 this tax cut would add between 450,000 and 920,000 new jobs, raise the gross national product by almost $300 billion and increase investment capital by $180 billion.
We all cheered when President Bush told us not to ''mess'' with Social Security. He's right. Social Security is a compact between generations. We must not imperil the benefits that our current and future retirees are counting on - and we will not. But that compact does not provide for tax increases in the name of Social Security that only serve to mask the Federal deficit.
So I appeal to President Bush: Join us in enacting this pro-growth tax cut. Millions of Americans want to believe that the Administration is on their side. We can't let them down.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR RESEARCH INC (50%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (US); REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; TAXATION TAXES & TAXATION (92%); SOCIAL SECURITY (91%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); CORPORATE TAX (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INCOME TAX (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (77%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); LEGISLATION (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); JOB CREATION (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); 

PERSON: KASTEN, ROBERT W JR (SEN); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); MOYNIHAN, DANIEL PATRICK (SEN) GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 



414 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1067 words

HEADLINE: In Trump v. Trump, the Focus Is on Lots of Fine Print

BYLINE: By JAMES BARRON

 BODY:
If and when Trump v. Trump goes to court, the main attraction in what already promises to be the most talked about and written about divorce proceeding in years could be four documents of about 35 pages apiece, each filled with paragraph after paragraph of fine print.
These are the prenuptial agreement that Donald J. and Ivana Trump worked out before their 1977 wedding and their three postnuptial agreements.
Regular readers of gossip columns, as opposed to law journals, may have the idea that only the rich and famous bother with pre- and postnuptial agreements as a way of keeping vast and complicated holdings from being divided in a divorce. But new divorce laws that redefined marriage as an ''economic partnership'' have made these agreements increasingly common among middle-income couples in New York and other states, lawyers say. 
Adding to the popularity of pre- and postnuptial agreements, said Lester Wallman, who served on the New York State Bar Association committee that helped write the new divorce law, were two 1988 appeals court decisions that made them ''almost irreversible.''
J. Michael Kennedy, the lawyer for Mrs. Trump in her attempt to undo her agreements with Mr. Trump, calls the accords ''unconscionable'' and ''fraudulent.''
 
Reams of Press Releases
Just what the Trumps' agreements say is unclear. Though both sides have issued reams of press releases since Mr. Trump said over the weekend that the marriage was over, neither side has made details of the matrimonial agreements public.
The prenuptial document was drafted with the aid of Roy M. Cohn, the lawyer, who died in 1986. Mr. Trump's spokesmen maintain that it and the postnuptial provisions entitle Mrs. Trump to $20 million and their house in Greenwich, Conn.
Divorce lawyers not involved in the case say Mrs. Trump may have a hard time challenging the validity of the documents.
''She's outside of the ball park seeking to get in,'' said Raoul Lionel Felder, who has represented Robin Givens, the former wife of the heavyweight boxer Mike Tyson; Lisa Gastineau, the former wife of the New York Jets defensive end Mark Gastineau, and Nancy Capasso, the former wife of Carl A. Capasso, companion of Bess Myerson.
Not many cases have made it into the ball park, Mr. Felder said, since a 1987 court decision involving Sol Goldman, who, like Mr. Trump, is a New York real-estate developer. ''The percentage is very small. It's rare for one to be set aside.'' Another Manhattan lawyer who specializes in divorce cases, Eleanor Alter, said she knew of only two cases in which a prenuptial agreement had been overturned in court, and both decisions came before New York State revised its divorce law 10 years ago. One case, she said, involved a woman, a patient in a mental hospital, who signed a prenuptial agreement while out on a weekend pass. In seeking to have the agreement nullified, Ms. Alter said, she testified that she had not understood what she was signing.
The way the law was revised, specialists in matrimonial law say, the principle of equitable distribution would apply if Mrs. Trump succeeded in having the agreements nullified. The law directs judges to make equitable -not necessarily equal - divisions of marital property, which is broadly defined as all family assets acquired during the marriage. Since 1980, when the equitable-distribution divorce law took effect, prenuptial agreements have increased by 20 percent, said Herman Tarnow, a Manhattan divorce lawyer.
 
Guidelines in Law
''Prenuptial agreements are to protect the have and limit the rights of the have-not,'' said Harriet N. Cohen, a Manhattan lawyer who specializes in matrimonial cases.
To aid trial courts in distributing assets, the law sets forth guidelines about how long the marriage lasted and what contributions each partner made while they were married. This lets judges take into account whether one partner was primarily a wage earner and the other was primarily responsible for home life and children, if any.
Other lawyers said postnuptial agreements are often drawn up when a husband makes more money than he ever expected to, and he wants to demonstrate that his wife is entitled to more than was outlined in the prenuptial agreement.
But Mr. Tarnow said postnuptial agreements sometimes evolve after a wife discovers that her husband is having an affair. To mollify the wife, the husband agrees to sign over more than the prenuptial agreement called for. ''What a postnuptial does is eliminate jeopardy for a wife,'' Mr. Tarnow said. ''Sometimes that puts romance and relationship back in the marriage.''
In the Trumps' case, Mr. Trump said yesterday that he was the one who suggested the first postnuptial agreement. ''I thought it was appropriate,'' he said. ''I was upwardly mobile.'' ''This was not something done on the back of a matchbook,'' he added, ''but a lengthy document negotiated by a very competent woman, Ivana, and me and an attorney.''
 
Final Agreement
When asked why the couple had more than one postnuptial agreement, Mr. Trump said: ''We did it for whatever reason. Maybe she wanted.''
He said the final agreement, signed two years ago, promised ''many millions of dollars more and houses that weren't in the first one.'' He refused to give the specific terms, saying, ''It provides for everything, not only money, but future support, for the house, for apartments in New York City.''
''Three belongs in the Guinness Book,'' William D. Zabel, a Manhattan lawyer, said of the multiple postnuptial agreements. ''I've had substantial people break up in the negotiations. It's terribly sensitive. To do it so many times is terribly unusual, and I have to say it makes it harder for her to attack. She has to say they're all invalid because if the most recent one's invalid, it might revive the previous ones. It depends on how they're worded.''
As for Mrs. Trump's lawyer's claim of fraud, some lawyers doubt that he could make it stick.
''The fact that she signed them makes it almost impossible to show fraud or duress,'' Mr. Wallman said.
''If she is, on the one hand, asserting she has a tremendous business acumen and has helped her husband increase his wealth,'' said Louis I. Newman, another lawyer who handles divorces, ''it would be difficult to claim she didn't understand what she was signing. It's a very fine line she presently walks.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (76%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE BAR ASSOCIATION (56%); NEW YORK STATE BAR ASSOCIATION (56%); 

SUBJECT: DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); FAMILY LAW (90%); MARRIAGE LAW (90%); PREMARITAL AGREEMENTS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); MARRIAGE (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); APPEALS COURTS (73%); APPEALS (67%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (61%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (60%); SPORTS (60%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (50%); 

PERSON: TRUMP, DONALD J; BARRON, JAMES; TRUMP, IVANA DONALD TRUMP (79%); 



415 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 14, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1349 words

HEADLINE: Active or Passive Iran-Contra Role? Point-Blank Questioning for Reagan

BYLINE: By DAVID JOHNSTON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 14

 BODY:
When Ronald Reagan appears in a Federal courtroom on Friday, he is likely to be asked point-blank the fundamental questions about his role in the Iran-contra affair, which have gone unanswered for three years.
The videotaped testimony he is to give for the criminal trial of John M. Poindexter, his former national security adviser, may reveal with greater clarity than ever whether Mr. Reagan was an easily manipulated President, largely ignorant of the actions of his subordinates, or whether he assumed the much more active role in the affair that Mr. Poindexter has depicted.
A definitive account of Mr. Reagan's role has eluded investigations by a Presidential review board, the Iran-contra Congressional committees and an independent prosecutor. Mr. Reagan's own fragmentary and sometime contradictory statements have added to the confusion. And the conflicting accounts of his aides have left the precise nature of his role in doubt.
 
Image of Passive President
But the continuing inquiries have eroded the image of the passive President, which was described by a Presidential review board headed John G. Tower, the former Texas Senator. 
In the trial of Oliver L. North, a former National Security Council aide, defense lawyers unearthed previously undisclosed documents indicating that Mr. Reagan played an important part in plans to aid the contra rebels in Nicaragua at a time when Congress had banned direct aid.
Mr. Poindexter's lawyers, who sought Mr. Reagan's testimony, have gone even further. They have described the former President as a crucial witness who often met alone with Mr. Poindexter to provide him with direct policy guidance in the affair.
Federal District Judge Harold H. Greene has ruled that Mr. Poindexter's lawyers may ask Mr. Reagan 154 questions along with followup questions. The questions, which Mr. Poindexter's lawyers submitted to the judge and turned over to Mr. Reagan's lawyers, cover a wide range of topics, emphasizing contra aid activities. When defense lawyers complete their questioning of Mr. Reagan, lawyers for the special prosecutor, Lawrence E. Walsh, will cross-examine him.
Mr. Reagan's deposition comes a week after his lawyers declined to invoke executive privilege and said that the former President would comply with the judge's order compelling him to testify on videotape. Still unresolved, however, is whether Mr. Reagan must also turn over to Mr. Poindexter excerpts of his private diaries.
Mr. Poindexter, a retired rear admiral in the Navy, served as Mr. Reagan's national security adviser from December 1985 until he resigned in November 1986. In a trial scheduled to begin March 5, he faces five criminal charges, including accusations that he obstructed Congressional inquiries and made false statements to Congress about the Iran arms sales and efforts to aid the Nicaraguan rebels at a time when official assistance was banned.
Mr. Reagan's deposition could also shed further light on other issues. Did Mr. Reagan closely he oversee the sales of arms to Iran? How much did he know about his Administration's efforts to aid the Nicaraguan rebels? Did he ever authorize his subordinates to defy Congressional inquiries into the affair? Did his Vice President, George Bush, play a role?
Judge Greene has not yet ruled on whether the deposition will be taken in an open or closed session, but he expressed misgivings about holding the proceeding in public because of concerns about the inadvertent disclosure of classified information.
Today, lawyers for a group of news organizations urged Judge Green to take the deposition in public, saying adequate safeguards had been imposed to protect against such disclosures.
Whatever the judge decides, the videotapes will become public when they are played at Mr. Poindexter's trial.
In its final report, the Tower panel helped create the image of Mr. Reagan's hands-off role, criticizing him as a poor manager who placed too much responsibility in the hands of aides.
The commission reported that in January 1987 Mr. Reagan told the panel he was unaware of the role played by the National Security Council staff in supporting the contras. But in May 1987, Mr. Reagan said of his Administration's efforts to aid the contras: ''There's no question about my being informed. I've known what's going on there.''
Even so the aloof image remained largely intact through the Congressional hearings in 1987. In a final report in November 1987, the Congressional committees concluded that ''the central remaining question is the role of the President in Iran-contra affair.'' On this critical point, the report said that shredding of documents and death of William J. Casey, the Director of Central Intelligence, ''leave the record incomplete.''
But there were suggestions that Mr. Reagan possessed greater knowledge. In his Congressional testimony, Mr. Poindexter told of once briefing Mr. Reagan in detail about the contra aid operation, but he said the President did not recall it. ''I frankly don't find that surprising,'' Mr. Poindexter said. ''It would not frankly, at that time, have been a matter of great interest as to exactly how we were implementing the President's policy.''
Robert C. McFarlane, Mr. Poindexter's predecessor in the post, testified that he briefed Mr. Reagan on ''dozens'' of occasions about contra activities, including battlefield actions and attitudes in Congress.
In the North trial last year, documents indicated for the first time that in 1985, Mr. Reagan approved an operation to send specialized intelligence equipment and weapons to rebel units inside Nicaragua so they could attack ships carrying weapons to Sandinista Government troops.
Other documents suggested Mr. Reagan approved a plan to provide millions of dollars in military and economic aid to Honduras on the condition that the country's Government allow contra bases on its territory and permit arms shipments to those bases at the time of the ban on direct aid.
 
Bush's Trip to Honduras
The documents contained notations that appeared to suggest that Mr. Bush was considered as a possible ''private emissary,'' who would be designated to travel to Honduras to seal a ''quid pro quo'' deal with Roberto Suazo Cordova, who was then the Honduran President. In March 1985 Mr. Bush traveled to Honduras to meet with Mr. Suazo. After the documents were disclosed in the North trial, Mr. Bush denied that he was the intermediary and insisted, ''There was no quid pro quo.'' Mr. Bush has said that he did not know about the contra aid effort until after it was disclosed in late 1986.
Mr. Reagan will probably be asked again whether he had a role in the Iran arms sales because one charge accuses Mr. Poindexter of obstructing Congress by helping to prepare a false chronology indicating that no one in the Government knew about the Israeli arms shipments to Iran in November 1985 until January 1986.
Mr. Poindexter testified at the Congressional hearings that Mr. Reagan approved the shipment of arms in November, when it took place. Mr. Poindexter said that in December 1985, Mr. Reagan signed an order retroactively authorizing American participation in the deal.
Mr. Poindexter said that after the affair became public in November 1986, he destroyed the signed authorization order because it appeared to describe the deal explicitly as an arms-for-hostage exchange. At his trial, Mr. North said he watched Mr. Poindexter tear up the order.
Mr. Reagan's statements have been contradictory. He first told the Tower panel that he signed an authorization for the initial Israeli shipments of arms to Iran, as required by United States law. Later, he said he did not approve such an order. Finally, Mr. Reagan said he could not remember whether he approved the initial Israeli arms shipments.
''Try as I might,'' he said, ''I cannot recall anything whatsoever about whether I approved an Israeli sale in advance or whether I approved replenishment of Israeli stocks around August 1985. My answer, therefore, and the simple truth is, I don't remember. Period.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: NICARAGUA (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;IRAN; NICARAGUA

SUBJECT: IRAN-CONTRA AFFAIR; TRIALS; AIDES AND EMPLOYEES POLITICAL SCANDALS (90%); LAWYERS (89%); WITNESSES (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); DEPOSITIONS (89%); TESTIMONY (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); JUDGES (89%); CROSS EXAMINATIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRIVILEGED COMMUNICATIONS (77%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (77%); NAVIES (76%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (66%); RESIGNATIONS (63%); 

PERSON: JOHNSTON, DAVID; REAGAN, RONALD WILSON; POINDEXTER, JOHN M RONALD REAGAN (93%); 



416 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: Perrier Widens Recall After New Finding

BYLINE: By ALAN RIDING, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PARIS, Feb. 14

 BODY:
Source Perrier announced today that it was withdrawing every bottle of its sparkling mineral water throughout the world after traces of benzene, a toxic chemical, were reported in bottles tested in Denmark and the Netherlands.
The new recall comes after Perrier was removed from stores and restaurants in the United States last weekend, also because traces of benzene were found in a few bottles. The company said 160 million bottles, worth around $70 million before taxes, would be taken off the market and destroyed.
Distributors in Japan and West Germany have also ordered the withdrawal of millions of the familiar green bottles, in some cases as a precautionary measure, while the local health authorities test the carbonated water. 
The French company exports 60 percent of its production.
The health scare and the accompanying financial loss for the company pushed down the value of Perrier's shares on the Paris Bourse by 4.1 percent today. The price per share has fallen by 16.5 percent - from 1,692 francs, or $297, to 1,413 francs - since Friday's closing, one day before 72 million Perrier bottles were withdrawn in the United States.
The company announced the worldwide recall as a step to regain consumer confidence.
''I have built up this company over the past 40 years around an image of perfection,'' Perrier's chairman, Gustave Leven, told a news conference here. ''I don't want the least doubt, however small, to tarnish our product's image of quality and purity.''
''Our image and the respect and confidence of consumers have no price for me,'' the 75-year-old businessman said in his first public appearance since the company crisis erupted last weekend.
The statements made today also changed the company's account of how the benzene got into the bottles.
Stressing that the source of the mineral water, a spring at Vergeze in southern France, remained pure, Mr. Leven said the contamination problem was the result of ''a human error'' when filters in its bottling plant at Vergeze were not replaced on schedule.
He said that benzene, which has caused cancer in laboratory animals, and other chemicals were naturally present in minute amounts in the spring. The company uses filters to remove such impurities, but for some reason they were not changed when they should have been.
''There was therefore an accumulation of benzene in the product,'' Mr. Leven said.
When benzene was found in the Perrier in the United States, company officials said it got into the bottles of water because a worker had mistakenly used a cleaning solvent containing the chemical to remove grease and grime from some production equipment.
Mr. Leven said today that all the filters had been changed and that since last weekend normal production of around six million bottles a day had resumed. ''The machines will work at full blast, six days a week, 24 hours a day, until we have rebuilt our stocks,'' he said.
In addition to the decline in the Perrier shares today on the French stock market, the Bourse's Commission of Operations, equivalent to the Securities and Exchange Commission in the United States, said it would investigate possible insider trading in the company's stock amid reports there was heavy buying of options to sell the stock Friday before the company's announcement.
The options, called puts in United States markets, give holders the right to sell shares of the stock at the Friday price, and those who acquired them could have made a large profit when Perrier's shares slumped on Monday. Reuters quoted traders as saying about 300 sell options were bought last Friday against a daily norm of around 50.
The company's vice chairman, Jacques Vincent, said Perrier would again be available within days in some countries and within three weeks in others. When the withdrawal of bottles was announced in the United States last weekend, the company's American distributor estimated that it might be three months before stocks were replenished.
Trying to strike an optimistic note, Mr. Leven said that Perrier was already back in business. ''We will be even stronger because our image is intact,'' he said of a brand that has 5.7 percent of the United States bottled water market. ''Our consumers will know just how far we're willing to go in our battle for the truth and perfection.''
Also at the news conference was a platoon of scientists who vouched for the purity of Perrier's water at its source and reiterated statements made by the Food and Drug Administration in the United States last week that the amounts of benzene found in 13 test samples were not enough to be harmful.
 
No Damage Seen
Marketing analysts and competitors of Perrier in the United States, where the company sells about 15 percent of its main brand, said the wider recall would not be fatal to the brand whose marketing image is based on purity.
David S. Daniel, chief executive of Evian Waters of France Inc., said the wider recall ''sure isn't great for the brand, but it is not a death blow for Perrier because the recall really serves the cause of product integrity. The move will serve them well in the future.'' Evian is the No. 2 bottled-water import in the United States after Perrier.
Perrier's American subsidiary, Perrier Group of America Inc., said it would take no new marketing steps or other actions because of the wider recall.
The company is developing an ''environmentally sound way'' to dispose of the 72 million bottles of water it is collecting, which could include simply dumping the water into a local sewer system.
The glass bottles and cardboard will be recycled, officials said.

GRAPHIC: photo: A Dutch public health technician analyzed samples of Perrier mineral water for benzene contamination yesterday in Rotterdam after France's Source Perrier company announced it was withdrawing all stocks of its water throughout the world. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NETHERLANDS (90%); FRANCE (87%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (72%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (71%); ROTTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (58%); 

COMPANY: EURONEXT PARIS SA (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: PERRIER GROUP

SUBJECT: BOTTLED WATER; RECALLS AND BANS OF PRODUCTS; BENZENE; HAZARDOUS AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES PRODUCT RECALLS (90%); BOTTLED WATER (90%); BENZENE (90%); AROMATICS (90%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (90%); SOLVENTS (78%); FOOD RECALLS (77%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (74%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); RESTAURANTS (72%); RETAILERS (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (68%); CANCER (50%); 

PERSON: RIDING, ALAN GUSTAVE LEVEN (77%); 



417 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: Talking Deals;
What NBC Sees In Notre Dame

 BODY:
EXCEPT for end-of-the-season bowl games, NBC has been shut out of the college football market since the 1960's. In one bold stroke last week, NBC filled that hole, luring the University of Notre Dame away from the other major football powers that have a deal with ABC, starting with the 1991 season.
NBC and Notre Dame officials have not disclosed the terms of the deal, but some broadcasting analysts have said Notre Dame will receive at least $35 million, or $7 million a season. The contract gives NBC the exclusive television rights to all games played by Notre Dame at its stadium in South Bend, Ind. 
The network has declined to say how much it expects to make from the games or what advertising rates it will charge. Ken Schanzer, the executive vice president of NBC Sports, said it was too soon to make such projections.
''We've got an integrated package, a single, one-stop package,'' Mr. Schanzer said. ''If you're an advertiser, you're going to buy Notre Dame football.''
The advertising rates will reflect the ratings for the games. Notre Dame is a frequent competitor for the national championship - it won in 1988 and was No. 2 behind the University of Miami last season - and it commands a broad national following. During the 1989 season, CBS carried four Notre Dame games and they had ratings ranging from 7.3 to 14.9, compared with the average rating of 6.8 for all college football on CBS. A rating point is equal to 921,000 homes with televisions.
''Notre Dame wields this unique market power,'' said Larry Collette, a visiting instructor at Michigan State University whose study on the economics of college football broadcasting was recently published in The Journal of Media Economics. ''They're the one school that could do this.''
He added: ''College football is a pretty unique property. It offers access to an otherwise hard-to-reach market, the young, higher-educated males.''
Although the three networks do not make public their advertising rates for college football, Mr. Collette's study found that advertising rates for a 30-second network spot ranged from $30,000 to $66,000 between 1980 and 1987. Some marketing executives said a 30-second ad on a nationally televised game could now cost as much as $75,000.
Notre Dame's six home games each year are certain to fetch top prices, broadcasting and marketing executives agree.
The NBC-Notre Dame deal could also help to restrain advertising rates for other college football games, because ABC, which also has a contract with the Big 10 and Pacific 10 football conferences, will not have a monopoly on the best games.
''I think it's going to be used as leverage by the advertisers,'' said Barry Frank, senior vice president of the International Management Group, a sports marketing concern. ''When you control all the inventory, as ABC thought it would, you can control rates much better than if you split the inventory.''
Until signing the deal with NBC, Notre Dame had participated in the football package signed by the 64 universities of the College Football Association. That group's contract with CBS has one more season to run, and the association has agreed to a five-year contract with ABC, starting in 1991.
Jim Spence, a former ABC Sports executive who is president of Sports Television International, a production and consulting company, observed that how well NBC does with Notre Dame will be determined at least in part by how ABC schedules its games. ABC could choose to schedule games at the same time that Notre Dame is appearing on NBC or it could schedule them earlier or later. At Notre Dame's insistence, its home games will start on Saturdays at 1:30 P.M., Eastern time.
Mr. Spence predicted that NBC would try to bolster the rest of its Saturday afternoon programming, which will be strengthened by the ''terrific lead-in'' from Notre Dame's presence on the schedule. Currently, NBC broadcasts a variety of sports programs on Saturday afternoons, and it said it had made no decision yet on how it might change that programming.
ABC also responded to the Notre Dame-NBC deal by renegotiating its contract with the football association. The contract now calls for $175 million over five years, rather than $210 million when Notre Dame was part of the package. The ESPN cable network also renegotiated its contract with the group, from $140 million for five years to $125 million for six years.
Another ripple effect of the NBC-Notre Dame agreement is that CBS now contends that it has the right of first refusal to match ABC's revised contract with the football association. CBS says that under its contract with the association, it has the right to match any offer of less than $40 million a year for the college games. The revised ABC deal is now valued at $37 million a year. The College Football Association and ABC, however, believe that their agreement is binding.

GRAPHIC: drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: TALKING DEALS (TIMES COLUMN)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (94%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: SOUTH BEND, IN, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (94%); UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (84%); UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (SOUTH BEND, IND); NATIONAL BROADCASTING CO (NBC)

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL; TELEVISION; COLLEGE ATHLETICS COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (91%); SPORTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (76%); RESEARCH REPORTS (76%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (73%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (70%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); 



418 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 477 words

HEADLINE: Inventories Fell by 0.2% In December

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 14

 BODY:
Business inventories fell in December for the first time in more than a year, while sales remained unchanged, the Government said today.
''It's a reflection that the economy has slowed down,'' said Thomas Runiewicz, an economist with the WEFA Group in Bala-Cynwyd, Pa. ''It slowed during the fourth quarter, and we expect it to remain slow until the summer.'' 
The Commerce Department said inventories were down two-tenths of 1 percent, to a seasonally adjusted $795.2 billion, after rising five-tenths of 1 percent in November and three-tenths of 1 percent in October.
It was the first decline since a drop of one-tenth of 1 percent in October 1988 and the largest since inventories slipped six-tenths of 1 percent in December 1986.
 
Sales Are Flat
At the same time, sales were flat at a seasonally adjusted $522.5 billion. November sales were revised downward from a gain of seven-tenths of 1 percent to an increase of four-tenths of 1 percent. Sales fell by five-tenths of 1 percent in October.
Mr. Runiewicz said the fact that inventories fell at the same time that sales were flat meant businesses were cutting back on production. But he and other analysts agreed that while the economy was weak, it was not nearing a recession.
''It would take a significant decline in sales to tip the balance of economic activity in a negative direction,'' said Richard W. Rahn, chief economist for the United States Chamber of Commerce. ''But Government reports on retail sales yesterday already suggest that such a decline is not in the cards.''
The Commerce Department reported on Tuesday that retail sales, which represent a third of the nation's economic activity, jumped 1.6 percent in January.
 
Inventories in 'Good Shape'
The December business activity produced a slight decline, to 1.52, in the ratio of inventories to sales. That means it would take 1.52 months to exhaust inventories at the December pace. The ratio was 1.53 in both October and November.
''On the whole, inventories are in pretty good shape,'' said Evelina Tainer, an economist with First National Bank of Chicago. ''It suggests that even though the economy is sluggish, we shouldn't need much of a correction in the near term.''
If inventories pile up excessively, it could mean severe cutbacks in production and a loss of jobs - a situation already found in the automobile industry.
 
Auto Industry Layoffs
Chrysler, Ford Motor and General Motors all had temporary layoffs in January to reduce the number of vehicles on back lots.
Retail backlogs dropped one-tenth of 1 percent in December, but sales fell two-tenths of 1 percent.
Both inventories and sales at the manufacturing level, which represents about 45 percent of the total, slid by four-tenths of 1 percent.
Wholesalers' inventories were down two-tenths of 1 percent, while sales rose 1.1 percent.

GRAPHIC: graph of inventory-sales ratio from 7/88 to 12/89 (Source: Commerce Dept.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (51%); F (NYSE) (51%); JPM (NYSE) (51%); JPM (LSE) (51%); 8634 (TSE) (51%); GM (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (51%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (51%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF CHICAGO HEIGHTS (51%); FORD MOTOR CO (51%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (51%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (90%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INVENTORIES (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) SALES FIGURES (90%); INVENTORIES (90%); RETAIL SALES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (87%); LAYOFFS (86%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (79%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); 

PERSON: THOMAS RUNIEWICZ (61%); 



419 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 6, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 357 words

HEADLINE: EXECUTIVE CHANGES

 BODY:
* Burson-Marsteller Inc., New York, a public affairs and government relations firm, named Nancy Maloley a senior vice president in its Washington office.
* Control Data Corp., Minneapolis, a computer and financial services company, promoted James E. Ousley to executive vice president. He will also remain president of the company's computer products group. 
* Diamond-Star Motors Corp., Normal, Ill., a venture of Chrysler Corp. and Mitsubishi Motors Corp., named John B. Burkart executive vice president and senior manufacturing adviser. He replaces George H. Hohendorf, who retired.
* Donnelley Marketing, Stamford, Conn., a unit of Dun & Bradstreet Corp., promoted Steven R. Snyder to executive vice president for marketing and sales. The unit also promoted Howard Hunt to senior vice president and general manager for information services.
* Henry Ansbacher Inc., New York, a media mergers and acquisitions banking firm, named William J. McCluskey president and chief executive. He replaces Hylton M. Philipson, who will head international media mergers and acquisitions for the firm's London affiliate, Henry Ansbacher Media Ltd.
* Mem Co., Northvale, N.J., a toiletries company, named Gay A. Mayer, its president and chief executive, to the additional post of chairman. He succeeds his late father, Stephen H. Mayer.
* Millmaster Onyx Group, Westport, Conn., a chemical company owned by RFE Investment Partners, named Ronald C. Baker president and chief executive. He remains president of United States Printing Ink Corp., a Millmaster unit.
* North Carolina Supercomputing Center, Research Triangle Park, N.C., named Lawrence A. Lee executive director.
* Paper Corporation of America, Wayne, Pa., a subsidiary of Alco Standard Corp., appointed Michael J. Mazo president of its unit the Paper Corporation of United States. Mr. Mazo will remain president of Alco's Saxon/New York subsidiary.
* Virco Manufacturing Corp., Los Angeles, a furniture company, said its founder, Julian A. Virtue, would retire as chairman and chief executive. He will be succeeded by his son, Robert A. Virtue, the company's president.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ARB (NYSE) (92%); DNB (NYSE) (83%); 7211 (TSE) (72%); VIRC (NASDAQ) (65%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (92%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (92%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (92%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (92%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (91%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (83%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (83%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (72%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (66%); NAICS337127 INSTITUTIONAL FURNITURE MANUFACTURING (65%); SIC2531 PUBLIC BUILDING & RELATED FURNITURE (65%); SIC2869 INDUSTRIAL ORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (55%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (55%); SIC5111 PRINTING & WRITING PAPER (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); 

CITY: RESEARCH TRIANGLE, NC, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ARBITRON INC (92%); CERIDIAN CORP (91%); DUN & BRADSTREET CORP (83%); DIAMOND-STAR MOTORS CORP (72%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (72%); MITSUBISHI MOTORS CORP (72%); UTI INTEGRATED LOGISTICS (66%); VIRCO MANUFACTURING CORP (65%); MILLMASTER ONYX GROUP INC (55%); RENAISSANCE COSMETICS INC (55%); PAPER CORP OF AMERICA (54%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES EXECUTIVES (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (78%); PAPER MFG (75%); PAPER & PACKAGING (75%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (73%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (73%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (71%); DYES & PIGMENTS (70%); CHEMICALS (70%); CHEMICALS MFG (70%); TOILETRIES MFG (70%); SUPERCOMPUTERS (50%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (95%); 



420 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 14, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 450 words

HEADLINE: Dow Posts 0.22-Point Rise as Volume Dips

BYLINE: By PHILLIP H. WIGGINS

 BODY:
Drexel Burnham Lambert's woes did not spill over to the stock market yesterday, as the Dow Jones industrial average edged up by 0.22 point, to 2,624.32.
At the same time, advancing issues on the New York Stock Exchange outpaced declining ones by 749 to 681.
Volume on the Big Board was relatively stable, at 138.5 million shares, down from the 144.4 million shares that changed hands on Tuesday. 
In the broader market, the Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks rose by 0.99, to 332.01, while the New York Stock Exchange composite index gained 0.36, to 183.21.
 
Programmers in Control
''Yesterday was another low-volume affair, with investors having little conviction as to what to do in the face of the Drexel situation and the 'junk bond' fiasco,'' said Edward P. Nicoski, the chief technical analyst at Piper, Jaffray Inc. in Minneapolis. ''With liquidity virtually nil, program traders were able to move the market up and down as they pleased. The net result for the day was zero.''
Mr. Nicoski said another disconcerting factor had been the upward pressure on oil prices, which affects the outlook for inflation.
''Ironically, however, should crude oil prices drop sharply, we could then see downward pressure on energy issues, which have represented the market's primarily leadership in recent months,'' the analyst added. Energy stocks ended mixed yesterday after being up early in the day. Exxon slipped by 1/4, to 47; Chevron rose by 1 1/4, to 69 5/8, and Mobil was unchanged at 61 1/2.
Another analyst indicated that yesterday's performance might be misleading.
Among individual issues, Great Northern Nekoosa jumped by 2 points, to 64, in active trading. The company has asked its investment bankers to begin discussions with interested parties, hoping to avoid a hostile offer from Georgia-Pacific.
 
First Interstate Gains
First Interstate gained 2, to 34 7/8, also in active trading. The company said a partnership affiliated with Kohlberg, Kravis, Roberts & Company would buy about 3.4 million of the 7.5 million common shares to be offered by First Interstate Bancorp at $33 each.
The active glamour stocks included Chase Manhattan, up by 1/2, to 27 1/2; I.B.M., up by 1/2, to 103 3/4; Philip Morris, up by 3/8, to 39 1/8, and Citicorp, up by 1/2, to 23 1/2.
On the American Stock Exchange, the Amex market-value index added 0.33 point, to 358.78, while in over-the-counter trading, the Nasdaq composite index moved up by 0.81, to 426.56.
In Tokyo, stocks closed marginally higher in what some of the traders there termed a ''wait-and-see'' day. The Nikkei index of 225 issues rose by 48.86 points, to 37,155.89, after dropping by 181.11 points on Tuesday.

GRAPHIC: favorite stocks chart

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (81%); PJC (NYSE) (69%); KKR (NYSE) (63%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (81%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (81%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (69%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (69%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (69%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (69%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (69%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (52%); NAICS321219 RECONSTITUTED WOOD PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (52%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (52%); SIC2493 RECONSTITUTED WOOD PRODUCTS (52%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (56%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (81%); PIPER JAFFRAY COS (69%); KKR & CO LP (63%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); GEORGIA-PACIFIC LLC (52%); NYSE MKT LLC (50%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); STOCK INDEXES (93%); STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); COMMON STOCK (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); BONDS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (71%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (70%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (66%); 

PERSON: EDWARD P NICOSKI (66%); 



421 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 20, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 100 words

HEADLINE: FINANCE/NEW ISSUES;
World Bank's Global Bonds

 BODY:
The World Bank said it would price today its second $1.5 billion issue of global bonds. The offering will be made simultaneously in the Euromarkets and in the domestic markets of the United States and Japan.
Donald Roth, the vice president and treasurer of the World Bank, said the new issue, unlike the first issue last September, would also be offered in the Japanese domestic market.
That offering, also totaling $1.5 billion, included 10-year bonds.
The bonds will be offered through an international syndicate of 15 sponsors, led by Goldman, Sachs & Company and Morgan Stanley & Company.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); MS (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); MORGAN STANLEY (84%); MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (71%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD)

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); BONDS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (88%); 



422 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 20, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 133 words

HEADLINE: Ruble Contest: Prize Is Dollars

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 14

 BODY:
An official of the Soviet Union today announced a prize of $25,000 to the person who devises the best plan for making the ruble convertible into hard currencies.
Dimitri Levchuk, an adviser to Deputy Prime Minister Leonid Abalkin, told reporters that the contest would be held in Washington in May. ''The prize money will be paid in hard currency,'' he said.
The contest is being organized by private United States foundations and by a non-governmental organization in the Soviet Union, a Soviet spokesman said. The United States economist Wassily Leontief, who received the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Science in 1973, is to head the panel of judges.
Western economists believe the Soviet Union cannot significantly increase trade with the West until its currency is made convertible.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; CONTESTS AND PRIZES CURRENCIES (92%); NOBEL PRIZES (88%); AWARDS & PRIZES (88%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (87%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (53%); 

PERSON: WASSILY W LEONTIEF (56%); 



423 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 21, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 194 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Ends Mostly Down; Political Uncertainties Cited

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar weakened slightly against most major currencies in uneventful trading yesterday.
Traders said there was little direction in the currency markets, reflecting uncertainty about political and economic developments, including the potential reunification of East and West Germany, President Bush's trip to Colombia and Japan's general election. 
''We're just at a standstill,'' said Ronald Holzer, chief dealer at the Harris Trust and Savings Bank in Chicago. ''The financial markets are very calm.''
Traders continued to monitor the difficulties of Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc., whose parent filed for bankruptcy protection on Tuesday. Drexel has begun what appears to be an orderly liquidation of some financial portfolios.
In New York, the dollar closed at 144.35 yen, unchanged from Wednesday. It cost $1.6960 to buy 1, more expensive than $1.6895 on Tuesday.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Tuesday, were: 1.6750 West German marks, down from 1.6763; 1.4940 Swiss francs, down from 1.4975; 5.6965 French francs, down from 5.7015; 1,244.75 Italian lire, down from 1,245.75, and 1.2075 Canadian dollars, up from 1.2010.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (88%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: BMO HARRIS BANK NA (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; PRICES; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM CURRENCIES (95%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); LIQUIDATIONS (75%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (74%); GERMAN MARK (73%); ELECTIONS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 



424 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 24, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 175 words

HEADLINE: Bush's Tax Plan Faulted

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 14

 BODY:
Congressional economists said today that President Bush's proposed capital-gains tax cut would increase the Federal budget deficit by $11.4 billion in the next five years and would continue to lose revenue far into the future.
The estimate by the staff of the Joint Committee on Taxation disagrees with that of the Treasury Department, which has said the tax cut would increase revenues by $12.5 billion in the next five years. 
The two estimates agree that the capital-gains reduction would raise tax collections for 1990 and 1991. The Congressional staff estimates the 1990-91 gain at $3.9 billion, and the Administration forecasts a $5.4 billion increase. Capital gains are profits from the sale of stock and other assets.
Under current law, capital gains are fully taxed at the same rates as wages and other income. Under the Bush proposal, only 70 percent of the profits from the sale of assets owned three years or longer would be taxed at those rates. Property owned between a year and three years would qualify for a smaller tax break.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

SUBJECT: TAXATION; CAPITAL GAINS TAX; FEDERAL TAXES (US) TAXES & TAXATION (94%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (93%); TAX LAW (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (87%); DIVESTITURES (86%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 



425 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 26, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 249 words

HEADLINE: Edward Bursk, 82; Taught at Harvard In Business School

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: COHASSET, Mass., Feb. 14

 BODY:
Edward C. Bursk, a former editor of the Harvard Business Review and an emeritus professor at the Harvard Business School, died Monday at his home here. He was 82 years old. 
Mr. Bursk edited the monthly review from 1946 to 1972, when its circulation increased from 2,000 to 150,000. He retired last year as marketing professor at Harvard, where he had taught for 47 years.
He had been a member of the faculty at Dartmouth College and Franklin and Marshall College, and had also taught at Boston University.
He was a member of the Council of Economic Advisers in President John F. Kennedy's Administration. In 1958 he founded the International Marketing Institute of Boston, which trains foreign business executives, and became its educational director.
Mr. Bursk wrote a number of business books, including ''Low Pressure Selling'' and ''Reading Habits of Business Executives,'' and was the co-editor of ''World of Business.''
He also published the monthly Advanced Management Newsletter, served as chairman of the Browne and Nichols School in Cambridge and was the moderator of ''Marketing on the Move,'' a series on WGBH-TV, the public television station in Boston.
Mr. Bursk received a bachelor's degree from Amherst College and a master's from Harvard.
He is survived by his wife, the former Catherine Irwin; three sons, Edward Jr., of Cohasset, John H., of Mercersburg, Pa., and Christopher, of Langhorne, Pa.; two sisters; eight grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (56%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BOSTON UNIVERSITY (84%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (84%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (57%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (57%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (57%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (57%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); CHILDREN (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (74%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (74%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); GRANDCHILDREN (69%); 

PERSON: BURSK, EDWARD JOHN F KENNEDY (54%); 



426 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1276 words

HEADLINE: 4 PRESIDENTS IN COLOMBIA;
3 ANDEAN LEADERS AND BUSH PLEDGE DRUG COOPERATION

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSENTHAL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BARRANQUILLA, Colombia, Feb. 15

 BODY:
President Bush and the leaders of three Andean nations concluded the first top-level regional conference on drug trafficking today with ambitious promises of cooperation, but skirted most of the major disputes among their nations.
A joint statement by the four leaders appeared to reject the idea of expanding the use of the United States military to help stop cocaine smuggling from South America. Washington has favored such an expansion but the Andean leaders have been cool to it. [Excerpts from statement, page A12.] Mr. Bush and the Presidents of Colombia, Bolivia and Peru stressed the need to help coca growers in the Andean countries find substitute crops and they called on European countries and Japan to help provide economic aid to drug-producing countries. Mr. Bush pledged to find ways to expand United States markets for substitute crops like coffee and cut flowers.
 
'First Anti-Drug Cartel'
''We've committed ourselves to the first common, cooperative drug control strategy,'' Mr. Bush declared before he left. ''We've in fact just formed the first anti-drug cartel.'' 
The final document issued by the conference included few specific economic, military or law-enforcement agreements. And as expected, Mr. Bush left Colombia after the nine-and-a-half-hour visit without offering any increase in the $2.2 billion, five-year regional aid program he has already sent to Congress.
The final document did not discuss that aid program, which is already under attack by Democrats in Congress. Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, has offered his own program, which would shift Mr. Bush's emphasis on military and law-enforcement programs to economic aid.
 
Lunch at Naval Academy
The four leaders met for nearly three hours and then ate lunch together under heavy guard in the Naval Academy of Cartagena, a coastal city that was flooded with the most intensive security ever mounted for a trip by Mr. Bush. Thousands of Colombian soldiers guarded the streets and stood guard in the trees on the edge of the airport in this city 60 miles to the southwest, where Mr. Bush landed and took off.
The President roared into the meeting site in a fleet of three Marine Corps helicopters, which skimmed the treetops and conducted a series of high-speed maneuvers to foil any possible attack. Colombian and United States warships patrolled offshore while United States counterterrorist units and frogmen guarded the land and sea approaches to the meeting site.
In between meetings, Mr. Bush and President Virgilio Barco Vargas of Colombia strolled along the walls of an old fort in the sultry weather and posed for cameras amid the orange trees and palm groves while parrots and delicate songbirds called picaflores screeched in the background. The other Presidents at the meeting were Jaime Paz Zamora of Bolivia and Alan Garcia of Peru.
Like Mr. Bush's decision to override security concerns and travel to Colombia to demonstrate his personal support for President Barco, the conference was largely a symbolic exercise. It was intended to show that the United States, as the major cocaine-consuming nation, was accepting responsibility for reducing demand and that the Latin American countries were working to halt the cocaine production that has become a mainstay of their troubled economies.
 
'New Era in the Struggle'
In a joint appearance after the conference, Mr. Barco declared that the conference ''opened a new era in the struggle against drugs.''
He noted that the meeting had underscored the need ''to adopt commercial measures to strengthen our economies'' and that, in a conceptual sense at least, the four countries recognized that ''each link of the cocaine trade must be attacked simultaneously'' -production, distribution and consumption.
The communique, whose contents were largely known before the conference began, did mark the culmination of an evolving departure from the anti-drug program of the Reagan Administration, largely repudiating the old policy of concentrating on eradication of cocaine crops in favor of efforts to interdict drug shipments.
But the final document offered few specific programs to accomplish its sweeping goals, leaving that to bilateral negotiations.
 
Major Issues Not Discussed
Marlin Fitzwater, the White House spokesman, said the four Presidents did not discuss any ''specific amount'' of increased aid from Washington and the final document committed Mr. Bush only to his current proposal for the Andean anti-drug program. ''We're going to stay with this figure for now,'' Mr. Bush said, adding that he was not prepared to help the cocaine-producing countries replace that illicit industry ''job for job'' with legal enterprises.
The four Presidents also did not talk in their group session about two other major issues: the extradition of cocaine traffickers to the United States and the use of the United States military to monitor and interdict cocaine traffic from South America.
Before Mr. Bush came to Colombia, Administration officials said he was likely to try to revive a plan to use aircraft carriers to form a ''radar net'' that would monitor drug flights. But, worried that this would inflame Latin American opposition to the idea, Mr. Bush did not raise the subject.
Last month, a plan to send an aircaft carrier to the Colombian coast on such a mission was shelved after it was disclosed in news reports and Mr. Barco strongly protested. Today, Mr. Barco was asked if he now was willing to endorse such a mission in international waters, but he did not answer directly. ''It is not necessary,'' he said. ''Colombian territorial waters are being patrolled by us and controlled by us.''
 
A Law-Enforcement Matter
Mr. Bush said he did not raise the military issue because ''there was so much misunderstanding over what was intended in the first place.''
The final document of the conference said narcotics control ''is essentially a law-enforcement matter.''
''The armed forces of each of the countries, within their own territory and national jurisdiction, may also participate,'' it said, adding that participants could work out their own ''understandings for cooperation.'' But there was no reference to the general principle of the armed forces of one country operating in another.
The four leaders seemed friendly in their public appearances, but their differences were apparent in their statements.
Mr. Bush said he came away with an enhanced understanding of the concerns of the three other Presidents. But he said, ''They were very frank with us on things that maybe they wanted me to do more of or disagreed with.''
 
Need to Reduce Demand
Although Mr. Bush came here citing a new study that indicated a general decline in drug use among high school students in the United States as a sign that he was serious about reducing demand, Mr. Barco suggested in his opening statement that he was not satisfied.
''We must do everything in our power to stop the demand for this illicit narcotic,'' he said. ''I have said many times that every tactic and every weapon pales into insignificance compared to the need to reduce demand.''
The United States also signed six bilateral agreements with Bolivia and Peru.
 
Awacs for Puerto Rico
WASHINGTON, Feb. 15 (Special to The New York Times) - The Pentagon said today that Awacs radar surveillance planes had been dispatched to Roosevelt Roads Naval Base in Puerto Rico to help track possible drug-smuggling aircraft.
''There will be Awacs based now on in Roosevelt Roads for an indefinite period of time,'' Bob Hall, a Pentagon spokesman, said.

GRAPHIC: photo: President Bush as he met yesterday in Cartagena, Colombia, on anti-drug strategy with Presidents Alan Garcia of Peru, left, Virgilio Barco Vargas of Colombia and Jaime Paz Zamora of Bolivia, right. (Reuters) (pg. A1); graph of countries with coca leaf production from '83 to '89 (Source: Bureau of International Narcotics Matters in the State Dept.); map of Cartagena, Colombia (pg. A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: COLOMBIA (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); BOLIVIA (94%); PERU (93%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BELGIAN AMERICAN RADIO CORP (90%); BUREAU OF INTERNATIONAL NARCOTICS MATTERS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PERU; COLOMBIA; BOLIVIA; UNITED STATES; CARTAGENA (COLOMBIA)

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; COCAINE; SECURITY, PERSONAL; FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (93%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (90%); COCAINE (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); DRUG POLICY (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); NAVIES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); SMUGGLING (78%); ARMED FORCES (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (76%); CARTELS (73%); MILITARY VESSELS (71%); NAVAL VESSELS (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (71%); COUNTERTERRORISM (67%); TERRORISM (64%); BIRDS (60%); HELICOPTERS (60%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, ANDREW; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); GARCIA, ALAN (PRES); BARCO VARGAS, VIRGILIO (PRES); PAZ ZAMORA, JAIME (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (91%); JOE BIDEN (58%); 



427 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 2377 words

HEADLINE: ACCORD ON EUROPE: ANATOMY OF A DECISION - A SPECIAL REPORT.;
Steps to German Unity: Bonn as a Power

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN with MICHAEL R. GORDON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 15

 BODY:
Early Tuesday morning, as foreign ministers from the 23 NATO and Warsaw Pact nations milled around the main hall of the Ottawa Congress Center, the Soviet Foreign Minister, Eduard A. Shevardnadze and Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d stood off in a corner, whispering to one another through a Russian translator.
Mr. Shevardnadze reported that the Soviet Union would back down and accept President Bush's proposal for troop cuts in Europe, which would leave the United States with a 30,000-man advantage.
This conversation was the culmination of several days of diplomacy that was kept secret not only from the public but from many allied governments as well. The talks resulted in a new United States-Soviet understanding on troop levels in Europe.
But probably more important, they also resulted in an arrangement for how the four World War II Allies -Britain, France, the United States and the Soviet Union - would deal with the other major development on the continent: negotiations for a seemingly inevitable reunification of Germany. 
In these latter negotiations, the Big Four, once the undisputed overseers of Germany's fate, found themselves having to negotiate with Bonn as a real equal. West Germany used its weight in world affairs, as well as the political momentum of change within its borders and in East Germany, to help shape many of the terms of the Ottawa framework for determining how a united Germany will fit into a post-cold war European order.
 
How It Happened
A reconstruction of the negotiations, based on dozens of interviews today and in recent weeks, found these steps:
* Bush Administration officials consulted separately and in private with British, French and West German leaders to forge a consensus on dealing with German unification - before discussing the matter with Moscow.
* Britain, France and the Soviet Union initially preferred that the four Allied powers discuss the future of Germany among themselves - and not, at first, with the Germans - but Washington talked them into bringing the Germans in from the start.
* Once the Germans were brought into the process, Bonn insisted on excluding the other nations of the 16-member North Atlantic Treaty Organization from these discussions. The West Germans, in a bit of muscle flexing, wanted to make it clear that they would deal only with those Allied powers that had postwar legal rights in Berlin. Setting the Stage The Wall Falls, The Allies Respond After the opening of the Berlin wall on Nov. 10, Administration officials assumed that the unification process would unfold gradually, and that no serious moves on their part would be required until the East German elections, then scheduled for May.
But on Jan. 28, with thousands of East Germans still flocking to the West every day, East German authorities announced that they were advancing the election date to March 18. They simply could not hold the country together until May. Since pro-unification parties were expected to sweep the elections, Administration officials realized that a unified Germany was no longer a possibility - it was all but a certainty.
So the Administration decided to come up with its own plan to manage reunification. President Bush consulted with his national security adviser, Brent Scowcroft, and the deputy adviser, Robert M. Gates, and Mr. Baker with his key aides - Robert Zoellick, State Department counselor; Dennis B. Ross, the department's Director of Policy Planning, and Raymond G. H. Seitz, Assistant Secretary of State for European Affairs. Mr. Seitz eventually produced a version of the plan adopted at Ottawa. It became known as the ''two-plus-four'' concept.
 
Sequence of Talks
Under this formula, after the East German elections were over the two Germanys would get together and discuss their economic, political and legal unification. After that, the United States, Britain, France and the Soviet Union would sit down with the two Germanys and discuss the size of the army their unified state might have, its relationship to NATO and security guarantees for its neighbors.
Mr. Baker and President Bush decided that they would keep the two-plus-four idea closely held and begin secretly polling the three other Allies, one by one. They would not tell the other members of NATO, until and unless there was an agreement among the four, plus the two Germanys.
The first serious discussion of the idea took place on Jan. 29, when the British Foreign Secretary, Douglas Hurd, met with Mr. Baker in Washington. Mr. Hurd, who had been thinking along similar lines, indicated that his Government's preference would be ''four plus zero'' - that is, the four Allied powers getting together to discuss the fate of Germany, at first without the Germans. Nevertheless, he gave London's backing to two plus four.
 
Bonn Wants Guarantees
Four days later, the West German Foreign Minister, Hans-Dietrich Genscher, flew to Washington for a private chat with Mr. Baker, during which the Secretary first laid out the two-plus-four idea to him. Mr. Genscher liked it, but he wanted to make certain that it was two plus four, and not four plus two. That is, he wanted to make sure that the two Germanys would first determine the nature of their unification on their own, and then deal with the other powers on external security issues.
Mr. Genscher also told Mr. Baker that his Government would have nothing to do with a ''2-plus-15'' arrangment - the two Germanys and the 15 other members of NATO deciding the German future. Nor would he accept ''four plus zero.'' He also said that West Germany would not put its future in the hands of the 35 members of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe. Two plus four, he said, was just right.
On Feb. 5, Mr. Baker began a trip to Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union. At the last minute, his schedulers added a stop in Shannon, Ireland, at 5 A.M. for a meeting with the French Foreign Minister, Roland Dumas. During the one-hour talk, Mr. Dumas also signed on to the ''two-plus-four'' concept, but only after saying that his first preference was also ''four plus zero.''
As the reunification negotiations progressed, pressure was building in the United States and in Europe for Mr. Bush to propose a deeper cut in Soviet and American conventional forces in Europe than he had presented to NATO leaders in May. At the urging of Mr. Scowcroft, Gen. Colin L. Powell, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, developed the plan to cut American and Soviet troops in Central Europe to 195,000, with the United States keeping 30,000 soldiers elsewhere in the European region. Meetings in Moscow Visit by Baker A Turning Point On Feb. 7, Mr. Baker flew into Moscow. That night, he had a private meeting with Mr. Shevardnadze and tried to bring up Germany, but the Soviet official said that topic would have to be taken up with President Mikhail S. Gorbachev himself. The next morning, Mr. Baker presented the two-plus-four concept to the Soviet leader as they sat around a huge table in the Kremlin's Catherine Hall. Mr. Gorbachev was intrigued by the two-plus-four idea, but noncommittal. He too made it clear that he shared the British and French preference for ''four plus zero.''
''One of the things that is very striking about dealing with Shevardnadze and Gorbachev right now is that they will listen to your arguments,'' a senior State Department official said. ''These are not stylized discussions. They tend to be very relaxed. When you make a case that they think is reasonable, they will come right back and tell you: 'Well, you know, that's reasonable.' And there was quite a bit of that in the discussion on the Germanys.''
 
Distinction Between Armies
But the German question was not the only issue Mr. Baker had to discuss with the Soviets. There was also the question of how they would respond to President Bush's troop proposal, with its insistence on American troop superiority in Europe. This was to drive home the point that the Soviets, who were in Europe as occupiers, might have to leave at the behest of their allies, but that the Americans were there by invitation and would not be leaving entirely.
Mr. Gorbachev accepted the basic principle of lower troop levels, but gave Mr. Baker a counterproposal: both sides would go down to either 195,000 men or 225,000 men, but not 195,000 for the Soviets and 225,000 for the Americans. Administration officials say they believe that this idea may have been generated by the Soviet arms-control bureaucracy and that Mr. Gorbachev decided he had nothing to lose by seeing if he could bluff the Americans into accepting it.
Mr. Baker left Moscow without a Soviet answer to the German question, and with the troop proposal in limbo. Just as Mr. Baker was packing to leave, the West German Chancellor, Helmut Kohl, and his Foreign Minister, Mr. Genscher, were arriving for their own meeting with Mr. Gorbachev.
Mr. Baker decided that to avoid creating any impression of the United States and the Soviets - without the British and the French -deciding the fate of Germany, he would avoid any personal contact with Mr. Kohl in Moscow.
Instead, Mr. Baker sent Mr. Kohl a three-page, for-your-eyes-only note, laying out Mr. Gorbachev's reactions to the two-plus-four idea. Mr. Baker then took off for Bulgaria and Romania on his way to a conference in Ottawa on the ''open skies'' proposal for air missions over other nations' territories.
Success in Ottawa A Deal Is Struck On Troop Cuts While in Ottawa, Mr. Baker, Mr. Genscher, Mr. Hurd, Mr. Dumas and Mr. Shevardnadze, who were supposed to be dealing with ''open skies,'' were in fact simply going from one meeting with each other, to another. Most of the other NATO and Warsaw Pact foreign ministers did not have a clue as to what they were talking about.
Mr. Baker's private secretary, Karen Jackson, carried around the schedules of each of the other ministers, which were constantly being updated. For instance, the Soviets would call to say that Mr. Shevardnadze was going to be at his embassy for 30 minutes, and then in his suite for an hour, and after that back in the conference hall, so that Mr. Baker could track him down at any moment.
A Baker aide mused that if anyone was tapping the phone calls between the ministers, they would have heard some of the most momentous issues in postwar politics being discussed with stunning frankness. At several points, Mr. Baker was jogging back and forth between meetings with Mr. Genscher and Mr. Shevardnadze.
On Tuesday morning, Mr. Baker, Mr. Hurd, Mr. Dumas and Mr. Genscher had breakfast at the West German Embassy in Ottawa and hammered out the proposed language of the two-plus-four arrangement. They decided then that if they could get Mr. Shevardnadze to sign on to it now, they should do it. Events in Germany were moving too fast, they reasoned, and if they broke up in Ottawa without an understanding, it would be that much more difficult later.
From that breakfast, Mr. Baker drove back to a full session of the open-skies conference. As ministers milled around the oval meeting table, Mr. Baker walked over to Mr. Shevardnadze with a scrap of paper in his hand. With Mr. Shevardnadze's translator standing between them, Mr. Baker, reading from the paper written in his own handwriting, whispered to the Soviet Foreign Minister the proposed language the Western Allies were suggesting for two plus four. Mr. Shevardnadze's translator wrote it all down in Russian, and Mr. Shevardnadze said he would have to call Mr. Gorbachev. A Dizzying Speed German Disunity, Other Loose Ends It was at this juncture that Mr. Shevardnadze also informed Mr. Baker that Mr. Gorbachev was ready to accept Mr. Bush's original troop offer.
Mr. Baker was pleased but somewhat taken aback. No one had really expected Mr. Gorbachev to come around so soon. The Soviet leader was apparently playing from a much weaker hand than anyone thought. Mr. Baker walked out of the hall and telephoned President Bush with the news. Mr. Shevardnadze phoned President Gorbachev to get his reaction to the two-plus-four language.
Meanwhile, the President had been conducting his own telephone diplomacy on Tuesday morning, speaking twice with Chancellor Kohl. Mr. Bush - knowing that Mr. Genscher and Mr. Kohl, political allies of necessity in Bonn's governing coalition, dislike each other and often do not even tell each other what they are doing - decided that he had to personally make certain that Mr. Kohl approved of the two-plus-four deal that Mr. Genscher was striking with Mr. Baker. Mr. Kohl told the President that he was willing, and the President gave Mr. Baker his green light.
 
Concessions to Soviets
Two hours later, Mr. Shevardnadze and Mr. Baker met again in a private conference room. Mr. Shevardnadze said that Mr. Gorbachev supported the idea but that he needed some changes in the text. First, it could not mention the March 18 East German election date, or suggest that this was the event that would trigger the two-plus-four meeting. This was done to mollify his East German allies and to avoid treating unification, or the dissolution of East Germany, as a foregone conclusion.
Mr. Shevardnadze also insisted, apparently on behalf of the Poles, that the statement contain a line saying that the two-plus-four discussions would deal with ''issues of security of the neighboring states.''
Once this language was approved, news photographers were summoned for pictures of the two German Foreign Ministers and those of the four Allied countries standing together. No one was told why. Moments later, their two-plus-four announcement was released. Members of the press got it before most other NATO ministers. The Dutch, Italians and Belgians were incensed and began asking for some changes in the text, particularly for some reference not only to the security of states neighboring Germany, but also in the rest of Europe.
''They were told in no uncertain terms that this was a matter for the Allied powers with legal rights in Germany and nobody else,'' an Administration official said. ''That is why the deal was cut this way, we told them, and if you don't like it, I'm sorry, but you have no legal rights.''

GRAPHIC: photo: Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d and Foreign Minister Eduard A. Shevardnadze of the Soviet Union, right, conferring on Tuesday at closing session of meeting in Ottawa of NATO and Warsaw Pact ministers. (Canadian Press) (pg. A9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GERMANY (99%); EUROPE (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (92%); FRANCE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO); WARSAW PACT (1955) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EAST GERMANY; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); WEST GERMANY

SUBJECT: GERMANY, REUNIFICATION OF; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SURVEYS AND SERIES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); WORLD WAR II (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); COLD WAR (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; GORDON, MICHAEL R; BAKER, JAMES A 3D (SEC); SHEVARDNADZE, EDUARD (MIN) THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 



428 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1286 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A2-13
 
A top-level regional drug conference between President Bush and the leaders of three Andean nations concluded with ambitious promises of cooperation, but skirted most of the major disputes among the nations. Page A1

 
Bush tells press: ''We've got a whole new relationship'' A12

A Peruvian peasant fails to see Bush A12

Noriega co-defendant says he is guilty A13

 
The German reunification talks at Ottawa this week were characterized by a web of behind-the-scenes diplomatic moves in which the wartime Allies found themselves having to negotiate with Bonn as a real equal. A1

 
The West German Parliament echoed with catcalls and charges as it gave a rowdy and heated foretaste of the domestic political struggle shaping over German unity. A1

 
The economic ripples of a German union D1

Shevardnadze calls for meeting this year on unification A9

Honecker says he takes blame for '89 vote fraud A8

 
Tadzhikistan's Government heads, as well as Communist Party leaders in that Soviet republic, submitted their resignations after nearly a week of mob violence, the Soviet press agency Tass reported. A8 
 
 
News analysis: Moscow's only hope to prevent the disintegration of the Soviet position in Europe may be access to the Western economic mainstream. The most direct route for such access would be right behind East Germany. A8

 
Latvian Parliament votes to work for independence A8

Protests continue in Romania despite promise of inquiry A10

Serbian-Albanian conflict reverberating across Yugoslavia A10

 
A right-wing rally in Pretoria was attended by about 15,000 people, who protested against the Government's actions in freeing Nelson Mandela and legalizing the African National Congress. A2

 
Mandela sees basis for talks on power-sharing A2

Anti-Apartheid group forming position on changes A2

 
Britain and Argentina decided to resume full diplomatic relations, which had been broken since the Falkland war in 1982. A3

 
Sweden's Government resigned after losing a vote in Parliament on an economic rescue bill. The resignation set off what could be an extended period of haggling to create a new government. A3

 
Aoun attack sets off artillery and tank duels A6

Bonn's approval reported in Mideast arms sales A3

Negev transmitter is pushed by U.S. A11

Seoul agrees in principle to reduction of U.S. troops A7

U.S. suspends food aid to Afghan guerrillas A5

 
NATIONAL A14-21
 
Mayor Marion Barry was indicted on five Federal charges of possessing cocaine and three felony counts of lying about being involved with drugs. A1

 
Ronald Reagan's testimony today about his role in the Iran-contra affair will not be given before news organizations or the public, a Federal judge ruled. But the judge agreed to make public an edited videotape within several days. A1

 
Washington at Work: J. Carter Brown is something of a culture czar. As director of the National Gallery of Art and a holder of other important positions, he is part of the rarefied circles that shape the capital's cultural life. A16

 
The two biggest auto makers in the nation, General Motors and Ford, posted significant declines in earnings for the fourth quarter and the year, reflecting the softness in auto sales and costly incentive programs for buyers. D1

 
Berkeley's new chancellor will be Chang-Lin Tien. He is believed to be the first Asian-American appointed to head a major research university in the United States. A14

 
Two Boston officers charged with lying in killing of officer A14

Freedom for another Dallas prisoner A14

Barbara Bush has lip cancer removed A14

Dismissals by Drexel seen today D1

Changing tactics, miners will vote on pact A15

Appeals Court frees inmate on hunger strike A18

Advance reported in Leukemia tests A19

AIDS expert warns of hazards in research A19

 
REGIONAL B1-6
 
A hiring plan for the school system, which seeks to recruit and hire more women and more black, Hispanic and Asian employees, is being prepared. A1

 
New hiring plan shifts talk to race and image B4

Union uses students in tenure dispute, Fernandez contends B4

 
An undercover narcotics detective in Suffolk County was killed after a bomb exploded in his car parked outside his house, the police said. B1

 
The trial of Robert Golub began. He is accused of killing 13-year-old Kelly Ann Tinyes, who was his neighbor in Valley Stream, L.I. B1

 
The Trump breakup has made news and stimulated competition. The couple's marital problems have dominated the front pages of the city's three tabloids.
B1

 
Even a champion can't steal spotlight from Donald Trump B6

 
A Cuomo and a Kennedy plan to wed. The engagement of Andrew Cuomo, the Governor's son, and Kerry Ken-nedy, a daughter of the late Senator Robert Kennedy, was announced. B1

 
A student protest at Vassar, sparked by charges that Senator Moynihan made a racially biased remark after a lecture on campus, ended after the administration agreed to hear student demands. B2

 
Doctor disputes Prego's testimony during AIDS trial B3

Dinkins announces several appointments B3

Cuomo and Dinkins back Hudson park B2

Alcohol and drug tests urged for pilots in crashes B2

 
BUSINESS DIGEST D1

 
WEEKEND
 
Weekender Guide C1

''Photography Until Now'' C1

Baseball in art and words C1

A play starring a theater C1

Theater: On Stage C2

''Miss Margarida's Way'' C3

Film: At the Movies C8

''Revenge'' C8

Music: ''Samson et Dalila'' C3

Los Angeles Piano Quartet C16

Blues, urbanized and true C25

Dance: ''Midsummer Night'' C14

Art: Giorgio Morandi still lifes C26

Rauschenberg, 1962 to 1980 C30

Auctions C28

Restaurants C22

Word and Image: Novels about New Yorkers C33

TV Weekend C34
 
SPORTS
 
Baseball: Negotiators exchange outlooks A26

Camps quiet A25

Basketball: Knicks lose A25

Sonics beat Nets A26

Grady high school enjoys big success A28

Boxing: Holyfield wants new champ A26

Column: Anderson on Douglas A25

Horse Racing: Notebook A27

 
LAW B7

 
At the Bar
Progress spawns the question:
Who owns the law?
 
OBITUARIES
 
Jack C. Massey, entrepreneur D18

William T. Conklin, ex-Republican State Senator D19

James Vaughn Warren, physician, educator and researcher D19

Keyes Beech, journalist D19

Julian Wolff, a physician D19

 
EDITORIALS/LETTERS/OP-ED
 
Editorials A34

 
Polish capitalism lessons
The Reilly-Sununu war
A law to light the darkest cell
Understanding U.S. diversity
 
Letters A34

 
William Safire: Whom to root for A35

Anthony Lewis: Not by divine right A35

Alan Romberg: It's quiet in Asia, but not business as usual A35

Richard H. Ullman: Mr. Bush's geography lesson A35

Raymond A. Hay: When government is part of the problem A35

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); SERBIA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); TAJIKISTAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); ROMANIA (79%); ALBANIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SWEDEN (79%); LATVIA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (52%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); RESIGNATIONS (87%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); FELONIES (76%); LITIGATION (76%); TESTIMONY (76%); INDICTMENTS (76%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (75%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (74%); COCAINE (73%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (71%); JUDGES (71%); ELECTION FRAUD (69%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (64%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (63%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (60%); ARMED FORCES (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 



429 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 4, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: Sonargaon Journal;
Where Politics, Like the Rivers, Can Turn Nasty

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SONARGAON, Bangladesh, Feb. 9

 BODY:
Sirajul Islam, who makes his living selling bamboo poles, said he was having breakfast with his assistants early this morning when the political goons came for him. The local leader of Bangladesh's ruling Jatiya Party wanted to see him, he was told.
He stumbled home about an hour later, his shirt torn, a welt on his head and a threat still ringing in his ears: ''If you don't join the Jatiya Party, we will put you under detention.'' His shop's cash box was empty. 
Mr. Islam's crime was to volunteer to help an opposition candidate seeking election as head of a rural council in the first local elections in five years. His candidate, Abul Hasnat, is a member of Bangladesh's founding party, the Awami League.
Although the elections are ''partyless'' in the sense that party symbols cannot be used, everyone knows the affiliations of the candidates running for chairmanships of 460 upazila, or subdistrict, councils in the Bangladeshi countryside.
 
Previous Elections Boycotted
Five years ago, most parties opposed to President H. M. Ershad boycotted the local elections. Their reappearance this year poses a quandary for General Ershad, who seized power in a 1982 military coup.
The President has been luring opposition parties into the electoral process to give greater credence to government at all levels. Foreign donor nations, including the United States, have urged him to demonstrate more genuine democracy. But the participation of opposition groups with strong regional followings threatens his party's grasp on power at the local level.
The subdistrict councils, whose chairmen will be elected from March 13 to 24, disperse development money, which gives them considerable powers of patronage. The councils are now dominated by the Jatiya Party because of the opposition boycott in 1985. Rural voters, about 177,000 of them in Sonargaon subdistrict, became disgruntled because they believed their demands were being ignored by a party in more or less a monopoly position.
''Why should Bangladesh be the last country left in the world with a one-party system?'' a supporter of Mr. Hasnat asked, as he marched with his candidate along the rutted main street of Sonargaon town, about 20 miles east of Dhaka, in a demonstration of defiance and courage.
Voters here are quick to respond to a question about what they want from their council: they need more wells, culverts, bridges and new roads. Sonargaon's only thoroughfare is passable for nothing larger than a bicycle rickshaw as it dwindles into dunes at the edge of the Meghna River.
The Meghna is licking away Sonargaon, chunk by chunk, citizens say, while the Government does nothing to fortify the banks. Shamsuddin Bhuyan, a young farmer whose cabbage fields are precariously close to the precipice, took a reporter along the riverbank to view the changes.
In the lifetime of his father, who he thinks is about 70 years old, the river has shifted course by a mile or more. Out there in the middle of the stream, he said, used to be the police station, and over here a row of houses, and over there a shop.
 
'Creating Trouble for Us'
Mr. Hasnat, the owner of a small garment-manufacturing business, thinks he would win this vote easily if it were an honest poll. ''But they are creating troubles for us,'' he said of the Jatiya Party. ''Today two people were beaten brutally.''
President Ershad, who created the Jatiya Party to give himself a civilian political base, promises repeatedly that the voting will be ''free and fair.'' If these elections can pass muster, there may be national parliamentary elections in the next year or two.
In Sonargaon, only Jatiya Party members seem to believe the Government's pledge.
Political loyalties here and elsewhere in Bangladesh, with 110 million people one of the world's most densely populated nations, tend to remain divided along traditional party lines or family and regional loyalties.
 
'Something New' Is Wanted
Apart from the Jatiya and the Awami League, the party of Bangladesh's first Prime Minister, Sheik Mujibur Rahman, there are three other major political organizations in Bangladesh. They are the Communist Party; the Jamat-e-Islami, a militantly pro-Muslim group, and the Bangladesh Nationalist Party, headed by the widow of Gen. Ziaur Rahman, who was President from 1977 until his assassination in 1981.
Human rights advocates and development experts often lament the lack of originality in party platforms at a time when the country is slipping backward, its economic growth slowed by floods and low commodity prices.
''The people are looking for something new,'' Abdur Rahman Chowdhury, a retired Supreme Court judge, said in Dhaka. He has been approached by citizens asking him to challenge General Ershad if there is another presidential election. He has declined, believing that no election is likely to be fair if held under this Government's control.
In Sonargaon, Mr. Hasnat's supporters all want to talk about the rigging they have seen. ''Don't believe what the Government says about fair elections,'' Mossaraf Hussain said. ''The last time, the Government also promised on television and radio that voting would be fair. But we all saw what happened.''

GRAPHIC: photo: The presence of opposition parties in this year's Bangladeshi elections demonstrates democracy, but may threaten the local power of the ruling Jatiya Party. Abul Hasnat, candidate of the opposition Awami League, left, discusses strategy in Sonargaon with Haji Sultan Ahmad, a local party elder. (The New York Times/Barbara Crossette); map of Bangladesh

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BANGLADESH (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: DHAKA, BANGLADESH (79%); 

COMPANY: JATIYA PARTY (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BANGLADESH

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICS (90%); BOYCOTTS (89%); RIVERS (83%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); RELIGION (78%); COUPS (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (71%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (65%); ARMED FORCES (51%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA ABUL HASNAT (61%); 



430 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 5, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 393 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Suspends Food Aid to Afghan Guerrillas

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 15

 BODY:
The United States has suspended a $30 million food aid program for Afghan guerrillas because of ''unique problems'' in keeping track of where the food went, a State Department spokesman said today.
A department spokesman, Richard Boucher, would not specify what the problems were, but a Congressional aide said the program was halted after some supplies were stolen or sold to the Soviet-backed Afghan Government.
He said the food aid, which is 30 percent of total American humanitarian aid to the rebels, had been suspended in November and again more recently. ''This was done as a result of difficulties encountered by U.S. Government officials in meeting our requirements in allocating and monitoring of those shipments,'' Mr. Boucher said at a news briefing. 
He said a team from the Agency for International Development had recently traveled to Pakistan, a staging area for the guerrillas, to set up a better monitoring network for the aid. He said shipments would resume soon.
The United States has long supplied military aid to the Islamic gueriilas battling Kabul Government forces.
Vaughn Forrest, an aide to Representative Bill McCollum, Republican of Florida, said the Congressman was urging the Bush Administration to resume the aid and insure that it got to the rebels.
Mr. Forrest confirmed a Washington Post report that deliveries of wheat to the rebels were suspended after 2,400 tons were diverted by members of Pakistan's military intelligence agency, apparently for private gain.
 
Afghan Aide Accuses Pakistan
NEW DELHI, Feb. 15 (Special to The New York Times) - Ending a four-day visit to India, the Afghan Foreign Minister renewed accusations today that Pakistan had plans to take over his country in the guise of an Islamic confederation ruled from Islamabad.
The Foreign Minister, Abdul Wakil, the first high-ranking Afghan to visit New Delhi since the Government of Prime Minister V. P. Singh took over in December, also accused a Saudi-based militant Islamic sect, the Wahabis, of ''large-scale aggression'' in Afghanistan. But he stopped short of blaming Saudi Arabia itself.
Mr. Wakil's visit was apparently intended to reaffirm Indian support for the Kabul Government of President Najibullah. India backed the Soviet intervention in Aghanistan in 1979 and has supported all subsequent Communist Governments there.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); AFGHANISTAN (96%); INDIA (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW DELHI, INDIA (92%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%); 

COMPANY: AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (91%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (AID)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;AFGHANISTAN; PAKISTAN

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (91%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); RELIGION (87%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); CIVIL WAR (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); 

PERSON: BILL MCCOLLUM (55%); 



431 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 7, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 653 words

HEADLINE: Seoul Agrees on Withdrawal of Some Troops

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, Feb. 15

 BODY:
In talks with Secretary of Defense Dick Cheney, the South Korean Defense Minister today accepted in principle the gradual withdrawal of about 5,000 noncombatants from the American force of more than 43,000 soldiers in South Korea.
The details and timing of the reduction remained to be worked out. One American official who attended the meeting said that the figure of 5,000 to 6,000 was used as an ''order of magnitude'' in the troop withdrawal discussions, but that there was no firm agreement on the number. Mr. Cheney assured his South Korean counterpart at the talks, Lee Sang Hoon, that any troop withdrawal would not harm the capacity of the two countries' combined forces to deter a North Korean attack.
''We are not going to move precipitously,'' Mr. Cheney said at a news conference after the meeting ''Our commitment remains strong. The threat remains undiminished.'' 
 
Military Changes Being Weighed
Mr. Cheney is on a two-week tour to explore changes in the American military presence in South Korea, Japan and the Philippines before a required report to Congress on April 1.
Last month, the United States announced that it would cease operations at three of its five South Korean air bases and withdraw about 2,000 Air Force support personnel from the country.
Mr. Lee's acceptance of additional troop cuts was part of a larger shift in attitude emerging in the Korean-American military relationship. Both sides agreed that the American role would gradually diminish while Seoul assumes more leadership, including the eventual command of key units of the combined forces of the two countries.
One high-ranking American official traveling with Mr. Cheney said this was the strongest statement yet by South Korean officials that they would take over the leading role in their defense.
At the news conference, Mr. Cheney said, ''As a sort of guiding principle, we talked about playing more of a supportive role than we have in the past as the Republic of Korea takes the lead.''
The two defense chiefs discussed transferring to a South Korean general the operational control of the two nations' joint field army and appointing a Korean general to head the southern side's delegation to Military Armistice Commission meetings held in the truce village of Panmunjom. Both positions are now held by American generals.
In an earlier lunch meeting, President Roh Tae Woo was quoted as telling Mr. Cheney that South Korea would consider taking over operational control of its own armed forces during peacetime, with the Americans resuming command in times of war.
South Korea responded coolly, however, to an American request for a substantial increase in the amount of money Seoul contributes to the stationing of American forces. Mr. Lee pledged only that Seoul would give ''positive consideration'' to increasing direct financial support.
 
The Korean Contribution
Pentagon officials had earlier suggested that South Korea should double its $300 million in annual direct contributions to the costs of the American forces, but Mr. Cheney shied from pressing specific proposals in his discussions with Mr. Lee. American officials estimate that it costs the United States $2.4 billion to maintain its troops in Korea.
With its rapid economic growth, technological advances and improved military training, ''the Republic of Korea can now do more in providing for its own security,'' Mr. Cheney said.
A four-member committee consisting of Mr. Lee, Foreign Minister Choi Ho Joong, the United States Ambassador, Donald P. Gregg, and Gen. Louis Menetrey, commander of American forces in Korea, will work out the details and hard numbers of the proposed new arrangements.
The purpose of Mr. Cheney's visit was to consult with American allies and reach general agreements, said Pete Williams, the Defense Department spokesman. ''Today was not numbers day,'' he said. ''Today was principle day.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); PHILIPPINES (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

CITY: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); 

COMPANY: KOREAN AIR (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SOUTH KOREA; NORTH KOREA

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS ARMED FORCES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); ARMIES (78%); AIR FORCES (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (66%); 

PERSON: CHENEY, RICHARD B (SEC); LEE SANG HOON (MIN) DICK CHENEY (91%); 



432 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 8, Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1170 words

HEADLINE: UPHEAVAL IN THE EAST: SOVIET UNION;
Lifeline for Moscow: Diplomats Believe Gorbachev Wants To Salvage Access to West's Economy

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Feb. 15

 BODY:
As Communism collapsed in country after country in Eastern Europe last fall, it became clear that what all of them wanted was to join the Western cultural, political and economic traditions from which they had been cut off for 40 years.
With the ruins of seven decades of Communism in the Soviet Union now lying all about President Mikhail S. Gorbachev, some Western diplomats believe that if he hopes to salvage anything at all from the disintegrating Soviet position in Europe, it will be the hope of access to the Western economic mainstream.
The most direct route for such access would be right behind East Germany, if it decides after elections next month to unite with West Germany, something the Soviet Union is no longer determined to prevent at any price.
The consensus among many Western diplomats is that Moscow will not insist on neutrality for a united Germany, though in public it says it will. An authoritative Communist Party official confirmed that demilitarized neutrality for a reunited Germany was no longer the soviet bottom line. 
 
'No Time for Long-Term Strategy'
''We have lost our ability to exploit German domestic politics,'' the official said. ''We no longer have time for a long-term foreign policy strategy.''
The Soviet Union is not yet prepared to agree with Bonn and the three Western Allied powers in West Germany -the United States, Britain and France - that a united Germany should remain a full member of NATO, he said, not even if Western troops stayed out of what is now East Germany and the 400,000 Soviet troops stationed there now could remain for a time.
Moscow consented in Ottawa on Tuesday to accept a framework for negotiating unity with the two German states and the three Western Allies. Some Soviet experts say that under some conditions, the Soviet Union could agree to NATO membership for a united Germany, if like France it had no foreign troops stationed on its soil and did not subordinate its own troops to the NATO military command in peacetime.
That would hardly be acceptable to the United States and Britain. But Moscow believes that demands for guarantees against the danger of renewed German aggression will be understood and supported, for other reasons, by Germany's other European neighbors, which remember what such aggression did to them in World War II.
 
Negotiating From Weakness
Though his country was victorious in that war, Mr. Gorbachev is negotiating from a position of weakness now. On Friday, in talks here with Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d, he turned down President Bush's proposal for a conventional arms treaty that would give the United States the right to keep 225,000 troops in Europe, but allow the Soviet Union to station only 195,000. On Tuesday, to the surprise of Western diplomats here, Foreign Minister Eduard A. Shevardnadze suddenly accepted the proposal in Ottawa.
A Western diplomat speculated that with Czechoslovakia, Hungary and Poland all eager for the Soviet Union to withdraw its troops in those countries, Moscow was under pressure to reach a quick agreement with the West. He speculated that the Soviet Union might even want a floor under American troop withdrawals to guarantee its own security.
Some Soviet citizens here believe that the West has not yet grasped just how close to disintegration the Soviet Communist Party and the Soviet economic and social system are, or how desperate are Mr. Gorbachev's attempts to reshape it.
The mood among many Russians who were among his greatest admirers a few years ago has turned pessimistic and disappointed.
''He didn't move fast enough with economic reforms,'' a Central Committee bureaucrat said. ''The party leadership is close to collapsing at the local and district level all across the country.''
 
Afraid Gorbachev Will Fail
Anatoly N. Rybakov, who denounced Stalinism in his novel ''Children of the Arbat,'' published in 1987, said: ''Gorbachev is trying to save the country. But now I'm afraid he will fail.'' After the Central Committee voted last week to give up the party's constitutional monopoly on political power, criticism of the party has become surprisingly open.
''I think the C.P.S.U. is unable to break with its past,'' Mikhail Chulaki, a non-Communist, wrote in the weekly Moscow News this week, using the initials for the Communist Party of the Soviet Union. ''Was there ever a 'vanguard role?' When? Under Stalin, under Khrushchev, under Brezhnev. I.e., under regimes that either dripped with blood or were more liberal but always totalitarian.''
Now, with the economy in a shambles, the Communist Party's authority rapidly vanishing, separatism growing in at least 6 of the 15 constituent republics and Soviet military might irrelevant to any conceivable solution, Mr. Gorbachev has apparently decided that he cannot save the system that held the country together by force for 70 years.
 
Economic Bid to West
The question, in many minds, is whether he can even get it to survive long enough to replace it with a freer economic and political system capable of being integrated with the Western economy. Prime Minister Nikolai I. Ryzhkov, on a visit to Australia this week, said that he hoped that the Soviet Union could be ready by 1995, but that full integration might take 10 to 15 years.
''They can't force it,'' a Western diplomat said. ''They can only get it through cooperation.''
Thus, he explained, Moscow has one more reason not to stand in the way of unification of the two Germanys, which together constitute a little less than one-sixth of total Soviet foreign trade.
''Would they rather have 77 million Germans with them or against them?'' this diplomat asked rhetorically.
But Soviet officials concede, privately, that they lost control over events in Germany in October, when Erich Honecker lost control to the demonstrators in the streets in Leipzig and East Berlin.
 
Threat of 'the Streets'
The streets here have begun to be trouble, too. On Feb. 4, as many as half a million people took to the squares of Moscow in support of various causes, including faster change. On Feb. 26, the masses are expected to converge on the capital again, and some Communist officials fear that eventually ''the streets'' will go out of control.
In Azerbaijan, Tadzhikistan and Armenia, they already have, and the results are ethnic strife and bloodshed. The Communist parties there are under attack and collapsing almost as fast as their equivalents did in Eastern Europe last fall, and perhaps for the same reason: They were artificial Russian implants.
Now, as the streets deteriorate, oil production falls, feed grain runs out and meat disappears from the stores in the Ukraine, in Russia, all over the country, the worry is that all state authority may soon be in danger.
Few diplomats here think Mr. Gorbachev has much time to think up devious strategies to hoodwink the West into giving up its own interests in Western Europe. He is just hoping to salvage what he can of his own.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: GERMANY (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EAST GERMANY; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); WEST GERMANY

SUBJECT: GERMANY, REUNIFICATION OF POLITICS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); WORLD WAR II (86%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); WAR & CONFLICT (70%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R; GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 



433 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: 4 PRESIDENTS IN COLOMBIA;
Excerpts From Cartagena Statement

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: CARTAGENA, Colombia, Feb. 15

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from the statement issued here today at the summit conference on drugs:
The parties consider that a strategy which commits the parties to implement or strengthen a comprehensive, intensified anti-narcotics program must address the issues of demand reduction, consumption and supply. Such a strategy also must include understandings regarding economic cooperation, alternative development, encouragement of trade and investment, as well as understandings regarding economic cooperation, on attacking the traffic in illicit drugs, and on diplomatic and public diplomacy initiatives.
The parties recognize that these areas are interconnected and self-reinforcing. . . It is clear that to be fully effective, supply reduction efforts must be accompanied by significant reduction in demand. The parties recognize that the exchange of information on demand control programs will benefit their countries. 
The parties recognize that the nature and impact of the traffic in and interdiction of illicit drugs varies in each of the three Andean countries and cannot be addressed fully in this document.
The parties will negotiate bilateral and multilateral agreements, consistent with their anti-narcotics efforts, specifying their responsibilities and commitments with regard to economic cooperation and intensified enforcement actions. ...
The parties recognize that trafficking in illicit drugs has a negative long-term impact on their economies. In some of the parties, profits from coca production and trade and from illicit drug trafficking contribute, in varying degrees, to the entry of foreign exchange and to the generation of employment and income. Suppression of coca production and trade will result in significant, immediate and long-term economic costs that will affect, in various ways, each of the Andean countries.
The President of the United States will request Congress to authorize new funds for the program during fiscal years 1991 to 1994, in order to support the Andean parties' efforts to counteract the short- and long-term socioeconomic impact of an effective fight against illicit drugs. . . . The United States is also prepared to cooperate with the Andean parties in a wide range of initiatives for development, trade and investment in order to strengthen and sustain long-term economic growth. ...
The parties are convinced that a comprehensive fight against illicit drug traffic will disrupt the market for coca and coca derivatives and will reduce their prices. As success is achieved in this fight, those employed in growing coca and in its primary processing will seek alternative sources of income, either by crop substitution or by changing jobs. The parties will work together to identify alternative-income activities for external financing. The United States is ready to consider financing of activities such as research, extension, credit and other agricultural support services and support of private-sector initiatives for the creation of micro-enterprises and agro-industries.
The United States will also cooperate with the Andean parties to promote viable domestic and foreign markets to sell the products generated by alternative development and crop substitution programs. ...
The parties reaffirm their will to fight drug trafficking in a comprehensive manner attacking all facets of the trade: production, transportation and consumption. Such comprehensive action includes the following:
Preventive actions to reduce consumption and therefore demand.
Control and law enforcement activities against illegal cultivation, processing and marketing of illicit drugs.
Control of essential chemicals for the production of illegal drugs and the means used for their transport.
Seizure, forfeiture and sharing of illegal proceeds and property used in committing narcotics-related crimes.
Coordination of law enforcement agencies, the military, prosecutors and courts, within the framework of national sovereignty of each of the parties.
Actions to bring about a net reduction in the illegal cultivation of coca. ...
The control of illegal trafficking in drugs is essentially a law enforcement matter. However, because of its magnitude and the different aspects involved, and in keeping with the sovereign interest of each state. . . the armed forces in each of the countries, within their own territory and national jurisdictions, may also participate. The parties may establish bilateral and multilateral understandings for cooperation in accordance with their interests, needs and priorities.

GRAPHIC: photo: A U.S. Secret Service agent stood guard with an automatic weapon in a shoulder bag yesterday as President Bush's fleet of three Marine Corps helicopters arrived Colombia for a one-day conference on drug trafficking. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); COLOMBIA (94%); BOLIVIA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED STATES SECRET SERVICE (59%); UNITED STATES SECRET SERVICE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; COLOMBIA; BOLIVIA; PERU

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC ILLEGAL DRUGS (91%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); DRUG POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); DRUG INTERDICTION (89%); COCAINE (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (75%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (73%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (73%); PRICE CUTTING (72%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 



434 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 674 words

HEADLINE: 4 PRESIDENTS IN COLOMBIA;
Peasant Grower Fails to Get Opportunity to Talk to Bush

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CARTAGENA, Colombia, Feb. 15

 BODY:
Justo Silva Ballon, a Peruvian who represents one of the world's largest groups of peasant growers of coca, the essence of cocaine, came here today hoping to tell President Bush that his people were ready to switch to other crops. But he never got the chance.
''They didn't want to receive me,'' Mr. Silva said. ''All I wanted was five minutes with the President.'' 
Mr. Silva, who had come here as part of President Alan Garcia's delegation, said the 200,000 peasants that he represents received only a tiny fraction of the street price of cocaine and felt trapped in a violent world of narcotics traffickers, leftist guerrillas and the security forces.
''Our campesinos are all for Mr. Bush,'' Mr. Silva said. ''They are all for eradication of coca and producing something else.''
But he said that transforming the rich Upper Huallaga Valley of Peru, perhaps the largest coca growing area in the world, would cost billions of dollars and that so far no one had been willing to provide the money. The United States, he said, seemed to prefer spending its money on law enforcement, which sometimes drove peasants into the arms of the guerrillas.
 
Security Is Heavy
As President Bush and the leaders of Colombia, Peru and Bolivia began their summit meeting this morning, soldiers and the police had taken up positions along the main streets of Cartagena. A half-dozen Colombian warships and patrol boats maneuvered in the bay surrounding the peninsula where the talks were held and helicopters loaded with anti-terrorist teams clattered overhead.
As Colombian and American officials here had predicted, the summit meeting went off without even a hint of violence. The deployment of about 5,000 soldiers and police officers, however, had made some residents jittery. Schools and many businesses closed today, and traffic was unusually light.
Elsewhere in Colombia, however, students at several universities protested against Mr. Bush's presence, and in Cali, one of the main trafficking centers, guerrillas of the National Liberation Army kidnapped an American priest, the Rev. Francisco Amico Ferrari. The guerrillas said the kidnapping, like that of two other Americans earlier in the week, was intended to show their resentment toward the American President.
Late this afternoon, the National Liberation Army declared that it now considered every ''American interest'' in Colombia to be ''a military target of our organization.'' Military analysts said that while the National Liberation Army, with an estimated strength of 2,000, had carried out a series of kidnappings recently in Bogota, Medellin and Cali, it was doubtful that the organization is capable of carrying out major attacks.
 
Comment by U.S. Embassy
A spokeswoman for the United States Embassy in Colombia said she did not know anything about Mr. Silva's attempts to see Mr. Bush. She said she also had no information on an assertion by Mr. Silva that the American Embassy in Lima had denied him a visa to attend a special session of the United Nations on drugs next week in New York.
Some United States officials in Washington speculated this week that President Garcia, who had threatened not to attend the summit meeting in protest against the United States invasion of Panama, might have invited Mr. Silva to the meeting in an effort to embarrass Mr. Bush.
Mr. Garcia has argued that the United States should be spending less on the police and military in the fight against cocaine and more on economic development. Mr. Bush has pledged more than $2.2 billion in aid to Colombia, Peru and Bolivia over the next four years, but the proportion designated for economic development is far lower than the amount Peru and Bolivia say is needed.
Mr. Silva said that while no other crop gave peasants more profit than coca, income from fruits and vegetables could be multiplied with the establishment of food processing plants.
''What we need is the machinery to process and can foods,'' he said, ''and the assurance that someone would buy the products.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: COLOMBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); PERU (94%); 

CITY: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL LIBERATION ARMY (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COLOMBIA; PERU; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; COCAINE; FOREIGN AID COCAINE (92%); FARM LABOR (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (90%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (88%); NATIONAL LIBERATION ARMY (88%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); ARMED FORCES (86%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (86%); STUDENT SUBSTANCE ABUSE (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (73%); DRUG CROP ERADICATION (73%); MILITARY VESSELS (69%); NAVAL VESSELS (69%); TERRORISM (64%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (64%); MARINE VESSELS (64%); COUNTERTERRORISM (64%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (62%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (61%); HELICOPTERS (50%); 

PERSON: TREASTER, JOSEPH B; SILVA BALLON, JUSTO; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 



435 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 21, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 489 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Barry's Career and Troubles

 BODY:

1974: Marion S. Barry Jr.is elected to the District of Columbia City Council; he is re-elected two years later.
PUB-DATE: March 9, 1977:
Jan. 21, 1978: Mr. Barry announces his intention to run for Mayor.
Sept. 12, 1978: After receiving a last-minute endorsement from The Washington Post, Mr. Barry wins the Democratic primary with 35 percent of the vote over two opponents.
Nov. 7, 1978: Mr. Barry is elected Mayor. In his first term, the city deficit mushrooms, forcing him to cut jobs and services and press for more Federal aid. He wins re-election in 1982 and his second term sees sees improved fiscal health, renewal of the downtown area, a decline in unemployment and crime and growing crowding of the city's jails and prisons. But scandals begin to take their toll as 10 top city officials are convicted of various financial crimes.
Sept. 25, 1983: The Mayor is stricken with chest pains while attending a meeting in a downtown hotel; hospital officials attribute the pains to a a hiatal hernia.
Nov. 4, 1986: Despite his mounting troubles, Mr. Barry is re-elected to an unprecedented third term, taking 61 percent of the vote.
PUB-DATE: May 22, 1987:
Dec. 22, 1988: Police officers planning to attempt a drug buy from Charles Lewis, a former Virgin Islands official and an acquaintance of Mr. Barry, are called back when it is discovered that the Mayor is in Mr. Lewis' hotel room. Traces of cocaine are found in the room.
Jan. 19, 1989: Mr. Barry appears under subpoena before grand jury investigating whether the Mayor interfered with the police drug investigation and testifies for three hours. He tells reporters he has done nothing wrong.
PUB-DATE: April 24, 1989:
PUB-DATE: May 15, 1989:
Nov. 6: Mr. Lewis pleads guilty in a plea bargain to two counts of conspiring to distribute cocaine and names Mr. Barry as a person for whom he bought crack cocaine while staying at the hotel where Mr. Barry visited him in 1988.
Nov. 27, 1989: A local television station reports that the 1983 hernia episode was reported to the police as a drug overdose, but the police say they investigated at the time but found no substantiation.
Jan. 18, 1990: Mr. Barry is arrested on a drug charge in a downtown hotel.
Jan. 22, 1990: The Mayor checks into Hanley-Hazelden Treatment Center in West Palm Beach, Fla. His spokeswoman says he will be treated for alcoholism.
Feb. 15, 1990: A federal grand jury indicts Mr. Barry on eight counts of perjury and possession of a controlled substance.
 
Source: Associated Press

GRAPHIC: photo: Mr. Barry arriving at the Hanley-Hazelden Center in West Palm Beach, Fla., on Jan. 22.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Chronology

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

CITY: WASHINGTON, DC, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WASHINGTON (DC)

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; MAYORS CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); CITIES (91%); MAYORS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); COCAINE (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (88%); SUBPOENAS (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); RELIGION (77%); GUILTY PLEAS (73%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (73%); CONSPIRACY (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); INDICTMENTS (73%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (73%); SCANDALS (72%); LAYOFFS (69%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (69%); GRAND JURY (69%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (69%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (65%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (60%); HOSPITALS (51%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: BARRY, MARION S JR (MAYOR) JERRY LEWIS (79%); 



436 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 34, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 550 words

HEADLINE: Lessons in Capitalism - From Poland

 BODY:
You're unemployed. What kind of help do you want from your Government? How about unemployment insurance that starts high but falls over time? The benefits would remain high if you enrolled in a training program but drop to zero if you refused legitimate job offers.
Perhaps that sounds too meager. Then how about a government loan to help you start your own business? Or a subsidized loan to a company that offers you a job? That kind of help might sound utopian, at least in the United States. 
But it's not utopian for Poland. Poor, brave Poland, which has just started the struggle to capitalism, has adopted exactly such a program to deal with the unemployment caused by its radical economic reforms. Americans have presumed they have a lot to teach the Poles about capitalism; perhaps it's also the other way around.
As of Jan. 1, the Solidarity-led Polish Goverment ended price controls and subsidies. Forced to make it on their own, many businesses are failing; others are laying off excess workers. Bankruptcy and unemployment are becoming commonplace. By the end of the year more than a million Poles are likely to be jobless - in a country that had not before known unemployment.
The January burst of inflation was severe: prices went up 70 percent and real incomes went down more than one-third. But the recent news is not so grim. Inflation is no longer soaring; milk and meat prices have even fallen a bit. The value of the zloty is stable and shortages are disappearing. Yes, Polish workers are paying higher prices for supplies. But at least there are supplies to buy, and without waiting hours in line. Essential to the Polish plan is the ongoing support of workers. Laid-off workers will eventually be retrained and rehired. But that is small comfort to families facing stiff inflation and no paycheck. To earn labor's patience, the Government had to establish a generous safety net.
Starting from scratch, and listening to Western advisers, the Poles adopted a remarkably smart program. It provides ample help to displaced workers but with elegant incentives to match them to new jobs. Unemployed workers are rewarded for retraining or accepting reasonable offers; companies are rewarded if they create new jobs.
Will the program work? That's unclear. It will be expensive, perhaps too costly for this poor country to bear. The Government will probably have to rein in benefits. But if it retrenches too much, it will lose political support for the rest of the economic reform.
That is why upcoming visits to Poland by the World Bank are crucial. Just last week the bank announced new project loans for Poland. But the Government's immediate need is for cash, not projects. Poland is trying to do overnight what it took industrialized Western countries decades to achieve. The Government needs cash to pay for its safety net, without which workers will not tolerate the painful transition to economic revival.
Solidarity's safety net is compassionate yet disciplined. A nation stifled for more than 40 years by a sclerotic bureaucracy is on the verge of teaching the West about how markets work best. Can the World Bank recognize this startling fact and respond accordingly? It will have to do so, and fast, or else Solidarity's sensible compassion will go down the drain.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: POLAND (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: WORLD BANK (56%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;POLAND

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); PRICE INCREASES (88%); ECONOMIC POLICY (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); TRENDS (78%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (78%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (74%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); FOOD PRICES (72%); PRICE CHANGES (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); 



437 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 34, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 279 words

HEADLINE: Let's Get Serious About Pentagon Cuts

 BODY:
To the Editor:
I am puzzled by Irving Kristol's arithmetic in ''There Is No Military Free Lunch'' (Op-Ed, Feb. 2). He states that fixing the United States military budget at its current level would mean that, in 10 years, its buying power would be about 33 percent less than now - a fair projection, given the rate of inflation. 
But Mr. Kristol states that the United States military establishment will then ''probably be slightly superior to Japan's, though perhaps not quite a match for Syria's tanks and air power.''
Now Japan spends about 1 percent of gross national product on defense, the United States more than 6 percent. Our G.N.P. is almost double Japan's; hence, we must be spending 10 to 12 times as much. Even if United States expenditures decline one-third in constant dollars, as Mr. Kristol projects, they would be seven to eight times current Japanese expenditures. Slightly superior? Is the real problem how much the United States spends on the military or how efficiently it uses the funds?
The comparison with Syria is even more ludicrous. The Syrian military is inferior to that of Israel, a country whose gross national product is a tiny fraction of the American and which must also contend with the Palestinian uprising and with threats on its Lebanese border.
Such scare projections, designed to protect the military budget at the expense of other needed programs, deflect from a reasoned consideration of just how much defense spending can be cut in the new international situation.
 
>SEYMOUR MAXWELL FINGER
 New York, Feb. 2, 1990
The writer is senior fellow, Ralph Bunche Institute, CUNY Graduate School and University Center.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); SYRIA (93%); JAPAN (92%); ISRAEL (79%); LEBANON (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); ARMED FORCES (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (63%); INFLATION (56%); 

PERSON: TZIPORA LIVNI (54%); 



438 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 34, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 381 words

HEADLINE: Adult Illiteracy Is as Dangerous to the U.S. as Substance Abuse

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Recently, a group of adults learning to read in the Brooklyn Public Library's literacy program wrote to urge me to work for passage of H.R. 3123, the adult literacy and employability bill. I was so moved by their letters that I decided to visit the library's Williamsburgh adult learning center and learn more about the program.
One of the students I met, a retired man who had worked his whole life and helped raise a family without being able to read, told me, ''I'm not stupid, I just couldn't read.'' 
That distinction captures the situation of most adult nonreaders. They have to be intelligent to hide their inability from friends, co-workers and even family members year after year. They just can't read. But they want to, desperately, and we as a nation must give them the opportunity.
Twenty-five hundred adult nonreaders are enrolled in the Brooklyn Public Library program. Some work with volunteer tutors, others in small study groups, while still others learn independently on computers in the learning centers. The Williamsburgh center is one of five, all in communities with large numbers of unemployed youth, adults with low reading levels and adults wishing to learn English. My visit reinforced my belief in a national literacy initiative. I am proud to be a co-sponsor of the adult literacy and employability bill.
Almost 30 million Americans are functionally illiterate, unable to use reading, writing and computational skills in their lives. The bill would provide coordination of adult, family and work force literacy programs at the national and state level.
H.R. 3123 would make literacy a national priority, establishing a Cabinet council, a national literacy center and state resource centers. It would increase aid to state programs for English as a second language and institute challenge grants and funds for library literacy demonstration programs.
According to the Department of Education, 60 percent of all prison inmates are illiterate, and 85 percent of juvenile offenders have problems reading. Illiteracy is closely correlated with poverty, crime and unemployment. It is as much a threat to our national security as substance abuse.
 
EDOLPHUS TOWNS
Member of Congress, 11th Dist., N.Y.
 Washington, Jan. 19, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: BROOKLYN PUBLIC LIBRARY (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: ILLITERACY; LAW AND LEGISLATION LITERACY & ILLITERACY (96%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LIBRARIES (90%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (90%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (90%); LITERACY RATES (89%); PRISONS (85%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); MULTILINGUALISM (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); FAMILY (76%); LABOR FORCE (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (68%); MATCHING GIFTS (67%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (66%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (65%); LANGUAGE ACQUISITION (65%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (65%); GRANTS & GIFTS (62%); JUVENILE CRIME (61%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); 

PERSON: TOWNS, EDOLPHUS (REPR) ED TOWNS (58%); 



439 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 35, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: ESSAY;
Whom to Root For

BYLINE: By William Safire

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Tyson flattened. Drexel Burnham disappears. De Klerk springs Mandela. Trump bounces Czech wife. Gorby caves on fearful symmetry.
Faced with this rush of headlines, ABC Radio News declared overload and led with the Oscar nominations. News junkies who rely on knee-jerk reactions find their patellas numbed. 
To program our weltanschauung so it can absorb this saturation of sensation, we must first decide for whom to root. As the stories develop, this mindset will enable us to hiss our designated villains and side with our heroes, thereby minimizing cognitive dissonance. 1. Tyson vs. Douglas. The first reaction is to hail the victorious older underdog, Buster Douglas, who knocked out the swaggering champ. But the rematch will test the mettle of the ex-champ in making a comeback.
Mike Tyson, of the long fur coat and glitzy life style, deserved comeuppance. At first a sore loser, he has cast aside petulance. If he does make it back, he should turn out to be more Clay than Liston; we can do with men tempered but not humbled by defeat, such as Ted Kennedy, Richard Nixon and George Bush. Root for: Tyson. 2. Smug Wall Street vs. the shattered House That Mike Built. The Schadenfreudian slips are showing throughout the securities industry: Establishment types, sucked into the vortex of leveraged takeover by the originality of Michael Milken, can hardly conceal their glee at the demise of Drexel Burnham, which ignobly ran out on him to save its skin but lost anyway.
Now the Feds will try to add insider trading to injury. Mr. Milken, his back to the wall, wants to fight the all-out Government campaign against him against all friendly advice to cop a plea. On the basis of contrarianism and the unpredictability of juries, root for: Milken. 3. De Klerk vs. Mandela. Here's Nelson Mandela being lionized and all but canonized after 27 years of suffering in jail, but falling short of the eloquence of nonviolent Martin Luther King Jr.; and here's Frederik de Klerk, dragging his countrymen into the path of righteousness at great personal and political peril, getting the ''but what have you done for me lately'' treatment in the U.S.
Mr. Mandela needs to be talked out of outmoded, stultifying Socialism while Mr. de Klerk should be encouraged to fold blacks into a democratic, free-market society that needs them. Root for: both, and not one over the other, because if one wins, both lose. 4. Gorbachev vs. the radicals vs. the nomenklatura. In this three-way struggle, the old apparat is the loser: not even changing its name will save the party. But apparatchiks evidently can restrain Gorby from turning to capitalism and salvation; instead, he is making himself the new Napoleon. The radicals, without Sakharov, seem stuck with the populist Yeltsin, but the reformist to watch is Yuri Afanasyev, who wants free markets and free people.
Gorby stays in the saddle miraculously, but his economic horse goes nowhere, and it's distasteful to cheer his grab for one-man power. But the swinging Yeltsin is a transition to trouble, and the rigid Ryzhkov and Ligachev would preside over the sure ruin of Russia; root for Afanasyev, the radical long shot. 5. The local leaders of the intifada vs. the Tunis-based leaders of the P.L.O. Likudniks in Israel see Faisal Husseini as a local P.L.O. front, and he is regularly arrested and harassed. But this Palestinian promptly condemned the slaughter of Israeli tourists in Egypt, while Yasir Arafat's deputy, Salah Khalaf, boasted of ''similar operations'' to come, in effect condoning the murders until Egyptian pressure forced a grudging disavowal. Root for: Mr. Husseini and the intifada against the Tunis terrorcrats. 6. Donald vs. Ivana. In what was dubbed ''the Trump scuttle,'' the New York Daily News gossip columnist Liz Smith revealed that the nation's most celebrated deal artist is working a leveraged throwout of his wife, who betrayed his trust by turning 40.
The issue is not the validity of a pre-nuptial contract (a deal's a deal) but the talent of the battle's publicity titans. Howard Rubenstein, maker of mayors and touter of tycoons, is Donald's media handler, pitted against John Scanlon, who turned Frank Lorenzo into a lovable pussycat and is now brushing the media's teeth with Ivana. Root for: Liz Smith.
In a worldwind of headlines, only a consistent worldview will bring peace of mind. Tolerance, Dignity, Civility. Root for: ''Driving Miss Daisy.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OP-ED

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: AUSTRALIAN BROADCASTING CORP (91%); AUSTRALIAN BROADCASTING CORP (91%); P L O (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: DREXEL BURNHAM LAMBERT INC

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SOUTH AFRICA

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; BOXING; MOTION PICTURES; ACADEMY AWARDS (OSCARS) EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (68%); INSIDER TRADING (66%); TAKEOVERS (51%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM; TYSON, MIKE; MANDELA, NELSON; GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; TRUMP, DONALD; TRUMP, IVANA DONALD TRUMP (79%); MICHAEL MILKEN (79%); MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (78%); TED KENNEDY (51%); RICHARD NIXON (51%); GEORGE W BUSH (51%); JOHN F KENNEDY (51%); 



440 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 7, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1477 words

HEADLINE: LAW;
Progress Spawns Question: Who Owns the Law?

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 15

 BODY:
Filling shelf after shelf in any law library, the bound volumes of state statutes appear sedate and inert, part of the law's archives rather than its current battles.
But a dispute over public access to state law has transformed those serene bookshelves into a legal battleground. Fueled by new technology and big economic stakes, the debate is being conducted in the arcane, highly specialized language of copyright law. But at its heart is a question so fundamental as to be almost startling: Who owns the law?
One phase of the debate ended last month when the Supreme Court refused to hear an appeal filed by the State of Texas in an unsuccessful lawsuit against the West Publishing Company, for nearly 50 years the publisher of the state's statutes. While evidently of no interest to the Justices, the case was closely watched by copyright lawyers, legal publishers and officials of other states where versions of the same dispute are simmering. 
West, a privately held company based in St. Paul, Minn., is the country's premier publisher of judicial opinions and other legal material. As it does in some two dozen states, West publishes a multi-volume, annotated edition of the laws passed by the Texas Legislature. Each volume of Vernon's Annotated Texas Statutes, named for the publisher that began the project in 1914, carries West's copyright.
 
Computers Change Everything
For decades, no one had any reason to consider what West's copyright claim actually encompassed. But computers changed all that in the mid-1980's, as West and a new competitor, Mead Data Central Inc., began to offer computerized access to judicial opinions. In a legal research market with annual revenue in the hundreds of millions of dollars, copyright questions suddenly mattered a great deal. (A Mead Data Central subsidiary, the Michie Company, is the chief publisher of legal material in 21 states. Several other states do their own publishing.) West publishes the decisions of all Federal courts and nearly all state appellate courts. Its judicial volumes long ago acquired official status throughout the legal world, with most courts requiring citation to West volumes.
Mead Data sought to include the West page numbers in its Lexis computerized data base, making it possible for customers to cite the West volumes without having to buy them. Judicial opinions themselves may not be copyrighted, but West obtained an injunction on the ground that it had a valid copyright in its ''arrangement'' of the opinions. In 1988, after the Supreme Court refused to hear Mead Data's appeal, the two companies settled their dispute, with Mead agreeing to pay a fee for its use of the West page numbers.
The battle over judicial opinions inevitably spilled over to the area of state statutes. In 1985, West and the Bancroft-Whitney Company, a legal publisher based in San Francisco, sued each other over the validity of West's copyright in the Vernon's Texas volumes. The case remains undecided in Federal District Court in Minnesota. Meanwhile, the dispute caught the attention of the Texas Attorney General, Jim Mattox, who brought a lawsuit in Federal District Court in Austin seeking a declaration that West's copyright was invalid. Who Does the Updating? The suit had a limited focus. Texas conceded that West was entitled to a copyright in the annotations and interpretive material that West staff members produced and included in the volumes. For its part, West disclaimed copyright in the actual words of the Texas Legislature. The dispute was over West's claim to copyright in the way it had arranged, numbered and titled the Texas laws.
In many states, legislative officials are responsible for integrating the new laws passed in each legislative session into the existing state code. But Texas, along with Illinois, Pennsylvania and some others, has left this task to private publishers. The resulting products are amalgams that do not fit neatly within any legal precedent.
For example, the Texas Legislature completed its last statutory revision in 1925. Not surprisingly, the 1925 statutes failed to anticipate many features of the modern regulatory state, and it was West that supplied the framework for the legislative output of the ensuing decades. Statutory chapter headings that covered a paragraph in the 1925 edition grew in some instances to cover entire volumes of hundreds of pages, with new sections and numbers added by West.
In its lawsuit, Texas maintained that the headings and numbers supplied by West were, like the statutes themselves, in the public domain and not subject to private ownership. The state argued that the numbers and titles had become such an intrinsic part of the state code that the public law would be ''completely inaccessible'' without them, in effect giving West control of the statutes themselves. If there is a copyright, the state said, it belongs not to West but to the people of Texas.
 
Suit's Rationale Explained
''This is a significant public policy issue,'' Allene D. Evans, head of the state's antitrust division, said in an interview explaining why the state brought its suit. ''The fact that West Publishing does a good job conceals the real issue, which is who controls access to public law. Can a private company be allowed to be the gatekeeper?''
West's view was that copyright law entitled it to protect the fruits of its labor. ''The organic law passed by the Legislature ought to be open to all, and of course it is,'' Vance K. Opperman, a Minneapolis lawyer who is West's main outside counsel, said in an interview. ''But that which we've created and paid for over the years, we're entitled to.''
Whatever the lawsuit's merits, no court reached them. Federal District Judge Walter S. Smith Jr. dismissed the suit in a decision affirmed by the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. Judge Smith said that because West ''has not done or threatened to do anything'' that would harm the interests of Texas, the state's concern was too hypothetical to create the ''actual controversy'' needed to invoke the jurisdiction of the Federal courts. The Supreme Court denied the state's appeal without comment.
As a result, the law in this area remains unsettled. ''It's a wonderful issue,'' said Peter A. Jaszi, a copyright specialist at the Washington College of Law at American University here. ''It goes to the tension at the heart of copyright law between dissemination and restriction.''
 
'Just the Beginning'
Professor Jaszi said the legal doctrine of ''compilation copyright'' supported West's position. As an example, he said someone who published a collection of poems that were in the public domain would nonetheless have a valid copyright in the arrangement of the poems into categories like ''17th century lyrics'' or ''Victorian pastorals.''
''But to say that West may have a valid compilation copyright is just the beginning of the analysis,'' Professor Jaszi continued. ''It's probably a mistake to resolve cases like this by doctrine alone. It's really a political question.''
In Illinois, where West publishes the Illinois Revised Statutes, the dispute has taken a different form. In both 1987 and 1988, in an effort to defeat West's copyright claim, the Legislature passed a bill declaring that West's statutory numbers and headings were in the public domain. Fearing a lawsuit from West, Gov. James R. Thompson vetoed the bill both times. Last year, the Legislature and Governor agreed on a bill requiring the state's Legislative Reference Bureau to produce a plan for recodifying the state's entire body of law, a project that will take years.
Three years ago, the American Bar Association became sufficiently concerned about the issue to create a special Subcommittee on Claims to Copyright in Statutory Names, Numbers and Arrangements. The bar association's section dealing with copyright law unanimously adopted the subcommittee's resolution opposing copyright protection for statutory names and numbers at the annual meeting last summer.
James Dabney, a New York copyright lawyer who heads the subcommittee, said in an interview that the names and numbers are ''fundamental bits of information'' essential to insuring public access to the law. He said the argument that competing publishers should be barred from using an original publisher's names and numbers is ''the equivalent of saying that although English is the language spoken here, if you want to compete you have to invent an entirely new language.''
Mr. Dabney said the statutes of 31 states were theoretically subject to competing copyright claims. He noted that some states, newly aware of a profit potential, were now claiming the copyright themselves and charging fees to private companies that want to publish their statutes. The subcommittee also opposes that step, he said.

GRAPHIC: photo: Vernon's Annotated Texas Statutes raised copyright questions that remain unanswered. (The New York Times/F. Carter Smith)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: THE LAW PAGE (NYT)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519190 ALL OTHER INFORMATION SERVICES (94%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (94%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (94%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (94%); SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (94%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LEXISNEXIS GROUP (94%); WEST PUBLISHING CO (70%); TEXAS LEGISLATURE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEAD DATA CENTRAL INC; WEST PUBLISHING CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ;TEXAS

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; COPYRIGHTS; STATES (US); SUITS AND LITIGATION; ELECTRONIC INFORMATION SYSTEMS; DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS) PUBLISHING (92%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (90%); LAW LIBRARIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); APPEALS (89%); COPYRIGHT LAW (89%); COPYRIGHT (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); ONLINE LEGAL RESEARCH (78%); LIBRARIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); APPEALS COURTS (75%); LAWYERS (75%); SUPREME COURTS (75%); LITIGATION (75%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (75%); SUITS & CLAIMS (75%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (74%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (71%); INJUNCTIONS (70%); INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (69%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, LINDA



441 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 33, Column 1; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: Books of The Times;
The Lives of New Yorkers, Uptown and Down

BYLINE: By MICHIKO KAKUTANI

 BODY:

The Colorist
By Susan Daitch
242 pages. Paperback. Vintage Contemporaries. $8.95.
 
Leap Year
By Peter Cameron
245 pages. Harper & Row. $18.95.
The New Yorkers in these two new novels are young, hip, disoriented and self-involved. The ones in ''The Colorist'' live on the Lower East Side in grungy studios and lofts, wear colored streaks in their hair and wonder how they'll pay the rent. The ones in ''Leap Year'' live in appliance-laden apartments in SoHo and on the Upper West Side, shop at Barneys for their clothes and spend a lot of time talking about happiness and self-fulfillment. Though the characters in both novels are pretty casual about sex -a woman in ''The Colorist'' takes up prostitution as a way of earning pocket money; a man in ''Leap Year'' shuttles back and forth between the beds of his ex-wife and his male lover - no one seems to worry about AIDS. 
Julie, the narrator of ''The Colorist,'' Susan Daitch's second novel, works at a comic book company, coloring in the panels of a strip called ''Electra'' - a space-age fantasy about a warrior girl, who's constantly getting into trouble. ''Two fates, happy marriage and death, could be approached but must never actually be met,'' writes Ms. Daitch. ''For anyone or anything in space to fall, even superficially, in love with Electra was useless. Love for Electra was doomed, and death a subject of close brushes, but never the big end.''
When the strip is discontinued, Julie loses her job and she begins making up her own version of ''Electra'' at home, a version in which Electra falls to earth, becomes a homeless person and feels lost and confused -a state of mind that mirrors Julie's own.
In fact Julie's entire existence seems aimless and random. After a frightening encounter with a would-be mugger, she moves in with a man she barely knows - a photographer named Eamonn, whose work oddly complements her own cartoons. Eamonn disappears for long periods of time - he seems to be on some sort of secret mission in Ireland - and Julie passes some of that time dating Martin, a former office colleague, who may or may not have a mysterious half-brother. She desultorily looks for a new job, postpones a date with the unemployment office and ends up helping a friend who has borrowed a call girl's little black book.
Although Ms. Daitch's narrative tends to be as unstructured and improvisatory as Julie's messy life -the novel suffers from an all-inclusiveness that causes the reader's attention to wander - she demonstrates an observant eye and a gift for capturing the hectic rhythms of the trendy downtown Manhattan of Susan Seidelman's movie ''Desperately Seeking Susan.'' Her vision of New York is one of a cartoon city, where anything is possible, where real-life adventures resemble the antic happenings of a comic strip, where nothing is permanent and nothing is too far-fetched.
The events in Peter Cameron's ''Leap Year'' tend to be even more frantic and implausible - a reflection, perhaps, of the pressures of writing serial fiction on deadline (the novel originally appeared in serial form in the weekly magazine 7 Days). The novel's hero, David, is so upset by his ex-wife's announcement that she is thinking of moving to California with her new boyfriend that he sticks his finger in a candle flame, contracts a serious infection in his hand and ends up in the hospital.
His daughter, Kate, meanwhile, has been abducted in a case of mistaken identity, and his ex-wife, Loren, soon winds up in the hospital as well, after a close encounter with a plate-glass window. Their friends, too, are having their share of traumas. Lillian, who has just gone to a local sperm bank for artificial insemination, suspects that her sperm donor is David's new lover, Heath; and Heath has meanwhile discovered that he's the chief suspect in the murder of a wealthy gallery owner.
Mr. Cameron makes no attempt to conceal the jerry-built structure of his novel. In fact, he seems to relish the use of coincidence and cheap jump-cuts (from one group of people watching a television show to another group watching the same program, etc.) as a way to point up the absurdities of contemporary life.
Relentlessly self-absorbed, Mr. Cameron's characters speak in zippy little sentences peppered with buzz words and psycho-babble phrases (''my biological clock is ticking away''; ''there is a capacity inside each of us to change'') and their 20- or 30-something lives seem defined by brand-name products and preoccupations. They watch ''Jeopardy'' and ''L.A. Law,'' read People and Art News, and drink Evian.
We get to know them in the way we get to know characters in a soap opera: they are defined less by their personalities, than by the situations they find themselves in - situations, like those in ''The Bonfire of the Vanities'' (another novel originally written in serial form), that seem fresh off the front pages of the papers. Kate is kidnapped by a man who has been unable to win custody of his own daughter. Lillian goes to a sperm bank because she has despaired of finding an eligible man. Heath is ''discovered'' by a SoHo gallery that specializes in marketing young artists. Loren worries about nefarious doings at her daughter's day-care center.
Such events are not particularly well integrated into the overall narrative of ''Leap Year,'' and they give the reader the impression that the author is constantly straining for topicality and relevance. Although ''Leap Year'' attests to Mr. Cameron's blossoming satiric gifts and his instinctive feeling for the confusions of a generation that came of age in the 1980's, the novel lacks the skill and intelligence demonstrated by his recent collection of short stories (''One Way or Another''). Given his talents, the reader only hopes that he will take a little more time and care with his next book. News Corporationd(Harper & Row)Advance Publicationsd(Vintage)

GRAPHIC: Photos: Peter Cameron (Elena Seibert); Susan Daitch (John Foster)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: COLORIST, THE (BOOK); LEAP YEAR (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); PROSTITUTION (68%); VISUAL ARTISTS (66%); HOMELESSNESS (62%); 

PERSON: KAKUTANI, MICHIKO; DAITCH, SUSAN; CAMERON, PETER SUSAN DAITCH (79%); PETER CAMERON (77%); SUSAN SEIDELMAN (55%); 



442 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

 
 
Companies
G.M. and Ford posted significant declines in earnings for the fourth quarter and the year, reflecting the softness in auto sales and their costly incentive programs for buyers. Ford's results also reflect the sale of the company's Rouge Steel subsidiary in the fourth quarter. For the quarter, profits fell 49.9 percent at General Motors and 72.9 percent at Ford. For the year, profits fell 13.2 percent at G.M. and 27.5 percent at Ford. For the first time since 1985, General Motors' annual earnings outpaced those of Ford. [Page D1.] 
Drexel Burnham Lambert will dismiss thousands of employees today, executives at the firm said. The dismissals come after Drexel has sold off billions of dollars of its securities and mark the virtual liquidation of the investment house. [D1.]
Dr. Armand Hammer inched toward retirement, as Occidental Petroleum named Ray Irani an official successor ''in case Dr. Hammer ceases to occupy'' his positions as chairman and chief executive. [D1.]
I.B.M. introduced nine work stations whose design and pricing break with its traditions. [D1.]
Hanson agreed to buy a 45 percent stake in Peabody, the largest coal producer in the United States, for about $504 million. [D7.]
Castle & Cooke said it would spin off Dole Food, hoping to increase the value of both its food and real estate operations. [D5.]
Federated executives told creditors the company would not be ''broken up.'' [D5.]
Christopher Whittle says Channel One has signed up 2,500 schools and $200 million worth of advertising. Some analysts and rivals say it is too soon to proclaim the project a success. [D17.]
Michelle Sidrane was named publisher of Crown Publishing and vice president of Random House. [D17.]
Industrial Equity (Pacific) sued Cummins Engine, accusing its chairman and five inside directors of breaching their duties. The New Zealand company owns 14.9 percent of Cummins Engine. [D4.]
A newspaper article on a potential takeover deal supposedly based on comments made by the president of First Chicago Corporation was a hoax, the bank said. [D4.]
 
 
 
Markets
Treasury securities prices were battered on several fronts, including skittishness in Japan about interest rates and on Wall Street about Drexel Burnham Lambert's Treasury issues. [D14.]
Stock prices rose broadly, and the Dow Jones industrial average climbed 25.23 points, to 2,649.55. [D8.]
Prices of gold and platinum futures weakened amid new signs of economic strength. [D15.] The dollar advanced against all leading currencies except the Canadian dollar. [D15.]
 
 
 
The Economy
The nation's dependence on imported oil rose to 54 percent last month, the highest monthly total ever. [D2.]
Housing starts jumped a record 29.6 percent last month as builders took advantage of the warmest January on record. [D2.]
The agency that oversees the savings industry bailout is close to approving a plan that will permit the additional borrowing of more than $40 billion from the Treasury Department this year. The new money is needed to cover the costs of taking over and selling insolvent institutions. [D7.]
 
 
 
Today's Columns
When will disaster arrive, and must it come? The stock market seems to have shrugged off the Drexel debacle. Leonard Silk: Economic Scene. [D2.]
A consolidation of the paper industry is expected by many analysts. Market Place. [D8.]
Some agencies are using freelancers to prepare presentations for prospective clients and not telling them the strategies are the work of outsiders. Randall Rothenberg: Advertising. [D17.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (LSE) (83%); 8634 (TSE) (83%); GM (NYSE) (57%); OXY (NYSE) (56%); DOLE (NYSE) (55%); CMI (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325130 SYNTHETIC DYE & PIGMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (56%); SIC2816 INORGANIC PIGMENTS (56%); SIC2812 ALKALIES & CHLORINE (56%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (56%); SIC0179 FRUITS & TREE NUTS, NEC (55%); NAICS336310 MOTOR VEHICLE GASOLINE ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (83%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM CORP (56%); DOLE FOOD CO INC (55%); CUMMINS INC (53%); TREASURY DEPARTMENT (57%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); CURRENCIES (88%); LIQUIDATIONS (79%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (79%); TAKEOVERS (79%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (77%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); STOCK INDEXES (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); DISMISSALS (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); TREASURY SECURITIES (74%); BAILOUTS (74%); PLATINUM MARKETS (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); CONSTRUCTION (70%); HOUSING STARTS (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (69%); PUBLISHING (68%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (68%); FUTURES (66%); COAL INDUSTRY (51%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: RAY R IRANI (52%); 



443 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 842 words

HEADLINE: Profits Fall At Ford And G.M.

BYLINE: By DORON P. LEVIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DETROIT, Feb. 15

 BODY:
The nation's two biggest auto makers, the General Motors Corporation and the Ford Motor Company, posted significant declines in earnings for the fourth quarter and the year, reflecting the softness in auto sales and their costly incentive programs for buyers. Ford's results also reflect the sale of the company's Rouge Steel subsidiary in the fourth quarter.
For the quarter, profits fell 49.9 percent at General Motors and 72.9 percent at Ford, the companies reported today.
For the year, profits fell 13.2 percent at G.M. and 27.5 percent at Ford. For the first time since 1985, General Motors' annual earnings outpaced those of Ford. 
Weak profits are likely to continue through the current quarter, as auto makers continue to offer hefty rebates on their products in order to sell them. But the picture has brightened somewhat through early February as retail sales for the first 10 days of the month perked up.
Analysts said Ford and General Motors lost money on North American operations in the fourth quarter. ''Once we get beyond the first quarter we can look forward to better results,'' said Harvey Heinbach, an auto analyst for Merrill Lynch.
 
Stock Prices Rise
The stock of both companies rose yesterday. G.M.'s common stock rose $1, to $44, in trading on the New York Stock Exchange. Ford stock was up 62.5 cents, to $45.25. Some analysts said the earnings were in line with expectations.
G.M.'s fourth-quarter profit dropped to $700 million, or $1.01 a share, from $1.4 billion, or $2.12 a share, in the fourth quarter of 1988. Revenue fell 3.1 percent to $31.4 billion from $32.4 billion.
For the year General Motors' income declined to $4.22 billion, or $6.33 a share, from $4.86 billion, or $7.17 a share. Revenue was $126.9 billion, the company's third-best year, up 2.7 percent from $123.6 billion in 1988.
At Ford, fourth-quarter income dropped to $314 million, or 68 cents a share, from $1.16 billion, or $2.42 a share, in the fourth quarter a year earlier. Revenue edged up to $24.1 billion, from $23.9 billion a year earlier. The results include a one-time charge of $424.3 million, or 91 cents a share, to account for the previously announced sale of Ford's Rouge Steel subsidiary.
For the year, Ford's income dipped to $3.84 billion, or $8.22 a share, from $5.3 billion, or $10.96 a share, in 1988. Revenue rose 4 percent, to $96.1 billion, from $92.4 billion in 1988.
G.M.'s worldwide fourth-quarter vehicle production, on which revenue and profit are based, was off 7.5 percent; domestic vehicle production in the quarter fell 19.7 percent.
Roger B. Smith, the chairman of General Motors, said that in 1989 ''although profitability of G.M's North American automotive operations declined due to lower volume and higher selling expense, they made significant progress in terms of both product competitiveness and improved operating efficiencies.''
General Motors declined to specify its profit in North America. But a spokesman said, ''We're not satisfied with the number.'' However, 1989 profit-sharing payments to hourly workers, which are based on North American performance, will be $22.1 million, or only $50 to each of 443,000 eligible United States workers.
Reacting to the G.M. earnings report, an United Automobile Workers vice president, Stephen P. Yokich, said the workers ''are not responsible for G.M.'s costly blunders, including its repeated failures to understand and target a rapidly changing market.''
General Motors' overseas operations posted a net profit of $2.7 billion, up about $100 million from 1988 and constituting about 64 percent of the company's total profit. G.M.'s Eletronic Data Systems and GM Delco Hughes units also posted significant profits on Wednesday, although the General Motors Acceptance Corporation, the finance subsidiary, posted a 2.4 percent decline in profits.
 
Ford Motor
At Ford, the financial services group, which includes the Ford Motor Credit Company, posted profits of $660.3 million, down 4.5 percent from $691.4 million in 1988.
David McCammon, Ford's treasurer, said the decline resulted mainly from a narrowing of the margin between short-term interest rates and interest paid on auto and other loans.
Mr. McCammon said Ford had been able to avoid large reductions in white-collar employment and plant closings, which have taken place at General Motors and the Chrysler Corporation. General Motors and Chrysler have been hurt by costs associated with unused capacity.
But Ford continues to look for ways to economize, he said, by examining outlays for travel, consulting and other discretionary costs, as well as productivity and material cost improvements in manufacturing.
Profit-sharing payments to Ford workers in 1989 will be down more than 38 percent from the $2,800 paid to each worker last year, Mr. McCammon said. The specific amount will be announced to Ford workers Friday.
The Chrysler Corporation reported Wednesday that it had a loss of $664 million in the fourth quarter and that profits fell 65.8 percent for the year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%); GM (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (96%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (94%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (55%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; FORD MOTOR CO

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); COMMON STOCK (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); SALES REBATES (77%); RETAIL SALES (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); PRICE INCREASES (66%); 

PERSON: LEVIN, DORON P DAVID FORD (92%); 



444 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1200 words

HEADLINE: The Economic Ripples Of a German Union

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
The prospect of a rapid economic union of West and East Germany is sending jitters through European and other bond markets, pushing interest rates higher.
But the effects of the economic union of the two Germanys, even if all goes relatively smoothly, will be felt far beyond higher rates. West Germany's turn to the East could upset the delicate balance of trade in Europe, experts say. Investment once headed for countries like Spain and Portugal could shift to East Germany and other Eastern European nations. 
The rising interest rates in Europe have already spread to the United States and will mean slower growth in this country, economists say. And the fact that the crucial economic decisions involved in a German reunification will be closely tied to politics should continue to unsettle the markets.
West Germany's position as having the strongest economy in Europe means that higher interest rates - or just the fear of higher ones - reverberate quickly across the Continent and the English Channel.
For now, economists say, the uncertainty of the situation and the fear of inflation are mostly responsible for sending West German bond prices down sharply and causing interest rates on the 10-year bond to rise on Monday above American rates for the first time in more than a decade. Yesterday, at 8.50 percent, the West German 10-year bond was still above the United States yield of 8.41 percent.
Other European bond markets reacted similarly in the last week, and stock markets, including West Germany's, fell. The West German mark, which had been consistently gaining strength, also fell against the dollar.
''Economic union will have a wide-ranging impact on many countries,'' said Hung Q. Tran, director of global fixed-income research at Deutsche Bank in New York. Although he does not think the impact will be dangerously disruptive, he added that it should reach the United States in the form of slower economic growth.
 
The Earthquake Nightmare
David Hale, chief economist at Kemper Financial Services, is more worried. ''This could be the slow-motion version of the Tokyo earthquake,'' he said, referring to the bond market's nightmare scenario. In it, Tokyo is devastated by an earthquake and Japanese money invested in the United States is sucked back home to rebuild the country, forcing interest rates up sharply in this country.
The billions of dollars needed to rebuild East Germany and other countries in the Eastern bloc will put strains on world credit for years, economists say. Interest rates will rise as countries, especially those with trade deficits, like Britain, France and the United States, compete to attract investment. ''This puts a floor under interest rates everywhere,'' Mr. Tran said, even if it does not push them much higher.
Also, the West German central bank, the Bundesbank, is expected to work to contain the inflation that could explode from such a union. The bank would most likely push interest rates higher in Germany to slow economic growth. That in turn would force higher rates in Europe or a major currency realignment, which West Germany's European neighbors have been resisting.
The diversion of capital could also result in less investment for countries like Britain and the United States. And together with a rise in interest rates - or at least a much smaller decline than might have been expected just a few months ago - this means slower economic growth.
Norbert Walter, senior economist for Deutsche Bank A. G. in Frankfurt, said there will be a shift in economic growth prospects in the 1990's, with Europe growing faster than in the 1980's and the United States growing more slowly.
 
Effect on Southern Europe
The reunification could also have an impact on countries in Southern Europe, like Portugal, which have been thought of as sites for future West German and other European plants because workers' wages are lower there than in the rest of Europe. East Germany could now offer such a low-wage attraction, and these important investments could be diverted.
Mr. Hale said the ''cost of reunification will be a major shock to European financial stability.'' The key to this stability for the last several years has been that the West German surplus has helped finance the trade deficits in other countries, like France. These deficits, he said, would become more difficult to finance as the West German surplus shrank with its diversion to East Germany.
Two key variables are being watched by the markets - and disturbing them: the exchange rate that will be set for the conversion of East German marks into West German marks, and the potential cost to rebuild the economies of East Germany and the rest of Eastern Europe.
If the exchange rate is close to one to one, it will cause a sharp rise in inflation by increasing purchasing power in East Germany. The expected spurt in spending would push prices higher.
 
Big Cut in Savings
But if the rate is too far from one to one, it will mean a major cut in the savings of East Germans, the value of their pensions and their standard of living. Even at three to one, Deutsche Bank says, the average monthly pension for 2.2 million East Germans over the age of 65 would be 123 West German marks, or $73.50, compared with an average of 1,100 marks, or $657.30, in West Germany. The bank estimates it would cost 13 billion marks annually, or $7.77 billion, to bring the pension levels to 500 marks, or $298.78, in East Germany, a subsidy the West Germans would have to help the East German Government pay.
The cost of rebuilding East Germany's economy is hard to estimate. In the next 10 to 20 years, Morgan Stanley & Company in London says, the rebuilding of Eastern Europe could divert as much as 5 percent of Europe's national income. Other estimates, including those by Deutsche Bank, put the cost at 500 billion to 800 billion marks over 10 to 20 years.
 
Bond Market Overreaction
Mr. Walter said he felt that the bond markets in Germany and other European countries had overreacted to these two uncertainties. He said the assumption that most of the money to rebuild East Germany would have to come from the West Germans was wrong. Portions will come from other countries wanting to take advantage of the expected Eastern European boom. And the East German Government, by selling state-owned industries, will also contribute.
In addition, he argued that the burst of inflation in East Germany should not be permanent. While the price of bread and rents will go up for East Germans, he said, the price of cars and appliances should go down because cheaper and better Western versions would become available.
But Ronald I. McKinnon, a professor of economics at Stanford University, said he was worried about inflation and the loss of control. In the rush to reunification, politics, not economics, is determining the decisions. This means monetary union could come too far in advance of the needed economic reforms in East Germany.
''Suppose they are forced to choose a two to one exchange rate and work out the details later,'' he said, referring to a combined Germany. ''Then there is a real chance of the loss of monetary control.''

GRAPHIC: Graph of daily yields on U.S. and West German 10-year Government bonds. (source: Interactive Data)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (57%); DBK (FRA) (57%); DBK (BIT) (57%); DBETN (JSE) (57%); DBA (ASX) (57%); DB (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (97%); EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); SPAIN (92%); JAPAN (90%); FRANCE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); ENGLAND (73%); PORTUGAL (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (57%); KEMPER FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EAST GERMANY; EUROPE; WEST GERMANY

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CREDIT; GERMANY, REUNIFICATION OF ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); BOND MARKETS (91%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); BONDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (76%); CURRENCIES (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (73%); NATURAL DISASTERS (61%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (60%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN



445 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 900 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
High Hopes And Deep Fears

BYLINE: By Leonard Silk

 BODY:
IS this a time for economic euphoria, depression or a bland, boring and sluggish condition between those extremes?
Generating euphoria is the collapse of Communism and the end of the cold war. This week brought agreements between the Soviet Union and the West on a framework for negotiating the reunification of the two Germanys and cutbacks in conventional forces in Europe, with the Soviet President, Mikhail S. Gorbachev, so eager to get a deal to rescue his nation's failing economy that he is willing to accept bigger cuts than President Bush.
Some analysts are hailing these events as the triumph of capitalism; they hold forth the promise of a continuing decline in military spending that sooner or later will enable the United States to wipe out its budget deficit, raise its savings rate, eliminate its trade deficit and regain its world leadership. Euphoria is also fed by hopes that the opening up of Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union may provide a vast new area for capitalist development that would rekindle the postwar boom. 
But fears of depression feed on the mountain of debt and the danger that it could collapse and wreck the economic structure. It would be an irony beyond belief if, in the hour of capitalism's triumph, when the Communist states are seeking a model, capitalism should collapse under the weight of its speculative excesses. Such fears were heightened this week by the failure of Drexel Burnham Lambert, the mother of the ''junk bond'' revolution, now in disintegration.
''Drexel illustrates the overall problem of too much debt - Government debt, consumer debt, corporate debt,'' said William N. Griggs, managing partner of the investment advisory firm Griggs & Santow. ''A disaster is brewing,'' he added. James J. O'Leary, economic consultant to the United States Trust Company of New York, agrees. ''We have already seen the serious consequences of this overhang in rising delinquencies and foreclosures of commercial and home mortgages which have occurred during the strong business expansion,'' he said. ''The very heavy overhang of debt seems bound to pose much greater dangers in an economic slowdown or a possible recession.''
But when will the disaster arrive - and must it come? The stock market this week shrugged off the Drexel debacle, which it had expected. Some on Wall Street even felt that the fall of Drexel was a good and necessary corrective to a decade of excess and hazardous debt.
Most economists, including Mr. Griggs and Mr. O'Leary, still expect continuing slow growth and also see it as part of the remedy for past excesses. The consensus forecast of the 50 economists and economic forecasting groups surveyed this month by Blue Chip Economic Indicators calls for the American economy to grow at the sluggish rate of 1.6 percent in 1990, with a moderate pickup to 2.4 percent in 1991.
The Bush Administration is somewhat more optimistic, but its forecast is just within the upper limit of the private economists' range; it foresees 2.4 percent real economic growth in 1990 and 3.2 percent growth in 1991. The Congressional Budget Office is closer to the midpoint of the private economists' range, forecasting 1.7 percent growth this year and 2.4 percent in 1991. No euphoria, no depression, not even a recession.
What is the logic behind the nearly unanimous forecast of continuing but sluggish growth? Roger Kubarych, manager of Henry Kaufman & Company, speaks for most economists in stressing the sustaining role of the Federal Reserve. Mr. Kubarych, a former Fed economist, contends that with the economy slowing the Fed has ''latitude to bring down interest rates and ignore the dollar.'' Indeed, a decline in the dollar would spur United States exports and help stave off recession. The Fed has husbanded its resources and can afford to feed more reserves to the banking system, which is facing heavy risks at home and abroad.
Gently but firmly, the Administration is also leaning on the Fed to keep the economy growing. In its annual Economic Report, the President's Council of Economic Advisers plainly states, ''The Administration's primary economic policy goal is to promote further growth.'' It contends that monetary policy can deliver on that growth objective, consistent with its aim of holding down inflation. In fact, that is why it expects no recession now: It says that when inflation becomes intolerable, politically or economically, there is ''little choice but to tighten monetary policy, which typically brings on a recession,'' but it sees no such need now.
The immediate issue is whether the Fed is easing enough to head off a recession, which could turn into something far worse if it brought the debt structure crashing down. That would worsen pressures for trade protectionism, aggravate strained relations with Japan, exacerbate the third world debt problem and that of some major American banks. It would hurt those Communist nations now striving for political and economic freedom and links to world markets. A depression and climbing unemployment would be the worst possible advertisement for capitalism.
For the longer run, the issue is whether the Administration is doing enough, through its own fiscal policies, to solve the Federal deficit problem, which has so hampered the United States' ability to tackle the country's domestic social problems or provide international leadership.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (65%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (90%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: UNITED STATES TRUST CO OF NEW YORK (65%); BUSH ADMINISTRATION (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: DREXEL BURNHAM LAMBERT INC

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; EUROPE, EAST

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FORECASTS COLD WAR (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); RECESSION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (73%); BONDS (73%); CORPORATE DEBT (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (71%); CORPORATE BONDS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (69%); BUDGET DEFICITS (69%); DEFENSE SPENDING (69%); FORECLOSURE (66%); PERSONAL DEBT (66%); CONSUMER LENDING (66%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (66%); CONSULTING SERVICES (62%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (50%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (50%); 

PERSON: SILK, LEONARD GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 



446 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 484 words

HEADLINE: Big Jump In Starts Of Housing

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 15

 BODY:
Housing starts jumped a record 29.6 percent last month as builders took advantage of the warmest January on record, the Government reported today, but analysts said the industry could not sustain the pace.
''Levels like the ones we're seeing here would indicate a housing boom, and there is just simply no fundamental reason to believe that is going on,'' said Thomas Holloway, senior economist for the Mortgage Bankers Association.
Housing starts tumbled to 1.37 million last year, the lowest level since the 1982 recession, and many analysts do not expect much improvement in 1990 because of a weak economy and high interest rates. 
 
Rebound From a Slump
The Commerce Department said new homes and apartments were built at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.63 million units last month after slumping a revised 6.9 percent in December, when the weather was bitterly cold.
The January increase was the highest since housing starts first were recorded in 1959, the department said. It broke the previous record gain of 29.3 percent set in July 1982.
David Berson, chief economist for the Federal National Mortgage Association, said that ''if you average the December-January numbers, you come up with 1.02 million starts'' at an annual rate. And that, he added, ''is probably just about right.''
The Commerce Department said that unusually warm weather contributed to the January increase. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration said January temperatures were the warmest for that month since the Government began keeping records 96 years ago.
Mr. Berson said the weather particularly affected single-family housing, where starts rose 24.8 percent, to 1.14 million units, the biggest gain since a 26 percent rise in March 1979.
John A. Tuccillo, chief economist for the National Association of Realtors, said the January figures ''must be looked at in terms of the big picture, which shows housing starts holding steady.''
 
Big Gain in Apartments
Apartment construction jumped 42.3 percent, to an annual rate of 488,000 units, after a revised 1.8 percent gain in December. January's gain was the sharpest since a 56 percent advance in January 1985.
Applications for building permits, a measure of future housing activity, jumped 26.7 percent, the highest gain since a 30 percent increase in June 1980. Applications had risen 2.5 percent in December.
Applications for multifamily permits leaped 82.5 percent. Housing analysts said builders were trying to get started on projects before new regulations take effect requiring that apartments be more accessible to handicapped people. Mr. Perlman said the new rules would add between $2,300 and $4,600 to the costs of apartment complexes.
The Midwest recorded the steepest jump in overall starts, up 42.6 percent. Starts were up 38.6 percent in the Northeast, 24.6 percent in the South and 23.1 percent in the West.

GRAPHIC: Graph of new private housing started and permits authorized during the month from Aug. '88-Jan. '90 (source: Commerce Dept.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FNM (NYSE) (68%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (68%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (68%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (92%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (92%); NATIONAL OCEANIC & ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: HOUSING; HOUSING STARTS; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS HOUSING STARTS (92%); REAL ESTATE (91%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); STATISTICS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (89%); BUILDING PERMITS (79%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (79%); WEATHER (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (76%); MULTIFAMILY MORTGAGES (76%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); RECESSION (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING (71%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (69%); DISABLED PERSONS (60%); DISABLED ACCESS (50%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (58%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (58%); 



447 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 150 words

HEADLINE: Canada's Banks Increase Rates

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: OTTAWA, Feb. 15

 BODY:
Canada's largest banks raised their prime lending rate three-quarters of a percentage point today, to 14.25 percent, the highest level since 1982.
Analysts expressed concern that the move could push the weakening economy into a recession by reducing spending. 
The rise from 13.5 percent followed an increase in the banks' cost of borrowing money. Canada's central bank raised its key rate, similar to the United States discount rate, to 13.34 percent from 12.79 percent last week.
The Royal Bank of Canada was the first to announce the increase in its prime rate, charged to its best corporate customers, and was quickly followed by its competitors. The prime rate had sat at 13.5 percent since March.
The central bank has pushed up interest rates in recent days to attract foreign investment and support the Canadian dollar, which has fallen more than 3 American cents in the last month.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RY (TSX) (83%); RY (SWX) (83%); RY (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (83%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: ROYAL BANK OF CANADA (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CANADA

SUBJECT: CREDIT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; PRIME RATE PRIME RATES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TRENDS (88%); ECONOMIC POLICY (87%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (87%); INWARD INVESTMENT (71%); CURRENCIES (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (51%); 



448 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 4, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 530 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS PEOPLE;
Shifts in Travel Group At American Express

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ

 BODY:
The American Express Company announced yesterday that R. Craig Hoenshell had been appointed the new president of its Traveler's Cheque Group USA.
Mr. Hoenshell, 45 years old, replaces Ronald K. Glover, who resigned earlier this month to become head of the business credit services division of the Dun & Bradstreet Corporation.
American Express also announced other appointments in its Travel Related Services division, which accounted for 70 percent of its pretax income last year. 
Phillip J. Riese, 40, was named executive vice president of the personal card division, which handles the green American Express card. Mr. Riese, who was executive vice president of the establishment services division, which deals with airlines, hotels, merchants and other retailers who accept the company's cards, led the team that successfully introduced the Optima card, American Express's revolving-credit card.
Named to replace Mr. Riese as executive vice president of establishment services was Gerald Luterman, 46, former chief financial officer for the company's Travel Related Services-North America division. Louis J. Lombardo, 46, senior vice president of card operations, was named to the newly created position of executive vice president of card operations.
Mr. Hoenshell enters a sluggish business. Last year, sales of traveler's checks grew only 2.3 percent, to $24.1 billion, mainly because of a weak economy and slow growth in travel. Asked about ways he might improve business, Mr. Hoenshell said American Express was considering a new check for everyday use by people who are not traveling.
The new version might be similar to the gift checks that American Express successfully promoted during the Christmas season, Mr. Hoenshell said. Those checks were on gold paper with a different typeface and style from regular traveler's checks.
''We aren't completely synonymous yet with safe money that you carry around all the time,'' Mr. Hoenshell said.
While there are no details yet for the new check, one thing is clear: like traveler's checks, users would be charged a fee and the checks would be refundable if lost or stolen.
Mr. Hoenshell, a grocer's son and former salesman with the International Business Machines Corporation, has spent much of his career in data processing and accounting. A graduate of the University of Nebraska, he majored in accounting because his college counselor said it was the most difficult of business majors. ''It was a macho thing to do,'' he said.
At American Express, Mr. Hoenshell was most recently executive vice president of consumer lending, where he oversaw credit lines associated with the green card and the premium gold and platinum cards.
He helped revitalize American Express's sign and travel feature, whose use was low and profitabilty weak. The feature allowed members to pay for airline tickets over 3, 6, 12 or 24 months instead of all at once, but was not used extensively. Now, payment is automatically divided over 36 months.
''We converted it from an installment loan, which people are not familiar with in a charge card, to a revolving-credit loan, which people are familiar with,'' Mr. Hoenshell said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Phillip J. Riese; R. Craig Hoenshell (The New York Times/Jim Wilson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS PEOPLE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (98%); DNB (NYSE) (84%); IBMC (BRU) (63%); IBM (NYSE) (63%); IBM (LSE) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (98%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (98%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (84%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (98%); DUN & BRADSTREET CORP (84%); INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES APPOINTMENTS (91%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (78%); RETAILERS (74%); TRAVEL TICKETS (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); CONSUMER LENDING (72%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (70%); AIRLINES (69%); CHRISTMAS (64%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (60%); 

PERSON: RAMIREZ, ANTHONY; HOENSHELL, R CRAIG; RIESE, PHILLIP J R CRAIG HOENSHELL (96%); PHILLIP J RIESE (67%); 



449 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 7, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: Approval of Extra Money For Savings Rescue Is Near

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL C. NASH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 15

 BODY:
The agency that oversees the bailout of the savings and loan industry is close to approving a plan that will permit the additional borrowing of more than $40 billion from the Treasury Department this year. The new money is needed to cover the interim costs of taking over and selling off insolvent institutions.
Officials of the Resolution Trust Corporation Oversight Board said today that the added borrowings would total $11 billion for the first quarter of 1990, and could eventually total $44 billion by the end of 1990. 
Those funds would be in addition to the $50 billion the savings and loan bailout legislation has already designated to cover losses at hundreds of ailing savings and loan associations the Government plans to take over and sell off by August 1992.
But unlike the $50 billion, regulators say the interim financing will eventually be paid off when the Government liquidates the real estate and other troubled assets it inherits from the sick savings institutions.
 
Plan Set Forth on Capitol Hill
The plan was described to Capitol Hill staff members today by top officials of both the Resolution Trust Corporation and its Oversight Board. The Oversight Board sets broad policies for the bailout, while the trust corporation manages the bailout on a day-to-day basis and is the agency dealing with interested investors.
These officials said that the plan had been carefully circulated among the members of the Oversight Board - its chairman, Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady; Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, and Jack F. Kemp, Secretary of Housing and Urban Development - and that they anticipated no major changes.
The issue of interim financing has been controversial because some members of Congress see it as giving regulators access to unlimited sources of funds that could eventually be lost, adding to the borrowing of the Federal Government and increasing the Federal budget deficit.
But the request by the agency for new funds comes as no surprise, since from the beginning of the debate on the bailout legislation, regulators have warned that the need for large sums of money to finance the takeovers and sale of assets would exceed the $50 billion in anticipated losses.
 
Debate on How to Raise the Funds
The bailout legislation, however, was vague on how the Government would raise the cash, leaving that to the Treasury Department. Since the legislation was passed, debate has centered on how to raise the money without disrupting the budget-balancing discipline and without paying excessive interest rates.
The plan outlined by William Taylor, the president of the Oversight Board, and David C. Cooke, president of the trust corporation, calls for the borrowings to be done through the Federal Financing Bank, the arm of the Treasury that acts as a conduit for lending money to Federal agencies. Under the agreement, the trust corporation will pay a premium equal to one-eighth of a percentage point above 90-day Treasury bills.
A crucial point that neither Mr. Taylor nor Mr. Cooke addressed was the budgetary treatment of the new borrowings, and particularly the extent to which they will increase the deficit as measured by the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings Act.
One Congressional aide, who asked not to be identified, said that for the first nine months of this year, the borrowings will indeed add to the deficit but will not prompt larger spending cuts under Gramm-Rudman.
But borrowings for the 1991 fiscal year beginning Oct. 1 could raise the deficit, precipitating deeper cuts than expected in both domestic programs and military spending.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (91%); RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: RESOLUTION TRUST CORP; TREASURY DEPARTMENT

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS SAVINGS & LOANS (93%); BAILOUTS (92%); BANK FAILURES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); TAKEOVERS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (72%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); NATIONAL DEBT (63%); BUDGET DEFICITS (62%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); CITIES (50%); 

PERSON: NASH, NATHANIEL C ALAN GREENSPAN (50%); 



450 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 8, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 793 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
A Consolidation Of Paper Makers

BYLINE: By Jonathan P. Hicks

 BODY:
DESPITE the Great Northern Nekoosa Corporation's decision to auction itself to the highest bidder, analysts and industry experts predict that the giant paper producer will most likely be acquired by its unwanted suitor, the Georgia-Pacific Corporation.
And they are already turning their attention to the likely impact of that merger. Such a deal, they say, would quicken the consolidation of the paper industry by forcing other large paper companies to try to strengthen their competitive positions by acquiring smaller players with specialty niches.
Several analysts said the most likely targets would be smaller paper companies with particular strengths in one or two grades of paper. They mentioned the Union Camp Corporation, a Wayne, N.J., producer of linerboard used in making cardboard boxes; the Potlatch Corporation, a San Francisco producer of white paper and paperboard, and the Mead Corporation, a major lumber concern that is based in Dayton, Ohio. 
The big paper companies that are expected to go shopping include the Champion International Corporation, the Weyerhaeuser Company and the International Paper Company, which has already been on an acquisition binge.
A number of forces will lead to consolidation, the analysts say. Growing capacity will outstrip demand within the next year and paper prices will tumble in the next two years, making paper companies less expensive to buy, they say.
These experts predict that in an industry where few companies have more than a 15 to 20 percent market share in any product, a weakening of the market will compel producers to seek economies of scale through acquisition.
''You have to have economy of scale,'' said Hartwig Geginat, chief executive of Feldmuhle A.G., the large West German paper producer, and president of the European Paper Association. ''And as the capital involved in modernizing becomes more important, companies find that you can increase productivity and profitability by consolidating. I think there is no question about the fact that there will be more consolidation in the paper industry around the world.''
To be sure, the deal that is expected to provide impetus for the industry's consolidation is a long way from being done. Georgia-Pacific's $3.6 billion bid for Great Northern, first made in October, has turned into the most bitter takeover battle in the American paper industry. A string of lawsuits has been filed challenging Great Northern's anti-takeover provisions and asserting that the combination would violate antitrust laws. Georgia-Pacific has won several rounds in recent days.
To avoid some antitrust objections, Georgia-Pacific said this week that it would sell its safety paper business, which makes paper for checks and stock certificates, to a privately held company in Seattle. Great Northern is active in that niche.
Great Northern's decision on Tuesday to place itself up for sale has pushed its share price above the $63 offer price, a sign that some investors anticipate a bidding war to ensue. But even the analysts who expect Georgia-Pacific to succeed say the result will cause some problems. For one, its debt would soar, they say, from the current debt-to-capital ratio of 42 percent to 70 percent.
T. Marshall Hahn, Georgia-Pacific's chairman, acknowledges that the acquisition would take the ratio ''higher than 65 percent, but in the 60's.'' He said that paying off the debt would not be a major problem. ''In 1988, we invested $2 billion: $800 million in acquisitions, $700 in capital expenditures and $400 in the repurchase of our stock,'' he said. ''At the end of 1988, we had actually dropped the debt-to-capital ratio.''
Asset sales will not be necessary or desirable, he said, adding, ''Even with a downturn in prices and a significant capital-spending program, we will be able to work down that debt level to the low 40's within five years.''
Still, some analysts think that the sale of some parts of the merged company would be unavoidable. Sherman Chao, a paper analyst with Salomon Brothers Inc., said a likely candidate for sale would be Great Northern's paper distribution business, which last year had about $1.3 billion in sales. The distribution business, one of the largest in the United States, will be a strategic asset for a non-American paper company seeking to get a foothold for its products in the United States.
Mr. Hahn said that as heated as the current battle was, he was preparing to run a merged Georgia-Pacific and Great Northern. ''In the future of the industry, you will see larger, more efficient plants, more emphasis on quality and you will see the world as the marketplace for each mill, no matter where it's located,'' he said. ''I'm just preparing to compete in that environment.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: PCH (NASDAQ) (70%); WY (NYSE) (69%); MWV (NYSE) (69%); IP (NYSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (94%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS321219 RECONSTITUTED WOOD PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (94%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (94%); SIC2493 RECONSTITUTED WOOD PRODUCTS (94%); NAICS322130 PAPERBOARD MILLS (70%); NAICS321211 HARDWOOD VENEER & PLYWOOD MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS113310 LOGGING (69%); NAICS424120 STATIONERY & OFFICE SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (69%); NAICS322212 FOLDING PAPERBOARD BOX MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS322211 CORRUGATED & SOLID FIBER BOX MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC5112 STATIONERY & OFFICE SUPPLIES (69%); SIC2657 FOLDING PAPERBOARD BOXES, INCLUDING SANITARY (69%); SIC2653 CORRUGATED & SOLID FIBER BOXES (69%); NAICS325194 CYCLIC CRUDE, INTERMEDIATE, & GUM & WOOD CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS322110 PULP MILLS (69%); NAICS113110 TIMBER TRACT OPERATIONS (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); DAYTON, OH, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: GREAT NORTHERN NEKOOSA CORP (94%); GEORGIA-PACIFIC LLC (94%); UNION CAMP CORP (70%); POTLATCH CORP (70%); WEYERHAEUSER CO (69%); CHAMPION INTERNATIONAL CORP (69%); MEADWESTVACO CORP (69%); INTERNATIONAL PAPER CO (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: GREAT NORTHERN NEKOOSA CORP; GEORGIA-PACIFIC CORP

SUBJECT: PAPER AND PULP; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES PAPER MILLS (92%); PAPER MFG (92%); PAPER & PACKAGING (91%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (91%); PAPER CONTAINER MFG (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); TAKEOVERS (89%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (89%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); PULP & PAPER MARKETS (78%); PAPERBOARD (78%); MERGERS (77%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (76%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (76%); LITIGATION (73%); EXECUTIVES (64%); MARKET SHARE (52%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%); 

PERSON: HICKS, JONATHAN P



451 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 14, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1018 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Bonds Endure a Day of Bad News

BYLINE: By H.J. MAIDENBERG

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities were battered yesterday by an array of developments that began occurring the moment the New York market opened.
The tone of the fixed-income market was set early when prices of Treasury bonds weakened in Tokyo, reflecting fears there that West Germany would raise basic interest rates yesterday. The West German authorities took no such action.
Dealers said the market in the United States was somewhat edgy, as it often is before a shortened trading session and a long weekend. Most government securities houses will close today at 2 P.M., Eastern standard time, for an early start to an extended weekend that includes the Washington's Birthday holiday on Monday. 
 
More Drexel Holdings
The market yesterday also faced more offerings of Treasury issues from Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc., whose parent company filed for bankruptcy protection on Tuesday. Many traders and investors had thought that Drexel's Treasury holdings had already been distributed and absorbed by the market.
The market was also unsettled by the report of an unexpectedly sharp rise in housing construction in January and, more important, a big jump in building permits. Any sign of a stronger economy tends to be bearish for fixed-income securities because it raises inflation fears and the prospect that forthcoming debt issues will offer higher yields than outstanding ones.
One analyst said the market had perhaps misread the housing data. ''While the fixed-income market factored in January's much improved weather, we don't think many realized that the new Federal regulations requiring builders to install special facilities for the physically handicapped were partly responsible for the increase,'' said Philip Braverman, chief economist at DKB Securities Corporation, the domestic arm of the big Japanese financial organization. ''Many builders rushed to either start or file for permits to beat the deadline.''
 
Bailout Agency Acts
Later in the session, the Treasury debt market was ruffled by news that the Resolution Trust Corporation, the Government agency that is trying to bail out the savings and loan industry, planned to announce borrowings of at least $40 billion through the issuance of short-term debt this year.
The trust corporation plans to borrow the money from the Federal Financing Bank, the arm of the Treasury that acts as a conduit for lending money to Federal agencies.
Next Wednesday, the Treasury plans to auction $10 billion of two-year notes, which traded on a when-issued basis yesterday to yield 8.31 percent, up from 8.27 percent on Wednesday. On Thursday next week, the Treasury plans to auction $8 billion of five-year notes. Their yield on a when-issued basis rose to 8.33 percent, from 8.29 percent.
Other reports circulated later yesterday that the Federal Reserve had effected ''under the table'' sales of $1.8 billion of Treasury bills and other short-term instruments on behalf of a foreign central bank. In such operations, the Fed uses only a few dealers to distribute the securities. In its routine money market operations, the Fed uses most, if not all, the primary dealers.
The Federal funds rate rose yesterday to 8 3/8 percent, from 8 1/4 percent, but dealers said the Fed did not intervene in the market. Many credit market analysts believe the Fed wants a rate of 8 1/8 percent on the short-term loans that banks make to each other.
Steven R. Ricchiuto, chief economist at Barclays de Zoete Wedd, said the reports of the Fed sales came out about the the same time as the reports of the Resolution Trust plan to raise cash. The two developments, he said, ''probably added a few basis points to bill rates and yields on the short notes.''
Discount rates on 90-day Treasury bills climbed 8 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point, to 7.70 percent. The six-month bills gained 7 basis points, to 7.67 percent, and the one-year bills rose 7 basis points, to 7.54 percent.
As is often the case, the rise in short-term rates rippled out to the long end of Treasury maturities. The new bellwether Treasury long bonds, the 8 1/2 percent issue maturing in 2020, were offered late in the day at 100 16/32, down 16/32, or $5 for each $1,000 of face value. The yield on the long bond rose 5 basis points, to 8.45 percent.
Among other Treasury issues traded in the secondary market, the new long notes, the 8 1/2's of 2000, fell 8/32, to 100 19/32, for a yield of 8.41 percent; the 8 3/8's of 1993 lost 5/32, to 100 5/32, and now yield 8.31 percent, and the 8 1/4's of 1992 fell 4/32, to 99 21/ 32, and also yield 8.31 percent.
Mr. Ricchiuto does not expect a slow day today, even though the trading session is shortened. ''The fixed-income market will get the December merchandise trade deficit figures at the opening, along with the Government's January industrial production and factory capacity use for the month,'' he said. ''The Street expects the deficit to shrink by a billion dollars, to $9.5 billion, but the bond market's reaction will be determined by whether the reduction was caused by reduced imports or stronger exports.'' 'Junk Bond' Market In the high-yield market, prices of many junk bonds rose slightly yesterday, as corporations bought back these battered securities, said dealers.
Bonds of well-known companies like Colt Industries and Duracell Holdings were up one-quarter to one-half point, in what one trader said was modest trading. One RJR Nabisco bond was up three-fourths of a point.
But several issues were off sharply. Some bonds of Burlington Holdings plunged 8 points, or $80 for every $1,000 face amount, to about 90. The company reported lower-than-expected earnings. ''Even mildly disappointing news is going to be treated very negatively by bond holders due to market conditions,'' said Mariel Clemensen, the vice president of junk bond research at Citicorp Securities Markets Inc.
Bonds of the Ambase Corporationalso traded down 20 points, to about 63. The insurance company is one of the unsecured creditors of Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc., whose parent filed for bankruptcy on Tuesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (91%); JAPAN (73%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: DKB SECURITIES CORP (66%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; MONEY SUPPLY (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); CREDIT TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); BONDS (91%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); DEBT NOTES (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); INFLATION (79%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (75%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (75%); BANK FAILURES (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); BUILDING PERMITS (72%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (72%); SECURITIES BROKERS (72%); MONEY SUPPLY (71%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (70%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); SAVINGS & LOANS (66%); INTEREST RATES (57%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%); 

PERSON: MAIDENBERG, H J



452 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 14, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 307 words

HEADLINE: FINANCE/NEW ISSUES;
2d Round of Global Bonds Is Priced by the World Bank

 BODY:
The World Bank yesterday priced its second $1.5 billion issue of global bonds in nearly five months.
A 15-member syndicate led by Goldman, Sachs & Company and Morgan Stanley & Company began offering the bonds simultaneously in the United States, Europe and, for the first time, in the Japanese markets.
Unlike the 10-year bonds sold in September 1989, these bonds have a seven-year maturity. Underwriters gave the new issue an 8 3/4 percent coupon and offered it at a price of 100, to yield about 33.4 basis points more than seven-year Treasury notes. 
The yield spread at pricing was near the low end of what had been expected. The expectations had ranged from 35 to 38 basis points over Treasuries with a similar maturity. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.
The World Bank, owned by 151 Governments, including the United States and Japan, is the largest source of loans to third world countries. The proceeds from the sale will be used for these loans.
In the first sale in September, the bonds were not sold directly on the Japanese market but were traded among Japanese customers immediately afterward. This time, Japanese authorities allowed the bonds to be sold directly to the Japanese market.
According to traders, yesterday's bond offering was well received and oversubscribed, meaning there were requests to purchase more securities than were for sale. Up until pricing, traders said the seven-year bonds had been trading well, and were trading even with 10-year Treasury securities.
Last September, the bank sold $1.5 billion of 8 3/4 percent 10-year bonds at a price to yield 8.44 percent, or 37.5 basis points more than Treasury securities with a similar maturity.
The World Bank's outstanding debt is rated triple-A by both Moody's Investors Service Inc. and by the Standard & Poor's Corporation.

GRAPHIC: Graph of tax-exempt yields

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (93%); GS (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (93%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (93%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (64%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (64%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (93%); EUROPE (91%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (93%); MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE INC (64%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (64%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD)

SUBJECT: FINANCES; STOCKS AND BONDS INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); BONDS (92%); BOND ISSUES (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); FOREIGN LENDING (78%); 



453 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 16, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 15, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 586 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES/OPTIONS;
Gold and Platinum Weaken On Signs of Economic Vigor

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Prices of gold and platinum futures weakened yesterday amid new signs of economic strength, including a record-setting rise in housing starts and higher stock prices.
On other commodity markets, copper and petroleum futures gained, coffee futures slumped, grains and soybeans were mixed and pork bellies surged.
Gold futures fell by $4.30 to $5.10 an ounce on the Commodity Exchange in New York, with the contract for February delivery settling at $412.40 an ounce. Silver futures finished unchanged to three-tenths of a cent higher, with the March contract at $5.33 an ounce. 
 
Platinum Gives Up Gains
The platinum market gave up most of its gains from the previous session. Platinum futures settled $4 to $5 lower on the New York Mercantile Exchange, with April delivery at $522.90 an ounce.
Precious-metals traders focused on a variety of positive factors, including a strong report by the Government on housing starts in January and expectations that a report to be released today will show a decline in the United States trade deficit for December.
Positive news about the economy generally depresses gold prices, because investors tend to buy gold as a hedge against an economic downturn.
The Commerce Department's report of a 29.6 percent increase in January housing starts, to a record seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.63 million units, helped to raise the dollar's value against other leading currencies. That typically prompts selling of precious metals. Analysts said the 25-point rise in the Dow Jones industrial average also quelled demand for gold.
 
Rumors on Drexel Moves
Analysts also cited profit taking in advance of a three-day holiday weekend, and rumors that Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc., whose parent company filed for bankruptcy protection this week, was liquidating its positions in the precious-metals markets to raise cash.
Despite the weakness, ''the platinum market is still very steady and the gold market also appears to be in a bullish trend,'' said Anne Orton, vice president of Deak International Inc. She added, ''They just didn't seem to have much strength today.''
The report on housing starts also lent support to copper futures on the Commodity Exchange. Copper wire and pipes are widely used in home construction.
Copper futures settled 0.95 cent to 1.7 cents higher, with the February contract at $1.085 an ounce.
 
Energy Futures Rise
Energy futures rose sharply on the New York Merc, partly reflecting fears that a new eruption of the Redoubt volcano in Alaska posed a threat to the oil industry there.
West Texas Intermediate crude settled 40 cents to 77 cents higher, with March at $22.84 a barrel. Heating oil was a half-cent to 1.01 cents higher, with March at 58.65 cents a gallon. Unleaded gasoline was 0.75 cent to 1.3 cents higher, with March at 60.64 cents a gallon.
Coffee futures retreated slightly on New York's Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange on news that Brazilian shipping companies and dock workers had reached a wage agreement, averting a strike. Coffee settled 0.83 cent to 1.02 cents lower, with March at 84.98 cents a pound.
 
Soybeans Up Modestly
Soybean futures rose modestly on the Chicago Board of Trade, reflecting strength in the European market for soybean meal, while wheat futures retreated and corn futures closed mixed.
Pork belly futures surged on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange on news that the United States is exploring the possibility of subsidizing sales of American meat to the Soviet Union.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; GOLD; PLATINUM; PRICES FUTURES (96%); PLATINUM MARKETS (93%); COMMODITIES TRADING (91%); GOLD MARKETS (91%); METALS MARKETS (90%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (90%); HOUSING STARTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); SILVER MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (90%); BASE METALS MARKETS (90%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); GRAIN MARKETS (90%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); COPPER INDUSTRY (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); COPPER MARKETS (89%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); ENERGY MARKETS (89%); GASOLINE (79%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (79%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (79%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); TRENDS (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (77%); HEATING OIL (77%); COFFEE MARKETS (74%); PORK (74%); STOCK INDEXES (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); COFFEE (72%); CURRENCIES (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (63%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (50%); 



454 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1044 words

HEADLINE: Many Hospitals Found to Ignore Rights of Patients in AIDS Testing

BYLINE: By PHILIP J. HILTS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 16

 BODY:
Many hospitals fail to get patients' consent before performing AIDS tests, do not counsel them adequately about the results and lack proper safeguards to insure confidentiality, a national survey has found.
In 3 percent to 4 percent of the hospitals, the survey found, patients are never or only sometimes informed when they are found to be infected, so they may unwittingly infect others after leaving the hospital.
''The policies in place among hospitals in this national sample do not provide adequate protection of patients' rights,'' concluded the report, sponsored by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation and the University of California at Los Angeles. The authors suggested that every patient entering a hospital ask if he or she will be tested for AIDS infection and what will happen to the results. #560 Hospitals Surveyed The research, which covered 560 randomly selected non-government hospitals, is the first large study on hospitals' AIDS policies in the United States. Dr. Howard Freeman, a U.C.L.A. sociologist who was one of four authors, described the preliminary results on Thursday at a health policy meeting sponsored by the Johnson Foundation in Washington. 
Dr. Freeman said the results were troubling because they showed that many hospitals did not follow recommendations made three years ago by the Federal Centers for Disease Control. Guidelines of the Government and the American Hospital Association call for explaining the test to patients and getting their consent for it; counseling them before the test and again after it, if the result is positive, and making every effort to keep the results confidential. The Federal Government does not enforce the guidelines, but a number of states have their own laws and can prosecute hospitals that violate them.
Dr. Freeman said there were serious problems in all these areas. Forty percent of the hospitals never or only sometimes counsel patients before testing. Informed consent is not obtained from patients in many hospitals, and testing is conducted without the knowledge of patients in some hospitals, though Dr. Freeman would not say what percentage. In 25 percent of hospitals, those whose tests are negative for the virus are never told.
 
Patients Are Transferred
Two-thirds of the hospitals indicate AIDS infection on patients' charts despite the Federal Government's guidelines on confidentiality. Dr. Charles E. Lewis, another co-author of the study, wrote that one surgeon told other doctors at a meeting that his hospital had solved the problem of exposing staff members to the AIDS virus: It was testing all patients and marking their charts with stickers - green for those who did not have the virus, red for those who were infected or who refused to be tested.
Many hospitals routinely test for AIDS, partly to protect staff members from accidental infection and partly to help prevent the spread of the disease by informing patients who are infected.
Twenty percent of the hospitals in the survey reported at least one instance of a staff member's refusing to treat patients infected with the AIDS virus, and about 25 percent of the hospitals immediately transfer patients to another hospital if they are found to be infected.
Dr. Freeman said there are various motives for transferring patients, including getting the patients to hospitals with more experience in treating the disease. But he said that too often the motive is fear or the desire to relieve the hospital of an economic burden, since many people with AIDS have little or no medical insurance.
The preliminary data showed that while two-thirds of hospitals sampled test at least some patients for the AIDS virus, 17 percent have no policy governing such testing and a higher percentage have policies that do not comply with the established guidelines.
In the survey, four staff members were interviewed in person in each of the 560 hospitals, which randomly selected from the 5,191 nongovernment hospitals in the nation. The authors did not indicate a margin of sampling error. The paper is still under review for publication.
 
'Huge Job of Education'
The American Hospital Association refused to comment on the study, but said the association recommends that hospitals get consent for testing, notify patients of the results and counsel them once they are given the results.
Peter Staley, a spokesman for Act-Up, the AIDS Coalition to Unleash Power, called the survey ''another example of the huge job of education we still have to do, when the medical establishment still harbors such prejudice on a national level.'' Failure to get informed consent for an AIDS test is illegal in many states, including New York, California, and Massachusetts, he said.
Dr. Dennis McShane of the Stanford University Medical Center said many hospitals have had relatively few patients with AIDS and have not come to grips with the issues created by testing, as larger centers have.
But Dr. Jerome Groopman, head of the AIDS program at the New England Deaconness Hospital in Boston, the largest AIDS center in New England, said: ''I think it's extremely disturbing that 10 years into the epidemic we still have this kind of thing. Despite AIDS' being on the front page and the evening news so long, there is still no structure established to deal with these questions. There is a fundamental lack of leadership from the Federal level, particularly from the executive branch.''
 
'A Long, Undistinguished History'
The finding that many hospitals routinely transfer infected patients is upsetting but not surprising, he said, adding, ''There is a good deal of jockeying going on to avoid the expense.''
Dr. Richard Chaisson, director of AIDS services at Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore, said the results should be viewed with caution, but added that the statistics were consistent with what he knew of attitudes toward people with AIDS and the economic burdens they could represent.
''This kind of data gives you some sense of general attitudes about patients, especially the transfer of infected patients,'' he said. ''There is a long, undistinguished history of hospitals' dumping what they consider undesirable patients.'' Johns Hopkins, a public hospital, receives many such patients.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (82%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%); CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (55%); AMERICAN HOSPITAL ASSOCIATION (54%); AMERICAN HOSPITAL ASSOCIATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: JOHNSON, ROBERT WOOD, FOUNDATION; UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) ROBERT WOOD JOHNSON FOUNDATION; 

SUBJECT: ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME (AIDS); TESTS AND TESTING; PRIVACY, RIGHT OF; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HOSPITALS AIDS & HIV (96%); HOSPITALS (91%); AIDS & HIV TESTING (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); PATIENT CONSENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); WRITERS (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); AIDS & HIV POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (77%); HUMAN SUBJECTS (73%); RESEARCH REPORTS (73%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (73%); VIRUSES (73%); SOCIOLOGY (72%); FOUNDATIONS (70%); SPONSORSHIP (70%); 

PERSON: HOWARD FREEMAN (84%); 



455 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1339 words

HEADLINE: Would -Be Refugee Describes His Vietnamese Round Trip

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HAIPHONG, Vietnam, Feb. 12

 BODY:
Le Van Kim, once a fisherman, sat in the house of a charitable friend and bemoaned his fate.
He was back in Vietnam, more than a year and a half after escaping by boat to Hong Kong. Instead of achieving a permanent haven, he was part of a planeload of refugees forced by the British authorities two months ago to return to Vietnam.
He has not been arrested, as some feared. But from what he says his life is fairly bleak. For the moment he is surviving on what amounts to charity, with little immediate hope of finding a new house or getting a new fishing boat. 
 
Initial Trip Is Smooth
As he tells it, his misadventure began five years ago, when he lost half his right arm and a few fingers of his left hand while fishing with dynamite. He continued to ply his family's traditional trade, but the fish did not run well for two seasons, and like so many Vietnamese before him he decided to leave by boat for Hong Kong.
With his wife, seven children and his mother, Mr. Kim, 37 years old, set sail the 500 miles east in his boat on June 10, 1988. It was an uneventful voyage, and he arrived on June 20, four days after a cutoff imposed by the British authorities in Hong Kong. He and his family became victims of a policy that made them part of the only group of Vietnamese forced to return.
For Mr. Kim life seems hopeless and dreary, and he is deeply ashamed of living on charity. ''Now we have no house and no means of living,'' he said. '' Before, we had a boat - it was all we had - but the Hong Kong Government destroyed it.'' His only hope, he said, is that the British will buy him another because the Vietnamese equivalent of $10,000 required for a new one is far beyond his means.
 
Happiness on Arrival
Before June 16, 1988, any Vietnamese arriving by boat in Hong Kong was automatically granted refugee status and eventual resettlement in a third country. After that date, all new arrivals were screened to see if they were fleeing political, racial or religious persecution and qualify as refugees.
If not, and they are judged economic migrants merely seeking a better life for themselves and their families, they are refused resettlement and pressed to return to Vietnam.
''When we arrived in Hong Kong, at the first moment, we were very, very happy, '' Mr. Kim said. ''We thought we had made it, through all the storms, the pirates and the dangers on the sea.''
He grew silent, and then finally said, ''But that was the only pleasant moment.''
The British administrators of Hong Kong insist on the right to send people like Mr. Kim home involuntarily. The United States argues that forcible repatriation to Vietnam, unlike to Mexico or Haiti, is intolerable, at least until more efforts are made to get economic migrants to agree to return. About 1,000 volunteers have already done so under the auspices of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.
 
Precedent Backfires
To set a precedent and in agreement with Vietnam, the British forced one planeload of boat people to return on Dec. 21, 1989. Mr. Kim and his family were among them.
But the publicity was sufficiently bad that Vietnam is hesitating to allow a second flight, which the British authorities want to arrange soon, before the good sailing weather comes again and more Vietnamese take to the sea in search of a haven. A British official, Francis Maude, arrives in Hanoi on Sunday to pursue such discussions with the Vietnamese Government, which says that it will accept people who do not volunteer to return but do not object to it, either.
''Forcible repatriation,'' Vietnamese officials say, is intolerable, a bit of semantics important for a country that badly desires better relations with the West and does not want to be accused of human rights violations.
The planeload that included Mr. Kim, said Vu Khoan, a Deputy Foreign Minister, was accepted on the principle that while the Vietnamese did not agree to return, they did not object to it, so no force was required to get them onto the plane.
 
A Nighttime Journey
Mr. Kim said British authorities woke them in the middle of the night and told them to board a bus for the airport, where a representative of Vietnam and of the United Nations High Commissioner would be waiting.
''But no one was there, and we were lied to,'' Mr. Kim said, an assertion that the British deny. Still, no one protested, he said, and everyone was silent on the plane because every Vietnamese was sandwiched between two Hong Kong policemen.
Since then, he said, the Vietnamese authorities have kept their promise and treated them with respect, with no punishment for having broken the law against illegal emigration.
Hoang Ngoc Tri, a Haiphong official in charge of caring for the returned boat people, said that, of course, Vietnam would keep its word. ''If they are treated badly by the people or the Government, they would leave again. So what would be the point of going through all this trouble to try to restabilize their lives?''
 
Intentions Seem Serious
The Vietnamese have a saying, ''we beat the ones who leave us but embrace the ones who return to us,'' Mr. Tri said, in a bit of approved homespun wisdom echoed by nearly every Vietnamese official interviewed.
But Hanoi seems to mean it, and with limited resources - per-capita income is a little over $200 - is trying to cope. The United Nations High Commissioner's office provides about $1,000, including airfare, for each volunteer, and the British provide airfare and $620 for each person who does not volunteer.
The Vietnamese have agreed to provide the equivalent of $30 a month in cash to each volunteer for a year, and $25 a month to each nonvolunteer, with the remaining money after welcoming and transit expenses, about $100 per person, being spent on special needs like medical care or housing. And in Haiphong, they are doing so, even though Mr. Tri complains that the port city has not yet received all the money due it from the national Government.
Haiphong, he says, with 640 boat people returning, is trying to deal with the extra burden and spending more than Vietnam gets from the United Nations or the British. But he is concerned about the future, because at least 5,000 more people from Haiphong are now in Hong Kong alone.
 
Budget Problems
Of the city's yearly budget of $14.4 million, 30 percent goes to the national Government in tax payments, Mr. Tri said. And the city is in ''a sharp discussion'' with the Hanoi authorities, trying to get that percentage reduced in order to cope with the returning boat people.
''Many of these people sold everything and must begin again,'' he said. And as for the city itself, it is ''almost true'' that it is out of fishing boats, and there are no used ones for sale. In the meantime, state enterprises must replace skilled workers. And yet given the enormous unemployment in Vietnam, when boat people return, ''we have to try to solve the problem of finding them jobs all over again.''
Mr. Tri's hope is that with the improvement in the economy since the Communist Party allowed private enterprise, Vietnamese will chose to stay home. The British hope so, too, but fear that the extra money in people's pockets will mean that more can afford the $250 to $350 required to buy an illegal passage to Hong Kong.
 
A Mother's Sadness
For his wife, Le Thai The, holding her 2-year-old, there are simply tears. ''I feel so sorry for myself and for my family,'' she said. ''My children are small; we don't have a house.
''I spent the three days of Tet crying,'' she said, referring to the lunar new year. ''We were in someone else's house, and we had nothing of our own.
''The children kept asking me, 'Mother, why don't we have a house? Why don't we have an altar?' I don't dare to even speak of the future.''
A Haiphong official, originally reluctant to allow an interview with the family, said later that the city was sincerely trying its best. ''But don't forget,'' she said, ''these people have done this to themselves.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Le Van Kim and his wife, Le Thai The, at the home of a friend they are staying with in Haiphong, Vietnam. They are among the vietnamese refugees who were forcibly repatriated by Hong Kong. (NYT/Steve Erlanger); Map of vietnam showing location of Hiaphong.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HONG KONG (98%); VIET NAM (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: HAI PHONG, VIETNAM (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;VIETNAM; HONG KONG

SUBJECT: REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES REFUGEES (89%); CHARITIES (89%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); FAMILY (76%); ARRESTS (56%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN; KIM, LE VAN VAN KIM (96%); 



456 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: UPHEAVAL IN THE EAST;
Poland's Foreign Lenders Accept Unusual Extension of Payments

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WARSAW, Feb. 16

 BODY:
The United States, West Germany and other major Polish creditors showed support for the Solidarity-led Government today by extending the payment deadlines for $9.4 billion of Poland's hard-currency debt on unusually lenient terms.
Polish officials rejoiced at the unprecedented relief granted by the Paris Club, a group of 17 creditor nations, which declared that easing Poland's hard-currency debt burden would help the country endure the strong and bitter economic medicine that it is taking to revive its prostrate economy.
''We're delighted the debt was rescheduled,'' Henryk Wozniakowski, a Government spokesman, said at a news conference tonight. ''It will be a great benefit to us.'' 
The agreement, signed in Paris today by Polish officials and the nation's government creditors, would stretch the payments of interest and principal over 14 years.
''It's the most extraordinary agreement we have ever had,'' said Jean-Claude Trichet, the chairman of the Paris Club and head of the French Treasury. ''It indicates the confidence that the governments have in Poland.''
The Paris Club has rescheduled the payment of debt for many nations, mostly in Africa, Asia and Latin America. But the Polish accord involves the largest amount of debt ever rescheduled by the club.
 
'An Exceptional Case'
Obviously aware of the reaction their generous decision might bring in other debt-troubled countries of Eastern Europe and South America, Poland's Western creditors said in a communique that they were ''convinced that Poland was an exceptional case'' and were impressed by its ''very courageous'' economic program.
Poland has leapt ahead of other Eastern European countries in seeking to transform its economy from Communism to capitalism and has taken painful steps like allowing layoffs and bankruptcies, lifting price controls and slashing subsidies to industry and consumers. [A watchdog group including Western nations has agreed to start relaxing controls on the export of sophisticated technology to Eastern Europe, but the United States has insisted that some concessions not yet apply to the Soviet Union, Western officials at the meeting said. Page 9.] All told, Poland has $40 billion in foreign hard-currency debt, with $27 billion of that owed to Western governments. West Germany is the largest creditor; the United States ranks behind Britain and France. Most of the rest of the $13 billion in foreign hard-currency debt is to private interests.
 
Terms of the Agreement
Under today's agreement, the payment of $3.4 billion overdue at the end of last year will be rescheduled, as will all the interest and principal repayments due until the end of March 1991. Polish officials said the agreement allows this $9.4 billion to be repaid over 14 years, with an eight-year grace period on the payment of principal.
One Polish official estimated that this would reduce Poland's annual debt repayments to about $1.1 billion. Poland's debt service has amounted to about $3 billion a year, but in recent years the country has fallen behind and paid only about half that amount annually.
Officials also said that under the agreement Poland would repay no money at all during the next 12 months.
 
A Plea to Bank Creditors
Mr. Trichet called on commercial banks that are also creditors of Poland to follow the lead of the Paris Club and offer similarly generous debt-relief measures. The club wants the commercial banks to postpone all interest payments that Poland owes them for an extended period.
Last week, Poland's Prime Minister, Tadeusz Mazowiecki, sent a letter to the heads of government of the creditor nations asking that all of Poland's debt repayments be postponed this year and that the creditors work to reduce Poland's debt through forgiveness or other means.
Poland's Vice Minister of Finance, Janusz Sawicki, said the agreement was a vote of confidence in Poland, but he said the problem of reducing Poland's debt remains.
At his news conference today in Paris, Mr. Trichet also said, ''We have already decided that we have a moral commitment not to leave Poland without a good new agreement after March 1991.''
Mr. Trichet said a task force was being formed to study means of debt reduction as well as future debt rescheduling.
The agreement announced today comes on the heels of other major Western assistance efforts for Poland. The International Monetary Fund has pledged $713 million in aid to Poland, while the World Bank has pledged $360 million this year as part of its $2.5 billion three-year aid package.
Mr. Sawicki, the Vice Finance Minister, said the agreement showed that creditors recognize that Poland's debt was inherited from a Communist regime that had mismanaged the economy and poorly invested the money it had borrowed.
The Paris Club's communique states that the creditors recognize the ''historic significance of the great transformations now under way in the Polish economy.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: POLAND (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (92%); FRANCE (91%); EASTERN EUROPE (88%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); AFRICA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); WARSAW, POLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: PARIS CLUB (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: PARIS CLUB

GEOGRAPHIC: ;POLAND; WEST GERMANY

SUBJECT: CREDIT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FINANCES PUBLIC DEBT (90%); FOREIGN LENDING (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); TRENDS (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); LAYOFFS (67%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (62%); EXPORT CONTROLS (62%); PRESS CONFERENCES (55%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, LINDA JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (51%); 



457 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1409 words

HEADLINE: Cutting the Dropout Rate: High Goal but Low Hopes

BYLINE: By MICHAEL deCOURCY HINDS

 BODY:
American educators are trying almost anything to keep children in school. They give pizza parties in Chicago, promise after-school and summer jobs in Philadelphia, hold drawings for used cars in Milwaukee and enroll American Indian youths in private schools in Minnesota, at state expense.
The challenge of reducing the dropout rate is something educators around the country have been struggling with for many years, with programs that are often experimental and, in any case, reach few of those at risk for leaving school. In his State of the Union Message, President Bush set a goal of graduating 90 percent of high school students by the year 2000. 
Over and over, school officials say they do not have the money to spend on much more than the basics, and certainly not enough to solve the larger problems of society like poor housing and drug abuse that contribute to the dropout rate. The nation's high schools now graduate about 71 percent of students who enter as freshmen, a figure that has remained about the same for two decades. Inspiration Stressed ''Is it realistic to build a school system that graduates 90 percent of its students?'' said Dr. Ernest L. Boyer, president of the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching. ''Yes, if we really mean it. Yes, if we're willing to put resources into it. Simply declaring it as a vision and not defining a program will leave us in 10 years about where we are now.''
But the Bush Administration says more inspiration than money is needed at this point.
''Per-pupil expenditures increased dramatically, by 29 percent over inflation, during the last decade, but reading scores and other results were essentially flat over that period,'' said Christopher T. Cross, the Assistant Secretary of Education for educational research and improvement. ''What the critics are missing is that we have to have a commitment to change values, to motivate students. Until we get that, throwing more money at the problem won't change it.''
 
'Great Leap' Not Achieved
Education experts could come up with no example of a school or school district that has succeeded in making what Dr. Boyer called ''that great leap,'' raising its graduation rate nearly 20 percentage points, as Mr. Bush wants for the whole nation. More commonly, a school with a low dropout rate never had a major problem retaining students in the first place.
Schools are increasingly encouraging teamwork with local businesses, which do have money to devote to dropout prevention programs, as an investment in a more qualified work force.
One of the oldest and most successful pairings of business and education is in Philadelphia. A 20-year-old program, offered at 14 of the city's 21 high schools, integrates academic courses with vocational training in auto mechanics, business and other careers.
The program, Philadelphia High School Academies, recruits eighth graders considered likely to drop out with guarantees of after-school and summer jobs, at $5.75 an hour. More than 93 percent of the students who enter the program graduate, as against 70 percent for the school district over all.
But the program now reaches only 1,750 of the city's 101,000 high school students, said Natalie S. Allen, president of the program. ''We hope to be able to serve 5,000 kids by 1995,'' she said, adding that a program that large would cost about $1.2 million a year.
Mrs. Allen said the money would have to come from businesses and foundations rather than the school district, which faces a $60 million deficit next year in its $1 billion budget. In the 1987-1988 school year local businesses contributed $400,000 to the program; last year they gave $830,000.
 
Pizza and Used Cars
In Milwaukee, where only 60 percent of the students graduate from high school, principals are enlisting local businesses to provide incentives for children who improve their attendance, grades and behavior, said David C. Begel, a spokesman for the district, which has 98,000 students.
Most companies give away small things like certificates for pizza, but two car dealerships give away used cars. Two schools let their most-improved students participate in a drawing for a car each year.
''Clearly, it's an incentive for some kids, but I don't know how you would quantify the impact,'' Mr. Begel said. The programs have been in effect for three years at one school and one year at another.
Chicago spends $3.8 billion a year on its public schools, including $1 million on programs to prevent pregnancy, a key reason for dropping out. Much of the money in that program is spent on pizza parties and party gifts to draw students to seminars.
''Counselors try to build their self-esteem and teach them about their bodies,'' said Dr. Grace G. Dawson, director of the district's Division of Dropout Prevention. ''We think we're reducing the pregnancy rate by as much as 50 percent.''
 
Programs Seen as Limited
But she said this program and several other dropout prevention programs reach fewer than half the 200,000 students considered at risk of dropping out. There are 410,000 students in the city's school system; Dr. Dawson said the dropout rate ranged from 20 percent in some schools to 70 percent in others.
In Los Angeles, a three-year effort to curb a 39 percent dropout rate has the money to serve only 144 of the district's 600 schools, said Peter Martinez, coordinator of the district's Dropout Prevention Office. The budget for his program is $5.6 million this year, out of a district budget of $3.2 billion.
One of the more novel ideas, which started in West Virginia two years ago and has already spread to Texas, Florida, Louisiana, Wisconsin and Ohio, is to revoke the driver's license of dropouts and truants.
''We're very pleased with the law,'' said Therese M. Wilson, acting director of the Office of Educational Support Services in West Virginia's Department of Education. So far, the state has revoked the licenses of 1,003 teen-agers, she said. As a result, 170 teen-agers have returned to school and 163 others have enrolled in high school equivalency programs.
''West Virginia is pretty rural, so if you don't have a license you really can't get around,'' she said.
 
Minnesota Leads the Nation
Minnesota is the only state that graduates more than 90 percent of its high school students. Six other states graduate slightly more than 85 percent of their students, according to a study of the high school class of 1987 conducted by the United States Department of Education. The states are Iowa, Montana, Nebraska, North Dakota, Wisconsin and Wyoming.
Florida ranked last, the department said, with 58 percent graduating, while Georgia, Louisiana, Michigan and New York had only slightly better rates. In the District of Columbia, the graduation rate is only 55.5 percent.
Schools in Minnesota have graduated 89 to 91 percent of their students since 1981, when data were first collected, said Robert J. Wedl, the state's Deputy Commissioner of Education. He conceded that the state had few minority students and less poverty than the national average; around the country, minority members and the poor are more likely to drop out. But he said it also helped that the state had long given education a top priority.
''We're graduating 91 percent of our kids, but that's not nearly enough,'' Mr. Wedl said. ''It's not O.K. to throw away 10 percent of our kids.''
 
A Flexible School System
With 720,000 students and a $3.8 billion budget, Minnesota ranks 17th in per-pupil spending. The state has developed a flexible school system, with a wide variety of specialty and year-round schools, and students can attend any school within commuting distance.
In 1988, when Minnesota could not keep one-third of its American Indian students from dropping out of high school, the Legislature passed a law permitting the State Department of Education to pay for private school for Indian children at risk of dropping out.
''You have to change the school to suit the child, rather than trying to change the child to suit the school,'' said Dr. David Beaulieu, the state director of Indian education.
He said school districts contracted with seven private schools, including three run by tribal governments, that graduate 90 percent of their students. The schools provide students with a great deal of individual instruction in an ambience and curriculum that reflect Indian society and culture, he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: To try to reduce the dropout rate, which President Bush has set as a goal, educators are focusing on experimental programs. The Philadelphia High School Academies program recruits students likely to drop out with guarantees of after-school and summer jobs. Damian Quattlebaum, left, a senior at William Penn High School, gets help in the morning from his word processing teacher, Harvey Goss. (The New York Times/Bill Cramer)(pg11); List of graduation rates by state for the 1986-87 school year. (Source: Department of Education)(pg11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); 

CITY: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (92%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: PHILADELPHIA HIGH SCHOOL ACADEMIES (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; DROPOUTS STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (90%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); NATIVE AMERICANS (79%); GRADUATION RATES (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (68%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); HINDS, MICHAEL DECOURCY GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 



458 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 426 words

HEADLINE: Bush Gets Some Praise For Andean Drug Talks

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 16

 BODY:
President Bush told his Cabinet today that the regional drug conference in Colombia was an important start in international cooperation in fighting drug trafficking, an assessment shared by Administration critics.
Several academics, politicians and Administration officials also said the meeting could bring a shift in emphasis, with the United States acknowledging that it must be more aggressive in helping Andean countries economically, and those countries intensifying their law enforcement efforts against drug traffickers.
These analysts warned, however, that it could be years before it is known whether the oratory at Cartagena leads to concrete results. 
''There was a convergence of issues,'' said Raphael F. Perl, a specialist in international narcotics policy for the Congressional Research Service. ''We're beginning to recognize the economic and trade components, and the Latins are beginning to realize they need enhanced law enforcement.''
 
View of Meeting
The economic issues were emphasized by Mr. Bush at today's Cabinet meeting, where he and William J. Bennett, the drug policy director, encouraged department heads to seek new investment opportunities in the Andean region. Mr. Bush, Mr. Bennett and Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d gave the Cabinet an overall view of the conference on Thursday, which focused more on issues like helping coca growers find substitute crops than on areas where there is less consensus, such as the role of the United States military in the fight against drugs.
In interviews today, several analysts and politicians said there were no fresh initiatives in a joint declaration by Presidents Bush, Virgilio Barco Vargas of Colombia, Jaime Paz Zamora of Bolivia and Alan Garcia of Peru. But they said it was far more important that a meeting took place involving President Bush and leaders of the three countries that produce or refine most of the cocaine consumed in the United States.
Even one of the Administration's sharpest critics on the drug issue, Representative Charles B. Rangel, Democrat of Manhattan, chairman of the House Committee on Narcotics Abuse and Control, said the conference offered ''a valuable framework for future cooperative efforts.''
Yet Mr. Rangel and other Democrats said they were now waiting for the Administration to follow through on the words of cooperation from President Bush and the Andean leaders.
Although many past critics of the Administration's drug initiatives were laudatory today, some dismissed the meeting as a public relations gambit.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); COLOMBIA (94%); BOLIVIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (56%); CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COLOMBIA; UNITED STATES; CARTAGENA (COLOMBIA)

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; CONVENTIONS AND CONFERENCES CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (91%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); DRUG POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); INTERVIEWS (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (78%); COCAINE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); BERKE, RICHARD L GEORGE W BUSH (92%); CHARLES B RANGEL (58%); 



459 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8, Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: Upheaval in the East;
Meeting of Industrial Countries Declares Need for More Aid to Poland and Hungary

BYLINE: By PAUL MONTGOMERY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BRUSSELS, Feb. 16

 BODY:
Officials of the major industrial nations meeting here today declared that their seven-month aid program for Poland and Hungary, already surpassing $2 billion in commitments, was well on its way but needed more initiatives for private investment, debt servicing, education exchanges and protection of the environment.
In their fourth meeting since the aid program began last July, the officials said the time of pious pronouncements in regard to Poland and Hungary was giving way to operational programs. From a boatload of herring sent from Iceland to Poland to billion-dollar loan funds assembled by bankers, the aid effort has represented the West's attempts to confirm the arrival of democracy and free markets in East Europe.
In a communique at the end of their daylong meeting, the officials said plans to include East Germany, Czechoslovakia, Romania, Bulgaria and Yugoslavia in the packages were ''proceeding in the right direction.'' The aid program began at the Paris economic meeting in July, when only Poland and Hungary had created multi-party systems and had announced plans for free-market economies. 
The matter of broader participation will be taken up when the officials of the 24 countries involved meet again on May 22, followed by a meeting of their foreign ministers in Brussels in early June.
The aid effort of the so-called G-24 is coordinated by the European Commission, the executive body of the 12-nation European Community, and also includes the United States, Canada, Japan, Australia, New Zealand, Austria, Switzerland, Finland, Sweden, Iceland, Norway and Turkey.
 
Five Submit Applications
Last month the European Commission announced criteria including free elections, a rule of law and ''economic liberalization'' for other East European nations that wanted aid and invited applications from East Germany, Czechoslovakia, Romania, Bulgaria and Yugoslavia. Those countries submitted papers today, ranging from 2 pages by Romania to 32 by Czechoslovakia, detailing their needs and specifying their plans for liberalization.
The G-24 officials said that they would need more information and that they would send fact-finding missions to the countries soon. A formal decision on the applications can be made only by the foreign ministers of the 24.
In the meantime the European Commission gave a progress report on aid committed to Poland and Hungary. For Poland, the major contributions have been a $1 billion fund to stabilize the zloty and donations of food valued at $456 million.
Prime Minister Tadeusz Mazowiecki of Poland, who visited Brussels last month, has asked for 1.2 million more metric tons of bread-making wheat after the 562,500 metric tons already sent. The Commission said today that 788,000 tons of the additional 1.2 million had already been pledged, including 600,000 tons from the European Community, 150,000 from Japan and 38,000 from Austria.
 
Food Sold to Consumers
The food aid to Poland is donated by the G-24 but is sold to consumers. The resulting zloty funds, called counterpart funds, are to be used for investments in Poland that promote free enterprise. The Commission said today the counterpart funds so far totaled 180 billion zlotys and were soon expected to reach 400 billion zlotys.
The main initiative for Hungary is a proposed $1 billion bridge loan, to be repaid in a maximum of five years, that would help the country pay interest on its $20 billion in foreign debt. The loan is contingent on an International Monetary Fund program for the total debt. The European Community has already pledged $400 million toward the fund and is inviting other nations to join. Japan among other countries today raised questions whether it was necessary to have an overall fund rather than individual loans.
The group is also finishing proposals for modest environmental programs in the two countries, totaling $26.4 million for Poland and $32.4 million for Hungary. The projects concentrate on taking sulfur out of the emissions from coal burned for power and cleaning lakes and rivers. The projects are more in the nature of pilot studies than of actual attempts to reduce pollution.
The Commission also said today that its regulations to liberalize access to markets for goods from Poland and Hungary had taken effect on Jan. 1.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); HUNGARY (94%); POLAND (94%); ROMANIA (93%); BELGIUM (93%); ICELAND (92%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (92%); GERMANY (92%); JAPAN (92%); AUSTRALIA (79%); CANADA (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); FINLAND (79%); NORWAY (79%); AUSTRIA (74%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); BULGARIA (59%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (87%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (54%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (54%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (54%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;POLAND; HUNGARY

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (88%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (86%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); FOOD CHARITIES (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); TRENDS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (63%); 

PERSON: MONTGOMERY, PAUL



460 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 888 words

HEADLINE: Upheaval in the East;
17 Nations Plan to Relax Rules on Exports to East

BYLINE: By ALAN RIDING, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PARIS, Feb. 16

 BODY:
A watchdog group including Western nations has agreed to begin relaxing controls on the export of advanced technology to Eastern Europe, but the United States has insisted that some of the concessions not yet apply to the Soviet Union, Western officials said today.
Since the 17-nation group known as Cocom makes its decisions by consensus, the officials said, Washington was also able to block proposals by Western European countries for greater flexibility towards the entire East bloc during a two-day meeting here.
Some Western European officials complained privately that Washington still views East-West trade through a cold war prism and ignores the needs of emerging Eastern European democracies for modern technology. They argued that a ''two speed'' approach limiting concessions to the Soviet Union would be impractical and bureaucratic. 
Although numerous Western European countries are already scrambling to take advantage of the new business opportunities opening up in the East, the United States seems determined not to be rushed.
Unable to agree on most specifics, the Coordinating Committee on Multilateral Export Controls decided instead this week to set political guidelines for the future, including plans for a major review of the products subject to its export controls.
But Cocom, which is made up of 14 Western European countries, the United States, Japan and Australia, did reach these three basic agreements:
* To reduce from 12 weeks to 8 weeks the time that Cocom takes to review requests by Western companies for permits to export sensitive items to Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union.
* To ease curbs on the sale of computers, precision machine tools and telecommunications equipment to Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union. Such goods account for about half of the 1,500 or so items whose export is controlled and for about 80 percent of the license applications.
* To examine requests by Poland, Hungary and Czechoslovakia for preferential treatment in exchange for pledges and verification mechanisms to insure that technology with potential military applications does not reach the Soviet Union.
Western officials said that several Western European governments, notably West Germany and France, had argued in favor of a more ambitious across-the-board reduction of Cocom's list of sensitive items. France was also rebuffed in its bid to have controls relaxed on the export of civilian aircraft, they said.
''We reached agreement on a basic approach,'' one United States official said. ''This will enhance access to Western technology for legitimate civilian purposes for the regimes of Eastern Europe which have embarked on a democratic reform process.''
In Washington, Lawrence S. Eagleburger, the Deputy Secretary of State, told listeners today at the United States Chamber of Commerce that ''the Government understands Cocom has to adjust.''
But some industry spokesmen expressed disappointment that more was not achieved this week.
''It appears the net effect is we have the same restrictions that existed last Monday,'' said Willard A. Workman, Director of Foreign International Policy and Programs at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. ''There is no change.''
''I think the United States defused a potentially explosive situation,'' said Debra L. Waggoner, manager of international trade policies at the American Electronics Association. ''But it is still moving too slowly and runs the risk of causing serious deterioration to Cocom.''
 
Awaiting Free Elections
The results of the review to be carried out by the United States are to be presented to Cocom here in June. By then several Eastern European countries theoretically will have held free elections, and efforts toward German reunification may have set the stage for a change in East Germany's status.
''At the moment, East Germany is still a a separate entity and a proscribed destination,'' a senior State Department official said in Washington. ''What it will be in three months, I don't know. I don't have the gift of clairvoyance.''
As in the past, secrecy characterized the Cocom meeting this week. Government delegations refused to say where the conference was being held, no public statement was issued on the results, and official briefers insisted that their names not be published.
But while Cocom has played a central role in the West's strategy towards the Soviet bloc over the past 41 years, political experts predicted that the organization would face growing pressure to change - not only from Eastern European governments, but from Western companies anxious for profit.
Among the major corporations already making bids or seeking opportunities in telecommunications, where Eastern European countries are dramatically behind, are American Telephone and Telegraph, Ericsson of Sweden, Siemens of West Germany and Alcatel of France.
Until now, the only significant relaxation of controls by Cocom involved exports to China since 1985, a move that was backed by the United States. The looser export policy has allowed many American companies to play an important and lucrative role in development of the Chinese economy.
Several Western European Governments are hoping that Eastern European countries will soon be given even more flexible treatment than enjoyed by China, officials said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); WESTERN EUROPE (95%); FRANCE (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (90%); HUNGARY (79%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); POLAND (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (52%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN COS (90%); WASSENAAR ARRANGEMENT (84%); WASSENAAR ARRANGEMENT (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE, EAST; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET EXPORT TRADE (91%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (90%); EXPORT CONTROLS (90%); COLD WAR (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); LICENSES & PERMITS (77%); MACHINE TOOLS (73%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (64%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (50%); 

PERSON: RIDING, ALAN



461 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 29, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1337 words

HEADLINE: 2 Public Relations Styles Clash in Battle of Trumps

BYLINE: By SUZANNE DALEY

 BODY:
One is a mild-mannered man who once had a client bring a live elephant to the steps of City Hall, but who has since more often relied on his skills as a conciliator to build a large public relations firm and a reputation as a man you need to know in New York City.
The other is a bearded, burly opera-lover who is much more of a one-man show and known for stepping in in times of crisis, taking on tough and complicated causes and wrestling them to the ground.
These are the two public relations men representing Donald and Ivana Trump, men who behind the headlines are now locked in combat so bitter that it includes a threat from one to sue the other.
The two men, Howard J. Rubenstein, the conciliator, and John Scanlon, the crisis manager, have both been in the business a long time, moving from producing press releases and publicity stunts to becoming powerful middlemen guiding their often highly visible clients - ranging from the likes of Diana Ross and Covenant House to Philip Morris and the Gucci family -through the tangles of city government and the journalistic establishment. 
 
Art of a Deal
Yet each has his distinctive style. In Mr. Trump's corner is the smooth-talking Mr. Rubenstein, who now has more than 140 employees and 300 clients and has become known not only for image making but for deal making: For instance, he is widely credited with bringing two of his clients together - Rupert Murdoch and Peter Kalikow - and keeping them talking long enough to negotiate the sale of The New York Post.
In Mrs. Trump's corner is Mr. Scanlon, who is good friends with half the city's press corps, has only a handful of clients at anyone time and is usually called in when a client is already in deep trouble or unlikely to appear sympathetic.
Mr. Scanlon, who works for Daniel J. Edelman Inc., is probably best known for his dogged maneuvering on behalf of CBS News after Gen. William C. Westmoreland sued the network for libel over a documentary called ''The Uncounted Enemy: A Vietnam Deception.''
 
'Back in the Game'
At stake, beyond the suit, was CBS's credibility as a news organization. George Crile, the producer of the program, credits Mr. Scanlon with persuading CBS management to speak up for itself. Mr. Scanlon also counseled Mr. Crile to go on the same television shows everytime the author of a book attacking the documentary appeared. And Mr. Scanlon was noted for appearing in court everyday to provide journalists with documents that supported the CBS position.
''After John, we had the opportunity to get in the arena,'' Mr. Crile said. ''We were back in the game.''
The case was eventually settled out of court with both sides claiming victory.
Former Mayor Edward I. Koch, a man who has had plenty of dealings with both men, said that what you get when you hire Mr. Rubenstein ''is someone who opens doors for you.''
John Scanlon, Mr. Koch said, ''is the guy who comes in when you have a tough sell.''
Neither Mr. Scanlon nor Mr. Rubenstein said he was willing to discuss his strategy in the Trump case but others in their business say that some of the strategy is evident.
 
Scanlon Is More Aggressive
Mr. Scanlon, they say, has been more aggressive, trying to get news organizations to portray Mrs. Trump as an integral part of the Trump business empire, a tactic apparently intended to disrupt Mr. Trump's business dealings by creating uncertainty over who is in control.
If the divorce can be made to look like enough of a potential disruption to the organization, Mr. Trump may then move to settle with his wife quickly and more generously, regardless of any prenuptial agreement and its legal validity.
Public relations experts say Mr. Trump's camp has been reacting to this ploy by trying to discredit her business skills.
Such strategies are not what Mr. Rubenstein, 56 years old, made his name on.
He is most noted for his representation of the real-estate industry and for bringing real estate, business, union and government leaders together over a variety of enterprises.
He started his business by representing a Brooklyn nursing home. But his father, Samuel, a reporter for The New York Herald-Tribune, helped him get other clients, including young Democratic politicians from Brooklyn who would within a decade made their mark.
Among them was Abraham D. Beame, who when he became Mayor of New York, included Mr. Rubenstein among his closest advisors. Mr. Rubenstein's business boomed and he has retained influencial political friendships. At a 30th anniversary party for his business in 1984, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo referred to Mr. Rubenstein's ''enormous power and influence.''
Mr. Rubenstein declined to discuss his fees. Others in the industry said they ranged from about $2,000 to $10,000 a month.
Mr. Scanlon, 54, had several false starts before settling in as a public relations man. The son of a transit worker, Mr. Scanlon taught in a parochial school, was a textbook salesman and a book editor. He became involved in politics in the 1960's, working for Eugene McCarthy and then becoming a deputy commissioner in the Economic Development Administration under Mayor John V. Lindsay. Later, he briefly served as a press secretary for Felix G. Rohatyn, before senting up his own public relations firm in 1976.
After a heart attack, Mr. Scanlon went to work for Daniel J. Edelman where he now charges clients $300 an hour, he said.
Whether Mr. Scanlon or Mr. Rubenstein will be the most successful is unclear. Some see small victories for Mr. Scanlon already in the way the story has developed. Although Liz Smith, the gossip columnist for The Daily News, said she did not need Mr. Scanlon to tell her what to say when she was the first to announce that the Trumps were divorcing, her story did include a description of Mrs. Trump as her husband's full-time business partner.
And, other journalists have referred to a collection of excerpts and television clips showing Mr. Trump praising his wife for her management skills, which Mr. Scanlon made available.
Almost since the beginning the Donald Trump publicity camp has been reacting to events. In fact, when the story first broke, a Rubenstein spokesman denied the couple was separating, refusing to comment on ''idle gossip.''
Within a day quotes attributed to a spokesman for Mr. Trump appeared in many newspaper articles saying that Mrs. Trump had no decision-making abilities. Also quoted anonymously were sources comparing Mrs. Trump with Leona Helmsley, someone who has a reputation for being imperious and difficult.
It is the comparison to Mrs. Helmsley that triggered the threat of a lawsuit from Mr. Scanlon, who denounced it as libelous.
 
'The Greatest Carrier of Water'
He has also been quick to point out that Mrs. Helmsley is a client of Mr. Rubenstein's.
''Howard is the greatest carrier of water on both shoulders since Rebecca at the well,'' said Mr. Scanlon, who has a penchant for literary and Biblical allusions.
For his part, Mr. Rubenstein maintains that no one in his organization ever went so far as to compare Mrs. Trump to Mrs. Helmsley.
In keeping with his reputation as a conciliator, Mr. Rubenstein said he hoped that the press coverage of the Trumps' marital woes would quiet down and that the Trumps ''could work things out.''
But some in the public relations field are skeptical of that assertion, pointing out that Mr. Trump has repeatedly been available for interviews and has consistently downplayed his wife's role in his business.
From an image-making point of view, some public relations experts said such attacks on Mrs. Trump have left Mr. Trump, who for years praised his wife's abilities, looking like a liar.
''The Rubenstein strategy has a real flaw - it's inconsistent,'' said Alan Metrick, a partner in the public relations firm of David M. Grant & Partners. ''People are going to be saying: Well, Donny, which is it? Were you telling the truth then or now? That's never a good position to be putting a client in.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: EDELMAN (84%); DANIEL J EDELMAN INC (64%); COVENANT HOUSE (55%); COVENANT HOUSE (55%); 

SUBJECT: DIVORCE, SEPARATIONS AND ANNULMENTS; PUBLIC RELATIONS AND PUBLICITY PUBLIC RELATIONS (91%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); WRITERS (87%); LIBEL & SLANDER (77%); CELEBRITIES (77%); CRISIS MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (77%); LITIGATION (74%); JOURNALISM (74%); NEWS REPORTING (73%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (66%); SUITS & CLAIMS (63%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (61%); 

PERSON: TRUMP, DONALD; DALEY, SUZANNE; RUBENSTEIN, HOWARD J; SCANLON, JOHN; TRUMP, IVANA DONALD TRUMP (79%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (50%); 



462 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST: SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1990

 BODY:

 
 
The Economy
 The trade deficit narrowed sharply in December to $7.2 billion, the smallest gap in five years. The deficit for all of 1989 was $108.6 billion, a reduction of $9.9 billion from the 1988 total. This improvement, however, was far less than the $33.6 billion reduction achieved in the preceding year. [Page 35.] Industrial production had its steepest drop in nearly four years last month, falling 1.2 percent. Much of the decline was attributed to temporary factors. The operating rate for factories, mines and utilities fell 1.2 percentage points, to 81.9 percent of capacity. [41.] 
 
 
 
Companies
 Regulators took control of Franklin Savings Association, a large institution based in Ottawa, Kan., with close ties to Wall Street. It is now the largest savings unit in Government hands. [35.] The F.D.I.C. sued Drexel Burnham Lambert; Shearson Lehman Hutton and two former executives of a Texas savings institution, accusing them of a complex fraud scheme. [36.] Northrop was ordered to stop showing some commercials in Los Angeles by the Federal judge in a fraud trial involving Northrop. The judge said the commercials could influence prospective jurors. An appeals court has suspended the order. [35.] Securities fraud charges were filed against Bolar Pharmaceutical and its former president. The S.E.C. said the maker of generic drugs failed to promptly inform investors that it was suspending delivery of more than 70 products. [35.] Mack Trucks said it had a record loss last year and had reached financing agreements to avoid running out of cash. [35.] Drexel has been having trouble settling some sales of assets it has undertaken since its bankruptcy filing. While Drexel officials met with bankers about resolving the snags, more than 3,000 Drexel employees spent their last day in the office. [36.] Southwestern Bell is ending its test of an electronic information system in Houston. The company said it was evaluating the results, but analysts said they thought it had been a disappointment. [37.] A bid to buy control of The St. Petersburg Times was rejected by the institution that holds the controlling stake. [37.] G.M.'s pension fund reportedly plans to buy ''junk bonds'' because they are now viewed as investment bargains. [39.] Lockheed was fined $1 million for pollution violations by a Southern California air-quality agency. [10.] The Vuitton family plans to buy 95 percent of Lanvin, the Paris fashion house and perfume company. [37.]
 
International
 Poland's creditors agreed to a rescheduling of $9.4 billion of its debt on generous terms, in a move intended to show support for the Solidarity Government. [1.] Controls on exporting high technology to Eastern Europe will be relaxed, Western officials said, but the U.S. is balking on concessions to the Soviet Union. [9.]
 
 
 
Markets
 The dollar tumbled against major currencies despite the encouraging report on the United States trade deficit. [44.] Copper futures prices soared on signs of dwindling supplies. [44.] Late program selling depressed blue-chip stocks in slow trading. The Dow Jones industrial average lost 13.96 points, to 2,635.59. For the week the Dow dropped 12.61 points. [38.] Prices of Treasury securities were little changed. [38.]
 
 
 
Today's Columns
 A bill to close a loophole in biotechnology patent law has a provision that could reverse recent court victories by an American company and its Japanese pharmaceutical partner. Patents. [36.] Medical insurance that supplements Medicare for the elderly is worth the expense, one expert says. A long-term illness can deplete the assets of two generations, he points out. Your Money. [36 .]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: SUMMARY

TICKER: LEH (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (56%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (56%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); POLAND (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (51%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: FRANKLIN SAVINGS ASSOCIATION (57%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (56%); CIRCA PHARMACEUTICALS INC (55%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); SAVINGS & LOANS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); FUTURES (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); BONDS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (76%); SECURITIES LAW (75%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); FINES & PENALTIES (75%); JURY TRIALS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); GENERIC DRUGS (73%); LITIGATION (73%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (72%); COPPER INDUSTRY (72%); JUDGES (72%); PERFUMES & COLOGNES (71%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (70%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); JURY DUTY (67%); FASHION DESIGNERS (60%); COPPER MARKETS (60%); APPEALS COURTS (52%); PRICE INCREASES (50%); FASHION & APPAREL (50%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (50%); 



463 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: Mack Trucks Has a Record Loss

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
Mack Trucks Inc., the company that once so dominated the heavy truck industry that its name became synonymous with 18-wheelers, announced yesterday that it had record losses in 1989 and had reached two financing agreements to keep from running out of cash.
The company's losses and debt financing announcements were a further indication of the deepening slump in the nation's $9 billion heavy-truck market, analysts said. The company lost $185.4 million last year, compared with a profit of $31.8 million, or $1.07 a share for 1988. Revenues fell 16.7 percent, to $1.75 billion, from $2.1 billion. Mack's medium- and heavy-truck deliveries tumbled 20 percent last year while parts and service sales fell 5.5 percent. 
 
Agreements on Bank Debt
 Mack, which is based in Allentown, Pa., said it had reached agreements in principle to reschedule its bank debt and sell $50 million worth of convertible bonds to Renault Vehicules Industriels. If exchanged for stock, the bonds would raise the French truck maker's stake in Mack to about 55 percent, from 44.6 percent.
Mack also announced yesterday that its employees and board had ratified an agreement with the United Automobile Workers that would immediately raise hourly wages by up to a third at the company's giant new plant in South Carolina. Mack built the plant in Winnsboro to try to reduce the proportion of its work force represented by the U.A.W., but lost a union organizing vote last April, a year and a half after the factory opened.
The troubles at Mack are partly a reflection of the truck building business's broader difficulties, industry analysts said. Slower economic growth and reduced spending on capital goods have left orders at barely half the level of a year ago.
The American Trucking Associations, a trade group based in Alexandria, Va., said the nation's general freight carriers hauled 5.1 percent less tonnage last year than in 1988.
In the last two months even Paccar Inc., the maker of the Kenworth and Peterbilt lines and the industry leader in size and profitability, has cut production by 20 percent and laid off hundreds of salaried and hourly employees.
And on Thursday, the Navistar International Corporation, another big truck maker, announced that it lost $18 million in the three months ending Jan. 31, compared with a $37 million gain for the same period a year ago. For its fiscal year, which ends on Oct. 31, Navistar predicted that sales of the heavy truck industry as a whole would sink 19 percent from the preceding 12 months.
Mack lost $79.5 million in the fourth quarter last year, compared with a profit of $13.8 million, or 47 cents a share, in 1988. Sales fell 33.8 percent, to $370.8 million from $554.7 million.
At Mack, corporate officers declined yesterday to discuss the company's announcements. Ralph E. Reins, chairman and chief executive, said in a statement that Mack had cut costs and predicted that it would lose less money this year.
Most of Mack's problems have been self-inflicted, said Frank J. Prezelski, a truck industry analyst at the Deutsche Bank Capital Corporation. ''They've done just about everything wrong they could have done in the last couple years,'' he said. He added that new management led by Mr. Reins had improved operations since taking over last fall.
Mack spent $60 million and five years developing a new long-haul truck, the CH600, but introduced it last spring before all the bugs had been worked out, Mr. Prezelski said. The truck's engine did not become available until September and proved expensive to produce.
Mack stepped up production instead of stretching out delivery times last winter, when the industry's orders peaked at 23,000 in January, and then had to pay expensive benefits to U.A.W. workers laid off after orders for the industry plummeted to a low of 6,300 a month last August, Mr. Prezelski said. Monthly orders have since risen to about 10,000.
The South Carolina labor agreement ended a bitter five-year battle with the auto workers to open a nonunion plant in the South. Under a new agreement ratified by workers late Wednesday night, average wages at the Winnsboro plant will increase to $13.09 an hour, from $10, retroactive to Jan. 1, said Karl W. Mantyla, a union spokesman.

GRAPHIC: Graph: Daily close of Mack Trucks Inc., on NYSE, Jan. 1989-Feb. 16, 1990 (Source: Interactive Data)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NAV (NYSE) (85%); PCAR (NASDAQ) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3713 TRUCK & BUS BODIES (95%); NAICS336120 HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (85%); NAICS336310 MOTOR VEHICLE GASOLINE ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS333924 INDUSTRIAL TRUCK, TRACTOR, TRAILER & STACKER MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (81%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ALLENTOWN, PA, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: MACK TRUCKS INC (95%); NAVISTAR INTERNATIONAL CORP (85%); PACCAR INC (81%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: MACK TRUCKS INC; RENAULT VEHICULES INDUSTRIELS

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; CREDIT; CORPORATE BONDS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; STOCKS (CORPORATE) HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MFG (92%); MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); BONDS (90%); SALES FIGURES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); AUTOMAKERS (88%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (79%); LAYOFFS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); TRUCKING (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); DEBT FINANCING (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (70%); SALES PROJECTIONS (70%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (66%); LABOR UNIONS (66%); EXECUTIVES (60%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH FRANK J PREZELSKI (60%); 



464 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Seizes Franklin Savings Association

BYLINE: By THOMAS C. HAYES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DALLAS, Feb. 16

 BODY:
Federal regulators today took control of the Franklin Savings Association, a large and unorthodox savings institution based in Ottawa, Kan., with $11.4 billion in assets and close ties to Wall Street. It is now the largest savings unit in Government hands.
The Office of Thrift Supervision said that Franklin's net worth will fall to a negative $44.3 million after examiners today forced the institution to make several accounting changes. One involved recording $119 million in losses from futures trading that the savings unit had planned to write off over seven years. 
The savings institution, which reported $359.9 million in capital at the end of 1989, is also likely to lose another $185 million on zero-coupon bonds that it issued in 1984, the Government said.
The institution, which lost money from operations in four of the last five quarters, has been unable to raise fresh capital and had little prospect for recovery, said Marc Adams, a spokesman for the supervisory agency in Washington.
In its years of rapid growth, Franklin relied heavily on techniques designed to reduce the risk of loss from interest-rate fluctuations. It changed course after suffering losses in 1981 and 1982, when high interest rates hurt many savings institutions that made loans primarily to home buyers. Few of Franklin's current assets include home mortgages.
The analysis that led Franklin to adopt the interest-rate hedging techniques was developed by the institution with Wayne Angell, now a Federal Reserve governor in Washington. Dr. Angell was an economics professor in Kansas at Ottawa University during the period he was a consultant at Franklin.
Ernest M. Fleischer, an unassuming, analytical executive who built Franklin into the nation's 25th-largest savings institution, was removed from the chairman's post at Franklin as part of the Government action today.
Many on Wall Street had considered Mr. Fleischer a visionary in designing financial instruments to reduce risks from interest-rate swings. The primary market for his techniques was mortgage-backed securities. But as his success with the techniques in the mid-1980's were widely copied, profits for all players in that growing market, including Mr. Fleischer, became more elusive.
Mr. Fleischer attempted to expand Franklin's activities in search of new profits by acquiring brokerage firms. Franklin's parent acquired the Wall Street firm L. F. Rothschild Holdings Inc. in 1988. Earlier, it bought a large Houston-based brokerage, Underwood Neuhaus & Company.
Both efforts failed. Underwood Neuhaus was acquired by a unit of the Kemper Financial Group last November. And L. F. Rothschild's operations are essentially moribund after the firm filed for protection from creditors under Chapter 11 of the Federal Bankruptcy Code in June. Mr. Fleischer did not respond to telephone messages placed to Franklin's offices in Kansas.
 
How Course Was Altered
 Franklin had less than $400 million in assets when Mr. Fleischer altered its course from home lending to a wide range of investments.Franklin invested mainly in mortgage-backed securities, which are mortgages packaged as certificates such as those issued by the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation and the Government National Mortgage Association. By the end of 1988, $7.3 billion, or more than half Franklin's total assets were in this market. It also began trading in the financial futures market and dealing in interest-rate swaps.
Among the many Wall Street executives Mr. Fleischer recruited to Franklin was John A. Scowcroft, a former head of mortgage-securities trading at Merrill Lynch. Mr. Scowcroft directed research at Franklin Savings and was its vice chairman. Mr. Scowcroft also did not respond to a request late this afternoon for an interview.
Mr. Fleischer, a Harvard-trained lawyer who practiced tax law for several years in Kansas City, Mo., controlled the majority of Franklin's stock, which was thinly traded in the over-the-counter market. His stake was worth approximately $200 million at the height of Franklin's success in 1988.
The stock rose 12.5 cents today in over-the-counter trading, closing at $2.50 a share, after having plunged $2.625 on Wednesday, when Franklin disclosed that it was undergoing a routine Federal examination.
 
Operations Worsened
 Mr. Adams of the Office of Thrift Supervision said Franklin's operations worsened over the last 18 months because the institution was unable to generate sufficient profit from securities trades or interest income to cover the high interest rates it had to pay to attract brokered deposits, which are those acquired through brokerage firms.
Franklin has nine retail branches in Kansas, but 71 percent of its deposits at the end of 1989 had been gathered either through telephone marketing programs or brokerage firms.
Mr. Adams said Franklin profitably sold big portions of its mortgage-backed securities in recent months, but the proceeds were inadequate to cover the high interest rates paid on the deposits. ''What is left is a lot of low-yielding assets,'' he said. ''There was no reasonable prospect that they would be able to recover.''
In an interview two years ago, Mr. Fleischer said more savings institutions should follow Franklin's methods. ''I do not believe many thrift executives seek to destroy their own financial institutions,'' he said. ''It's simply a result of not understanding or knowing what to do, or what can be done.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (92%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (75%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: FRANKLIN SAVINGS ASSOCIATION (93%); OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (58%); OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: FRANKLIN SAVINGS ASSN (OTTAWA, KAN)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS SAVINGS & LOANS (91%); ACCOUNTING (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); FUTURES (78%); NEW ISSUES (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); BONDS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); DEREGULATION (71%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (70%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (64%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (62%); BANKING LAW (61%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (51%); 

PERSON: HAYES, THOMAS C ERNEST M FLEISCHER (91%); CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); JOHN A SCOWCROFT (56%); 



465 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 909 words

HEADLINE: Trade Gap Reaches 5-Year Low

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 16

 BODY:
The nation's trade deficit narrowed sharply in December to $7.2 billion, the smallest gap in five years, the Commerce Department reported today.
The latest figures brought the full-year deficit to $108.6 billion, a reduction of $9.9 billion from the 1988 total. This improvement, however, was far less than the $33.6 billion reduction achieved in the preceding year.
And while the December performance was considerably better than expected, most private analysts said that the deficit would likely widen again in coming months unless the economy sinks unexpectedly into recession. 
 
Trend for '90
 ''I think the trend is for little, if any, improvement'' for 1990, said Gary E. Schlossberg, an economist and trade specialist at Wells Fargo Bank.
Just over three-quarters of the December narrowing was the result of lower imports, a phenomenon that is mostly welcomed but that also implies a weakening domestic economy. This was quite consistent with the department's report last month that gross national product in the fourth quarter grew by a skimpy five-tenths of 1 percent.
The remainder of the December improvement reflected higher exports, but these were largely the result of a rebound in aircraft sales after the 48-day strike at the Boeing Company was settled Nov. 21.
 
Export Momentum Slows
 ''Export momentum continues to decline'' after helping to pace economic expansion for much of the past three years, said Bruce Steinberg, senior economist at Merrill Lynch, .
Currency traders focused on the sluggishness suggested by the decline in imports and the dollar fell against most major currencies. [Page 44.] The report had little impact on the credit or stock markets. [Page 38.] A number of analysts, however, took some heart from the December trade figures. The $3.1 billion drop from November's $10.3 billion deficit was significant, said Jerry J. Jasinowski, president of the National Association of Manufacturers, precisely because - not in spite of - the drop in imports.
''For the first time there are clear indications that in the face of slowing domestic demand, imports of manufactured goods are declining,'' he said. ''The drop in imports of capital equipment at a time when exports of capital goods and machine tools are rising was particularly noteworthy.''
Mr. Jasinowski said he disagreed with those who are predicting little further improvement in trade this year. In addition to the gains made by American producers competing with imports, he cited a ''massive boom'' in European demand for American goods and a declining dollar that he expected would bring sustained increases in exports.
Michael R. Darby, Under Secretary of Commerce for Economic Affairs, called the report ''quite encouraging'' while cautioning that trade figures are subject to especially large short-run gyrations that make it hard to spot emerging trends.
 
Deficit With Japan
 The latest figures show, for example, a second straight sizable decline, to $3.5 billion, in the American deficit with Japan, but analysts remained wary of concluding that this represents fundamental improvement. They noted that the declines of 12 percent in December and 18 percent in November were preceded by a 19 percent jump in October. Imports of Japanese cars rose in December to $1.9 billion, from $1.6 billion in November, the report showed.
For the year, the United States deficit with Japan totaled $49 billion, down 11.6 percent from the 1988 total of $55.4 billion.
The trade balance with Western Europe swung in December to a $550 million surplus, from a $750 million deficit, with $100 million of the improvement accounted for by a smaller trading imbalance with West Germany.
There was some further shrinkage in the American deficit with the newly industrialized countries of the Far East - Taiwan, South Korea, Hong Kong and Singapore. The combined deficit was $1.4 billion in December, down from $2.1 billion in November and $2.8 billion in October. Lower imports accounted for somewhat more than half the December improvement.
 
Bill for Oil
 The nation's bill for imported oil eased $300 million, to $4.1 billion, in December, as a 27-million-barrel reduction in volume more than offset a 64-cent price increase. This occurred despite record December cold, suggesting that refiners drew down inventories during the month. Analysts expect a huge January increase in the oil bill, which during December represented 56.9 percent of the total trade deficit.
For the year, oil imports surged 27.2 percent, to $48.94 billion - the highest amount since 1984, when the bill for oil was $52.4 billion.
December's exports rose 2.4 percent, to $31.1 billion, while imports fell 5.9 percent, to $38.3 billion, the report showed. The $7.2 billion deficit was the lowest since the $6.8 billion posted in December 1984.
November's deficit, initially reported at $10.5 billion, was revised to $10.3 billion but remained the worst deficit of 1989.
Capital goods accounted for the biggest changes on both sides of the equation for December - a $1 billion increase in exports, three-quarters of it aircraft, and a $1.1 billion decline in imports.
Without seasonal adjustment, the deficit dropped even more - to $6.4 billion from $10.6 billion, the report also showed. The three-month seasonally adjusted moving average now stands at $9.2 billion, down from $9.7 billion in November and from $10.2 billion in December 1988.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: annual U.S. trade deficit, 1980-89 (Source: Commerce Dept.); U.S. imports and exports, Jan. 1989-Dec. 1989; U.S. deficit of imports over exports, Jan. 1989-Dec. 1989 (Source: Commerce Dept.) (pg. 41)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (82%); BAB (BRU) (82%); BA (NYSE) (82%); WFC (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (82%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); BOEING CO (82%); WELLS FARGO & CO (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND TRADE GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (91%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); TRENDS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); US DOLLAR (74%); DURABLE GOODS (72%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (71%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR WELLS FARGO & CO (54%); 



466 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 36, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 862 words

HEADLINE: Your Money;
Advice for Elderly On Health Policies

BYLINE: By Jan M. Rosen

 BODY:
Older taxpayers may be taken aback when they start to fill out their 1989 income tax forms. Many thought they had won a major victory in December when Congress repealed the surtax for catastrophic medical care that could have run as high as $800 per person or $1,600 per couple. But there it is on the forms, line 54 of the Form 1040 and line 23 of the 1040A.
''Ignore it,'' said Hal M. Cohen of Deloitte & Touche. ''Don't use it. The forms had already been printed when the surtax was repealed.'' Those who included that liability when making estimated tax payments last year ''will get it back as a refund,'' he added. 
Mr. Cohen, who is based in Morristown, N.J., is a member of the accounting firm's executive financial planning group. So he has a suggestion for how to use the funds that would have paid the surtax: buy supplemental medical insurance.
''The emotional and financial expenses of a long-term illness can deplete the assets and income of two generations,'' he said, if a family must pay for the uninsured portion of doctor and hospital bills or for custodial or nursing-home care not covered under Medicare that can cost $20,000 a year or more.
Consequently, Mr. Cohen is advising all his older clients, as well as those who may be responsible for elderly parents, to be sure they have adequate health-care insurance ''in order to avoid financial disaster or substandard medical care.''
Once a person reaches age 65, he or she is eligible for Medicare. It becomes the primary carrier for those who are retired, and supplemental ''medigap'' insurance is available through private carriers. Medicare pays 80 percent of allowable charges, but medical costs often exceed Medicare's allowable limits.
Medicare and the medigap policies will pay for nursing-home stays in approved facilities with medical staffs after hospitalization. Unlike Medicaid, which is the medical-welfare program for the indigent, Medicare will not pay for long-term custodial care for people who have not been hospitalized, like those suffering from Alzheimer's disease. So middle-class people are likely to need private insurance for this.
''Shop around,'' Mr. Cohen said. ''There can be tremendous differences among policies,'' both in terms of the cost and of the coverage provided. He suggested starting with the American Association of Retired Persons, which markets a Prudential medigap plan, or by consulting an independent insurance agent.
Insurance is regulated by state insurance commissions, so what is available in one state may not be available in another.
Tamara G. Telesko, vice president of Chase U.S. Private Banking, part of the Chase Manhattan Bank, said that with the frequent need for custodial care among the elderly, more people are becoming aware of the need for private insurance to supplement Medicare. However, she cautioned, this is a relatively new product, and actuarial data are still being developed. With rising health-care costs, premiums may rise.
Deloitte & Touche has advised its clients to look for policies that provide a waiver of premium in the event of disability, a maximum benefit period for one nursing-home stay of at least four years and a daily nursing-home benefit of about $80, with inflation protection written into the policy. Inflation protection can increase the premium cost by as much as one-third.
It is also important to make sure that the company issuing the policy is financially sound. One way to do this is to check the rating issued by A.M. Best & Company. Ratings range from A+ (superior) to C (poor).
Among the features Deloitte & Touche recommends in considering policies are these:
* Guaranteed Renewability. The policy should be guaranteed renewable for life, except for nonpayment of premium, so that the insurer cannot cancel the policy when the individual is making use of its coverage.
* Deductible Period. This is the period, generally 21 to 365 days, that must pass before the insurer begins to pay benefits. Although the shorter period is preferable, the longer period may reduce the premium.
* Grace Period. This is the time, generally seven to 31 days, after the premium due date, before which the insurer may cancel the policy. It gives the policyholder some protection, should he or she forget to pay the premium on time.
* Care Coverage. The policy should say clearly whether it covers skilled, intermediate and custodial care without a pre-hospitalization requirement. Also, some policies provide long-term home care only as a rider for an extra charge.
Alzheimer's disease is generally described in policy language as ''organically based mental conditions,'' and if such coverage is not specifically mentioned, Alzheimer's is probably not included.
In deciding on coverage, people need to do a cash-flow analysis to help determine how long they are able and willing to pay for their own medical costs before they would need insurance. And they need to determine whether they have any retiree health-care benefits.
Two groups are more likely than most to have these benefits, Mr. Cohen said - executives whose compensation package included them and union members.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (83%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU (83%); MEDICARE (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; AGED; HEALTH INSURANCE; MEDICARE TAXES & TAXATION (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); MEDICARE (89%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (89%); SUPPLEMENTAL HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); AGING (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); NURSING HOMES (87%); SENIOR CITIZENS (79%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (78%); INSURANCE (77%); HEALTH CARE (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); ACCOUNTING (75%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (72%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (72%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (72%); CHRONIC DISEASES (72%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (72%); INSURANCE POLICIES (72%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (70%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (67%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (67%); PRIVATE BANKING (65%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (60%); MEDICAID (57%); 

PERSON: ROSEN, JAN M HAL M COHEN (79%); 



467 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 36, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 941 words

HEADLINE: Bankers Hesitant on Drexel Sales

BYLINE: By KURT EICHENWALD

 BODY:
Senior executives with Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc., the Wall Street firm that collapsed earlier this week, held high-level meetings yesterday with a number of banking officials who have been balking at settling sales of securities by Drexel in the last few days, people who were briefed on the talks said.
The discussions at the firm's international headquarters in downtown Manhattan came as more than 3,000 Drexel employees received termination notices and began moving their belongings out of their offices.
The discussions with the bankers came after several days of efforts to sell off billions of dollars in securities that were held by the firm, which collapsed after its parent filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the Federal Bankruptcy Code.
 
Concern Over Losses
 According to people present at the talks, a number of banks have been expressing concern about settling the Drexel trades, because they fear that they might be increasing their exposure to losses. In the settlement process, cash is transferred for securities, and the obligation is assumed by the bank for a short time after the cash is moved. 
While the banks hold securities from Drexel as collateral for the settlement, these sources said that some were concerned about the value of the assets.
''A bunch of individual banks feel that they have good collateral, while others don't,'' a person who was briefed on the situation said, adding that there had been discussions about pooling the collateral among the banks to make sure the transactions clear.
People at the firm said that the problem, while potentially significant, had not slowed the liquidation of the firm's assets.
In Drexel offices in New York and California yesterday, thousands of employees packed their belongings.
More than 3,000 workers at the firm that had once been a Wall Street giant were dismissed; some of the 2,000 or so remaining employees said they expected to be told to leave soon.
The employees were still shaken by the sudden collapse of the firm, which came after Drexel's parent filed late Tuesday for protection from its creditors under Chapter 11 of the Federal Bankruptcy Code.
''It just hasn't hit me yet,'' said June Schultz, the conference coordinator for the firm's corporate finance department. ''Even now, nobody believes it's real. Tuesday morning, it's going to hit me when I get up and don't have a job to go to,'' said Ms. Shultz, who was on vacation in Florida, when she learned of the bankruptcy filing from her secretary.
Drexel allowed many employees to buy at bargain prices the computers and other electronic equipment they had used. Some employees paid as little as $350 for personal computers, for example, and by the end of the day streams of former employees were filing from the headquarters loaded with electronic equipment.
Inside Drexel's international headquarters, there were signs of bitter feelings. Employees, laden with files and equipment, argued with security guards at the exits about what belonged to them and what belonged to the firm.
Some frustrated employees kicked the inside of the doors of the elevators, leaving small dents and scuff marks on the shiny metal. Upstairs, employees quietly packed, with many of them breaking into tears and holding each other for support.
''There's been a lot of sadness here today,'' one executive said. ''Nobody knows quite what to do.''
Debbie Finn, a supervisor analyst in the firm's research department, who, while loading her parents' car in front of the firm, found that the car battery had died. She approached other drivers for aid. ''Please help me,'' she said, falling to her knees on the street. ''I'm unemployed.''
At Drexel's high-yield junk bond division in Beverly Hills, Calif., which has never walked to Wall Street's stride, the mood was different. The executives, many of whom had been made rich by Drexel, were losing their jobs, but they decided to have a party.
Traders with the firm said that on Thursday night they went to an inexpensive Jamaican restaurant called the Sugar Shack, which is near the firm's offices. ''They called it their last blast,'' said Evelyn Agbayani, the bookkeeper of the bar and restaurant.
''They all just went crazy,'' Ms. Agbayani said. ''They said that 50 people were going to come, and there were 250 people there. No wonder they went out of business. They can't count.''
 
Bidding for Milken Desk
 During the course of the party, according to David Feinman, a trader with Drexel, someone bid $1,000 for the famous black X-shaped desk where Michael R. Milken, the former head of Drexel's junk bond division, once sat. From that desk, Mr. Milken made decisions that had significant impact on corporations throughout America. ''I said I'd pay five grand for it,'' Mr. Feinman said. For now, the desk remains in its place.
A skeleton crew of about 10 people will remain in Drexel's California junk bond office to help wind down the firm's business.
Executives who remained at work in New York and California continued their efforts to sell Drexel's holdings of securities.
The firm reached an agreement with Goldman, Sachs & Company yesterday to sell billions of dollars of its obligations on mortgage-backed securities, people at Drexel said.
This week Drexel has sold more than $200 billion of its junk bond portfolio, which totaled a little less than $1 billion at the beginning of the week.
Drexel said yesterday that it was working to resolve difficulties it had in transferring funds and securities for its commodities futures customers, primarily because of the enormous amount of requests for transfers.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Thousands of employees of Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. were dismissed yesterday by the bankrupt brokerage firm and left their offices. John Katz, an associate director of research, was helped by his secretary, Kellie Fisher, and his son, Walter, in loading personal possessions into his car. (NYT/Jim Wilson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: DREXEL BURNHAM LAMBERT GROUP INC; DREXEL BURNHAM LAMBERT INC

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; LAYOFFS (LABOR); UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; BANKRUPTCIES TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (88%); EXECUTIVES (79%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (78%); BONDS (78%); LAYOFFS (76%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (74%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (62%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (60%); 

PERSON: EICHENWALD, KURT MICHAEL R MILKEN (57%); 



468 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 38, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 613 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Notes and Bonds Steady

BYLINE: By H. J. MAIDENBERG

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury bonds and other fixed-income securities were mainly unchanged yesterday in a shortened pre-holiday weekend trading session.
The Treasury debt market was scheduled to close at 2 P. M., but dealers said many houses had closed earlier for the three-day Washington's Birthday weekend.
With few people in the market willing to take positions before the long weekend, the report of an unexpectedly sharp decline in the December merchandise trade deficit was largely ignored as were the reports of steep declines in industrial production and factory use in January.
The Government reported that the December trade deficit shrank to $7.2 billion, well below the most optimistic estimates. At the same time, Washington also reported that January industrial output fell 1.2 percent, compared with a rise of two-tenths of a percent the month before, while factory use dropped to 81.9 percent of capacity, against 83.1 percent in December. As expected the drop in automobile output last month accounted for much of the weakness. 
 
Preoccupied With the Mark
 One reason that the bond market ignored the trade and industrial figures, which would normally have been extremely bullish for fixed-income secuurities, was that investors were more preoccupied with the sharp decline in the dollar against the West German mark, which could discourage foreign investment in dollar-denominated securites. The credit market is also concerned about the recent surge in overseas interest rates, which could also lure some foreign investment away from American securities.
In addition, there was the usual caution that precedes an increase in the supply of Treasury paper. On Tuesday, the Treasury plans to auction $10 billion of two-year notes, which traded on a when-issued basis to yield 8.32 percent, up a basis point on the day. The next day, $8 billion of five-year notes are scheduled for sale and their yield also rose a basis point, or a hundredth of a percentage point, to 8.34 percent.
The yields on the outstanding 8 1/4 percent two-year and 8 3/8 percent five-year notes were unchanged at 8.31 percent each. Also unchanged were the long notes, the 8 1/2's of the year 2000, which were offered at the close at 100 19/32, to yield 8.41 percent.
 
Long Bonds Rise
But the new benchmark Treasury long bonds, the 8 1/2's of 2020, were offered at 100 14/32, off 2/32 on the day, causing the yield to rise a basis point, to 8.46 percent. A week earlier, the yield on long bonds was 8.33 percent.
The main activity in the credit markets was a move by the Federal Reserve to drain reserves from the banking system through four-day matched sales. The Fed's action came while the Federal funds rate was at 8 3/16 percent, which many analysts had thought was the target the central bank set. In any case, the funds rate, which banks charge each other for temporary loans, was 8 1/4 percent at the close.
The discount rate on Treasury 90-day bills dipped two basis points, to 7.68 percent; the six-month bills lost a basis point, at 7.66 percent, and the one-year bills were off a basis point, at 7.54 percent.
The price declines that raised the yields on most corporate debt securities during the week reflected the unsettled condition of the market after the bankruptcy last Tuesday of the parent of Drexel Burnham Lambert. The once powerful Wall Street house had to liquidate most of its securities holdings, including its high-yield ''junk bonds.'' Dealers said that for the first time this week prices of both high grade and junk bonds barely moved. They said this indicated that Drexel's holdings had finally been distributed and absorbed by the market.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME BONDS (93%); BOND MARKETS (91%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); DEBT NOTES (89%); US DOLLAR (79%); AUCTIONS (79%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (74%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (70%); AUTOMOTIVE MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (69%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (69%); INTEREST RATES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); 

PERSON: MAIDENBERG, H J



469 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 41, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 547 words

HEADLINE: Production Dropped 1.2% In January

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 16

 BODY:
Industrial production took its biggest plunge in nearly four years last month, the Government said today, but analysts cited temporary factors for the 1.2 percent drop and said output should resume growth at a sluggish pace.
The Fed also reported that the operating rate of the nation's factories, mines and utilities dipped 1.2 percentage points, to 81.9 percent, last month. It had remained steady at 83.1 percent in the three months ending in December. 
The production slump was the steepest since output plummeted 1.3 percent in March 1986. But the Fed attributed the decrease to a drop in energy use because of abnormally warm weather and to temporary layoffs in the automobile industry to correct excess inventories.
''If you take energy and autos out, the index was up two-tenths of a percent,'' said Michael K. Evans, head of a Washington economic forecasting firm bearing his name.
 
'Soft-Landing Scenario'
 ''The figures are more commensurate with the soft-landing scenario for the economy - that is, slow growth -than with the possibility that we're actually heading into a recession,'' said Gordon Richards, economic policy director for the National Association of Manufacturers.
The Fed said utility output, which rose 6.3 percent during December's bitter cold, reversed itself in January and fell 10.7 percent.
''The output of motor vehicles was curtailed drastically,'' the department said, as ''automobile assemblies plunged to a 4.1-million-unit annual rate from a 6.2-million-unit rate in December.''
As a result, manufacturing production, which represents 84 percent of industrial output, was off nine-tenths of a percent last month. But, Ms. Trumbull said, many employees have returned to work ''and we'll probably see an uptick'' in February's report.
Durable goods manufacturing, items expected to last more than three years like autos, was down 1.7 percent. Nondurable goods manufacturing, on the other hand, rose two-tenths of a percent.
 
Effect of the Weather
 Mining production was up 2.1 percent after falling 2 percent in December because of the cold weather.
The changes meant the industrial production index in January stood at 140.9 percent of its 1977 base, down from 142.5 percent a month earlier.
The decline in the capacity use rate, to 81.9 percent, could be interpreted as good news for consumers, even though it indicates a weak economy. Analysts generally consider an operating rate of 85 percent or above as an indication of inflationary pressures.
The manufacturing-plant operating rate in January also slipped to 81.9 percent, from 82.9 percent in December. The rate had peaked at 84.7 percent in January 1989. The rate at factories producing durable goods fell from 80.9 percent to 79.4 percent.
''Operating rates for auto and truck assembly facilities dropped to levels near their 1982 recession lows,'' the department said.
The utility operating rate fell from 86.4 percent to 77.1 percent in part because utilization at power plants dropped about 10 percentage points because of the weather, the department said.
The rate at factories producing nondurable goods fell one-tenth of a percentage point, to 85.6 percent. The operating rate at mines was down eight-tenths of a percentage point, to 84.7 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: Total output of capicity and index of total industrial production, August 1988-Jan. 1990 (Source: Federal Reserve Board; Commerce Dept.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (55%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCTION; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; MINES AND MINING; PUBLIC UTILITIES ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); DURABLE GOODS (89%); STATISTICS (89%); MINING OUTPUT (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (79%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); RECESSION (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); LAYOFFS (72%); INFLATION (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 



470 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 44, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 490 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Tumbles as Traders See Signs of Weak Economy

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar tumbled yesterday against major currencies despite an encouraging report on the United States trade deficit. Against the West German mark, it fell nearly two pfennigs.
The dollar opened strongly before the Government reported that the merchandise trade deficit fell significantly in December, to $7.2 billion, from $10.3 billion in November. 
But while the figure was far better than expected, traders focused on the fact that imports were down 5.9 percent, which they interpreted as an indication consumer spending is slackening.
''It was seen as showing underlying weakness in the economy,'' said Stephen Flanagan, a vice president at the Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company. The dollar's inability to extend the gains it posted in the previous session ''brought back all the underlying bearishness in the market,'' Mr. Flanagan said.
 
Negative Industrial Report
 The currency weakened further with the release of a separate Government report that showed industrial production in January slipped 1.2 percent. Traders said the decline was much larger than expected.
Signs of economic weakness are generally considered bearish for the dollar because they could prompt the Federal Reserve to lower interest rates to help avoid a recession. Declining rates make dollar-denominated investments less attractive.
Trading slowed by midday as many dealers left early for the three-day holiday weekend. Most currency trading in the United States will be closed Monday for Washington's Birthday.
Against the West German currency yesterday, the dollar fell to 1.6758 marks from 1.6935.
In Tokyo, the dollar closed at 144.80 yen, up 0.35 yen from Thursday's close. Later in London, it was quoted at 144.10 yen. In New York, the dollar closed at 144.13 yen, down from 144.78 yen Thursday.
In London, the British pound rose to $1.6953, from $1.6936 late Thursday. In New York, it cost $1.6972 to buy one pound, more expensive than Thursday's $1.6855.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Thursday, included: 1.4910 Swiss francs, down from 1.5075; 5.6950 French francs, down from 5.7580; 1,243.25 Italian lire, down from 1,258.50, and 1.1998 Canadian dollars, down from 1.2041.
Gold prices, meanwhile, moved higher, recouping their losses from the previous session. On the New York Commodity Exchange, gold rose $4.70 to close at $417.10 a troy ounce. The Republic National Bank of New York later quoted a bid of $417.25 a troy ounce, up $4.25.
In London, the metal rose to a late bid price of $416.65 a troy ounce, from $415.50 bid late Thursday. In Zurich, the metal rose to a closing bid of $416.50, from $415.75. But in Hong Kong, gold dropped $2.64 an ounce to close at $412.69.
Silver prices rose. On New York's Comex, silver bullion for current delivery settled at $5.328 a troy ounce, up from $5.317. In London, the metal rose to a late bid price of $5.36 a troy ounce from Thursday's $5.35.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (62%); HSB (PAR) (62%); HBC (NYSE) (62%); 0005 (HKSE) (62%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (62%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); CANADA (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); JAPAN (54%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); ZURICH (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (54%); 

COMPANY: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (62%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (62%); NEW YORK (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; PRICES; GOLD CURRENCIES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); SILVER MARKETS (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); GERMAN MARK (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); METALS MARKETS (78%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (78%); BRITISH POUND (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); PRECIOUS METAL SMELTING & REFINING (72%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); INTEREST RATES (66%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (65%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (64%); 

PERSON: STEPHEN FLANAGAN (60%); 



471 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 17, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 44, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 299 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES/OPTIONS;
Copper Prices Up Sharply; Dwindling Supplies Cited

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Copper futures prices soared yesterday on the Commodity Exchange in New York amid positive economic signals and signs of dwindling copper supplies.
Copper futures settled unchanged to 4.35 cents higher, with the contract for spot delivery up 4.35 cents, at $1.1285 a pound, and the more actively traded March contract up 4.3 cents, at $1.1135 a pound. 
Signs of shrinking copper stocks provided the strongest upward pressure. After two days of unchanged levels, the Commodity Exchange on Thursday reported a 90-ton drawdown in registered warehouse stocks, to a 16-month low of 3,629 tons.
After the close of trading yesterday, the Comex reported a much sharper daily drop in warehouse stocks, down 609 tons, to 3,020 tons.
Analysts said much of the copper withdrawn from warehouses yesterday appeared to be headed for East Asia.
Thursday's stocks report came on the heels of a Government report that January housing starts were running at a record-high annual pace. That news was bullish for copper since copper wire and tubing are used extensively in home construction.
The housing-starts surprise was followed yesterday by the Government's report that the nation closed out 1989 with a $108.6 billion trade deficit, the smallest in five years.
''I think some of the recent economic data have suggested that we could run into problems with copper supplies,'' said Randolph Donney, a research analyst with the commodities brokerage Elders Futures Inc.
Petroleum futures weakened on the New York Merc amid profit taking after five straight days of gains in the crude oil and heating oil markets.
West Texas Intermediate crude settled 20 cents to 42 cents lower, with March at $22.42 a barrel, and heating oil was 0.95 cent to 1.17 cents lower, with March at 57.48 cents a gallon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (93%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE INC

SUBJECT: COPPER, BRASS AND BRONZE; FUTURES TRADING; PRICES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SHORTAGES COPPER MARKETS (94%); FUTURES (94%); COPPER INDUSTRY (92%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); COMMODITIES TRADING (91%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (91%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); HEATING OIL (89%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (89%); ENERGY MARKETS (89%); METALS MARKETS (79%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (79%); BASE METALS MARKETS (79%); REAL ESTATE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); HOUSING STARTS (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (69%); 



472 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 1, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 4246 words

HEADLINE: Changes in Medicine Bring Pain to Healing Profession

SERIES: Doctors in Distress
First of three articles.

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE K. ALTMAN With ELISABETH ROSENTHAL

 BODY:
Because of an editing error, a capsule listing of issues in medicine last Sunday, with a front-page article about doctors, misstated the percentage of black and Hispanic doctors for 1988. Black doctors made up 3.3 percent of the profession; Hispanic doctors made up 4.7 percent.
Dramatic changes in medical practice have shattered the profession, leaving many doctors deeply demoralized.
Over the past quarter-century, and especially in the last 10 years, doctors have seen their autonomy eroded, their future earnings potential jeopardized, their prestige reduced and their competence challenged by everyone from oversight boards to hostile, litigious patients.
The image of the dedicated physician toiling long hours for the good of his patients is fading fast, replaced by salaried doctors who work 9 to 5. 
 
An Unrecognized Landscape
Doctors who finished training as late as 1980 look at the field of medicine today and say they do not recognize the landscape.
''My father was a pediatrician and I grew up surrounded by doctors who always seemed to be satisfied, loved medicine and were appreciated by their patients,'' said Dr. Scott Fox, 39 years old, who practices ear, nose and throat surgery on Cape Cod, Mass. Dr. Fox is president of the Barnstable County Medical Society, but in six months he will put down his scalpel and enter law school.
 
Many Doctors Dissatisfied
''Two years ago, just before my father died, he encouraged me to apply,'' Dr. Fox said. ''As we talked, we realized the medicine he and I had cherished was finally dead.''
The degree of dissatisfaction among doctors is astonishingly high for a profession that is typically regarded as one of the most prestigious, best paid and important in the nation. A survey by Gallup for the American Medical Association last year found that almost 40 percent of the doctors interviewed said that based on what they now knew about medicine as a career they would definitely or probably not enter medical school if they had a career choice to make again.
Many who study the medical profession believe that doctors brought the changes in the profession on themselves, said Prof. Uwe Reinhardt of Princeton, an expert in health care economics. ''Physicians have lived like kids in a candy store,'' he said. ''We, the payers, want the key back.''
Young Americans pondering career choices apparently have their own reservations; applications to medical school have dropped 25 percent over the past five years.
When the A.M.A. newspaper, American Medical News, asked doctors last year to describe how their practices had changed in the 1980's, ''The question struck a nerve,'' the newspaper said. ''Dozens of physicians responded with lengthy, heartfelt reflections,'' many of them expressing frustration with the changes in their profession.''
Dr. Richard Short, a pediatrician in San Diego, elaborating on his comments to the A.M.A. in a telephone interview, said: ''I enjoy seeing patients and I think I would go into medicine again, but I've had to be very strong to endure the headaches and the hassles. Now it feels more like just a job.''
Few doctors are so dissatisfied they are leaving the profession, and in fact the number of doctors has increased faster than the population. But there are many signs that medicine is changing and beginning to lose its appeal.
The days when the doctor alone decided how to treat patients and set fees that patients paid out of their own pockets are long gone. Today, according to the A.M.A., 79 percent of the average physician's payments come from Federal and private health insurance programs, which are demanding increasing accountability from doctors.
The day of the individual practitioner dealing one on one with grateful, adoring patients, is passing. Twenty years ago, most doctors practiced alone. Today, most young doctors favor working in group practices or health maintenance organizations, which provide comprehensive care for a flat fee. Last year, for the first time, more doctors were employees than were self-employed, according to the medical association.
As the number of doctors has greatly increased, an intense competition has resulted in some areas, both for patients and hospital privileges. Many doctors have felt forced to adopt more aggressive marketing tactics.
Physicians, on average, remain very highly paid and their incomes continue to rise faster than their costs, making the medical profession one of the most lucrative. But incomes are now leveling off in some specialties, and the Association of American Medical Colleges now warns all applicants for medical school, ''Physicians need to lower their income targets and their expectations for autonomy and independent decision making.''
In five years, there has been a drop of 9,000 in the annual number of applicants for medical school, although the number of applicants rose slightly last year.
Medicine is heading toward a demographic revolution of major proportions, in which the traditional dominance of white male doctors is yielding to an influx of women and minority members that could radically change how medicine is practiced. Women, for example, are often more interested in the specialties that treat the primary medical needs of patients, and they have lower income expectations than highly paid specialties like surgery.
 
Little Sympathy for Complaints
The rising volume of complaints from doctors wins little sympathy from governmental leaders and private organizations that are trying to slow the rise in medical costs, which are largely determined by physicians' decisions. Until the explosion of technology made medicine far more powerful, and far more expensive, physicians were seldom challenged about the therapies they chose and the fees they charged.
But today, with health care accounting for about 12 percent of the gross national product, about double what it was when Medicare was enacted in 1965, many private and government groups argue that the country can no longer afford to give its doctors a blank check.
Companies ''are applying to health care the same methodologies that they use for their products,'' said Dr. Paul A. Ebert, head of the American College of Surgeons. ''They are asking for the same type of assurances that they are getting what they paid for.''
Dr. Louis W. Sullivan, Secretary of Health and Human Services, said in an interview that changes had been forced on the medical profession because it had not acted itself to meet society's needs, both in terms of the rising cost of medical care and imbalances doctors that leave many areas lacking enough doctors. ''We've known for 15 years that we've had rising costs and that if things were not done to bring them under control there would come a day when there would be a reaction,'' he said. ''We've reached that point.''
 
More Stringent Oversight Is Seen
Many experts believe that the regulation of doctors will have to be even more stringent in the 1990's if the nation is to curb its rapidly rising medical costs. But some experts warn that if such oversight is not carried out carefully, it could do more harm than good.
''I am worried about the growing disenchantment of the average doctor,'' Dr. William Roper, a physician who is deputy director of domestic policy in the White House, said in an interview. ''It's a serious problem. It is not as if all the doctors in America are going to move to Australia or something. They just can't do that economically. ''But neither should we treat them as if we can abuse them and think we have lost nothing by it. I fear that the loss of faith by doctors will make them less caring and compassionate.''
 
Private Practice
 
Costs and Trials Of Going It Alone
 Last year, more than half the country's doctors were salaried employees. Among physicians over 45 years old, 75 percent are self-employed, but for those under 35 the figure drops to less than 40 percent, according to the medical association's statistics.
Experts say the costs of starting a private practice are prohibitively expensive for most doctors emerging from medical training, who may owe $50,000 or more.
Equipping the simplest doctor's office may cost $30,000 to $60,000 and for more complicated specialities, like ophthalmology, equipment can cost $100,000, said George Conomikes, whose firm in Los Angeles advises doctors starting to practice. On top of that, the doctors will be facing annual malpractice premiums that can sometimes exceed $30,000.
In some regions, especially rural areas, even established self-employed doctors say they are no longer able to make ends meet.
Dr. Short, the San Diego pediatrician, who grew up in the 1960's and went into medicine to ''make a difference,'' said in the interview that he closed down his busy pediatrics office in rural Oregon to take a salaried job with a large group in San Diego after office expenses and reimbursement problems rose dramatically. During one two-month period he received no Medicaid payments because the state was out of money for the health care program for the poor. He said a $20,000 bank loan failed to keep the practice afloat.
''I really felt I helped people, but I couldn't afford it emotionally or financially,'' Dr. Short said.
 
Government Bonus Plan
In an effort to slow the exodus of doctors from areas that desperately need them, the Federal Government will add a 10 percent bonus next year to all Medicare and Medicaid payments made to doctors in areas that are short of health manpower, 73 percent of which are in rural areas.
The increasingly complicated paperwork required by government regulators and insurance companies often prove too burdensome for a private doctor to handle, or too expensive if he pays someone to do it for him. For example, on Cape Cod, Dr. Fox has one employee who spends all day doing paperwork, including completing Medicare and Medicaid forms, which in a growing number of states must be filed by the doctor, not the patient.
Dr. J. Gary Grant, an internist in Pacific Grove, Calif., who was among those who conveyed their feelings to the A.M.A. newspaper, said in an interview: ''Many people decide it's not worth the hassle and get a salaried job at an H.M.O. Frankly those salaried positions sound pretty good.''
But he added that he would not leave his practice, which he called ''a family of 2,000 to 3,000 patients who depend on me.''
 
The Money
 
Lucrative Still, But Not for All
 Medicine remains a very lucrative calling. Most doctors make comfortable salaries, and their average net income continues to rise. But experts predict that as the government moves more vigorously to control costs in the 1990's, medicine will no longer be the gold mine it once was for some specialists.
Young doctors already face mixed salary prospects. Some big employers like the Kaiser health plans in California and the Health Insurance Plan in New York report that they are having trouble finding young doctors and have thus been forced, repeatedly, to raise the salaries they offer to these doctors. But according to a survey of 470 group practices by the American Group Practice Association, starting salaries for about 1,800 doctors finishing their training dropped almost 5 percent in 1988, the first drop since the association began keeping records in 1986.
 
Average Salary of $144,700
In 1988, the American Medical Association's annual survey found that the average practicing physician earned $144,700, but the range is wide and often based on a doctor's specialty or location. While a quarter of all physicians earned more than $180,000, another quarter earned less than $80,000.
The survey reported that the average annual income for doctors in the Middle Atlantic states, which it defined as New York, New Jersey and Pennsylvania, was $134,900, while the average in the New England states was $133,000.
The disparities are a cause for friction in the profession. Dr. Ronald A. Arky, who heads the department of medicine at Mount Auburn Hospital, a Harvard affiliate, in Cambridge, Mass, talks of cardiologists, gastroenterologists and eye doctors who earn 5 to 10 times the pay of internists, family practitioners and pediatricians who practice next door. Young doctors become cynical, he said, when they see a primary care doctor spend days preparing a patient for a brief surgical procedure, only to have the surgeon earn many many times what the primary care doctor earned.
The income inequalities between specialties can be traced largely to the evolution of health insurance reimbursement policies, which have long paid higher fees for operations and procedures and much lower ones for the hours primary care doctors spend making a diagnosis or determining the most effective drugs for patients with chronic ailments.
 
'I'm Going to Miss the Income'
Last year, Congress moved to redress the disparity by mandating a new Medicare payment schedule, effective Jan. 1, 1992, that will increase Medicare payments for evaluation and management of patients while reducing those for invasive and imaging procedures. Even some physicians who will be hurt by the change acknowledge that the change was overdue.
''I'm going to miss the income,'' said Dr. Carl J. Newman, a urologist in rural Kansas, one of those who responded to the medical association's survey.
''It's always nice to be overcompensated in your work,'' Dr. Newman said in an interview. ''And I think you can argue that I have been.''
He is closing his rural urology practice to take an academic position this fall.
 
Competition
 
Now the Doctor Will Call You
 The gentlemanly atmosphere that once reigned in the profession has been replaced with what many doctors call a savage competition for patients, caused largely by a great increase in the number of doctors and the rise of health maintenance organizations.
The number of physicians in the United States today is nearly double that in 1965: 586,000 versus 298,000. The ratio of physicians for every 100,000 people has risen to 237 from 148 in the same period.
Younger doctors say they can no longer count on referrals from older colleagues. ''In the good old days,'' said Dr. John Christ, a Houston plastic surgeon, ''you paid your dues and earned your living by doing the cases the old boys didn't want to do,'' like bedsores and facial cuts. With more surgeons and fewer patients, established doctors are keeping these cases, he said.
 
Aggressive Business Tactics
Particularly worrisome to some physicians has been the infusion of aggressive business tactics. Many health maintenance organizations do extensive telephone and mail solicitation of the elderly, sometimes spending 20 percent of their budgets on advertising and promotion.
Dr. Michael D. Myers of Los Alamitos, Calif., a family practitioner, said in an interview that he had to get a court injunction in 1987 to keep a local H.M.O. from what he termed interference with his mail and telephone service and harassment of his patients as they entered his office.
Some physicians successfully incorporate advertising and financing into their own practices. Although Dr. Christ's plastic surgery practice thrived in the oil boom of the early 80's, he said he was in ''desperate circumstances'' by 1986, when he says he rethought his position on advertising.
''I had thought that advertising was not the cool thing to do,'' he said. ''Not quite unethical, but certainly to be frowned upon.'' But a limited advertising campaign turned his practice around, he said, and he now advertises on billboards, in magazines and on the radio. He also offers financing plans to patients whose health insurance does not cover cosmetic operations.
 
Hernia Operation Packages
In New Jersey, two surgeons adopted other tactics to carve out a market share: They began performing hernia operations exclusively. The surgeons, Dr. Ira Rutkow and Dr. Alan W. Robbins, operate the Hernia Center (dial 1-800-HERNIAS), offering all-inclusive hernia operation packages. Dr. Rutkow said their high volume and specialization allowed them to deliver good care at a low cost.
Many physicians continue to look askance at such practices. ''As a general statement, I think the more a doctor advertises, the less good he is,'' said Dr Grant.
Dr. Christ is convinced that his untraditional marketing strategy has cost him the regard of some colleagues and membership in at least one professional society.
 
The Training
 
No Clamor At Schools' Doors
 Competition, regulation, malpractice worries and the disparaging things that doctors themselves say about their profession, combined with the rapidly rising costs of medical education, have produced a sharp drop in medical school applications.
''A lot of students are being told by practicing physicians that the profession ain't what it used to be,'' said David A. Nunnally, a biology professor who advised pre-medical students at Vanderbilt until last year. ''There are more and more burned-out doctors for whom the profession is changing rapidly in ways they don't like.''
Drew Robilio of Dallas, a senior at Stanford, changed his mind about medical school the summer after his freshman year, when he worked as an orderly in the trauma center of a Memphis hospital. ''It was a great job,'' he said, ''but all the red tape we had to go through to do anything was unbelievable.'' The resident doctors he met there advised him against medicine as a career, he said, and he is now an English major.
Five years ago, 35,944 college students applied to medical school. Although enrollmenthas been relatively steady, only 26,915 applied for the 1989-90 freshman class. Fifteen years ago, 1 of every 2.8 applicants was accepted, but today the applicant-to-acceptance ratio is 1.6 to 1.
 
Some Schools Recruit
A few medical schools are now recruiting students in advertisements in college newspapers.
At the University of Massachusetts at Amherst, the number of seniors applying to medical school dropped to 100 in 1989-90 from 200 five years ago. The high cost of medical school, along with ''horror stories'' about malpractice suits and the grueling lives of doctors played a part, said W. Brian O'Connor, a zoology professor who advises pre-medical students.
''It's not very attractive,'' he said. ''They have to go to school for four years, and three years of residency, and then the 60- to 80-hour work weeks they associate with a physician - it doesn't leave much for personal and family life.''
Mr. Robilio said he realized that if he went to medical school ''it would be the primary thing for the next 10 years of my life,'' adding, ''It wasn't something I wanted to commit that much of myself to''
 
The Future
White Male Image Gives Way to Diversity
 The white male image of medicine is changing at the entering levels of the profession. Indeed, many medical schools would have been in trouble, experts agree, had it not been for the great increase in women and minority members among their students. The number of male applicants to medical school has dropped almost 50 percent since the mid-1970's; in 1988-1989, the medical schools would have been unable to fill their first-year classes if they took only males, even taking every male who applied. For the first time ever, white men that year made up less than half the first-year class.
''If recent trends continue,'' wrote Dr. Arnold S. Relman, editor in chief of The New England Journal of Medicine, ''the medical profession in the United States, which not long ago was composed almost entirely of white men, will soon have a majority consisting of men from racial minorities and women.''
 
Too Little Progress
But Dr. Russell L. Miller, vice president for health affairs at Howard University College of Medicine in Washington, wrote in a pamphlet published by the Association of American Medical Colleges, that over all ''too little progress has been made'' in increasing minority enrollment in medical schools. Blacks, for example, make up 12 percent of the nation's population but only 6 percent of medical students and 3 percent of practicing physicians.
Dr. Joyce Davidson, a psychiatrist at the Menninger Clinic in Topeka, Kan., who specializes in the issue of women in medicine, said women as doctors earn an average of 30 percent less than their male counterparts and often face subtle biases. For example, Dr. Davidson says that when she calls a colleague's office and identifies herself as ''Dr. Davidson,'' the receptionists often assume she is Dr. Davidson's secretary rather than Dr. Davidson.
 
More Stress for Women
Medicine is particularly stressful for women, said Dr. Davidson. In addition to the biases, there are the added pressures of the family and the home, she said. Studies show that 75 percent of married female doctors perform all their household work. More than half of female physicians suffer a major depression sometime during their career and the divorce rate for the group is 48 percent higher than that of women in general, Dr. Davidson said.
On the bright side, Dr. Davidson said, the presence of women has ''softened the profession a bit,'' encouraging the development of alternatives to the customary 24-hour-a-day, seven-day-a-week medical grind, made feasible originally by the self-sacrificing wives many doctors had at home.
 
Health Groups Attract Women
''Most women will not be 100 percent devoted to their career,'' Dr. Davidson said of female doctors, noting that they wanted time to devote to their personal lives. She said that jobs like 9-to-5 salaried positions at health maintenance organizations ''work out well for women who need relatively strict hours for their families'' and that a disproportionate number accept these positions.
Dr. Wendy Levinson, an internist in Portland, Ore., who has written on women in medicine, said that in the future the most successful medical practice groups would be those that adjust to meet the needs of female doctors.
Dr. Relman said the demographic changes might well help medicine meet its social obligations more effectively. ''A changing younger profession, more broadly representative of American society, with more moderate income expectations and a greater commitment to the primary care specialties, will be in a better position to meet the needs for health care in the next century,'' he wrote in The New England Journal of Medicine last November.
 
 
 
NEXT: The loss of autonomy.
 
 
ISSUES
 
 
DEMOGRAPHICS
 
Black and Hispanic doctors make up less than 1 percent of American physicians, but the percentage of female physicians has risen rapidly. In 1988, roughly 1 in every 6 American doctors was a woman. Men and women have been applying to medical school in smaller numbers in recent years, but the decline in male applicants has been far steeper, a 50 percent drop since the mid-1970's.
 
 
Incomes of Male and Female Doctors
 
Female doctors continue to earn far less than their male counterparts at all ages and all experience levels, despite a slight narrowing of the gap in recent years. In 1987, male doctors practicing 20 years or more earned an average of $127,200. Comparable women doctors earned $72,800. Among doctors practicing four years or less, men earned $110,600 and women earned $74,000.
 
 
What the Patient Pays
 
The average fees paid to physicians for an office visit have risen steadily for the past decade, particularly for relatively new patients. The average charge for an office visit for the newer patients, who have been with their doctors only a few years, jumped to $63.51 in 1988, from $25.38 in 1978. For patients with a longer-established relationship with their doctor, the charge for an office visit rose to $33.91 in 1988 from $15.26 10 years earlier.
 
 
Rural Physicians
 
The long-standing dearth of doctors willing to practice in rural areas was slowly being mitigated from 1975 to 1985, when the number of rural doctors increased by 14.2 percent, still far below the number deemed necessary by the National Rural Health Association . But the modest gains may be in jeopardy. A 1988 survey of doctors in sparsely populated counties found that while 71 percent said they were satisfied or very satisfied with their practices, 25 percent said they were either dissatisfied or very dissatisfied and were planning to leave rural practice within five years.
 
 
Respect for the Medical Profession
 
The public's respect for physicians has eroded over the past decade, in the opinion of both doctors and patients. A poll in 1989 found that 72 percent of doctors felt that the public had less respect for doctors than they did 10 years ago. Only 1 percent of the doctors felt their profession got more respect. When the public was polled on a similar question, 26 percent said they had less respect for doctors than they did a decade ago; 14 percent said they had more respect.
 
 
The American Medical Association
 
Membership in the American Medical Association, the nation's largest professional society for doctors, has increased over the past decade, reaching nearly 300,000 last year. But because the number of doctors in the country has been expanding far more rapidly, the percentage of doctors enrolled in the A.M.A. has been declining, to 47 percent at latest count. That has reduced its potential impact as the voice for American medicine. Many doctors are joining medical specialty societies, like the American College of Surgeons, without joining the A.M.A.

 
Sources: Census Bureau (demographics), American Medical Association, National Rural Health Association.

GRAPHIC: Chart: Survey of 1,004 doctors asked whether they would go to medical school if they were in college now, knowing what they now know about medicine (Source: NYT) (pg. 1); Photos: Dr. Scott Fox:
Ear, nose and throat surgeon
''My father was a pediatrician and I grew up surrounded by doctors who always seemed to be satisfied, loved medicine and were appreciated by their patients.'' (NYT/Jack Spratt); Graphs: average annual net income after expenses and before taxes for all physicians, 1982-1988 (Source: AMA); averages for gross income and expenses for self-employed physicians, 1980-1988 (Source: American Medical News); average income after expenses and before taxes by medical speciality for 1988 (Source: AMA); Chart: figures for the 521,328 active, classified physicians with known ad

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: SERIES

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (76%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; SURVEYS AND SERIES; DOCTORS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; WAGES AND SALARIES; INDUSTRY PROFILES PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (91%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); PEDIATRICS (89%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); LAW SCHOOLS (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); DEREGULATION (65%); 

PERSON: ALTMAN, LAWRENCE K; ROSENTHAL, ELISABETH CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 



473 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 1, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1403 words

HEADLINE: I.R.S. INVESTIGATING FOREIGN COMPANIES FOR TAX CHEATING

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 17

 BODY:
Bolstered by new auditing powers, Federal tax officials are investigating many American subsidiaries of Japanese companies on the suspicion that they have underpaid corporate income taxes by billions of dollars.
As foreign-owned assets in the United States more than tripled in a decade to $1.8 trillion, the gross income foreign-owned companies made here more than doubled. But the total taxes they paid hardly changed, data compiled by the Internal Revenue Service show. Of the 36,800 foreign-owned companies filing returns in 1986, more than half reported no taxable income.
Tax officials assert that some subsidiaries understate income, thus minimizing tax liability, by manipulating transactions with parent companies. But the I.R.S. has been frustrated in efforts to audit these companies' returns because important financial records are often kept at headquarters abroad, in foreign languages, with much less detail than would be required in the United States. New Power for the I.R.S. To aid I.R.S. investigations, Congress has provided an important tool. Under a provision of a law signed by President Bush on Dec. 19, Congress gave the tax agency broad authority to assess taxes on foreign-owned companies that fail to comply promptly with demands for any records or testimony. Those that do not cooperate can be fined up to $10,000 a month, with no limits on the cumulative penalty. 
''We don't target a particular country for enforcement,'' said Charles S. Triplett, deputy associate chief counsel of the tax agency. ''Nonetheless, it's pretty clear that the Japanese do a lot of business here and have many U.S. subsidiaries acting as distributors of manufactured goods.''
Multinational companies, including those based in the United States, face difficult tax questions all the time because they do business in countries with widely varying tax systems. Allocating income and deductions among national units of a multinational company is thus a complex area of tax law.
 
Exporters Feel Trapped
Tadashi Iwashita, a financial counselor at the Japanese Embassy here, said that Japanese companies conscientiously tried to comply with American tax laws. The Japan Tax Association, a group of tax experts from major Japanese companies, said the I.R.S. was partly to blame because it had not established ''concrete guidelines'' for determining the appropriate price in transactions between units of a multinational company.
One I.R.S. official said suspected underpayments amounted to at least $12 billion. Critics of the I.R.S. say the agency sometimes cites extreme cases or amounts to support its contention that the Government has been cheated. But tax experts, accountants and economists outside the Government say tens of billions of dollars are at issue in cases involving American affiliates of foreign companies.
I.R.S. data show that in 1986 American subsidiaries of foreign companies took tax deductions of $544 billion against total receipts of $543 billion.
A recent study by the Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation expressed concern about the issue. ''There is some indication that the level of tax payments of foreign-owned businesses in the United States is unusually low,'' the report said.
The law has important implications for American distributors of cars and electronic goods made in Japan. The law applies to all foreign-owned businesses, but Japanese-owned companies have attracted I.R.S. attention because they are active in manufacturing industries where Federal investigators have found a potential for abuse.
Federal tax officials say American distributors of foreign-made goods can reduce their profits, and thus their tax liability, by paying high prices to the parent corporations for goods, services and technology. Under Federal law, a parent company is supposed to charge its subsidiary the same price as a buyer would pay an unrelated seller in the open market - the ''arm's length price.''
The Internal Revenue Service, responding to a big increase in foreign investment in the United States, says that ''the examination of transactions between foreign parents and their U.S. affiliates will become an increasingly important part'' of its enforcement work.
 
'A Clear Pattern'
Alexander Zakupowsky Jr., a lawyer for the American subsidiary of the Yamaha Motor Company, said, ''There is a clear pattern of the I.R.S. looking at the importation of Japanese products into the United States.''
Yamaha makes motorcyles. Its American subsidiary imports and distributes them. In a case pending in the United States Tax Court, the I.R.S. asserts that Yamaha's American affiliate understated its income and overstated the amount it paid to the parent company for motorcycles and related products. It contends that the subsidiary underpaid income taxes by a total of $133 million from 1977 through 1984 and is trying to collect that amount, plus $13 million in penalties.
The taxation of foreign companies doing business in the United States, an esoteric area of tax law for many years, has suddenly attracted the attention of politicians concerned about foreign investment and trade.
 
Congressional Concern
Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the leader of the Democratic majority in the House, and Senator Jesse Helms, Republican of North Carolina, have expressed concern that foreign-owned companies are paying lower taxes than American-owned companies with similar sales.
''That is wrong, and we've got to do something to turn it around,'' Mr. Gephardt said. Mr. Helms asserted that the disparities gave foreign-owned companies an unfair competitive edge.
James E. Wheeler, a professor of accounting at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor, who worked for the I.R.S. on sabbatical leave in 1986-87, said: ''On the average, foreign-owned U.S. corporations pay substantially less tax to the U.S. Government than the American firms with which they compete.''
They also report lower profits. ''The extremely low rate of return on the assets of U.S. companies owned by foreign corporations is astonishing and unbelievable,'' Mr. Wheeler said. ''In my view, they are just trying to avoid U.S. income tax.''
 
Tolerating Low Profits
Japanese executives, lawyers and accountants say Japanese companies are often willing to accept low profits for a decade or more while they try to gain a foothold in the American market. But American officials say the subsidiaries of Japanese companies continue reporting low profits long after they have gained a secure position.
As part of its investigation, the I.R.S. has retained an economist to collect information in Japan on taxes paid by Japanese companies that do business in the United States. The economist, Kozo Yamamura, is a professor at the University of Washington in Seattle and has edited an important study of Japanese investment in this country.
In a typical case, the Federal Government asserted in the early 1980's that the Toyota Motor Corporation in Japan had records needed by the I.R.S.
Federal auditors issued a summons for huge amounts of confidential business data kept at Toyota's Japanese headquarters. They wanted to see if Toyota was charging American distributors more than it charged Japanese car dealers for the same cars.
 
More Taxes Were Paid
Toyota fought the summons. The case ended in 1987, when Toyota's American sales unit was reported to have paid an undisclosed amount of additional taxes.
Michael F. Patton, an international tax lawyer who used to work at the Internal Revenue Service and now works at Ernst & Young, the accounting firm, said: ''The new law puts a lot of power in the hands of I.R.S. agents. If they conclude that a foreign-owned company has not complied with a request for information, they can make an arbitrary assessment of taxes.''
Under the law, if the tax agency requests records and a foreign-owned company fails to produce them, the Government can levy taxes solely on the basis of information available to the I.R.S., without regard to data that might later be supplied by the taxpayer.
''Foreign companies will not like this law in the least,'' said John E. Lanman, international tax partner at Ernst & Young. ''They will see it as an intrusion on their business, a violation of national sovereignty. Many Japanese companies are very concerned about what they see as the Draconian powers given to I.R.S.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (95%); 

COMPANY: YAMAHA MOTOR CO LTD (62%); JAPANESE COS (59%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (90%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (IRS)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN

SUBJECT: TAXATION; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS IN US; INCOME TAX; MULTINATIONAL COMPANIES; FEDERAL TAXES (US) TAXES & TAXATION (95%); TAX LAW (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (91%); TAX FRAUD (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (90%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); TAX CONSULTING (89%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); CORPORATE TAX (78%); ACCOUNTING (78%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (72%); TESTIMONY (72%); FINES & PENALTIES (71%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (70%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT GEORGE W BUSH (51%); 



474 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 1, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1305 words

HEADLINE: Secretive Nicaraguan Voters Leave Election Hard to Call

BYLINE: By MARK A. UHLIG, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MANAGUA, Nicaragua, Feb. 17

 BODY:
After a decade of war, economic crisis and political polarization, Nicaraguans will vote in eight days in this country's first free and broadly contested democratic election. But because most voters, wary of such freedom, remain deeply reluctant to discuss their personal views, even the best-informed specialists say they are at a loss to predict who will win.
The problem, diplomats say, is not necessarily that the election will be close but that clues to its outcome remain scarce and sharply contradictory.
The elections, held under the terms of regional peace accords, are expected to be a turning point in Nicaragua's long internal conflict, serving as a decisive referendum on the Sandinista revolution and the bitter controversies that have surrounded it.
 
Vote Heavily Monitored
The vote will be observed by hundreds of trained and coordinated monitoring teams from the United Nations and the Organization of American States and by a delegation led by former President Jimmy Carter. Unlike an earlier nationwide vote in 1984, all major opposition groups are taking part. And all sides have expressed confidence in the election preparations. 
But in a country racked by years of political and economic turmoil, there is profound uncertainty about what the secret ballot will reveal. Controversy has raged about Sandinista campaign techniques, American financial support for the main opposition coalition, the continued presence of contra rebel forces and the Sandinsta refusal to admit an Administration delegation to monitor the vote. Yet the central issue - the loyalties of 1.7 million Nicaraguan voters - remains a cipher.
''Each side can give convincing arguments to show why it will win,'' a European Ambassador said. ''But the fact is that nobody knows what to expect - not even the party leaders themselves.''
Since the campaign took shape last September, conventional wisdom in Managua has suggested that the governing Sandinista National Liberation Front will be an easy winner against the weak and divided National Opposition Union, the main anti-Sandinista coalition. Pointing to the extensive Sandinista party organization, together with the large numbers of state workers and military troops that depend on the Sandinista Front for their living, diplomats and government officials have spoken of the ''mathematical'' inevitability of a Sandinista victory.
 
Many Anti-Sandinistas Emigrate
That argument has been reinforced by the emigration of large numbers of anti-Sandinista Nicaraguans - at least 10 percent of the entire population in the last decade. And the dominance of the Sandinista position has been driven home by an expensive, highly professional political campaign.
Sandinista advertising has overwhelmed the opposition's token efforts and well-organized Sandinista rallies have systematically brought at least one of the two key Sandinista candidates, President Daniel Ortega Saavedra and Vice President Sergio Ramirez Mercado, to each of 130 cities and municipalities.
But reporters and diplomats who have devoted extensive time and effort to interviewing voters throughout the country have long found a much higher level of anti-Sandinista feeling than outward appearances would suggest. And the energy behind those complaints has seemed to grow as the election campaign has progressed.
In the majority of cases, the sentiment appears to be directed not so much in favor of the opposition coalition or even its presidential candidate, Violeta Barrios de Chamorro, but rather against the economic hardships in a country that has been battered by ten years of war and political conflict.
''We are dying of hunger,'' said a middle-aged woman in Matagalpa, north of Managua, who said she and her neighbors were voting for the opposition. ''The prices rise, rise, rise - it never stops. The Sandinistas don't know how to stop it.''
 
A Promise on the Draft
Others, particularly young people, say they are attracted to the opposition because of its announced plan to abolish the military draft. And still others reserve bitter criticism for the Sandinistas themselves, even in areas where the Government has handed out gifts ranging from bags of food to land titles.
''They have given out a lot of things,'' said a woman standing in her doorway in Rivas, near the Costa Rican border, ''but those things don't belong to them in the first place. Why should we be grateful?''
The significance of such widespread comments is difficult to measure , particularly in light of contrary polling information. Although public opinion polls have painted sharply differing portraits of the Nicaraguan electorate, at least two recent surveys conducted by respected American polling organizations have shown the Sandinista Front with strikingly wide leads over the opposition.
One poll, conducted by the Washington-based firm of Greenberg-Lake from Jan. 13 to Jan. 19 gave President Ortega a lead of 51 percent to 24 percent over Mrs. Chamorro. A separate poll, conducted Jan. 23-28 by the research firm of Bendixen and Schroth, also of Washington, found President Ortega leading Mrs. Chamorro by a margin of 53 percent to 35 percent.
The consistent contrast between such poll figures and observations from almost any set of random interviews in the street has left diplomats and journalists puzzled and produced deep uncertainty about the willingness of Nicaraguan voters to describe their true political feelings to journalists or to poll takers on a first encounter.
At a Sandinista rally in a working-class neighborhood of Managua this week, a reporter asked a woman spectator whom she was planning to vote for. ''You can see for yourself,'' she said. ''You can see the people have come to hear the comandante.''
The subject was dropped for a quarter-hour of idle discussion about families and cooking when the woman, a barefoot child clinging to her cotton skirt, quietly escorted the reporter away from other spectators.
''I am here because they know I live here,'' the woman confided, nodding toward Sandinista militants standing nearby in red-and-black Sandinista scarfs. ''But in this barrio we are voting for Violeta. Things can't go on like this. The people can't afford to eat.''
 
Rallies Grow in Size
In recent weeks, the strength of opposition feeling has become more apparent at rallies for Mrs. Chamorro, which have grown from small marches of 2,000 or 3,000 people to mass demonstrations of up to 25,000. The rallies, which lack the heavy transportation, high-quality signs and rigorous organization of Sandinista events, are generally more spirited, leading many outside observers to give a clear electoral edge to the opposition.
But despite a sometimes rote atmosphere, rallies for the Sandinistas have also begun to swell tremendously, aided by trucks that bring in thousands of supporters from outlying areas to create crowds of more than 50,000 people. And there is no clear evidence yet that the opposition surge has cut into the core constituencies of Government workers and military troops that make up the Sandinistas ''mathematical'' advantage.
A key test will come Sunday when opposition leaders have announced an end-of-campaign rally in Managua's central square in hopes of attracting more than 100,000 supporters. If reached, that number would represent roughly one-ninth of the total votes necessary to win the presidential vote.
But whatever number the opposition rally manages to achieve, it is likely to be beaten just three days later when Sandinista candidates hold their final mass election rally to coincide with the anniversary of their movement's hero, the Nicaraguan nationalist Augusto Cesar Sandino.
That, politicians say, will only guarantee that the contest - and the uncertainty - continues all the way to election day.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A week before national elections in Nicaragua, Violeta Barrios de Chamorro, the opposition candidate for president, campaigned yesterday in Diriamba. The election appears to be as unpredictable as it is important. (Reuters) (pg. 14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: NICARAGUA (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN FINANCIAL HOLDINGS INC (56%); AMERICAN FINANCIAL TITLE CO (56%); AMERICAN FINANCIAL ENTERPRISES INC (56%); AMERICAN FINANCIAL CORP (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (56%); ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NICARAGUA

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; FORECASTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); POLITICS (89%); REFERENDUMS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (76%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); CIVIL SERVICES (61%); ARMED FORCES (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (55%); 

PERSON: UHLIG, MARK A JIMMY CARTER (58%); 



475 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 8, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 671 words

HEADLINE: Brazil's President-Elect Is Lifting Some Hopes

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SAO PAULO, Feb. 15

 BODY:
Optimism, a rare commodity in Brazil until recently, is back in fashion as a wide spectrum of Brazilians are pinning their hopes on the country's young President-elect, a new poll indicates.
Bridging chasms caused by a polarized election last December, Fernando Collor de Mello now enjoys the confidence of 68 percent of adults polled, according to a survey released here Thursday by the Brazilian Institute of Public Opinion.
In a marked softening of allegiances, Mr. Collor, a free-market conservative, won the confidence of 42 percent of people polled who voted for Luis Inacio da Silva, the socialist candidate in the December runoff election.
With the presidential inauguration one month away, 37 percent of the da Silva voters predicted that the 40-year-old Mr. Collor will make a good or excellent president. 
Over all, 43 percent of the Brazilians polled said they were optimistic or very optimistic about Brazil's future.
Cautious optimism also seems to be stirring among foreign investors in this large city, Brazil's industrial leader.
''I know of several foreign companies that are blowing the dust off old expansion projects,'' an American banker here said.
The opinion poll supported the widespread political belief that Mr. Collor improved his presidential image with a recent world tour that included meetings with President Bush and eight other heads of state.
Sensing the shift in public opinion, uncommitted Brazilian politicians started throwing their support to the president-elect before he returned to Brasilia last Tuesday.
Political support will be crucial to Mr. Collor, a former governor of the small northeastern state of Alagoas. He seeks to implant an ambitious free-market revolution in Brazil. But his party, the National Reconstruction Party, controls only 5 percent of seats in Brazil's powerful congress.
Typical of the center-right trend toward Mr. Collor was the switch by Orestes Quercia, governor of Brazil's most populous and most powerful state - Sao Paulo.
 
'Iron Opposition'
Shortly after Mr. Collor won last December's election by 53 percent to 47 percent, Mr. Quercia vowed ''iron opposition'' to the new government.
But earlier this month, after meeting with a Collor emissary, the Sao Paulo governor said: ''We wish all success to the new government. The public interest should be above party questions.''
The governor's conversion was the fruit of a larger marathon of political horse-trading conducted here and in Brasilia. Mr. Collor's political advisers say they have fashioned a loose majority in Congress.
In one deal that drew headlines here, Mr. Cabral met with 35 congressmen who are evangelical Christians and then announced that he would ask Brazil's television networks to tone down televised sex scenes.
The President-elect's team has made no headway with Mr. da Silva, widely known as Lula. Virtually writing off future support from the leftist, Mr. Collor announced last week that his labor minister would be Antonio Rogerio Magri, the president of the General Confederation of Workers.
This federation feuds openly with the rival federation controlled by Mr. da Silva's Workers Party. The leftist Central Union of Workers has vowed to battle Mr. Collor's plans to lay off thousands of public employees and to sell state companies to private investors.
Earlier this month, Mr. da Silva, a Sao Paulo congressman, repeated an earlier pledge to form a ''parallel government'' of opposition.
The bearded socialist told Folha de Sao Paulo, a newspaper here, that Mr. Collor was betting on economic chaos - ''the worse the better'' - to strengthen his hand after his inauguration on March 15.
This month, prices are expected to rise by 75 percent. Mr. Collor predicts that inflation will be running at 85 percent a month when he assumes office.
But recognizing the ground swell of opinion toward Mr. Collor, Mr. da Silva predicted that in the short term a leftist opposition majority will not emerge to block the new president in Congress.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (88%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BANKER (55%); AMERICAN BANKER NEWSLETTERS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BRAZIL

SUBJECT: PUBLIC OPINION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); RELIGION (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); TRENDS (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (67%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (65%); 

PERSON: DA SILVA, LUIS INACIO; COLLOR DE MELLO, FERNANDO; BROOKE, JAMES GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 



476 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 14, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 966 words

HEADLINE: Good or Just Lucky?

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 17

 BODY:
No doubt about it, it has been a spectacular few months for George Bush.
Count the successes: an invasion of Panama that succeded in deposing that country's dictator, Manuel Antonio Noriega, without protracted hostilities and with relatively minor damage to United States relations with the rest of Latin America; a deal with the Soviet Union on troop levels in Europe; an agreement on how to manage the reunification of Germany.
People in Washington, stunned by the cyclonic rate of change, are asking themselves whether President Bush deserves the credit for all this, or whether he has just been extremely lucky.
If the American arms buildup over the last decade helped to weaken the Soviet Union, by prompting it to spend more on weapons than it could afford - and some reputable experts believe that is the case - then Mr. Bush is entitled to take some credit, as a long-term backer of big military budgets. If Western sanctions in the last few years helped to weaken South Africa, prompting it to rethink its policies and release Nelson Mandela after more than 27 years of imprisonment, then Mr. Bush does not have credit coming, since he opposed the imposition of sanctions. 
 
Some Very Good Fortune
In a larger sense, he has had the very good fortune to sit in the Oval Office when Communism and apartheid both approached the end of the line. He and the world had the very good fortune that Mikhail S. Gorbachev and F. W. de Klerk held power in Moscow and Pretoria when that become clear, and not leaders who were ready to put their countries (or their parts of the world) through bloodbaths just to preserve the status quo for a few more months or years.
None of that was within the control of Mr. Bush.
But he seems to have managed to nudge things along in the right direction. Attacked from time to time as too passive - the columnist George F. Will wrote a few weeks ago of the Administration's ''intellectual and moral flaccidity'' - the President has in fact alternated between two modes of behavior. Most of the time, he has let the dramatic saga of Eastern Europe run its course, and because the stream of history has been flowing in his direction, that policy has proved to be successful.
At irregular intervals, however, he has intervened to shape inchoate developments. His speech to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization last year in Brussels was one such moment; so was the summit conference at Malta in December, at which he went beyond expectations to make a series of economic and arms proposals, and so was his proposal in the State of the Union Message to cut troop levels in Europe.
 
Confounding His Critics
In each case, the President confounded his critics, and also the American public, which he had led to believe that something different was coming. He has not tried to take charge of events, leaving that central role to Mr. Gorbachev and, even more, to the restive peoples east of the Rhine. But he has worked effectively, in the view of most dispassionate observers, toward a more integrated, much less heavily armed Europe, toward a unified Germany with close ties to the West and toward keeping Mr. Gorbachev and his reformers in power.
None of this has been articulated very well. Mr. Bush lacks, or at least lacks the ability to project, a real sense of history and its great turning points. He seems, for example, to regard the overthrow of General Noriega, an event that is unlikely to merit more than a sentence in the history books of the future, as the prime foreign-policy achievement of his term so far.
The President has spoken about the events transforming Europe in the most perfunctory terms, much of the time, and he has seemed to sense no need to prepare the American people for the new world that is aborning. As a result, the Washington of George Bush has often seemed irrelevant and out of touch.
Indeed, he has often seemed to lack any broad policy framework. His insistence on increased funds for the Strategic Defense Initiative, at a moment when no strategic offensive threats are discernible on the horizon; his insistence on sending high-level envoys to the repressive leaders in Beijing, while praising the overthrow of repressive leaders elsewhere, and his seeming inability to settle on one or two major domestic problems on which to concentrate limited Federal funds, while promising to do exactly that -all of those things leave a fuzzy image.
Which seems to bother most Americans not at all, perhaps because they had enough of ideology and policy consistency with Ronald Reagan.
 
Lacking Predecessors' Flaws
The American public seems to look for and to enjoy Presidents who lack the perceived flaws of their predecessors - for a while. Thus, both Gerald R. Ford and Jimmy Carter came across as straightforward, unpretentious men, in contrast to Richard M. Nixon. But Mr. Carter eventually came to be seen as too obsessed with detail and too moralizing in tone, and Mr. Reagan came to power as a big-picture man who was willing to let everyone do his own thing, more or less.
Opinion polls suggest that Mr. Bush, in turn, has benefited from having honest people around him, from having a wife who isn't a movie star and doesn't act like one, from his accessibility, as well as from his lack of dogmatism. He has benefited, in other words, from being different from Ronald Reagan.
Sooner or later, no doubt, aspects of Mr. Bush's personality will begin to grate on the electorate. Sooner or later, something big will go wrong, at home or abroad. Some critics suspect, for example, that he has invested too much in his relationship with Mr. Gorbachev and would be irreparably damaged if Mr. Gorbachev was forced from power.
But for now, at least, the honeymoon continues, after 13 months, no less.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush returning home yesterday after a six-mile walk in Kennebunkport, Me. The walking stick was to help him with the uncertain footing caused by several inches of snow (AP)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PANAMA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); BELGIUM (72%); GERMANY (72%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); MALTA (57%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (72%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS US PRESIDENTS (89%); BUDGETS (75%); FINES & PENALTIES (72%); DEFENSE SPENDING (69%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (63%); WRITERS (61%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); APPLE, R W JR GEORGE W BUSH (93%); 



477 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 14, Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: U.S. to Weigh New Ties If Ortega Wins Election

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 17

 BODY:
The Bush Administration is considering possible steps to improve relations with Nicaragua if the Sandinistas win free and fair elections on Feb. 25.
State Department officials said today that they were reviewing policy toward Nicaragua so that the United States would be prepared to respond when the election results are announced.
An Administration official said ''we shake our heads in disbelief'' at the possibility that Nicaraguans might re-elect President Daniel Ortega Saavedra. But, he said, that could happen, and if the Sandinistas win, ''that would destroy any justification for our continuing to support the contras,'' most of whom now live in camps in Honduras. 
Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d said, ''We would be prepared to improve relations with any government that wins a certifiably free and fair election in Nicaragua.''
 
Baker Backs Testing Period
Mr. Baker said that if the Sandinistas win, there would be a testing period, ''some period of time during which we can satisfy ourselves that they have indeed stopped shipping SA-7 missiles and other military equipment'' to leftist guerrillas in El Salavdor. ''We're going to have to know that that's a fact before we can begin to normalize'' relations, he said.
If the Sandinistas win, and if ''we determine that they have indeed stopped their support of subversion in neighboring countries or in other places in Latin America, then we would be prepared to normalize our relations with that government,'' Mr. Baker said.
Administration officials, elaborating on Mr. Baker's comments, said they had a list of steps that could be taken to improve relations with Managua if the elections are free and fair. The choices, they said, include increasing the diplomatic staff at the American Embassy in Managua, replacing the United States Ambassador expelled in July 1988, lifting the trade embargo on Nicaragua, offering economic aid and sending a high-level American official to visit Nicaragua.
An Administration official who detests the Sandinistas said that if they win free, fair elections, ''We would have to live with them and hope they don't subvert their neighbors.''
 
U.S. Debate on Warmer Ties
Such comments represent a profound change from President Ronald Reagan's policy of trying to overthrow the Sandinistas and a logical extension of President Bush's policy of seeking a political and diplomatic settlement to conflicts in Central America.
Administration officials say the United States would continue trying to isolate Nicaragua and would impose additional sanctions if President Ortega steals the elections. They acknowledge that an honest electoral victory could enhance his status and his assertion of legitimacy, making it easier for him to obtain economic aid from Western Europe and from international financial institutions.
If the Sandinistas win clean elections, there is likely to be a debate in the Bush Administration about how quickly to improve relations with Nicaragua.
Vice President Dan Quayle, John H. Sununu, the White House chief of staff, and William T. Pryce, director of Latin American affairs at the National Security Council, are believed to favor a slower pace than State Department officials like Bernard W. Aronson, Assistant Secretary for Inter-American Affairs, and his deputy Joseph Sullivan.
Mr. Baker appears to occupy a middle ground, cautious but willing to improve relations with Managua under clearly defined criteria.
Hundreds of international observers will monitor the Nicaraguan elections. The Bush Administration will be guided by their findings in deciding if the vote is free and fair. One group of observers is led by former President Jimmy Carter. The other main observer groups are sponsored by the United Nations and the Organization of American States. Nicaragua refused to grant visas to a monitoring commission appointed by President Bush, but two of its members plan to go with the Carter team.
If the United States holds post-election talks with the Sandinistas, it would probably begin by sending a middle-level official to see if Nicaragua is serious about stopping the flow of arms to El Salvador.
An Administration official who has zealously supported the contras said: ''The Sandinistas are fundamentally illegitimate, but they have indigenous roots. They are hometown boys. Ortega was not installed by an alien power, as the Communists were installed in Poland, Czechoslovakia and East Germany.''
A Washington lawyer who represents the Nicaraguan Government, Paul S. Reichler, said: ''It's always been true that the Sandinistas were an indigenous force. It's only now that the Bush Administration is realizing it.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); NICARAGUA (96%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); HONDURAS (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); 

COMPANY: BUSH ADMINISTRATION (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NICARAGUA

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; NICARAGUA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ELECTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (62%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); PEAR, ROBERT RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 



478 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 20, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1173 words

HEADLINE: UPHEAVAL IN THE EAST: NATO;
Shift in the Western Alliance's Focus: From Moscow to a United Germany?

BYLINE: By BERNARD E. TRAINOR, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 17

 BODY:
As the Soviet threat to Western Europe diminishes and the Warsaw Pact becomes a hollow alliance, the role of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization is shifting and the alliance is emerging as a potential watchdog over a reunited Germany.
Eastern European governments favor Germany's remaining in NATO to provide a virtual leash on it, a senior Pentagon official said.
Although the focus of NATO for 40 years has been on the military threat from the Soviet Union, another tacit reason for the alliance was the maintenance of military control over a rearmed West Germany through an integrated NATO command structure.
But as the Soviet threat recedes and German reunification becomes an unexpected near-term reality, senior officials say the view within the Bush Administrtation and in Western capitals is that they want the alliance, which was set up to deter war, to be transformed into one maintaining stability in Central Europe. 
 
Concern and Uncertainty
As a result, American officials say that while the Administration and European nations support the unification of the two Germanys, the allies recognize that the prospect of a single Germany stirs concern and uncertainty through both Western and Eastern Europe.
To meet that concern, Administration officials are adamant that a new Germany must be part of the NATO alliance not only to guard against a re-emergence of a Soviet threat but also to allay the security concerns about Germany in both Eastern and Western Europe.
''Europeans have bitter memories of Nazi Germany and are genuinely uneasy about reunification,'' a senior Pentagon official said. ''Eastern Europeans and the Poles in particular fear German revanchism and see German membership in NATO as a guarantee of good behavior.''
The French, the British and other NATO allies have also expressed concern about the consequences of German reunification.
 
West Germany's Proposal
The Bonn Government of Chancellor Helmut Kohl has said that a reunified Germany would remain in NATO. And to mollify the Soviet Union, the West German Government has proposed that NATO forces would not be deployed in what is now East German territory. Under the plan, which was recently endorsed by Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d, some Russian forces might be allowed to remain in what is now East Germany, at least temporarily.
Publicly, Soviet officials have said that the Soviet Union would not accept a reunified Germany in NATO. But privately, American officials say, the Soviet response has been less resolute.
Concern about German reunification resonates within the Warsaw Pact. The role of the Eastern-bloc military alliance is diminishing as newly independent members assert themselves and ask the Soviets to leave their territory.
A number of military officers and specialists believe that without NATO oversight, a unified Germany could give new life to the Warsaw Pact. Essentially, they say, if a unified Germany were not in NATO, that could open the way for Eastern Europe to view the Soviet Union as its protector - against Germany.
''If a reunited Germany is in NATO, it is just a matter of time before all Soviet troops are back behind their borders,'' said David Isby, a Washington-based military specialist on the Warsaw Pact. ''But without a NATO watchdog, even a neutralized Germany could cause the Eastern countries to see the Soviet Army in a different light and breath new life into the pact.''
 
Pressure on the United States
American officials say that as the Soviets reduce their forces in Europe, the Administration will face greater pressures to bring American forces home, potentially limiting the United States's ability to influence events.
A Defense Department official said that a severe reduction of American troops could not only aggravate fears of Germany, but also resurrect the specter of Soviet aggression.
''Many Americans do not fully understand that the United States is the cement in the alliance and will remain so for some time to come'' he said.
Administration officials say the United States military needs to have more than a symbolic presence in NATO if it is to remain viable.
 
Just a Train Ride Away
Even with major reductions, the Soviet Union will still have the most powerful army in Europe, and it is just a short railroad ride from its borders to Central Europe.
On the other hand, once American forces leave Europe, they will be beyond the sea and cannot be easily returned in a crisis.
Reducing the American presence to a symbolic level would also undercut the credibility of American nuclear guarantees to its NATO allies and leave the newly independent Eastern nations without a counterbalance to the Soviets.
But a senior Defense Department official believes the Administration will have a hard time maintaining a credible level of American forces in Europe in the face of the public perception that the threat has gone away and the American economy deserves a ''peace dividend.''
The Soviets have agreed to limit their forces in Central Europe to 195,000 troops. But until they do so, the NATO commander, Gen. John Galvin of the United States Army, is responsible for defending the alliance. And he must plan to do it with fewer American forces because the United States has also agreed to reduce its ground and air forces in Central Europe.
 
Soviet Troop Levels
The Soviets currently have about 560,000 soldiers and airmen in Eastern Europe of which some 400,000 are in East Germany. The United States has a little more than 326,000 troops in its European command. Of these, 243,000 are in West Germany. It has agreed to reduce the number in the central region to 195,000 while maintaining an additional 30,000 troops on the NATO flanks. From an American perspective, these levels are a ceiling for the Soviets but a floor for the United States.
According to a senior Pentagon official, American reductions are expected to be completed by 1993, but the Soviet's withdrawal will probably be faster. In addition to troop reductions, a major reduction in military equipment and aircraft is also expected as the result of arms limitation talks currently taking place in Vienna.
Department officials said that the details of the American troop reduction are being worked out, but that the reductions roughly equate to the withdrawal of one of the two United States Army Corps in West Germany.
Nonetheless, the withdrawal of almost half of United States combat power from Europe will require a defensive realignnment in NATO.
 
New Mix of Forces
The NATO military commander, General Galvin, has already said he is considering a new mix of light and heavy forces. German units in all of the plans would remain under NATO's multinational military command, headed by an American.
Soviet command problems are immeasurably more difficult, leading many Pentagon officials to believe that the reduction of Soviet forces in Eastern Europe to 195,000 is, in the words of one official, ''just a way station on the road to zero.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Military Analysis

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); GERMANY (98%); POLAND (94%); WESTERN EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); 

CITY: WARSAW, POLAND (94%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN ALLIANCE BANCORP (74%); WESTERN EUROPE (74%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; EAST GERMANY; WEST GERMANY

SUBJECT: GERMANY, REUNIFICATION OF; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS WORLD WAR II (76%); ARMED FORCES (76%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (72%); 

PERSON: TRAINOR, BERNARD E MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 



479 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 25, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 679 words

HEADLINE: Greeks Feel the Pinch as Two U.S. Bases Close

BYLINE: By PAUL ANASTASI, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ATHENS, Feb. 17

 BODY:
A popular Greek cartoon shows American G.I.'s, a look of indifference on their faces, carrying out crates of personal belongings as they abandon their military bases in Greece. Taken away with the belongings is a Greek protester clutching a ''Yankee go home'' sign, a look of bewilderment betraying his confusion at being left without a cause.
For years the presence of American bases in Greece has led to huge rallies, riots and terrorist acts. American soldiers were advised to limit off-base activity for fear of public incidents. Now, in a paradoxical reversal of the public mood, that anti-American campaign has given way to last-minute efforts to hang onto the millions of dollars that will leave an already feeble economy when the United States shuts down two bases this year. One political joke making the rounds even has pro-Moscow Communists imploring the United States not to remove the bases, opposition to which has won them much of their electoral strength. 
Both the Hellenikon air base in Athens and the nearby naval communications base at Nea Makri will be dismantled. This leaves two bases on Crete and a number of smaller installations throughout Greece.
The American Embassy says the closing of the Hellenikon base alone means a loss of $66 million in revenue for Greece, about two-thirds of the $94 million estimated to have been the total economic effect in 1988 for all four bases. This includes Greek staff salaries, construction and other local contracts, base expenditures and off-base spending by military personnel and their dependents.
Washington has also indicated it will reduce military and economic aid to countries where it is cutting its military presence. But Greece has announced it will take ''every necessary measure'' to maintain the $350 million in military sales credits it receives annually from the United States.
Greek base employees, once strongly influenced by anti-American leftist parties, are now more concerned about their propects of unemployment. According to Greek statistics, there are 125 Greeks working at Nea Makri and 865 at Hellenikon. The payroll for Greeks at Hellenikon alone is slightly more than $6.6 million a year.
The Greek employees' two unions are mobilizing to protect their interests. Stavroula Stavropoulou, president of the politically mainstream Panhellenic Movement of American Base Employees, says her union is demanding that the Greek Ministry of Defense arrange for jobs and social welfare protection for base employees. ''Otherwise,'' she says, ''we should be given jobs by the Americans in the embassy or in other U.S. services.''
George Alexandrou, president of the Association of Employees of U.S. Bases, which under his leadership had developed into a leftist-controlled anti-American organization, says he now wants the Americans ''to pay what they owe us and negotiate with the Greek Government the rest of our social insurance and severance dues.''
 
Huge U.S. Debt Reported
Mr. Alexandrou asserts that the Americans owe $3.5 million in pay claims, severance pay and social security benefits. The American military contests those figures and says the responsibility for the employees lies with the Greek Defense Ministry.
Also concerned about the financial implications are local shopkeepers, landlords, restaurant owners and other entrepreneurs who rely heavily on American business.
''When the Americans go, someone like me could lose about 40 percent of their business,'' says a British hairdresser, Sandra Salway-Morris, who works near the Hellenikon base.
While many Greek businessmen agree with this assessment, others doubt that removal of the bases will have a significantly adverse effect. A real estate agent, George Niaros, said the American directives ordering personnel to limit their off-base activities and the development of shopping and entertainment on the bases kept outside spending to a minimum.
But the Mayor of Nea Makri, Vasilis Tzilavis, predicted that the town would suffer considerably from the departure of the naval communications base.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); GREECE (96%); 

CITY: ATHENS, GREECE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GREECE; NEA MAKRI (GREECE); ATHENS (GREECE)

SUBJECT: MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; GREECE-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY BASES (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); DEFENSE SPENDING (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); TRENDS (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (72%); NAVIES (72%); MILITARY DEPENDENTS (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); TERRORISM (56%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (56%); 

PERSON: ANASTASI, PAUL



480 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 42, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1522 words

HEADLINE: New York's Census Is a Campaign: Stand Up and Don't Be Undercounted

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO

 BODY:
On a recent Sunday morning, before Mass had ended, the pastor of St. Catherine of Genoa church in the East Flatbush section of Brooklyn announced a visitor. Parishioners stirred in their pews as the guest approached the front of the altar, then turned to face the congregation, made up mostly of immigrants from Haiti and other Caribbean lands.
''You know that if I'm given an opportunity to speak to you, it's very, very important,'' the guest, City Councilwoman Susan D. Alter, began. ''How many of you have heard of the census?''
In New York City, where the word census has meant lost money and lost political power, community leaders and city officials like Ms. Alter are gearing up for the 1990 population count with the energy and grass-roots involvement usually reserved for a political campaign. 
Calls to fill out census questionnaires by the April 1 deadline are being made through any available outlet, from churches to produce markets. Efforts to have people counted are also well under way throughout the state and in Connecticut and New Jersey as well as across the country.
 
Promotional Resources Pooled
In New York, state and city government officials and business and labor leaders have pooled promotional resources under a project begun by Assembly Speaker Mel Miller dubbed ''New York Counts.'' In New Jersey, radio listeners will soon hear a rap song that state officials borrowed from their South Carolina counterparts.
The chorus: ''Count them, count them, count them all/Gonna count the people/Gonna have a ball.''
But behind the hoopla lies the fear of a significant undercount that would lead to losses in congressional representation and Federal aid. State and local government officials in New York are worried that logistical problems that plagued the count 10 years ago are surfacing again. Many of them say they have little doubt that a historical pattern of disproportional undercounting of minorities will continue this year no matter how much they reach out to those groups, and they fear that major cities like New York, where minority populations are concentrated, will suffer the most because of it.
''The basic problem we face is that the Census Bureau is still counting people as if everyone lived in Salina, Kan.,'' said Representative Charles E. Schumer of Brooklyn. ''Their view is that people are government-friendly, and very easy to pick out and locate, where in our large cities neither is the truth.''
 
A Costly Undercount
The 1980 decennial census missed an estimated 450,000 New York City residents, about 6 percent of the city's population, for an undercount rate more than four times the national average, city officials said. It cost the city one seat in the House of Representatives, one seat in the State Senate and three-and-a-half state Assembly seats.
The city also lost up to $675 million by some estimates in Federal aid allocated to states according to population. The 1980 census showed a final tally of 7,071,639 people in New York City, 823,223 fewer than in the 1970 census.
The best chance for accuracy, officials here and in other major cities said, is a statistical adjustment to correct any undercount. Under a court order that emerged from a lawsuit by New York City and several other cities and states, the Department of Commerce, the Census Bureau's parent agency, while not promising an adjustment, agreed to conduct a post-census survey to measure the undercount ''in a manner calculated to insure the possibility'' of an adjustment.
But lawyers for New York City are considering going back to court, contending that the Commerce Department's proposed guidelines for determining whether an adjustment is needed are so stringent that an adjustment is all but precluded.
 
Guidelines Could Change
''We're giving very serious thought right now to going back to court again and saying to the judge 'We want it enforced. They're not living up to their obligation,'' said Peter L. Zimroth, former Corporation Counsel for New York City who has stayed on the case as special counsel.
Robert Ellert, the Commerce Department's chief counsel for economic affairs, said the guidelines were not final and could change. He said final guidelines would be published on March 10.
New York City officials said the undercount of blacks was about 12 percent in 1980 and that of Hispanic people about 11 percent, and they expect the numbers to be worse in 1990 because although the minority population has grown - from 48 percent of the population in 1980 - the reasons it is undercounted have not changed.
Undercounts in New York City have been most severe in neighborhoods that are poor or whose residents cannot speak or understand English well. Those who move frequently were also undercounted in 1980, a Department of City Planning study found, as were homeless people and young singles who live alone and who are often away from home. For the first time this year, the Census Bureau will try to get an idea of how many homeless people there are by conducting a limited census in shelters, subway stations, parks and other sites on March 20 and 21.
 
Fear of Deportation
Many people are simply unwilling to be counted. They include undocumented immigrants afraid of deportation and public-housing tenants who double up in units and, apparently unaware of the Census Bureau's policy of confidentiality or not trusting it, fear eviction if they tell the Government who and where they are. There are about 100,000 of the latter, city officials estimate.
''It's going to be extremely hard,'' said Moises Perez, executive director of Alianza Dominicana, a community organization in Washington Heights that has joined the effort, ''We have a large number of people who are undocumented and are fearful of providing information. We're telling people that it is extremely important because it determines the extent of Federal assistance that we get and how the political map gets drawn.''
The city has used 1980 census data and recent data on immigration, public-assistance recipients and births to identify 70 neighborhoods where concentrated efforts will be made to reach the hard-to-count. The message may come through an employer, a welfare center or a parole office.
At the same time, Mayor David N. Dinkins's office is focusing on enlisting neighbors to persuade other neighbors to be counted, to follow up on people who do not mail back their forms and to staff ''census assistance centers'' at post-office branches, schools and other neighborhood sites.
Both state and local efforts complement the Census Bureau's own outreach. New York City needs 10,000 to 20,000 people to do the actual door-to-door counting. Because of the job's high turnover, at least 100,000 applicants are needed, said Sheila H. Grimm, bureau director for the region that encompasses New York City, Long Island, Westchester, Rockland and Orange Counties and Puerto Rico. The job pays $8 an hour.
About 23,000 people have already applied and taken the required reading and writing test, Bureau officials said. The bureau also needs volunteers to staff the 600 to 700 assistance centers.
A labor shortage is one of the potential setbacks that worries city officials. Another problem is inaccuracies in the Bureau's address lists.
A pre-census city review of numbers of addresses per block on the lists found whole apartment buildings missing, with the omission or mislocation of a half-million New Yorkers. Charles D. Jones, the census's assistant director, said the corrections have been made and city officials will have another chance to review the lists after the census. Such local reviews are a first, he said.
 
Translations in 32 Languages
There is also concern in New York City that census forms are available only in English and Spanish, and that the Spanish forms will be mailed only on request. For city residents who speak dozens of other languages, census-takers will carry translations of census questions in 32 languages.
In Connecticut, the statewide campaign is focusing on communities with lower incomes and large minority concentrations such as Hartford, New Haven and Bridgeport, said Terry Schnure, of the Connecticut Office of Policy and Management. In New Jersey, such communities include Newark, Camden, and Jersey City.
Connecticut kept its six-member congressional delegation after the 1980 census, but New Jersey's representation shrunk by one, to the current 14, said Connie O. Hughes, assistant director for occupational and demographic research in the New Jersey Department of Labor. She said that although the state's undercount was about the national average in 1990, its population growth has not kept pace with the rest of the nation.
At St. Catherine of Genoa in Brooklyn that Sunday, Ms. Alter's hope was that parishioners would take her message back to fearful friends and relatives. Marjorie Patron, a church member, said some undocumented immigrants would not cooperate despite the prodding, but many others would.
''If they hear that they can get help based on numbers, they'd like to be counted,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: City Councilwoman Susan D. Alter distributing census information at St. Catherine of Genoa church in Brooklyn. She and other leaders are gearing up for the 1990 counting of the United States population with the energy and grass-roots involvement usually reserved for a political campaign (NYT/Sara Krulwich)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); HAITI (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); KANSAS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SALINA, KS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF THE CENSUS (65%); DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: POPULATION; CENSUS; FEDERAL AID (US); REAPPORTIONMENT CENSUS (92%); POLITICS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POPULATION SIZE (90%); CITIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); RELIGION (78%); REDISTRICTING (75%); CITY LIFE (75%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (67%); RAP MUSIC (50%); 

PERSON: NAVARRO, MIREYA CHARLES SCHUMER (54%); 



481 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1990

SECTION: Section 2; Page 8, Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1079 words

HEADLINE: DANCE VIEW;
The Art of Turning Ethnicity Into Entertainment

BYLINE: By Anna Kisselgoff

 BODY:
''Ethnic Dance'' is the usual label affixed to any troupe that looks foreign and whose offerings are not in the realm of modern dance or ballet. The latest entrants would seem to be the Don Cossacks from the Soviet Union and the Jose Greco Company of Spanish Dancers, Singers and Musicians - two groups that are stirring up enthusiastic audiences this month.
Both draw their music and dancing from a national culture, and each (interesting in the case of the Cossacks because it is not true of all Russian ensembles) incorporates a great deal of foot stamping in the choreography. In both instances, the dancers are highly trained professionals, not amateurs plucked from villages along the Don river or from the caves of Granada. 
Like Mr. Greco, in fact, you can be raised in Brooklyn and become America's most famous Spanish dancer. What you need as an ethnic dancer is to master the idiom in question. This does not necessarily make you a folk dancer, and it is somewhat misleading to regard virtuosic theatricalized troupes like the Don Cossacks as folk ensembles simply because their material comes from traditional sources.
As for Spanish dance, the debate goes on. Is it a folk form? Its roots are certainly with ''the people'' - the gypsies of Andalusia who grow up dancing flamenco and the inhabitants throughout Spain who identify with diverse regional dances. Or is Spanish dance an art form? Certainly, flamenco performers such as Vicente Escudero and Carmen Amaya in the past were regarded only as what they were - great artists.
Terms like ''ethnic'' and ''folk'' have validity, but they are often misused or used superficially. This does not mean that dance can no longer be of genuine ethnological interest. Dances that still preserve ritual significance in daily life remain the anthropologist's preserve. Incidentally, it should be noted that a different kind of Soviet folk dancer and musician has increasingly been seen in the United States - usually under the auspices of the Smithsonian Institution or the World Music Institute: An ensemble of village elders from Russia (one such ''authentic'' group from Arkhangelsk may appear at Jacob's Pillow in Becket, Mass., this summer) is very different from the Don Cossacks, the State Academic Ensemble of Rostov, U.S.S.R. The truth is that the Don Cossacks and the Jose Greco Company are primarily entertainers. Their capacity to communicate with an audience is their open secret for success.
Mr. Greco himself is 71 years old. Now a bit stout, sometimes quaint looking, he can still burst into a blazing display of dynamic heel work. He never loses his star luster. Not for nothing was he the great popularizer of Spanish dance in this country in the 1950's and 60's.
In this comeback phase (the company closes at the Joyce Theater with a 2 P.M. matinee today) he presents a capsule introduction to Spanish dance. There is a tribute to Argentinita, the famous concert dancer who took him on as a partner in his youth. In ''La Castellana,'' Argentinita boiled down the essence of a Castilian folk dance with humor and economy. Mr. Greco flirts slyly with two charming doll-like dancers, Carmen Ortega and Pepa Romano, wrapped up in multicolored shawls and leggings.
In ''Los Picaneros,'' the opening flamenco number, Mr. Greco exercises a symbolic droit du seigneur, going off with Alba de Rio, whose proud carriage and sinuous arms weave rococco shapes in the air.
The company (with Luis Montero performing with integrity as a guest in an understated ''Alegrias'' and in the bolero-style ''Intermezzo'' from ''Goyescas'' with the gracious Pilar Serrano) is centered around Mr. Greco (who has had three wives) and four of his grown children. Carmela Greco, a statuesque performer who lacks the concentration to delve deep into herself as a flamenco dancer, does best as a choreographer. Alessandra Greco has a strong stage presence, personifying the moon who abducts a child in a vignette inspired by one of Francisco Garcia Lorca's ''Ballads.'' Jose Luis Greco is his father's music director.
The company's virtuoso is another son, Jose Greco II, who takes various stylistic liberties with his flamenco solos and gets away with it. A favorite device is his execution of ballet's double air-turns to the knee, a sequence usually repeated on the spot with staccato precision.
The first number introduces the style he shows later to full effect in the program's ''Farruca.'' His power is directed less to his strong heel work than to his corkscrew twists and turns. Occasionally, he dances on the outside of a foot like an Argentine gaucho.
Backed up by an excellent group of guitarists and singers, the company has two other fine male dancers. Juan Olarte can seduce with his glare and open-legged heel work; Jose Luis Romay, his slim body pulled up, is refined and forceful in his foot stamping. He is the purist.
This is a company that knows how to please. It does not, however, know how to move us the way truly great Spanish dancers always do.
The Don Cossacks, in contrast, offer considerable depth. The emotional resonance of the music, often sung separately by the men's and the women's choirs, is self-evident.
The dances, all professionally choreographed, speak more clearly of a population that grew out of Russians who settled the steppes as free men, not serfs. Cattle breeders and superb horsemen, the Cossacks often lived under self-imposed military administration; their regiments served the czars.
Yet, to see Cossacks solely as soldiers is inaccurate. Although most were poor, many became rich farmers. These aspects of Cossack history are expressed fleetingly in the dance imagery. The delightful surprise of this company, directed by Anatoly Kvasov, was its individualistic stamp (the troupe performs today at the Tilles Center in Greenvale, L.I.; Tuesday and Wednesday at the Trenton War Memorial Theater, and Thursday at the Palace in Stamford, Conn.) Even within a familiar outline, the pieces - by several choreographers - have originality. The basic steps and patterns may be found in other Russian folk ensembles. The difference is the accent placed on specific motifs. Horsemen are astride their steeds through a fluent combination of mime and dance; the mustachioed Cossack regiments are grouped to recall famous paintings. Even the foot-stamping never looks alike. The motto here is variety within specialization - carried off smoothly by an unusual company.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alessandra Greco, Jose Greco and Carmen Ortega in ''Rincon Flamenco''-A company that knows how to please. (Beatriz Schiller)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); UNITED STATES (90%); SPAIN (79%); 

STATE: ANDALUSIA, SPAIN (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: DON COSSACKS (DANCE GROUP); GRECO, JOSE, COMPANY OF SPANISH DANCERS, SINGERS AND MUSICIANS

SUBJECT: DANCING DANCE (94%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); ETHNICITY (90%); DANCERS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); BALLET (90%); MUSIC (90%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (89%); CHOREOGRAPHY (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (71%); 

PERSON: KISSELGOFF, ANNA JOSE LUIS GRECO (90%); DON COSSACKS (88%); 



482 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1990

SECTION: Section 2; Page 13, Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 2346 words

HEADLINE: FILM;
Partnerships Make a Movie

BYLINE: By ALJEAN HARMETZ

DATELINE: KANSAS CITY, Mo.

 BODY:
Joanne Woodward has a toothache. Paul Newman would prefer to be home in bed. ''This is certainly an endurance record,'' said James Ivory, the director of ''Mr. and Mrs. Bridge,'' the movie in which the Newmans are starring.
Almost nobody feels good during the last week of shooting a long movie on location . All the things that didn't get done are pushed and tugged and swept together into 18-hour days that have crazy rhythms and nonsensical juxtapositions.
''I can't believe we're doing this at this hour of the night,'' said Ms. Woodward, staring into a makeup mirror at midnight. 
Of the four major participants in ''Mr. and Mrs. Bridge,'' only the eternally optimistic producer, Ismail Merchant, has not been worn down by 11 weeks in Kansas City. Blythe Danner, who plays Mrs. Bridge's troubled friend, Grace, calls Mr. Merchant ''the happy, inexhaustible Buddha.'' Mr. Newman calls him ''the glue that holds us together.'' Layered in sweaters and jackets that give his rotund figure a Buddha shape, Mr. Merchant shrugs off the cold, dark night of shooting that will last until 3 A.M.
It is an oddity of ''Mr. and Mrs. Bridge'' - which is based on two novels by Evan S. Connell that are disguised accounts of the marriage of his parents - that the stars have been married for 32 years and the director and producer have been making movies together for 27 years. Hollywood relationships rarely last a decade. It is too easy to blame one's husband or wife, producer or director, for bad reviews or bad box office.
But these two personal and professional partnerships have survived. James Ivory and Ismail Merchant made their first film in 1963, had their first success with ''Shakespeare Wallah'' in 1965 and became known for tasteful, literary examinations of the collision of cultures in such pictures as ''The Europeans'' (1979) and ''The Bostonians'' (1984), both based on Henry James novels.
After 22 movies, they hit the jackpot in 1986 with ''A Room With a View.'' Based on the novel by E.
* M. Forster, the romantic comedy about an Englishwoman abroad was a commercial success and was nominated for eight Academy Awards, including best picture. It won for costumes, art direction and the screenplay by Ruth Prawer Jhabvala, who has been a partner in Merchant Ivory Productions since the beginning. The three of them live in the same apartment building on the Upper East Side of Manhattan and share a weekend house on 40 acres in Columbia County in the Hudson River valley.
The Newmans can barely remember all the movies in which they have performed together, starting with ''The Long Hot Summer'' in 1958. Sitting in Ms. Woodward's trailer at 1 A.M., they argue over whether they played husband and wife in two or three of the eight films. They were a young suburban couple in ''Rally 'Round the Flag, Boys!'' in 1958 and an heiress and the stockbroker who walks out on her in ''From the Terrace'' (1960). Ms. Woodward thinks ''The Drowning Pool'' (1975) should count, because she played her husband's ex-wife.
What their own marriage brings to the marriage in this movie ''is almost unconscious because you choose it so quickly,'' said Mr. Newman. ''I'm very vulnerable to Joanne. She does things that shatter me.''
''We have been married longer than Walter and India Bridge,'' said Ms. Woodward, marveling. ''I feel like a very old lady.''
In ''Mrs. Bridge'' (1959) and ''Mr. Bridge'' (1969), Evan Connell defined lives that were relentlessly shallow because they were lived so rigorously according to the conventions of the country club upper middle class of Kansas City. He wrote of Mrs. Bridge: ''She brought up her children very much as she herself had been brought up, and she hoped that when they were spoken of it would be in connection with their nice manners, their pleasant disposition and their cleanliness, for those were qualities she valued above all others.'' The choice of the Newmans for the roles, said Mr. Merchant, is intended to make Mr. Bridge less arid and give to the portrait of Mrs. Bridge a comical and bittersweet sadness.
The movie grew out of a dinner a few years ago at which Mr. Ivory met the Newmans for the first time. Ms. Woodward had been trying to mount a television production of ''Mrs. Bridge'' with no success. She had read and loved the book in 1960, but it had never occurred to her then that she might play the role. ''Mrs. Bridge was very much me, but I wasn't the right age,'' she said.
''The world of Mr. and Mrs. Bridge is the world I grew up in,'' said the 62-year-old Mr. Ivory, who grew up in Klamath Falls, Ore., and majored in architecture at the University of Oregon. ''It's the only film I've ever made that was about my own childhood and adolescence. When we talked about it, that seemed true of Paul and Joanne, too. We talked a lot about manners, about the way things used to be done. Paul said, 'If I like the script, I'll play Mr. Bridge.' Once Paul said he was going to do the film, he attracted the money.''
The budget for ''Mr. and Mrs. Bridge'' is $7.5 million, of which $500,000 is a mirage, since it was spent immediately in interest payments on the borrowed money. Mr. Merchant and Mr. Ivory are used to low budgets, the price of their freedom to make the movies they want. The opulent ''Room With a View'' cost $3 million. The higher budget on ''Mr. and Mrs. Bridge'' does not provide luxury. Some of the increase is due to inflation; most is the cost of doing business with the Newmans, although, said Mr. Merchant, ''If Paul and Joanne were to take their usual salaries, the budget would be $12 million.''
Throughout their careers, the Newmans have often spurned big-budget commercial movies in favor of small-budget oddities, including four pictures in which Mr. Newman directed his wife: ''Rachel, Rachel'' (1968), ''The Effect of Gamma Rays on Man-in-the-Moon Marigolds'' (1972), ''The Shadow Box'' on television in 1980 and ''The Glass Menagerie'' (1987.) But old bones find Merchant Ivory film making difficult. ''This film is very tough,'' said Ms. Woodward, who is 59. ''You're not shooting the film. You're shooting the schedule and the budget.''
There are no comfortable soundproof stages. Real houses, auditoriums and office buildings are turned into sets for the week or the day. Because it is cheaper to film all the scenes in one location at the same time, little is shot in sequence. The previous morning, Mr. Newman leapfrogged half a decade in every scene. Furniture, makeup and clothes had to be changed every hour at the office of Walter Bridge, Kansas City lawyer in the spring of 1932, the fall of 1938, the winter of 1945, the summer of 1938.
''I've never had so many manicures in my life,'' said Ms. Woodward at midnight as her fingernails were painted sandalwood beige for a party at the home of a modern-art-loving psychoanalyst - faintly disreputable because of both his taste and his profession - in 1939. In this jumble of years and seasons, Ms. Woodward has often had two manicures a day, her fingernails shaped and reshaped, painted and repainted, decorated with white ends or half moons.
Politeness is the bedrock of Ms. Woodward's personality, and she admires Mrs. Bridge's emphasis on manners. ''Being from the South, nice manners are very high on my list,'' she said. ''They imply noblesse oblige, kindness and thoughtfulness for the other person, qualities that seem lacking today.'' But last night, politeness was swept away by exhaustion. At a party given by Mr. Merchant, the 65-year-old Mr. Newman - sleek in tight blue jeans and a leather jacket and opening every cupboard in search of peanuts - smiled and charmed. Ms. Woodward stayed home. ''After I had been on the set 14 hours, cried many buckets of tears and been photographed with 200 extras, I got into the tub with a glass of sherry and two Advils,'' she said.
In any case, the gregarious Mr. Merchant will give another party tomorrow or the next night.
Merchant. Ivory. The names could be symbols for the men who wear them.
Pale, quiet, his hair a brilliant white, James Ivory is so self-effacing that he often seems a wallflower on his own set. Even in the center of a room, he appears to be standing in a corner. Mr. Merchant is the salesman, raconteur and gourmet cook who charms and seduces with basmati rice and dilkhush shorba.
''Let me cook for you,'' he says - to his stars, his crew, the Kansas City aristocracy who have loaned him the antique furniture and porcelain that dress Mr. Ivory's sets, the store owner who lent him $25,000 worth of Oriental rugs for last night's party.
''The only thing low-budget about this film is our salaries,'' said the cinematographer Tony Pierce-Roberts, who was nominated for an Academy Award for ''A Room With a View.'' ''It would make Ismail happiest if we'd pay to work with him. We have incredibly rich set dressings, but a lot is begged, borrowed and stolen. On another film, the art director would just go rent things.''
Brunschwig & Fils has donated $100,000 worth of fabrics and wallpaper. A law firm in Kansas City has loaned a dozen Tiffany lamps and paintings by Kansas City artists of the 30's. Mr. Merchant has borrowed a desk used by the founder of Hallmark greeting cards from his son, the current head of the company, and bridge tables from a local society woman. Benjamin Moore has given 100 gallons of paint. Glen Raven Mills of North Carolina has donated period awning material. The London tailors Gieves & Hawkes made the entire wardrobe for the male characters in return for a screen credit. Marble bookends that used to belong to Evan Connell's father now sit in the office of Walter Bridge.
The house in which the Bridges live is filled with the personal belongings of the Connell family. ''We cleaned Evan's sister, Barbara Zimmermann, out of every porcelain object, her whole collection of silver, her Christmas tree ornaments and her coffee urn,'' said David Gropman, the production designer. ''The lamp Evan Connell made as a boy is in the bedroom of the Bridges' son Douglas.''
Added Sandy Hamilton, the prop man, in amazement: ''Ismail can talk museums into lending us things no one in his right mind should lend to a movie company.''
But getting things free is paid for in time and energy. There are phone calls to be made, flowers to be sent, dinners to be cooked, visitors to be invited to the set. Carol Ramsey, the costume designer, has borrowed $4,000 worth of sashes, merit badges, handcarved neckerchief slides and Boy Scout pins from 1938 for a ceremony in which Douglas Bridge, played by Robert Sean Leonard (the boy who commits suicide in ''Dead Poets Society''), becomes an Eagle Scout.
''Because we got them free, it takes enormous time,'' said Ms. Ramsey, who also did the costumes for Merchant Ivory's last movie, the critically savaged ''Slaves of New York.'' Each separate pin and badge has had to be described, sketched and logged onto its own page in a looseleaf notebook.
None of this bothers Mr. Merchant, who would rather cook dinner for 100 people than hand over an extra thousand dollars. Mr. Gropman, the production designer, was going to spend $500 to have period mattresses made for a scene in the county jail. ''Ismail was livid,'' said Mr. Gropman. ''He told me to call the President Hotel, which is closed down, and ask if they had mattresses. They did, but the mattresses weren't the right size. Ismail said, 'Cut them!' There was no way I was going to cut mattresses, so I took blankets and folded them to mattress size.''
But if Mr. Ivory quietly says he wants something, he usually gets it. The day of the party Mr. Merchant allowed him an expensive crane shot for use during a Boy Scout ceremony that required 220 extras and for which every boy's hair was cut by one of two 60-year-old Kansas City barbers.
Born in Bombay, the only son of a textile merchant, the 52-year-old Mr. Merchant speaks Urdu, English, Hindi, Gujarati, Marathi and Persian. At 5 P.M. he was chopping 20 heads of garlic, slicing ginger, chilies and oxtails into boiling oil and sweeping the floor between phone calls. At 6:35 he hit the market. In less than 11 minutes, he had spent $136.38 on spinach, cucumbers, 20 pounds of ground meat, six loaves of sourdough bread, five pounds of frozen blueberries, gallons of yogurt and peach ice cream. The party was due to start at 9 P.M.; his Indian spices, chutney and Masoor lentils were with Blythe Danner on a plane from New York that was an hour late; the Boy Scout scenes might not even be finished by 9 and the $25,000 worth of rugs had been delivered to the wrong house. Mr. Merchant, who has a touch of Eastern fatalism, seemed serene.
Later - barefoot, wearing a cream-colored 150-year-old kurta and a shawl that he described as ''hair from the throat of a goat and three times as soft as cashmere'' - Mr. Merchant flattered and hugged his guests. Rumpled in dark gray cords and a cardigan sweater, Mr. Ivory stood to the side.
They have never come close to breaking up, said Mr. Ivory, not even during a string of films in the 1970's that were disliked by the critics and made no money. The success of ''A Room With a View'' has made everything easier.
''After 'Room,' the studios offered all sorts of films with big stars but not with the freedom I have,'' said Mr. Ivory. ''As long as I keep within the budget, I have absolute creative control.''
Because of 'Room,' Mr. Merchant is now able to get all the money from one place: Cineplex Odeon Films financed ''Mr. and Mrs. Bridge'' and then sold American theatrical rights to Miramax - instead of using a combination of limited partnerships, local distributors and their personal salaries. Because they were almost never able to get studio backing for the films they wanted to make, Merchant Ivory owns the negatives to more than 20 movies at a time when television across the world is hungry for product. Mr. Merchant expects the company to net $2.5 million from its library during the 1990's.
Mr. Merchant went to bed at 4 A.M. He was up at 9 to cook breakfast.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Paul Newman as the lawyer Walter Bridge and John Bell as his son Douglas, while making the film about a long marriage; Longtime associates-The producer Ismail Merchant and the director James Ivory (pg. 13); Maggie Welsh and Joanne Woodward in ''Mr. and Mrs. Bridge'' (pg. 21)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MR AND MRS BRIDGE (MOVIE)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (87%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (87%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: I CAN'T BELIEVE IT'S YOGURT (57%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES FILM DIRECTORS (89%); FILM (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (86%); DRAMA LITERATURE (77%); MOVIE FILMING (77%); COMEDY FILMS (72%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (50%); 

PERSON: HARMETZ, ALJEAN; WOODWARD, JOANNE; NEWMAN, PAUL; IVORY, JAMES; MERCHANT, ISMAIL MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 



483 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 15, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 188 words

HEADLINE: Currency;
Awaiting the Results in Japan

 BODY:
Foreign-exchange traders around the world will be keeping an eye out Sunday for the first results from the Japanese elections for the lower house of Parliament. The Liberal Democratic Party, which has been plagued by scandals and lost the upper house last year, is fighting to keep control of the Government. A loss for the Liberal Democrats could further weaken the yen, at least temporarily. But whichever way the election goes, the Bank of Japan is expected to move to strengthen the yen by raising its key interest rate. Meanwhile, the dollar rallied a little last week against the German mark but lost its gains on Friday, when the Federal Reserve reported that industrial production had declined 1.2 percent in December. 

$	 	 	 	Last	Previous	Year	 	Week	Week	Ago	 	 	 	 	 	Japanese Yen	141.10	145.15	125.80	per Dollar	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	W.German Mark	1.6785	1.6750	1.8360	per Dollar	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Canadian Dollar	1.2000	1.1955	1.1895	per U.S. Dollar	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	British Pound	1.6039	1.5968	1.7760	U.S. Dollar per British Pound	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Gold	$417.25	$415.75	$380.25	Republic National Bank 	 	 	 	
LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: STATISTICS

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (57%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (90%); CANADA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (57%); REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (54%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (54%); LIBERAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (81%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF JAPAN

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; CREDIT; ELECTIONS ELECTIONS (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); GERMAN MARK (74%); BRITISH POUND (70%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (69%); INTEREST RATES (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); 



484 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 15, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1147 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street;
Rocky Times for Trump's Bonds By DIANA B. HENRIQUES

 BODY:
Donald J. Trump's marriage is not the only one of his important relationships that is not working out these days. His rapport with the ''junk bond'' market - whose contribution to his success arguably approaches that of his estranged wife, Ivana - has become equally rocky.
The prices of several of Mr. Trump's mortgage-bond issues have fallen so far in the past several months that Salomon Brothers, the Wall Street bond house, recently advised its institutional clients to sell the bonds issued for Trump's Castle casino in Atlantic City.
Those unrated bonds were trading at 92 cents on the dollar at the end of January, when Salomon said ''sell.'' The issues promptly tumbled to 82 percent of par, a price that would offer a yield to maturity of roughly 20 percent. Are the bonds now a bargain? Not according to Salomon Brothers. 
''In the next couple of months, the downside risk of these bonds is greater than the upside,'' one analyst said. ''There won't be any news in the next few months to provide any reason for these bonds to go up.''
The tabloids may debate the roots of the Trumps' marital discord, but there is little doubt about why bondholders have grown so chilly toward Mr. Trump's mortgage issues.
The coupon-clipping crowd is worried about three things: debt levels, real estate values and the casino industry. The Trump bonds, of course, are debt issues sold to finance heavily leveraged real estate ventures in the casino industry.
The largest group of securities examined by Salomon Brothers are $226.8 million worth of bonds known as the ''Trump's Castle Funding 13.75s of 1997.'' Translated, that simply identifies them as mortgage bonds issued to finance the Trump's Castle casino, paying a stated interest rate of 13.75 percent and maturing in 1997.
A tandem $125 million issue, the ''Trump's Castle Funding 7s of 1999,'' are bonds with a stated interest rate, or coupon, of 7 percent; they mature in 1999. The Trump's Castle 7s, with their artificially low coupon, were designed to sell considerably below par, with investors reaping the difference between the purchase price and the value at maturity.
That was not the case with the Trump's Castle 13.75 bonds, however. They were issued at par and the price at which they trade is influenced chiefly by the ambient interest rates and the perceived likelihood that the issuer will continue making payments until the bonds mature.
Obviously, investors are not avoiding these bonds because better interest rates are offered elsewhere. To be sure, other casino bond issues also have dropped in price since September, but their decline was not as steep as that of the Castle bonds. Could it be that the bond market is growing worried about the prospects of some of Mr. Trump's enterprises? It certainly could be, said James Grant, the publisher of Grant's Interest Rate Observer, a credit-market newsletter.
''It is the certainty of the tabloid press and the electronic media that Mr. Trump is worth approximately the gross national product, that he has more money than the Federal Reserve,'' said Mr. Grant, who has been following Mr. Trump's use of leverage for several years. ''Maybe he does. But knowing Mr. Trump to be a real estate operator, and therefore a leveraged one, and knowing him to be a casino operator in a city in which casino revenues are weak, I would find it unusual for him to be untouched by recent realities. So this is a fascinating study in public opinion about leverage.''
The Salomon Brothers report on the Trump's Castle issues notes that the amount of income available to service the marina-based casino's outstanding debt is shrinking, as the Atlantic City gaming industry weathers a weak season.
For Trump's Castle, ironically, the hard times could be exacerbated by the April opening of the Trump Taj Mahal, a Boardwalk establishment of record-setting size and Ivana-inspired opulence.
The completion of the Taj Mahal, originally begun by Resorts International, was financed with yet another Trump-related bond issue, the ''Taj Mahal Funding 14s of 1998,'' which carry a coupon of 14 percent and mature in 1998. Those bonds, for the record, are trading at less than 75 percent of their face value these days.
The Taj Mahal's grand opening ''will add substantial capacity to the Atlantic City casino industry and cause the Trump Organizaton to divert personnel and clientele away from its other casinos,'' the Salomon report pointed out.
''We believe that Trump's Castle will also be negatively impacted due to its location off of the Boardwalk, where all of the excitement associated with the opening of the Taj Mahal will be taking place.''
It presumably will not worry Mr. Trump if high rollers choose the Taj Mahal over Trump's Castle; it's all the same pocket to him. But the Taj Mahal bondholders and the Castle bondholders might view it differently, since the revenues raked in at one casino are not automatically available to pay the debt service owed by the other.
Mr. Trump is the controlling officer of both establishments, however, and he presumably could move the available capital around as necessary. But the bond market may be remembering that an earlier group of investors - those who bought bonds issued by Resorts International -did not fare very well by relying on the loyalty and largess of Mr. Trump, who took over Resorts in 1987.
Within two years, Mr. Trump had sold the company - lock, stock and bond obligations - to entertainer Merv Griffin, and had simultaneously arranged to buy the unfinished Taj Mahal from Resorts with other bondholders' money. Soon after, Resorts had filed for bankruptcy-court protection, leaving the Resorts investors with a fraction of their original investment.
 
THE WELL OF GOOD LUCK AT SOURCE PERRIER
The shares of Source Perrier, the publicly traded French water bottler, fell sharply after the company announced on Feb. 9 that North Carolina health officials had found traces of benzene in local Perrier samples. A worldwide recall is underway.
Given the circumstances, the stock's tumble would hardly be noteworthy except for two other developments. First was the stock's unexpected (and, to many analysts, inexplicable) rebound on Thursday, despite news that the source of the benzene may have been the Source itself - Perrier's spring.
The second was an odd blip on the regulatory radar. Before the Feb. 9 contamination announcement, there was heavy trading in Perrier ''put'' options, contracts which permit the option-holders to sell Perrier shares in the future at a specific price - in this case, a price considerably higher than the one that obtained after the bad news hit. Two days earlier, the volume in Perrier common stock also bounced well above recent levels.
French regulators checked it out; unlike the North Carolina scientists, they could find nothing worth reporting.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Donald Trump last week (Rueters); graph: daily close of Perrier stock on the Paris Bourse and the CAC-40, an index to 40 leading French stocks, Jan. 4 - Feb. 16, 1990 (Source: Interactive Date Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SBW (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (74%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (93%); PARIS, FRANCE (74%); 

COMPANY: TRUMP'S CASTLE FUNDING INC (85%); TRUMP'S CASTLE FUNDING (97%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRUMP CASTLE HOTEL (ATLANTIC CITY, NJ); SALOMON BROTHERS INC

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ATLANTIC CITY (NJ)

SUBJECT: GAMBLING; CORPORATE BONDS; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS; CASINOS BONDS (92%); CASINOS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BOND ISSUES (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (77%); CORPORATE BONDS (77%); HOME PRICES (76%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (76%); STOCK INDEXES (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); 

PERSON: HENRIQUES, DIANA B; TRUMP, DONALD J DONALD TRUMP (93%); 



485 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 15, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 699 words

HEADLINE: World Markets;
Volatility in South Africa's Markets

BYLINE: By Jonathan Fuerbringer

 BODY:
Humphrey Borkum, a director of South Africa's largest brokerage house, wasn't surprised by what Nelson Mandela said when he was released last week from prison after more than 27 years. But other players in the South African stock market apparently were.
After Mr. Mandela restated his support for the African National Congress's long-held policy of nationalization of some key industries, like gold mines, the Johannesburg Stock Exchange Overall Index plummeted 7.5 percent in just three days. It recovered a bit at the end of the week, but still finished 6 percent down. ''I didn't expect him to come out after 27 years and say, 'I changed my mind,' '' said Mr. Borkum of Davis Borkum Hare. ''Everyone here thinks he is doing no more than staking out his position from where he will negotiate.'' 
But that didn't deter the selling, which was accelerated by a concomitant sharp decline in the financial rand, the special investment currency foreigners must use to buy South African stocks. Kloof Gold, a gold-mining company, fell from 42.75 rand on Feb. 9 to 37.75 at its low on Wednesday; and the drop of the financial rand increased the loss when translated into other currencies.
The fall was just as scary for Americans who invest dollars in gold funds concentrated in South African shares. International Investors Inc. is the largest gold fund and has 56 percent of its investment in South Africa. It fell from $18.18 on Feb. 9 to $15.75 Wednesday, a 13.4 percent decline, compared with a 11.6 percent decline in the South African gold index. A sister fund, Gold Resources, which does not invest in South Africa, was down only several pennies, to $5.42 on Wednesday.
Mr. Borkum and Niall Brown of Simpson McKie, another big South African brokerage firm, attributed the sell-off to speculative foreign investors who had already pushed the the market up 3.2 percent after South Africa's President, F. W. de Klerk, promised two weeks ago that Mr. Mandela's release was imminent. ''It is a case where people are behaving more on sentiment than fact,'' Mr. Brown said about both the run-up and the fall.
David Poole, chief economist at International Investors Inc., said a correction was due anyway because of the large rise in gold-share prices. The fund has risen 73.6 percent since last May; the South African gold index has risen 44.7 percent.
Most Americans who invest in South Africa do so through funds, like International Investors, that buy gold stocks in South Africa, the United States, Canada and Australia. But opposition to apartheid has deterred many investors. According to Davis Borkum Hare, Americans held only 3.9 percent of the South African gold shares that are traded in American Depository Receipts in the United States at the end of last year, down from 13.8 percent at the end of 1987.
Last week's decline in the South African market means investors will have more volatility to contend with. It is likely that every hiccup in talks between the A.N.C. and Pretoria could move the market quickly in one direction or another. And as in the case of the plunge last week, these moves may not seem logical.
There is, of course, a risk that talks won't get off the ground. But Mr. Mandela's release and Mr. de Klerk's willingness to negotiate are real reason for optimism. And they give investors, for the first time in years, several positive factors with which to balance South Africa's risks.
One is that South African gold stocks are already some of the most attractive in the world and would be more so with a new government. In the last year, they are up 72 percent in dollar terms compared with 27 percent for gold shares in the United States.
And investors can look forward to the lifting of sanctions, which is now a real possibility and would bring in floods of new money.
But after all this, there is still one other variable to contend with: the price of gold, which colors the atmosphere on the exchange. Warren Myers, vice president of Merril Lynch Capital Markets in New York, predicts a continued rise, which should push up the price of gold shares. But Mr. Brown thinks gold will not rise much this year, ''so gold shares are not too exciting.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MWA (LSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (85%); 

COUNTRY: SOUTH AFRICA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

CITY: JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (92%); 

COMPANY: MWANA AFRICA PLC (85%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (58%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SOUTH AFRICA

SUBJECT: GOLD; STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); GOLD MINING (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (77%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (77%); CURRENCIES (76%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); BONDS (73%); MINES & MINING (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); 

PERSON: MANDELA, NELSON NELSON ROLIHLAHLA MANDELA (92%); 



486 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 96 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:

MONDAY: Washington's Birthday. Financial markets and Government offices are closed.
 
TUESDAY: Eastern Airlines faces a deadline for presenting a plan for reorganization. 
 
WEDNESDAY: The Labor Department reports the Consumer Price Index for January.
Chrysler Chairman Lee Iacocca begins a six-city promotional tour, in Washington.
 
THURSDAY: Federal Reserve Board Chairman Alan Greenspan testifies on monetary policy before a Senate committee.
 
FRIDAY: Trade Representative Carla Hills gives a keynote address at a European Community conference.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); 

COMPANY: EASTERN AIR LINES INC (58%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (56%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (87%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (87%); ECONOMIC POLICY (83%); ECONOMIC NEWS (83%); CENTRAL BANKS (83%); MONETARY POLICY (83%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (54%); 



487 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1529 words

HEADLINE: Business Diary: February 11-16

BYLINE: By Allen R. Myerson

 BODY:

COMPANIES
 
Drexel: Driven From the Market It Created
 
Drexel Burnham Lambert Group Inc. filed for bankruptcy protection Tuesday amid ironies heaped as high as its clients' - and now its own -debts. The brokerage house has been driven from a ''junk bond'' market it created. A firm whose executives insisted they were investing in America, not just making quick profits, failed in part because they put too little money in the business and took too much out for themselves, bankruptcy filings indicate. Banks that invested in highly leveraged deals refused to extend further credit to the firm that organized many of those deals. Michael Milken, the King of Junk Bonds himself, is now on the receiving end of a debt gone bad. And, for those given to proclaiming the significance of new decades, it all conveniently happened in just the second month of 1990.
 
Profits According to Iacocca
 
Lee Iacocca is having trouble selling cars as well as he sells books. The chief executive of the Chrysler Corporation declared himself ''not in the least bit disappointed'' last Tuesday with a $664 million fourth-quarter loss reflecting the costs of layoffs and plant closings. But analysts took a darker view, especially since Chrysler lost $87 million even before the expenses of cutting back. Mr. Iacocca kicks off a tour this week to try to convince the press, the analysts and the public that they are wrong about his cars and his company. 
 
Back and Forth With Japan
 
More bad news for Chrysler: Honda and Toyota threaten to move ahead in United States auto sales. Both of them bested the Chrysler Corporation's 9.3 percent share of car sales in December, when the Honda Motor Company had 9.5 percent and the Toyota Motor Corporation 10.4 percent. Analysts say Chrysler will out-sell the Japanese companies this year, but inevitably slip behind. ''It is something that will happen eventually,'' said Harvey Heinbach of Merrill Lynch. Chrysler sells enough minivans and trucks to stay third in the American market overall. But at least for cars, it makes more sense to speak of the Big Five than the Big Three.
 
Comebacks at Gulfstream
 
Allen E. Paulson is back as owner of the Gulfstream Aerospace Corporation, and Theodore J. Forstmann is back as a buyout artist. They teamed up to acquire the company from Chrysler last Tuesday for $825 million. Both are men with something to prove. At age 67, Mr. Paulson still, every few years, takes a Gulfstream corporate jet out for a record-setting whiz around the world. Mr. Forstmann, 50, dubbed the junk-bond Jeremiah, brags to anyone who will listen that his investment firm does deals without that sort of debt.
 
Auto Woes Elsewhere
 
Slow auto sales and costly incentives also hurt fourth-quarter earnings at the United States' two largest auto makers. Profits at the General Motors Corporation were down 49.9 percent to $700 million, at the Ford Motor Company down 72.9 percent to $314 million.
 
New on the Toy Front
 
The American International Toy Fair bustled into New York last week with Entertech's Spit Ball water gun, Milton Bradley's Gorbachev board game (''acquire the luxuries that every Russian desires'') and Hasbro's Baby Uh-Oh, a doll that dirties its diapers in two realistic colors. Toy industry analysts say kids will stick with Barbie and Nintendo.
 
The TV Pie and How It Slices
 
It was Tisch vs. Turner, network vs. cable. First, on Tuesday, the Association of National Advertisers heard from Laurence A. Tisch, president of CBS Inc. He said that the networks' slide had about halted, safely above 60 percent of the prime time audience: ''As we enter a new decade, somehow things have settled down.'' Unlike the other two networks, CBS sees no need to hedge by investing in cable, he said. The next day came Ted Turner, chairman and chief executive of Turner Broadcasting System Inc., to compare network television to other declining enterprises. ''I love when they say our shares are going to bottom out at 60 percent or 50 percent or 40 percent,'' he said. ''How the hell do you know? How do you know where G.M.'s share is going to bottom out, or Drexel Burnham's?''
 
Time Warner Takes It on the Chin
 
The major bottom-line result so far of the 1989 merger that created Time Warner Inc.has been a fourth-quarter loss of $222 million. The loss, reported last Monday, reflected interest expenses and merger costs in creating the world's largest media company. For all of 1989, Time Warner lost $256 million, compared with a profit of $288 million in 1988. Wall Street responded by pushing the stock down toward $100, far less than Paramount offered for Time Inc. last year.
 
Bolar Faces the S.E.C.
 
The Securities and Exchange Commission filed charges of securities fraud on Friday against the Bolar Pharmaceutical Company and Robert Shulman, its former president. The S.E.C. said Bolar ''made false and misleading disclosures and omitted disclosing material information'' when the company agreed with the Food and Drug Administration on Feb. 2 to temporarily suspend shipments of its products. Bolar, which produces generic drugs, confirmed on Friday that Mr. Shulman had resigned as president. He has been replaced by Lawrence S. Raisfield, who founded the company with Mr. Shulman and remains a major stockholder.

 
THE ECONOMY
 
Will Trade Improvement Last?
 
The merchandise trade deficit for December fell to its lowest level in five years. On Friday, the Commerce Department reported a 30.3 percent improvement to $7.17 billion. The annual trade deficit, $108.6 billion, was the lowest since 1984. But economists doubt the improvements will last. They said that exports rose because the Boeing Company's shipments picked up after its 45-day strike ended in late November. Imports slackened as the nation's economy slowed last year and many businesses reduced their inventories. ''The odds are we're really running at about a $9 billion trade deficit per month rather than the $7 billion for December,'' said Neal M. Soss, chief economist at First Boston.
 
The Sense of the Markets
 
By week's end, many traders and analysts were agreeing that the stock market's strength and junk bonds' recovery made perfect sense. And everyone had a good, sensible reason. Some said stocks and junk bonds had already been discounted to reflect Drexel's weakness. Others said it was a quiet week sandwiched between holidays. A few cited program trading, a few the collapse of Communism in Eastern Europe. And some said that everybody on Wall Street had been ignoring 200-day moving averages and index arbitrage strategies to devote their attention to Donald and Ivana Trump and their pending divorce.
 
Slowdown, Not Recession
 
January's retail sales gain of 1.6 percent - the strongest in a year - gave economists more confidence that the nation can hold off a recession. They saw a 1.2 percent drop in industrial production in January - the steepest plunge in nearly four years - as evidence of slow growth rather than economic decline. The Federal Reserve said on Friday that the production slowdown was due to a 10.7 percent drop in utility output during an unusually cold January.
 
Foreign Oil Dependence Grows
 
The nation depended on imports for 54 percent of its oil in January, the highest monthly figure ever. A cold December was responsible for some of last month's rise, but industry experts said that declining production would continue to increase the need for foreign oil.
 
 
INTERNATIONAL
 
The Downside of Unification
 
German unification advances by the minute. The Allies and East and West Germany agreed Tuesday to speed unification talks. The next day, Bonn approved $4.1 million for East German aid. But the high costs of unification are becoming apparent. The anticipated expense of rebuilding East Germany has already raised West German interest rates, depressing bond markets around the world. Investment in East Germany and elsewhere in Eastern Europe could drain capital from other nations, including the United States. Deutsche Bank A.G. of West Germany estimates the cost of development in Eastern Europe at $300 billion to $500 billion over the next 10 to 20 years.
 
In Brief
 
Food fight: Members of the Petrossian family are battling in a Paris court for control of their caviar and restaurant business.
 
*
 
The Soviet Union announced a contest Wednesday for the best plan to make the ruble convertible into hard currencies. No conversion problem with the reward: $25,000. In dollars.
 
Perrier Recalled Worldwide
 
The Perrier drought entered Week II as the company withdrew every bottle of its sparkling water throughout the world. Source Perrier said on Wednesday that traces of benzene, a toxic chemical, had been found in bottles in Denmark and the Netherlands as they had the week before in the United States. Perrier shares have declined sharply on the Paris stock exchange. The Bourse's Commission of Operations said it would investigate possible insider trading before the company's initial announcement.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Drexel's Frederick Joseph, and his fallen star, Michael Milken; Laurence Tisch; Chrysler's Plymouth Acclaim; Gulfstream 4; graphs: U.S. merchandise trade deficit, 1978-1989 (Source: Commerce Dept.); imported oil as percent of total U.S. market, 1983-1990 (Source: American Petroleum Institute)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: SUMMARY

TICKER: HMC (NYSE) (84%); 7267 (TSE) (84%); TYT (LSE) (83%); TM (NYSE) (83%); 7203 (TSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (63%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (90%); 

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (93%); HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (84%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (83%); GULFSTREAM AEROSPACE CORP (63%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (59%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (59%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (76%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); CLOSINGS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); LAYOFFS (71%); COMPANY LOSSES (71%); AUTOMAKERS (67%); ACQUISITIONS (60%); 

PERSON: MYERSON, ALLEN R MICHAEL MILKEN (73%); THEODORE FORSTMANN (57%); 



488 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 13, Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: FORUM;
Don't Forget Baseball's Young Fans

BYLINE: By CHARLES B. SCHUDSON: Charles B. Schudson is a Wisconsin Circuit Court judge in Milwaukee County. He has served on the faculties of the National Council of Juvenile and Family Court Judges and the National Judicial College. He is a loyal Milwaukee Brewers fan.

 BODY:
Why should I care about Major League baseball? After eight years as a judge in criminal and juvenile court, why would I have special concerns about the 1990 season and the disputes between the players and owners?
Baseball in America is much more than sport, much more than business. Symbolically, it has provided catalytic power for cultural, social and political change. Most significantly, it provides children with the ''field of dreams'' on which they and society test values and learn lessons. 
If I seem to make too much of this, at least I'm in good company. For many years, great writers and serious scholars have examined the impact of baseball on American life. Consider the following, recent comments.
Roslyn A. Mazer, a lawyer: ''Girls didn't collect baseball cards in the 50's, yet I cede to no one in my enthusiasm, indeed my passion, for the national pastime. I would contend that our nation can be guided to greatness, depending on whether our children are baseball fans.'' Dan Rea, a television newsman: ''I learned sociology in a shoe box. Baseball cards taught me how to read, do math, learn geography and understand life. Baseball games on back-porch radio at night with those old cards would lead me through the lives of players, time and again showing me that nothing - in life or in baseball - is accomplished without hard work and, sometimes, great disappointment.''
Unfortunately, the potential for lifelong lessons seems forgotten in the current disputes between owners and players. Every day I read news of the offers, the negotiations, the dollars. Sure, occasionally someone mentions that the fans might also be a factor. However, all seem to accept that the decisions will be business decisions; the love and loyalty of fans are romantic - and irrelevant.
No one mentions children. No one suggests that these business decisions will be important to kids and the lessons they will learn. No one seems to consider that these business decisions can assume national significance at a time when, finally, Americans seem to be shaking off some excesses of the ''me generation.''
For the last 20 years, kids have learned some cynical lessons from baseball's ''me generation.'' Heroes seem hollow; owners, obese. Cy Young winner Denny McClain becomes a racketeer; Pete Rose, a gambler. And George Steinbrenner - well, George Steinbrenner. Again and again, superstars play where dollars dictate, and teams move where television contracts demand. Children change their cheers or stop cheering, while their parents try to explain insatiable greed.
While such lessons of cruel reality are important, they must not eclipse equally real lessons of virtue. A generation ago, I was fortunate. Growing up in the 50's, when I was forced to confront cruel reality through baseball, I learned of an extraordinary owner who fostered Jackie Robinson's fight against racism, of Roy Campanella's courage from a wheel chair. Later, I learned of Roberto Clemente's death as he helped earthquake victims.
As a judge, I have seen the disastrous results that come when individuals and government ignore the interests of children. Now, in the business of baseball, I see children ignored again. I believe the kids should be a critical concern for owners and players as they make decisions that will teach children about the business of life and the values most important in human relationships.
So perhaps that helps explain why, for me, there is not a terribly great distance between county stadiums and the county courthouse. For those who take the time to care, there is a link between the interests of abused and delinquent children in America's courts, and the generations of children who seem to be peering through a knothole in the center field fence watching, wondering and waiting for Major League Baseball.
Marian Wright Edelman, president of the Children's Defense Fund, recently told students at a college commencement, ''If the only principle our society adheres to is economist Adam Smith's invisible hand, it leaves little or no room for the hand of man, or woman, or of God. There is then a hollowness left at the core of socity whose members share no mutual goals or joint vision - nothing to believe in except self-aggrandizement.'' Children retain goals and vision, dignity and virtue until adults fail to hear their voices.
Baseball, America's most public private enterprise, better start listening.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Charles B. Schudson; drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (84%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (84%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; CHILDREN AND YOUTH BASEBALL (93%); JUVENILE COURTS (90%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (90%); JUDGES (90%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (89%); CHILDREN (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); SPORTS FANS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); SOCIOLOGY (71%); 

PERSON: SHUDSON, CHARLES B (JUDGE) CY YOUNG (58%); GEORGE STEINBRENNER (55%); 



489 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1524 words

HEADLINE: All About/Avionics;
American Electronics Companies Still Rule the Cockpit

BYLINE: By ERIC WEINER

 BODY:
In 1929, Jimmy Doolittle flew blind - covering the cockpit of his biplane with a hood - to prove that a pilot could rely on flight instruments alone. Since then, cockpit electronics have become sophisticated enough to all but take the place of the pilot.
Today's cockpit resembles a flying video arcade: computers and video displays are fast replacing the jumble of gauges, dials and switches that for decades distinguished the modern jetliner. The new gadgets can warn a pilot of sudden wind gusts or an impending collision. With the push of a few buttons, autopilots can guide a plane from New York to Los Angeles while the real pilot sits back.
An airline might load a million dollars' worth of computers and electronics - or avionics - into a cockpit, accounting for as much as 10 percent of the plane's price. Riding a record wave of commercial airplane orders, the avionics industry has grown about 20 percent annually for the past three years. Today, the electronics market for just commercial jets is $2 billion a year, and industry analysts expect revenues to grow 7 percent to 10 percent annually this decade. 
As the electronics grow more prominent, so do the firms that make them. Rather than merely supplying black boxes to be plugged into the cockpit, the companies now design entire cockpit layouts, working on new airplane models from the outset.
With tens of millions of dollars needed to earn Government approval for a new set of avionics, the industry is all but closed to brash upstarts. The industry is dominated by three American companies: Bendix/King, a division of the Allied Signal Aerospace Company; Collins Avionics, a division of the Rockwell International Corporation, and Honeywell Inc. All three are enjoying record growth. Collins's revenues rose last year by 22 percent, Bendix/King's by 12 percent, and Honeywell's by 10 percent. Honeywell, which bought Sperry for $1 billion in 1986, has the largest share of the commercial market, with about $1.2 billion in sales last year.
The major foreign challenge to America's dominance is coming from France. Thomson CSF has recently joined with other French manufacturers to furnish cockpit electronics for Airbus Industrie, the European commercial jetliner company. The amount of American electronics on Airbus jets is shrinking.
Though Japanese electronics may fill American households, they are nearly absent from airline cockpits. Japanese companies supply only the semiconductor chips and other components. Aviation analysts say the Japanese have stayed out of the industry for two reasons: The market is relatively small, and it takes years to earn United States Government approval for a new piece of equipment. ''It's a vertical wall to climb,'' said Paul Gralnick, the president of Bendix/King. ''But if we get sloppy in this country, they'll climb it.'' The Japanese might be tempted by after-tax profit margins as high as 20 percent, considerably higher than for the airplane makers and airlines. But with only three or four potential customers for many avionics products, competition is fierce and each new airplane design critical. ''If you don't get on board a new aircraft you're locked out for 30 or 40 years,'' said D. Larry Moore, president of Honeywell Space and Aviation Systems.
There are few trade secrets in the avionics business. Most of the technology is developed in the military and quickly enters the public domain. A product's shelf life is shrinking, as companies play technological leapfrog.
With most of their sales dependent on the booming commercial airplane business, the avionics makers have become less vulnerable to defense cuts. ''These companies can be like chameleons, shifting from defense to commercial products,'' said Paul Nisbet, an analyst with Prudential-Bache Inc.

 
The New Tools
 
Pilots Worry That Skills Will Atrophy
 The industry's most dramatic advance came in the late 1970's with the advent of the computerized ''glass'' cockpit. Computer equipment became small and light enough to carry aloft. Engineers consolidated dozens of instruments onto six computer-backed cathode-ray tubes. Pilots could check altitude, speed and direction on video displays rather than the more temperamental mechanical gauges. For communications, radios that failed every 2,500 hours, on average, have been replaced with models that last 12,000 hours.
The biggest advantage of the glass cockpit is that the black boxes can talk to one another. The on-board computers can calculate an altitude for the greatest fuel efficiency and the autopilot can guide the plane there.
Most pilots like the new technology, with some reservations. If something goes wrong, the problem may be hard to detect. ''Troubleshooting is a more delicate art than before,'' said Wolfgang Demisch, an analyst with UBS Securities. And a three-year National Aeronautics and Space Administration study of 200 Boeing 757 pilots found that they were concerned about spending too much time staring at computer screens and not enough looking out the windows. They also worried that their basic flying skills would atrophy as they spent more time punching keypads. ''I was somewhat concerned with the 'I can't fly but I can type 80 words per minute syndrome,' '' said one pilot. Still, about 90 percent of the pilots saw the glass cockpit as a big step forward.

 
Stricter Safety Standards
 
Rules Guarantee More Sales for the Industry
 The Federal Aviation Administration's latest airline safety standards are as reassuring to avionics companies as to passengers. The rules will require more than a billion dollars' worth of electronic gear over the decade.
By 1993 the airlines must install cockpit devices that warn pilots of wind shear - a sudden shift in wind direction and speed that has proved deadly. Only Honeywell and the Sundstrand Corporation make the warning systems; Honeywell has about 70 percent of the market.
By 1993 the airlines must also carry devices to warn of impending collisions. Without relying on ground-based radar, the equipment can suggest evasive action - a climb or descent. Eventually, it may allow closer spacing on North Atlantic routes, where radar coverage is limited. At about $100,000 each, the collision avoidance systems represent a $700 million market worldwide, more than half of it controlled by Bendix/King.
 
 
Flying in the Future
 
Will Computers Supplant Co-pilots?
 Avionics companies say they have only begun to demonstrate the advantages of electronics. In the next few years, pilots might finally solve the problem of cockpit clutter by storing the hundreds of maps they need on optical disks to be read by computers and displayed on video screens.
Another new technology might give them a way to see their instruments even as they look out the windshield. Heads-up displays - already in some military jets - are mounted on the windshield so pilots do not need to fix their gaze inside the cockpit. And a new flat video display is being developed that is thinner and lighter than current screens, which are as bulky as small television tubes.
Airborne navigation and communications are entering a new age as well, with satellites playing a larger role. The airlines have installed satellite communications equipment - standard in the latest Boeing 747's - even though a satellite network probably won't be deployed until the mid-1990's. Honeywell is working with the Racal Corporation, a British company, to develop satellite communications equipment. Pilots and passengers will be able to communicate by telephone and radio anywhere in the world. Eventually, satellite navigation could replace today's system, which is based on earth-bound radio and radar.
Another project sounds like it could all but replace the co-pilot. The Air Force boldly calls it the ''pilot associate.'' More than a mere autopilot, the associate devices use artificial intelligence to help fly the plane, plan missions and deploy weapons. The project is in such an early stage that it will take several years to find its way into jet fighters and, eventually, commercial planes.
 
 
HELPING PILOTS AND CONTROLLERS COMMUNICATE
Before an Avianca Airlines Boeing 707 crashed last month, controllers on Long Island kept it circling for nearly 90 minutes after the crew had reported that fuel was dwindling. Government researchers are working on new technology to help clear up the garbled messages and misunderstandings that can lead to such disasters. Called datalink, the system would let controllers and pilots exchange electronic messages that could be viewed on video displays. The system would complement, not replace, the radio.
The National Aeronautics and Space Administration is already testing datalink on a Boeing 737. Some airlines now use a form of it, but only for messages about maintenance, gates and other routine matters.
Government officials hope that controllers and pilots will be able to communicate through datalink beginning in 1992. The Federal Aviation Administration has ordered airlines to install new transponders capable of receiving the data.

GRAPHIC: Photos: This cockpit is equipped by Honeywell, one of the industry leaders; This Boeing cockpit predates computerized instruments; graph: Collins Avionics sales, 1984-1989 (Source: Company reports); pie chart: market share of major avionics companies on estimated 1989 sales of commercial and military instrucments (Source: Company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HON (NYSE) (83%); HON (LSE) (83%); ROK (NYSE) (65%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (84%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (83%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS (66%); NAICS335314 RELAY & INDUSTRIAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (65%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (71%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: AIRBUS SAS (84%); HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC (83%); ALLIED-SIGNAL AEROSPACE CO (66%); ROCKWELL AUTOMATION INC (65%); NEW YORK JETS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: BENDIX/KING DIVISION OF ALLIED-SIGNAL INC; COLLINS AVIONICS; HONEYWELL INC

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; ELECTRONICS; DESIGN; PILOTS ELECTRONICS (91%); AVIONICS (91%); AIRCRAFT INSTRUMENTS MFG (90%); AIRLINES (90%); FLIGHT CONTROL & INSTRUMENTATION (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (90%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); SEARCH & NAVIGATION INSTRUMENT MFG (89%); MEASURING & CONTROL DEVICES MFG (89%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (88%); AIRCRAFT MFG (76%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (76%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (74%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); SALES FIGURES (74%); ELECTRONICS DESIGN (74%); FACTORY ORDERS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); COMPUTER CHIPS (71%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (68%); SEMICONDUCTORS (50%); 

PERSON: WEINER, ERIC



490 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 5, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1670 words

HEADLINE: Conable's World Bank: Finding Fault (and Praise)

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
One of the first things Barber B. Conable Jr. did when he became president of the World Bank nearly four years ago was to adorn his office with non-American objets d'art: a Waterford globe from Ireland, Cantonware serving plates from China, rugs from Mauritania and Morocco.
On Capitol Hill, where he had served on the Ways and Means Committee for 18 years as a Congressman from upstate New York, he had been known for a collection of tomahawks, bead works, masks and other artifacts of Indian tribes from the Finger Lakes region of his birth. That collection didn't make it to the bank's headquarters here. ''I'm suspected of being an American anyway,'' he said, grinning. ''Why do I need the trappings of an American environment?'' The trappings may be gone, but with a little more than a year left in his five-year term, Mr. Conable's nationality is still very much an issue, cited both by detractors and supporters.
Though the bank presidency traditionally has been filled by an American, some of the organization's 152 member nations say that Mr. Conable has been far more willing than his predecessors to pursue an American agenda. They cite a cutoff of loans to Nicaragua, an increase in lending to Mexico and the continuing emphasis on free markets. 
Meanwhile, others find fault with Mr. Conable as an administrator, contending that he has not taken firm control of the bank, the biggest source of aid to developing countries.
''He has learned and improved, but it has never been Barber Conable's bank,'' said a director of one of Washington's prestigious think tanks, who asked not to be more closely identified. ''He's still more the politician, telling people what they want to hear.''
But even his critics credit Mr. Conable, the seventh president since the bank was created out of the ashes of World War II, with dramatically strengthening the institution's role in global development. And that, some observers of the bank say, is at least in part a direct result of the adroit ways in which Mr. Conable has used his nationality and political roots to advantage.
Thanks to his lobbying powers, particularly with former colleagues in Congress, a reluctant United States has gone along with other members and agreed to nearly double the amount of capital - to an impressive $171 billion - that supports the bank's loans.
Moreover, Mr. Conable is credited with shifting the institution in new directions, developing programs to help women and address environmental concerns. (See box.) ''He's a very open and practical man, and has done as good a job as can be done in a tough situation,'' said David R. Obey, a Democrat from Wisconsin who as chairman of the House Appropriations subcommittee on foreign operations has watched the Conable performance closely.
Against the mixed reviews, it may not be surprising that Mr. Conable has yet to say whether he will try to stay on when his term expires on June 30, 1991, although some associates believe he will not. Asked in an interview what he intended to do, Mr. Conable, who is 67, replied with a broad smile:
''I'll decide that later. I've had three and one-half years here. They have been a rich, full three and one-half years. People ask me whether I'm having a good time. No, I'm not having a good time, but I'm having a very challenging time, and I do believe that the challenge of being useful on this scale is a unique opportunity that very few people get.''
Indeed, whether based on an American or a global agenda, the bank's policies are commanding increasing attention. Last year, commitments to about 80 developing countries totaled $22.9 billion, more than a third larger than the aid budgets of either Japan or the United States, and the loans are growing at a rate of 10 percent a year. Among other things, the credits are helping to build roads in Pakistan, strengthen commercial banking in Gambia, fight AIDS in Zaire and improve water supplies in Haiti and Mexico.
In the poorest countries, the bank charges no interest and gives the borrowers up to 45 years to repay. The so-called middle-income countries pay interest based on the bank's own cost of money and have 15 to 17 years to repay.
Although the bank is an economic institution, the lines between economics and politics are often blurred, particularly when it comes to Washington. And, say some foreign officials, Mr. Conable is simply too closely linked with American policy interests.
An Indian official, for example, noted that in Delhi the view is that the United States is using the bank in large measure to solve problems of Latin America - a reference to a key financing role the bank plays in the Bush Administration's strategy to help highly indebted countries.
''Abroad there is a view that the bank has become unusually responsive to American opinion,'' said Richard E. Feinberg, vice president of the Overseas Development Council, a Washington-based research group.
American domination of the bank is one factor behind a French initiative last month to establish a European Bank for Reconstruction and Development committed to helping East European countries revamp their economies. The United States would play only a modest role in that body, which would include the Soviet Union among its members. Moscow is not a member of the World Bank.
For his part, Mr. Conable, a hearty man with a stentorian voice, bridles at suggestions that he pushes America at the expense of other countries' interests at the bank.
Mr. Conable thinks it is important for the bank to have good relations with Washington, its biggest contributor. His success in lobbying on behalf of the bank in part reflects his personal friendship with President Bush, with whom he served for four years on the Ways and Means Committee. Mr. Conable is also close to Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d, who as Treasury Secretary in the Reagan Administration, picked Mr. Conable for the job.
The current harmony between the Bush Administration and the bank is in sharp contrast to the cold war that existed under Mr. Conable's predecessor, A. W. Clausen, the former head of the Bank of America.
The Reagan Administration's first Treasury Secretary, Donald T. Regan, and his Under Secretary for Monetary Affairs, Beryl W. Sprinkel, had little sympathy either for Mr. Clausen or the World Bank and at one time even considered pulling the United States out of the organization.
The Clausen period resulted in relatively little growth for the bank, a situation that Mr. Conable has sought to rectify.
While acknowledging - and saying he refuses to apologize for - the ''constructive'' influence of Washington on that growth, Mr. Conable insisted that the bank is a collegial institution not dominated by any one country.
On cutting off loans to Nicaragua, for example, he stressed that this was a decision forced by bank rules, not American policy mandates. The Sandinista Government defaulted on its debts to the bank, he said. Six other countries are in the same category. But even if there had been an American agenda at the bank, Mr. Conable insisted that it has become the ''global agenda.''
''If I were to characterize the past decade,'' he observed, ''the most remarkable thing was the generation of a global consensus that market forces and economic efficiency were the best way to achieve the kind of growth which is the best antidote to poverty. We now have Eastern Europe participating in this agenda.''
Given all the tumultuous changes of the past year in Europe, he said, the bank is ''a paradigm for the post-cold war world.''
''People are sold on what they are doing here,'' Mr. Conable added. ''They're quite cheerful about continuing to do what they do well and be responsive to their perception of need. Somebody has to look at the world and ask are we meeting that need. We are meeting that need.''
 
TWO ROADS TOWARD CHANGE
Besides nearly doubling the World Bank's lending resources, Barber Conable has pressed new initiatives involving women and the environment.
The new women in development division, which employs about a dozen specialists, designs projects to improve women's productivity and earnings.
''We basically practice guerrilla warfare, trying to persuade our colleagues in the bank and in developing country governments that it makes sense to invest in women,'' said Barbara Herz, the former Yale economist whom Mr. Conable put in charge of the division.
Though the initiative has won support from many women's groups, the pace of activity has not kept up with rhetoric, some groups say. ''The bank has yet to fully implement what he's been saying, showing how slowly bureaucracies change,'' said Mayra Buvinic, director of the International Center for Research on Women in Washington. ''The bureaucrats still think this is a fad, related to affirmative action, rather than a central issue of development.''
Mr. Conable has also opened a new department for environmental issues and staffed it with more than 50 specialists.
In previous years, the World Bank was strongly criticized by environmental groups for pushing projects with little regard for their ecological implications.
While conceding that ''the bank is doing better,'' one of its sharpest critics, Senator Bob Kasten Jr., Republican of Wisconsin, said that change has been slow and that the environmental issue still represents an ''Achilles heel'' for the institution.
Senator Kasten has been particularly critical of a second loan now being weighed by the bank for the Poloroneste region of northwestern Brazil. Among other things, Mr. Kasten told Mr. Conable in a recent letter, ''it is unclear that the forestry and agricultural programs supported by this loan will be environmentally or economically sustainable.''
The Agency for International Development, a part of the State Department, issues a list every six months of loans of environmental concern being weighed by international institutions. Of 35 projects on the list in December, 24 were World Bank projects.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Barber B. Conable in his World Bank office (NYT/Paul Hosefros); Planting groundnuts at a Nigerian development project. (World Bank/Yosef Hadar); graph: World Bank loans or investments approvd each year, 1980-1989, for International Bank for Reconstruction, International Development Assn. and International Finance Corporation (Source: World Bank)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); MAURITANIA (92%); CHINA (92%); MOROCCO (91%); IRELAND (90%); NICARAGUA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: SICOME SA (72%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (84%); INTERNATIONAL FINANCE CORP (59%); INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (59%); INTERNATIONAL FINANCE CORP (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (IBRD)

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); LOBBYING (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); LAKES (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (68%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: CONABLE, BARBER B JR; FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H DAVE OBEY (56%); 



491 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 16, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 968 words

HEADLINE: Mutual Funds;
Digging Out After Drexel

BYLINE: By Carole Gould

 BODY:
When the crisis at Drexel Burnham Lambert hit the news last Monday, Fidelity Investments, the nation's largest mutual fund company, geared up for Tuesday's flood of telephone calls.
It prepared its telephone sales representatives for the expected onslaught of calls from investors wanting to unload shares in ''junk bond'' mutual funds. And junk-bond portfolio managers worked late into the night developing strategies to deal with the anticipated outflow of cash from the funds. It never happened. ''We had very little activity'' on Tuesday, said Neil Litvack, a vice president of marketing for Fidelity. Shareholders in Fidelity's junk-bond funds who did call asked questions about how the Drexel crisis might affect their investment, but didn't sell their shares. Redemptions were ''at pace with a typical February day,'' Mr. Litvack said. 
At the Vanguard Group, in Valley Forge, Pa., there was ''very little in terms of net cash outflow'' from junk-bond funds, said Brian S. Mattes, vice president. At T. Rowe Price Associates, in Baltimore, there has been no surge in redemptions and few telephone calls.
''We're not seeing the kind of panic reaction and heavy selling that we saw in the past,'' when other bad news about the junk bond market was reported, said Steven N. Norwitz, a vice president at T. Rowe Price. ''Investors seem to be taking it more in stride,'' he said.
Why did shareholders act so differently - so complacently - this time?
Thin-skinned investors, for the most part, have already bolted, fund managers say, leaving a smaller pool of investors who are more savvy and who have a greater tolerance for risk. ''We're left with the people who have evaluated the risks of the fund and want to stick around for the long term,'' said Fidelity's Mr. Litvak.
''We're down to true buy-and-hold investors who are ready to ride it through even if share prices move a nickel or a dime on a given day,'' Vanguard's Mr. Mattes said.
And it may well prove to be a bumpy ride. Fund managers expect a rough-and-tumble market for the next few weeks, as the questions about Drexel - especially how its portfolio will be parceled out - are resolved. But after that, they say, it's back to normal. The market is ''accepting the Drexel news and preparing to go about its business,'' said Carl C. Ericson, manager of the Income Plus Fund for the Boston-based Colonial Group.
Other fund managers point out that during the 18 months that Drexel's problems have been building, Drexel has taken a diminishing role in making the secondary market for junk-bond issues. As it lost its dominant position, other firms took up the slack, meaning that although Drexel was the leading underwriter last year, most of its deals were supported and traded by others.
Some managers are trying to take advantage of the market disruptions, buying what they say they consider good deals at rock-bottom prices. Ken Urbaszewski, manager of the Kemper High-Yield Fund for Kemper Financial Services, in Boston, bought several issues from Drexel early last week. The fund experienced no unusual redemptions, says Mr. Urbaszewski, who thinks the Drexel news ''could be the last shoe to fall before the junk-bond market stabilizes'' in the next few months.
Martin Wiskemann, manager of the Age High-Income Fund, part of Franklin Resources Inc. in San Mateo, Calif., is also buying.
''Bad news is bad for prices, but a couple of months ahead, things will improve when people realize that the cash flows and asset values of these companies are better than the market gives them credit for,'' he said.
For many investors, however, any improvement would be too little, too late. Investors who bet on junk-bond funds last year got a real lesson in the true meaning of ''investment risk.'' When the market began its long slide, yields that reached 15 percent or more were offset by steep drops in the prices of the bonds, producing a dismal overall performance. Each time the market took another hit - the bankrupcty of Resorts International, the downgrade of RJR Nabisco, the Campeau Corporation default - investors fled the market in droves.
At the beginning of the year, the funds held $34 billion of assets, according to the Investment Company Institute, a trade group. The hemorrhaging started in July and was most pronounced in October, when the junk funds lost $1.24 billion. By the end of the year, assets were down 19 percent, to $28 billion. During the year, the assets of virtually all other fund categories were up, in some cases sharply.
Investors who had put their money into safe, United States Government bond funds last year would have earned 12.9 percent. But in the same period, the 88 junk-bond funds lost an average of 0.88 percent, with the biggest loser, the Dean Witter High Yield Fund, dropping almost 14 percent, according to Lipper Analytical Services Inc., which tracks mutual fund performance.
 
POOLED MONEY
Investors tend to be paid more for tying up their money longer.
 Every five years or so, the yield curve flips and the opposite is true, and that's what market watchers had been expecting for 1989. But it didn't happen.
Experts had thought that the economy would be sour and that that would push scared investors into shorter-term investments. To be sure, an inverted yield curve did develop for a few months at the beginning of 1989, but it righted itself for the year as a whole, mainly because the economy stayed strong.
Although the markets expect inverted yield curves on a regular basis, they don't really occur as often as predicted. The last one was in 1981.
This year, there should be no flip-flopping of the yield curve, market watchers say. But there are, as always, the contrarians in the crowd, and so far they are saying it may just be too early to tell.

GRAPHIC: Chart: total return of the five largest junk-bond funds; Graph: average total return on funds, for less than 13 months to 20+ years (Source: Lipper Analytical Services)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TROW (NASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (78%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FMR CORP (92%); VANGUARD GROUP INC (56%); T ROWE PRICE GROUP INC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: DREXEL BURNHAM LAMBERT INC

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES MUTUAL FUNDS (97%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (91%); BOND FUNDS (90%); BONDS (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); BOND MARKETS (76%); SALES FORCE (72%); 

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); 



492 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 13, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 301 words

HEADLINE: The Anti-Dumping Laws Do Work

 BODY:
To the Editor:
As administrator of the United States anti-dumping statute at the Commerce Department, I wish to note that in ''No Justice in Anti-Dumping'' James Bovard misstated department practice in several places (Forum, Jan. 28).
Most troubling was his assertion that the department has disclosed confidential information from foreign businesses to their American competitors. This is untrue. There are stringent rules to protect proprietary data, and sanctions to insure compliance. The integrity of this process lets us collect proprietary information and base dumping calculations on company-specific data.
And the criticism of the department's administrative review process is unfounded. Rather than inflate margins, it is designed to insure that dumping margins reflect up-to-date pricing practices. Once an order is issued, the department does not keep foreign firms ''under economic house arrest for the next 15 years.'' If no dumping margins are found three years in a row, anti-dumping orders can be lifted; more than 80 have been since 1980.
The article contains no recognition that anti-dumping regimes have their foundation in the GATT and are designed to deal with unfairly traded imports that injure a domestic industry. Other governments administer similar regimes, some with considerably less due process. The United States is addressing that problem in the current Uruguay Round of Multilateral Trade Negotiations.
The dumping law is an effective, internationally accepted way to handle unfair trade. It is complex and not perfect. But for American businesses there is justice in knowing that effective relief from unfairly traded goods is available.
 
ERIC I. GARFINKEL
Assistant Secretary
for Import Administration,
Department of Commerce
Washington, Feb. 1

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LETTER

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET ANTIDUMPING LAWS (94%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); IMPORT CONTROLS (76%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (76%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (70%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (69%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (66%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (66%); 

PERSON: GARFINKEL, ERIC I (ASST SEC)



493 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 13, Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: FORUM;
The Selling of Western Water Rights

BYLINE: By SANDRA POSTEL; Sandra Postel is vice president for research at the Worldwatch Institute in Washington.

 BODY:
Last September, the City Council of Aurora, Colo., approved a $1.25 million purchase of agricultural water rights in the South Platte river basin. Eager to secure more water for its rapidly growing population, this municipality east of Denver joined numerous others throughout the West by turning to what it sees as the only vast pool remaining: irrigation water.
Historically, the solution to looming water shortages has been to build additional dams, reservoirs and diversion canals, or more and deeper groundwater wells. Withdrawals from the nation's rivers, lakes and aquifers rose tenfold between 1900 and 1985. 
But with the best water development sites already taken, the cost of new sources is climbing. Mounting concern about the loss of free-flowing rivers, the destruction of freshwater fisheries and damage to wildlife habitats is making new water projects increasingly unacceptable. With water tables falling pervasively and roughly half the West's rivers already overused, new sources of water are simply getting harder to find.
Recognizing that water scarcity will constrain future growth, cities are looking to farmers - and the marketplace - for help. Agriculture has claim to the lion's share of the West's water supplies, accounting for 80 percent to 90 percent of consumption in most states. Cities are effectively bidding supplies away from farms through a process of marketing - the transfer of water or water rights between willing buyers and sellers for an agreed-upon price.
Sale prices have varied greatly, with perpetual water rights having been sold for less than $200 per acre-foot in the Salt Lake City area, but for as high as $3,000 to $6,000 per acre-foot in the rapidly urbanizing Colorado Front Range. (An acre-foot equals 325,850 gallons -enough to supply a typical four-person American household for about two years.) Clearly, if a farmer can earn more by selling water to a nearby city than by using it for growing crops, shifting that water from farm to city use is economically beneficial. If it prevents the city from damming another river to increase supplies, the transfer can also benefit the environment.
Many large trades of this kind, however, could jeopardize crop production. Without protective measures, they will certainly sap the prospects of rural economies where large areas are converted to less lucrative, rain-fed farming, or abandoned to revert to desert.
In Arizona, state law makes it difficult to buy rights to water independent of the land. So Tucson, Phoenix and other rapidly expanding cities have taken to ''water ranching'' - buying up land to get the associated water rights. Already more than 575,000 acres of agricultural land have been purchased as water farms. Some of it will stay in production until the cities actually need the water, but presumably all of it will be removed from farming eventually. In Pima County, where Tucson is located, irrigated agriculture is expected to disappear by 2020.
Fortunately, not all farm-to-city water transfers require that rights be permanently taken out of agriculture. A good example involves a trade between the Metropolitan Water District of Southern California, a wholesaler for roughly half the state's 28 million residents, and the neighboring Imperial Water District. The Metropolitan Water District has agreed to finance conservation projects in exchange for the estimated 100,000 acre-feet of water per year those investments will save. The annual cost per acre-foot conserved is estimated at $128, far lower than the district's best alternative. No cropland is being taken out of production, and no irrigation water rights are actually being sold.
Since agriculture uses such an enormous quantity of water, conserving even a small portion of it can meet a large share of new urban needs.
Raising water prices to reflect the true cost of deliveries is a critical step toward this end. The Federal Bureau of Reclamation supplies water to a quarter of the West's irrigated land under long-term contracts at greatly subsidized prices. Farmers benefiting from one huge California project, for example, have reapaid only about 5 percent of the costs over the last 40 years. Hundreds of Federal contracts are coming up for renewal. If the bureau seizes this opportunity to set prices that prompt farmers to conserve, water stresses in the West could ease measurably.
Cities can turn to conservation within their own boundaries as a largely untapped alternative to reaching out for new supplies. Studies have shown that residential use could easily be cut by a third through known water-saving methods.
While increased efficiency - on farms and in homes and industries - can buy much-needed time, in the long view it is but a stopgap. The thirst for water will grow inexorably as long as human numbers and needs continue to expand.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sandra Postel (NYT/George Tames); drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); UTAH, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); 

CITY: TUCSON, AZ, USA (92%); DENVER, CO, USA (92%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (79%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WESTERN STATES (US)

SUBJECT: WATER; URBAN AREAS; AGRICULTURE; SHORTAGES RIVERS (91%); WATER RIGHTS (91%); WATER QUALITY (91%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PROPERTY LAW (89%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (78%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (78%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (78%); FOOD SECURITY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); IRRIGATION (78%); LAKES (78%); CROP PRODUCTION (78%); MAMMALS (77%); URBANIZATION (75%); WILDLIFE (75%); AGRICULTURE (73%); POPULATION GROWTH (72%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (54%); 

PERSON: POSTEL, SANDRA



494 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 13, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 173 words

HEADLINE: Tax Credits for Health Insurance Won't Work

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In ''Coming to Terms on Health Care,'' Stuart M. Butler touts a Heritage Foundation idea to do away with employer-funded health insurance (Forum, Jan 28). He suggests replacing it with a system of tax credits and individually purchased policies. 
There is a fundamental flaw in his proposal: it is inconsistent with how insurance works.
Any potential cost savings from the tax-credit incentive - encouraging employees to buy their own policies - would be more than consumed by increased administrative expenses. Individual policies are more expensive to administer than group policies. But this pitfall is minor compared with the high administrative cost of assessing the health risks of each individual to set premiums and tax credits. The advantage of group policies is that such assessments aren't necessary because the variance in risk can be averaged over a large number of people.
 
CIARAN PHIBBS
Assistant Professor of Health
Economics, Columbia University
School of Public Health
New York, Jan. 31

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LETTER

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (50%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (56%); HERITAGE FOUNDATION (84%); HERITAGE FOUNDATION (84%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); INSURANCE POLICIES (88%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); 

PERSON: PHIBBS, CIARAN (PROF) STUART M BUTLER (57%); 



495 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1176 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
Peace Dividend: A Dream for Every Dollar

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
No one knows how much the peace dividend will be or when it will be on the books, but the debate over how to use it may dominate American politics for years to come.
In Congress and city halls, in lobbying circles and academic towers, the politicians and the people who try to influence them are salivating over the prospect that the electrifying changes in the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe will permit the United States to spend much less money on the military and create a windfall that can be used elsewhere.
Only in the White House is sand being thrown on the fires of anticipation. President Bush maintains that the peace dividend is a mirage and that talk about it leads to false expectations. 
Asked at a news conference last Monday whether his military budget was not ''out of sync'' and whether he was not ''tone deaf as to what's been happening,'' Mr. Bush responded: ''I think the American people want a cautious approach on this. I don't think any of us think we can see with clairvoyance what's going to happen the day after tomorrow.''
But the news last week served only to fan the flames. The day after the President's news conference, the Soviet Union surprisingly agreed to a Bush proposal to reduce its military forces in Eastern Europe to a level that will allow the United States to withdraw 80,000 troops from Europe, reducing troop strength there by almost a third. Preliminary estimates are that this will save $7 billion to $8 billion a year, a saving that was not fully counted when the President sent his budget to Congress late last month.
In that budget, the President proposed that Pentagon spending rise from $287 billion in the current fiscal year to $292 billion next year and to $305 billion in 1995. While that would be a gradual increase in actual dollars spent, it would be about 2 percent less each year than what would be needed to keep pace with inflation.
By the Administration's own figuring, this would mean spending about $40 billion less in 1995, after taking inflation into account, than is now being spent.
The prevailing view in Congress, among many Republicans as well as Democrats, is that Mr. Bush is shortsighted. For 45 years, United States military policy has been based on defense against a Soviet invasion of Western Europe that could turn into a nuclear holocaust. With each passing week, as the threat from the Soviet Union lessens and as Communism crumbles in the countries along the invasion route to the West - East Germany, Poland, Czechoslovakia and Hungary -that focus seems more anachronistic.
Congress is thus likely to approve much deeper reductions in military spending than the President wants. The lawmakers have paid close attention to some recognized military experts, including former Defense Secretary Robert S. McNamara and William W. Kaufmann, a national security specialist at the Brookings Institution, who believe the Pengaton budget could safely be cut in half by the turn of the century.
That anticipates an average cut of 5 percent a year below this year's level, adjusted for inflation. If that path is followed, an additional $75 billion would be available in 1995 and $150 billion by the end of the decade in 1990 dollars.
There are basically three alternative uses for the windfall: cut taxes, spend the money or use the revenue to reduce the budget deficit and, eventually, the $3 trillion national debt.
Many conservatives favor a tax cut. Senator Phil Gramm, a Texas Republican, argues that ''the American people paid for the superiority of our system to emerge'' and should now be rewarded in kind. ''I don't think the benefits from winning the cold war should go to the Government,'' he declared.
The Heritage Foundation, the conservative research institute, published a paper last week listing 11 different ways to cut taxes.
And not only conservatives take this approach. Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, the New York Democrat, argues that a peace dividend could make up most of the revenue that would be lost from his proposal to cut Social Security taxes.
Many others in Washington and around the country maintain that the United States now has a golden opportunity to meet problems that were overlooked in the tightfisted Reagan years.
Lobbyists for social causes envision using the money for education, housing, drug control and welfare. The General Accounting Office, the auditing arm of Congress, has prepared a list of ''unavoidable costs'' facing the Government, from repairing deficient bridges and highways to modernizing the air traffic control system to cleaning and modernizing troubled nuclear weapons plants. The United States Conference of Mayors last month called for spending the money on urban aid. Two conservatives, Phyllis Schlafly and Paul Weyrich, pleaded with President Bush recently to devote the funds to programs to strengthen the American family.
Economists for the most part would neither cut taxes nor spend the money but would use it to lower the Federal budget deficit and to begin paying off the national debt. Such a policy, says Charles L. Schultze, director of the economic studies program at the Brookings Institution, would lead to lower interest rates, more national savings, greater investment and productivity and, as a result, a much higher living standard for all Americans.
There is little doubt where the American public stands. A New York Times/CBS News poll last month found that 62 percent of Americans, representing a large majority of every demographic and geographic group, would spend the money ''to fight problems such as drugs and homelessness.'' Twenty-one percent would reduce the deficit, 10 percent would cut taxes and the rest had some other answer or no answer at all. But the public may be disappointed. Much of the Pengaton's money for the next several years has already been obligated. Some long-term savings like closing military bases, ending weapons contracts and relocating troops from abroad may actually require additional outlays at first. Lawmakers who want to cut the military budget in the abstract may find it difficult to do so when bases and factories in their states and districts are threatened.
Moreover, history has shown that peace dividends do not stretch as far as might be thought. From 1968, at the height of spending on the Vietnam War, to 1976, the military budget fell, in 1990 dollars, from $302 billion to $195 billion. Without a plan or much public debate, most of the money went to increased Social Security and Medicare payments, and the public hardly noticed it.
Because the economy has grown so much in the ensuing years, the peace dividend this time will be a much smaller fraction of the gross national product than it was after Vietnam.
Isabel V. Sawhill, a scholar at the Urban Institute, does not agree with President Bush that a peace dividend may not materialize, but she cautions against over-enthusiasm.
''Real defense spending is almost surely on a downward path,'' she said, ''but it's unlikely to solve most of our problems.''

GRAPHIC: Drawing; graph of military budget projections before and after the outbreak of peace in late 1989, 1991-95 (Source: Congressional Budget Office)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (94%); EASTERN EUROPE (88%); GERMANY (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); POLAND (79%); HUNGARY (77%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; INCOME TAX; FEDERAL TAXES (US) US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); LOBBYING (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (74%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (70%); APPROVALS (68%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (52%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (55%); 



496 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 18, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 503 words

HEADLINE: More Hype Than HOPE

 BODY:
The Bush Administration's new housing initiative, announced with great ballyhoo by the President and Housing Secretary Jack Kemp, certainly has a ring to it. HOPE, it's called, the last word in inspirational acronyms: Homeownership and Opportunity for People Everywhere, a package filled with promising programs.
But hype aside, the numbers don't add up to much. Except for a new focus on converting public housing to tenant ownership and a small but genuine effort to address the homeless problem, HOPE is mainly a menu of familiar strategies. Like the rest of the President's domestic program, HOPE is long on talk and short on money. 
The most troubling aspect of this housing strategy is what H.U.D. has not proposed: a national housing policy concentrating on those who most need help. Nearly 11 million low-income households that receive no public housing assistance need help. The proposed $23.7 billion H.U.D. budget will not go very far toward helping them.
There's no funding at all for new public housing, no substantial effort to encourage private industry to build low-income housing. HOPE's centerpiece is a plan to help people already in publicly assisted housing buy their apartments.
H.U.D. officials acknowledge they'll have to use even this program judiciously. Tenants in public housing who buy their homes and apartments will at some point lose the Federal subsidies that now allow them to pay only 30 percent of their incomes for rent. There's another problem with tenant ownership. Successful public housing projects include a mix of people, ranging from very poor and troubled people to stable families. Once Government moves out, the new tenant owners are understandably likely to keep out ''undesirables'' - often precisely the most troubled and most needy.
The HOPE conversion proposal is a welcome tool to help save some troubled housing projects. But tenant ownership is no substitute for a real housing policy. The programs aren't there, and neither is the money.
Consider total H.U.D. spending. It includes $7.7 billion in existing subsidies that are expiring and have to be renewed. If that's taken into account, along with inflation, H.U.D.'s request for the next fiscal year is actually down a bit from 1990. It cuts several programs and proposes that 82,000 new households get public housing assistance, compared with the 109,000 requested last year.
HOPE itself carries very little new funding, despite H.U.D. news releases. It borrows from other programs, one reason for the cuts. If America is to have a true housing policy, there are three approaches:
The Federal Government can build public housing the way it used to, unpopular but still generally successful. It can provide more vouchers and certificates to poorer people to help them afford rents where vacant housing is available. And it can provide long-term, high-rate incentives to encourage banks to underwrite housing development.
The pretty, mostly empty package called HOPE provides none of the above.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING & URBAN DEVELOPMENT (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT (HUD)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: HOUSING; HOMELESS PERSONS; PUBLIC HOUSING; FEDERAL AID (US); EDITORIALS HOUSING AUTHORITIES (93%); PUBLIC HOUSING (93%); REAL ESTATE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); FAMILY (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (78%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (78%); HOMELESSNESS (75%); BUDGETS (75%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (73%); CITIES (59%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES)



497 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 18, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 376 words

HEADLINE: Painless Way to Cut Social Security Deductions

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Congressional reactions to Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan's proposal to cut the Social Security tax have centered on how to replenish the payroll tax revenue being counted toward deficit reductions under the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings Act. Neither raising other taxes (income or gasoline) nor cutting spending (defense or nondefense) is acceptable to many, as evidenced in your report on the Senate Finance Committee confrontation between Senator Moynihan and Richard G. Darman, the White House budget director (news article, Feb. 9).
There is another option, but it depends on a willingness to see the relationship of the Treasury to Social Security reserves as it really is, not in a distorted view as dishonesty or fraud. Reserves in the Social Security trust funds are by law required to be invested in United States Government bonds. So the Treasury quite legitimately is using the funds thus borrowed to defray expenses and is paying interest on these bonds. This is neither thievery nor embezzlement. What may make it appear so is that annual additions to the Social Security reserves count toward deficit reductions, thereby making the budget deficit look smaller than it is. 
The real problem with the Treasury's borrowing from Social Security is that it is borrowing from, in a manner of speaking, the wrong people -bluntly put, it forces low- and middle-income wage earners, including the working poor, to lend to the Government. This interpretation inspires the following suggestion.
Instead of raising additional income taxes, the Government could issue interest-bearing bonds to people who would otherwise have to pay more income tax if Congress chose that option. This would force the right people to lend to the Government. Let's call them ''income-tax bonds,'' carrying maturities of five to seven years, which would be staggered to avoid bunching repayment. The interest rate would be the average of United States Government securities, the same rate paid on the Government bonds in which the Social Security trust funds invest. This could be an acceptable alternative.
 
YUNG-PING CHEN
 Boston, Feb. 14, 1990
 
The writer holds the Frank J. Manning chair in gerontology at the University of Massachusetts.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (US); TAXATION; INCOME TAX; FEDERAL TAXES (US); GOVERNMENT BONDS SOCIAL SECURITY (94%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); BONDS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (78%); EMBEZZLEMENT (78%); TAX LAW (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); CORPORATE TAX (77%); PENSION FUNDS (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); GERONTOLOGY (73%); WRITERS (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); 

PERSON: CHEN, YUNG-PING (PROF) DANIEL PATRICK MOYNIHAN (92%); RICHARD GORDON 'RICHARD G' DARMAN (57%); 



498 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 18, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 527 words

HEADLINE: Painless Way to Cut Social Security Deductions;
Saving the System

 BODY:
To the Editor:
My friends Henry J. Aaron and Charles L. Schultze, senior fellows at the Brookings Institution, correctly reject Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan's proposal to suspend the Social Security increase in payroll taxes (Op-Ed, Jan. 18). They do so because repeal would add to the overall deficit when increased saving and investment are needed for economic growth. They propose that the repeal be matched by an increase in other taxes. This would reduce reliance on the regressive payroll tax without adding to the deficit. It would also stop the phony use of Social Security surplus to camouflage the budget deficit. 
True enough, but as they note, their plan would also move Social Security fully toward pay as you go. As I see it, this would threaten its future as a contributory plan, which the 1983 reform, of which Senator Moynihan was a sponsor, was designed to avoid. It was realized then that, because of an aging population, future benefits would exceed contributions, requiring a sharp increase in payroll taxes later.
Such a pay-as-you-go approach would be unfair and politically untenable, undermining the stability of the system. A set of earlier and more modest tax increases was scheduled, permitting buildup of a reserve. The reserve was to be invested in outstanding United States securities, reducing the volume of debt held by the public. But instead, the Social Security account surplus is used as an excuse not to reduce the deficit in the regular budget, permitting the Budget Limitation Act to be met painlessly.
This is a sham. But the remedy is not to scuttle the 1983 reform. Social Security as a contributory system is sound, and the payroll tax, though regressive, should not be viewed in isolation. The benefit side of the system must also be considered, and its net effect is to favor lower incomes.
Instead, the following three steps should be taken:
(1) The Social Security surplus should be separated entirely from Government debt and invested in capital assets, whether fee-yielding public investments in infrastructure or by providing capital to the private sector.
(2) The Social Security system should truly be taken out of the budget, so that it can no longer be used to camouflage the deficit.
(3) Steps should be taken to balance the regular budget. Pending the emergence of a peace dividend, this may be done by raising the first-bracket rate of income tax to 16 percent and the top bracket to 33 percent.
This package will preserve Social Security, while stopping abuse of its surplus. By adding to revenue, it will also permit reversal of the misguided easy fiscal-tight money policy that has plagued us for years. Threatening reduction in the payroll tax to prevent reinstatement of the capital-gains preference might be a clever political move; but if both were enacted, damage to the Social Security system would be compounded by dropping a key component of the 1986 tax reform.
 
RICHARD A. MUSGRAVE
 Santa Cruz, Calif., Jan. 26, 1990
 
The writer, H. H. Burbank Professor of Political Economy emeritus at Harvard University, is a University of California adjunct professor.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (84%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (US); TAXATION; INCOME TAX; FEDERAL TAXES (US); BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES SOCIAL SECURITY (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); CORPORATE TAX (90%); TAX LAW (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (77%); AGING TRENDS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); AGING (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); INCOME TAX (63%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%); 

PERSON: MUSGRAVE, RICHARD A (PROF) DANIEL PATRICK MOYNIHAN (92%); 



499 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 19, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 742 words

HEADLINE: ON MY MIND;
China Gulag Inc.

BYLINE: By A. M. Rosenthal

 BODY:
Here is some important legal and business information for Americans importing goods from China or investing in Chinese factories or mines:
The chances are high that you are breaking the law of the United States.
Specifically, Chapter 19, Section 1307 of the United States Code. It is entitled ''Convict Made Goods; Importation Prohibited'' and reads as follows:
''All goods, wares, articles and merchandise mined, produced or manufactured wholly or in part in any foreign country by convict labor or/and forced labor or/and indentured labor under penal sanctions shall not be entitled to entry at any of the ports of the United States, and the importation thereof is hereby prohibited.''
The Chinese Government is not only the largest user of forced labor in world history, but its Communist economy is heavily dependent on it. Thousands of camps scattered around the country, millions of forced laborers, perhaps more than 20 million at this moment. 
Many labor camps are specifically set up and organized to manufacture goods for export. Specialists on Chinese commerce have no doubt that slave-labor products and raw material reach the United States market.
So far the United States has chosen to ignore the import ban. But here is another business note for Americans in the China trade: The Congress of the United States is likely to try to change that this year.
The full Congressional spotlight will focus on the Chinese gulag for the first time - a Government report due about May 1, hearings, investigations, legislative action.
Senator Jesse Helms, Republican of North Carolina, is organizing the Congressional battle to expose the convict labor system that underlies so much of the Chinese Communist economy. He will be joined by other Republicans and Democrats, conservative and liberal, in what will be another bipartisan effort to fight the Bush Administration's policy of appeasing Beijing.
In the Senate and then in the House of Representatives, legislation will be introduced to enforce the law and impose real penalties - fines, seizure of goods and treble damages.
The plan also is to give organizations like labor unions and business associations the legal right to sue against forced-labor imports. Currently that right is limited to companies damaged by the import of forced-labor merchandise. There will be a legislative effort to write regulations against American investment in enterprises using forced labor. Forced labor has been essential to the Chinese Communist economy for 40 years, although the world carefully looked away. The regime has said so openly in the law of the land: ''Production from reform-through-labor shall become a part of the overall plan for the reconstruction of the nation's production capabilities.''
The same law also states: ''Plans for the distribution and coordination of the labor of criminals will be based on the number of criminals in each area and on the needs of production and the reconstruction of the nation.''
The Chinese millions being ''reformed'' by being forced to work unpaid for the profit of the Communist system include those deemed ordinary criminals.
In China, conviction is a formality after arraignment. Not-guilty pleas are an insult to the state.
Political prisoners are also used in forced labor. Now, once again, that can be anybody the Government wants to put away. Other millions are ordered into ''job placement camps'' when spot needs develop - large-scale impressment gangs.
The factories are not merely ancillary to the camps. The contrary. Around China, prisons are established in or near factories specifically designed economically and physically to depend on forced labor.
The slave-labor factories and mines produce textiles, chemicals, iron, coal, tools, machinery, consumer goods and other Chinese exports.
The Bush Administration is expected to try to block legislative action, veto it or cripple it by demanding power for the President to waive enforcement.
And some American businesses that trade in the sweat of slave labor will lobby against the ban, arguing that the Chinese people will be hurt.
That argument could be countered easily: banning imports from slave-labor plants and dollar exports to them would open jobs in the non-prison economy.
But do we really have to debate? Even arguing the point seems like pandering to hard-core hypocrisy. The ban is American law. It remains only to enforce it - sorrowfully past time.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-ed

COUNTRY: CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (58%); 

COMPANY: BUSH ADMINISTRATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: LABOR; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LAW AND LEGISLATION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PRISON INDUSTRIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); IMPORT CONTROLS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (77%); LABOR UNIONS (75%); CONSERVATISM (74%); LIBERALISM (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (64%); DAMAGES (61%); HISTORY (54%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); ROSENTHAL, A M



500 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1990

SECTION: Section 5; Page 19, Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 2603 words

HEADLINE: China After Tiananmen Square

BYLINE: By CAROL KRAMER; CAROL KRAMER is an editor of 7 Days, a New York weekly.

 BODY:
WHO would be the first to mention Tiananmen Square, I wondered as I embarked on a 12-day tour of China in December with 33 other Americans - one of the first large tourist groups back in China since the events of last June 4. The speculation was incredibly naive.
One can barely get through customs before a Chinese guide or hotel clerk says something about what is variously referred to as ''the incident,'' the ''events'' or ''the turmoil'' that caused American tourism to drop 80 percent almost immediately.
The American tourist is a prized commodity in China today, lured by lower prices (my tour with Orient Flexi-Pax, for instance, cost about half what it would have pre-Tiananmen Square), red-carpet treatment, sumptuous hotel rooms and everywhere and always, empassioned entreaties to end the tourist embargo.
The pleas can be ironic: ''You see, the situation is much better here than in Romania,'' one guide joked. Or they can be heartbreaking: Toward the end of a cruise down the Li River to see the striking stone forest landscape created by rock formations around Guilin, I sat down at a table where a young Chinese woman was humming an American tune. She didn't know what it was. ''It's 'Edelweiss' from 'The Sound of Music,' '' I told her. It was the strain that goes, ''Bless my homeland forever.'' 
She asked me why so many Americans were staying away from China. I explained that they were afraid. She understood that. Then I tried to explain that many Americans also feel that visiting China might be politically incorrect, construed as acceptance of what happened in June. That was a concept she couldn't understand at all. ''Yes, but not coming will only hurt the people. You will tell people it's all right to come, yes?'' she said, tears in her eyes.
Touring China today is like riding a roller coaster. There are breathless highs and stomach-wrenching lows. One minute you're listening in shock to your guide's description of the monthlong ''re-education'' he went through last summer because his brother was one of the student radicals. The next moment you're laughing at a Jimmy Hoffa joke another guide is cracking in flawless American idiom. You enjoy a couple of glasses of wine at your hotel one night, only to learn the next day that they cost you the equivalent of one month's salary in China.
This is not to say that traveling in China is uncomfortable - for the psyche or anything else. Except for a few guards at Tiananmen Square, the soldiers have been off the streets for two months. We were there just before martial law was lifted but saw no signs of it - with one possible exception. Friends tell me that before, you couldn't walk down the street without people trying to practice their English on you. On three walks - in Guilin, Beijing and Shanghai - I encountered very few Chinese wanting to chat.
Still, my group - which included teen-agers, teachers, businessmen, a radiologist from South Africa now living in Houston, a dentist from Minsk now living in New Jersey and a plumber from Brookline, Mass., who managed to carry a carton of Budweiser along with him to the Great Wall - agreed that it was the best tour they had ever taken. Even this travel snob, on her first group tour, had few complaints.
The China International Travel Service (CITS) supervised our visit to the top tourist cities - Beijing, Shanghai, Guilin and Xian - with military precision. We were like guests at a Chinese banquet, sampling a little of this, a little of that. The Great Wall, then a Friendship Store for souvenirs. A visit to a township (formerly commune) sandwiched between the Reed Flute Cave and the oldest banyan tree in Guilin. Superficial, yes, but this was not a trip for China scholars. It was calculated to give maximum photography and shopping opportunities. My chief complaint: the obligatory stops at factories and outlet stores. But our group, said Wendy, the national guide who accompanied us everywhere, bought more stuff than any other group she had ever escorted - and she appreciated what we had done for the economy.
Since my return, these are the questions everyone has asked:
 
What about Tiananmen Square?
Before June, Tiananmen Square was just one more stop in a dizzying schedule. Today, it's the No. 1 tourist site in China, according to Flexi-Pax. And so it was with us, the place we kept thinking about throughout the tour, and finally, on New Year's Eve, we saw it.
Wendy had told us on the first day of the trip that we could walk freely anyplace in China, except for the square. When we arrived there, at dusk, only four armed guards were stationed in the 100-acre square. Silently, Chinese biked along the street, staring at the group of Americans frantically taking pictures. Wendy had to talk the guards into letting us into the square, and they did so only after looking at some passports, even though she had previously obtained official permission to bring us there. It was the only time we felt frightened in China - and the first time we had felt ashamed. It was like walking on someone's grave. For once, Wendy had no trouble shepherding us back to the bus.
 
What did the Chinese say?
A lot, surprisingly. The guides are obviously trained to skirt difficult questions. When someone asked Wendy whether democracy would ever come to China, she quickly said, ''To me, democracy is too abstract to discuss.'' But the guides were forthcoming about most subjects. A quick-witted English literature major who loves Thomas Hardy and Jane Austen, Wendy could describe economic reforms, the Cultural Revolution and Chiang Kai-shek's theft of treasures from the Forbidden City competently and reasonably. As the tour went on and the group bonded, the guides became more open.
Soon after the news of the Ceausescu execution, a guide said, ''The big fishes here are worried. But we'd never shoot Deng. We appreciate what he did for the economy.'' And in Beijing, when the group made what seemed to me the 72d stop at a Friendship Store, a guide pulled me aside and pointed out the overpass ''where the students tried to stop the tanks,'' a few blocks away. I walked over, but there was nothing left but memories from the nightly news.
A young man we encountered said democracy would come ''when all the old men are gone,'' and one of our guides expressed the same thought. When we drove by a huge billboard in Beijing and asked what it said, our guide said with great sarcasm, ''Oh, it says only the socialists can save China.''
 
What did you see?
In Guilin, the scenery; in Shanghai, remnants of the colonial past; in Xian, the phenomenal 2,000-year-old terra-cotta warriors guarding the tomb of Emperor Qin Shi Huang Di, and in Beijing, just what you'd expect - the Forbidden City and other familiar sights scattered around a generic big city that could be plopped down anywhere in the world. However, in China, the expected, like the Great Wall, always turns out to be unexpected.
And of course, we saw a good portion of China's millions of bikes (six million in Beijing alone) and one billion people - some driving water-buffalo-powered tractors, some shopping for hair dryers, radios, televisions and Christian Dior cosmetics.
Some of the stops seemed too well orchestrated - for instance, the visit to what is supposedly a typical farmer's home in Guilin. Dirty underwear was left on a chair in the living room, and the bottles on the sink were so dusty the place looked as though no one had occupied it for years. And if someone did live there, where were they and what on earth were we doing snooping around?
What was most noticeable, perhaps, in Guilin and Shanghai was the cold. Beijing, it seems, has decreed that it doesn't get cold south of the Yangtze River, so even when the thermometer reaches, say, 35 degrees, no heat is provided. Some children in the school we visited were playing the violin with coats on. And the Chuanshan township we visited was bone-chilling, especially the clinic, where a husky nurse gave us mini-back rubs to encourage us to buy a bottle of Zhanjian medicinal oil. She swore it would prevent us from catching cold in China.
 
How was the food?
What was the most memorable moment of the tour, I asked the group on our last night in China, at a banquet at the Hui Feng Tan restaurant in Beijing, where we were eating a gelatinous stew of pigs' feet and mushrooms; stir-fried, shredded pig's stomach, and other delicacies before they brought on the Peking duck. ''Breakfast at the Shanghai Hilton,'' responded Carolyn, a Southerner. She was only half joking. Breakfast in Shanghai typified the kind of luxury the Chinese are willing to stake tourists to in 1990.
To get to the Hilton's coffee shop, we'd had to cross a moat in the huge marble lobby. Students from the Shanghai Conservatory were playing Mozart on a balcony, and as in every hotel we visited, the staff seemed to outnumber the guests. (At the Hilton, probably Shanghai's grandest hotel, occupancy has gone from 85 percent to 20 percent since June.) There were pancakes, waffles with blueberries, eggs Benedict, quiche, bacon, sausage, mountains of pastries and muffins and a vast array of fresh fruits, including kumquats and litchis.
All our breakfasts in China were Western style, and usually consisted of an enormous buffet. The Chinese meals ranged from execrable in the country - where we might encounter lard-saturated stir-fries served on chipped, dirty plates - to quite sophisticated fare in Beijing and Shanghai.
Most meals started with cold appetizers, which we would select from a Lazy Susan. Ham, pickled cabbage, peanuts, pickles and hard-boiled eggs were the usual choices. Then the kitchen would send out hot platters of food - stir-fries with pork and chicken; pieces of roast chicken, duck or turkey; bean curd in hot sauce, and always plates of stir-fried greens, usually bok choy. Also accompanying most meals were a dish of scrambled eggs and tomatoes, and french fries - probably a concession to Western tastes. And most ended with a steamed fish, usually carp, and hot soup. Rice, to the annoyance of many, usually appeared at the end of the meal, and according to one hotel official, it wasn't of the same high quality you get in Hong Kong: ''The first-grade rice is exported.''
With every meal came vast quantities of the local beer and orange soda. The beer was good but got monotonous, as did the food by the end of the trip. Some people ordered Cokes or mineral water, and some of us tried the Western-inspired wines of China. Named Great Wall, Dynasty and Calvin, they are medium-dry and taste like a good California chenin blanc (if California made a good chenin blanc).
 
How were the hotels?
A few years ago, we were told, natives weren't allowed in the tourist hotels. Today, if they have the money they are, though we rarely encountered any in the marble-and-crystal palaces where we stayed.
The Hilton is in the area that was the French concession in the 1930's, and except for the laundry hanging out of every window, the area looks like it was airlifted out of Lyons. With nine kitchens, including a chocolate kitchen and a charcuterie, the Hilton is an enclave of affluence. All bathroom fixtures are marble, rooms are big enough to hold a ball in and the service is almost disturbingly obsequious. A hotel executive explained it was because ''we're able to fire.'' At most hotels in China, employers are not allowed to fire or promote, making it difficult to persuade staff to encourage people to buy a souvenir or have another cup of coffee.
The Shangri-La in Beijing is another example of near decorating overkill. The Holiday Inn in Guilin and the Golden Flower in Xian were less ornate but well equipped and comfortable.
 
How was the flight?
Ever since the Chinese went into tourism in a big way, opening Western-style hotels and training first-rate English-speaking guides, visiting China has not had the sort of Indiana Jones air of adventure it used to have. And so, I think, someone decided to maintain the pioneer spirit with the service on Air China.
The airport in Guilin looks like it stepped out of a 1935 Warner Brothers movie. The temporary domestic terminal in Shanghai looks even older and more decrepit, with hand-lettered signs announcing that smokers will be arrested. Our planes, except for one very dilapidated Boeing 737, were Russian Tupalovs. When you sat down, your seat slid out from under you, which was only a problem if you were in one of the few seats with working seat belts. Overhead compartments were wide open; on one flight the toilet burst, and the contents had spread to the middle of the plane by the time we landed.
Were we scared? Only when we were told we might be delayed going into and out of Xian because of the fog and discovered that there was no radar. The morning we left, the fog kept us on the ground for four hours. Fortunately, the waiting room had seats - a luxury in China - and four of us played bridge while the Chinese around us kibitzed.
All our flights, though, were smooth, uneventful (except for the lavatory explosion) and pleasant. The stewardesses served tea and box lunches of filled buns, a piece of cold chicken and chocolate bars.
 
What are the people like?
Since our stay was brief and most of our contact with the Chinese was pro forma, it would be foolish to pontificate on what people in China are like or what they think.
Peddlers, who descend on tourist groups like swarms of locusts, constituted most of our contacts with the populace. But it was clear that our guides - all city people - were disdainful of these hard-working entrepreneurs who would cheat us out of a dollar or two whenever they could. ''Don't pay more than 20 yuan for a large jacket,'' we were warned as we got off the bus in Xian. ''And get the merchandise in your hand before you pay.'' Okay, so I didn't and someone sold me a quilt with embroidery on just one side. I admired her spirit.
And so what if our visit to a Shanghai children's palace (an after-school activity group for gifted children) was shamefully manipulative, guaranteed to trick Americans, a cynic might say, into feelings of universal friendship. It worked.
The children assigned to greet us spoke perfect English. If they had been directed to hold our hands and sit on our laps, then they did it well. We went from classroom to classroom where children were waiting to perform. In one room an accordion band played the ''Clarinet Polka,'' and even now this former accordion player gets teary-eyed remembering. In other rooms, they played ''Yankee Doodle Dandy'' on the violin and sang ''It's a Small World'' in Chinese. As we left the building, a little boy ran up to one of the women and said, ''Please give my love to your children in America.'' Wendy and the local guide poured a bunch of emotionally exhausted tourists onto the bus for the trip back to the Hilton.
Our last night in China was similarly wrenching. Wendy gave a speech thanking us for our visit and beseeching us to ''tell everybody China is a beautiful country and if they don't come I'll lose my job.'' Her boss at CITS also spoke, thanking us for coming ''after the June 4 incident.'' Somehow, I was drafted to give the group's farewell speech, and fortified by a few glasses of Great Wall, I did. But I don't remember a word of it.
 
Orient Flexi-Pax (630 Third Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10017, telephone 212-692-9550 or 800-545-5540) offers 10- to 21-day all-inclusive tours of China, some with Hong Kong segments, costing from $1,499 to $3,499.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Cleaning onions on a communal farm in Guilin (Carol Kramer); In Beijing, a generic modern city coexists with Old China (Sadayuki Mikami/Associated Press); Policemen in Tiananmen Square in Beijing, scene of the massacre of June 4, 1989; The lakeside Marble Boat at the Summer Palace in Beijing, right; In the heart of Old Shanghai, by the entrance to the 16th-century Yu Gardens, above; The Great Wall, begun in the third century B.C., winds across 1,500 miles of northern China; In the Shanghai children's palace, violinists perform for visitors (Forrest Anderson/Gamma-Liaison (Tiananmen Square); other photographs by Carol Kramer) (pg. 19); Outside the tomb of Emperor Qin Shi Huang Di, in Xian. (Carol Kramer) (pg. 28); map of China (pg. 19)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); ROMANIA (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (95%); EAST CHINA (92%); GUANGXI, CHINA (73%); SHAANXI, CHINA (58%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (92%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA; TIANANMEN SQUARE (BEIJING); BEIJING (CHINA)

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; NYTRAVEL; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); HOTEL STAFF (71%); POLITICS (63%); 

PERSON: KRAMER, CAROL MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); 



501 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1990

SECTION: Section 5; Page 10, Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 1749 words

HEADLINE: WHAT'S DOING IN: Orlando

BYLINE: By TODD WOODY; TODD WOODY is a reporter for The Palm Beach Post.

 BODY:
If Orlando had not existed before Walt Disney World, those who built the central Florida entertainment empire would probably have had to invent the city. With 32,000 workers and more than 23 million annual visitors, Disney World relies on Orlando and surrounding communities to house its employees and administer the airport that is the gateway to its three theme parks: the Magic Kingdom, Epcot Center and Disney-MGM Studios.
Although only 19 years have passed since the opening of Disney World, few recall life before Mickey Mouse. In effect, the Mouse (or other evocations of Walt Disney) is everywhere - on road signs, at information booths at Orlando International Airport, on advertisements for the official Disney airline, the official Disney cruise line and the official Disney car rental company.
There is more to come: a fourth Disney theme park; the 1,500-room Dolphin Hotel, which will be Florida's largest hotel; 29 more attractions at the three existing theme parks and doubling the size of the movie theme park. 
While it is possible to spend one's entire vacation in Disney World, many other attractions beckon, from Sea World and the Kennedy Space Center to Orlando's quiet and leafy downtown.
 
What's New
The most talked-about attraction is the Star Tours ride at Disney-MGM Studios. Based on the ''Star Wars'' trilogy, Star Tours takes visitors on a journey to the Moon of Endor. The trip begins with a visit to the Village of the Ewoks, populated by overgrown teddy bear-like creatures. Robots R2-D2 and C-3PO are on hand before visitors enter a 40-passenger flight simulator designed as a Star Speeder spaceship.
While passengers watch a large screen, the Star Speeder rocks and rolls as it maneuvers through an asteroid shower. After a dogfight with the Empire's fighter ships, passengers survive a showdown with Darth Vader's Death Star.
Visitors can take a journey through inner space at Epcot's Wonders of Life pavilion. In Body Wars, visitors board a flight simulator and take a trip through the human bloodstream. When their human host becomes ill, the ship goes on a rescue mission. On the way to the brain, the ship is buffeted by the beating heart and endures gale-force winds in the lungs.
Disney has tried to lure young adults by adding the Pleasure Island complex of seven nightclubs, six restaurants and a 10-screen movie theater.
A one-day, one-park ticket is $31, $25 for ages 3 to 9. Children under 3 free. A four-day pass is $100, $80 for children 3 to 9. A five-day pass is $117, $95 for children 3 to 9.
 
A Rival Park
In a community dominated by Disney and where the opening of a new entertainment complex ranks as a major civic event, the opening this coming May of Universal Studios Florida has been a major topic of conversation in Orlando.
Built to rival the Disney-MGM Studios Theme Park, Universal's $600 million, 444-acre park will have movie and TV production facilities surrounded by attractions. Universal has retained Steven Spielberg as a creative consultant (Disney has George Lucas) and has based some of the attractions on ''E.T.'' and other Spielberg movies.
Universal will try to out-Disney Disney with rides like King Kong Kongfrontation and Earthquake - the Big One. In Kong, visitors will ride a tram through a set as life-size helicopters buzz a 30-foot-tall ape. When King Kong takes a swipe at the tram, the cars (connected to cables) fall 20 feet.
Universal calls its Florida studios the largest movie and TV complex outside of Hollywood and promises visitors a look at the movie-making process. In the ''Murder, She Wrote'' Post-Production Theater, visitors become executive producers and choose the guest star, plot and special effects for an episode of the TV series.
Like Disney, Universal's park will also have roving cartoon characters, souvenir shops and restaurants.
Universal Studios Florida (407-363-8000) is 10 miles southwest of Orlando (about 30 minutes from the airport) at the intersection of Interstate 4 and Florida's Turnpike. A one-day ticket will be $29, $23 for children 3 to 11. Free for children under 3. A two-day pass will be $49, $39 for children.
 
Coming Events
Performers from the Royal Danish Ballet and the Southern Ballet Theater will present an ''International Evening of Dance'' next Friday and Saturday at the Bob Carr Performing Arts Center (407-849-2020) at 401 West Livingston Street, Orlando. Tickets: $10 to $24.
The three-day Kissimmee Blue Grass Festival begins March 2 at the Silver Spurs Rodeo Arena (407-896-6641) on U.S. 192, about six miles east of Kissimmee. Admission is $25 for a three-day pass, $15 for Friday only, $12 for Saturday only and $12 for Sunday only.
From March 16 to 18 the annual Winter Park Arts Festival (407-644-8281) will be held from 9 A.M. to dusk in Central Park between New York and Park avenues in Orlando. The festival attracts artists from across the Southeast United States.
''Footsteps,'' an exhibit from the Israeli Museum of the Diaspora, will make its American debut on April 2 and continue to June 2 at the Historical Museum of Orange County (407-898-8320) at 812 Rollins Street, Orlando. The exhibit on Jewish immigration from 1640 to 1870 focuses on several American communities, including Savannah, Ga. The entry fee is $2, $1 for children.
Arts in April is a month-long festival held throughout the Orlando area. On April 1 at 3 P.M., the soprano Faith Esham will offer a program of classical and semiclassical works at the Bob Carr Performing Arts Center. Tickets: $10, $20 and $25. A list of Arts in April events is available by calling 407-420-2150 after March 20 or the Orlando Mayor's Office (407-849-2221) before then.
 
What to See
Sea World (407-351-3600) at Interstate 4 and the Beeline Highway offers whales, dolphins, sharks and other marine animals in a variety of shows and exhibits. Open every day from 9 A.M. to 8 P.M.; entry fee: $25.40, $21.15 for children 3 to 9. Children under 3 free.
About 40 miles from Orlando, Space Port U.S.A. (407-452-2121) offers a two-hour bus tour of the Kennedy Space Center and Cape Canaveral Air Force Station on Merritt Island. Beginning at Spaceport U.S.A., the tour stops at the space shuttle and moon launch site and the 525-foot-high Vehicle Assembly Building. Open 9 A.M. to 6 P.M. First bus tour leaves at 9:45 A.M., the last one at 3:30 P.M. Entry fee: $4, $1.75 for ages 3 to 12. Take the Beeline Highway in Orlando east to Kennedy Space Center.
For a break from the manufactured fun of Disney World, downtown Orlando offers an oasis of lakes and tree-shaded avenues. Visitors can stroll around Lake Eola Park or peddle across the lake in swan-shaped paddle boats ($5.30 for 30 minutes).
The Leu Botanical Gardens (407-849-2620) at 1730 North Forest Avenue contains 40 acres of camellias, ancient oaks and subtropical and tropical plants and flowers on the former estate of the industrialist Harry P. Leu. Open every day from 9 A.M. to 5 P.M. Admission: $3.
Once the winter home of wealthy Northeasterners, the town of Winter Park has retained a small-town atmosphere. A few miles north of Orlando off I-4, Winter Park is known for graceful estates along Lake Virginia. Park Avenue, a four-block shopping district lined with palm trees, has boutiques, specialty stores and cafes across from Central Park.
The Morse Museum of American Art (407-644-3686) at 133 East Welbourne Avenue, Winter Park, has one of the country's largest collections of Tiffany stained glass. The museum is open from 9:30 A.M. to 4 P.M., Tuesday to Saturday and 1 to 4 P.M. on Sunday. Admission: $2.50, $1 for children and students.
 
Where to Stay
For visitors planning to spend most of their time at Disney World, there are several hotels in the complex.
The Swan, a 758-room luxury hotel designed by Michael Graves, offers rooms for two ranging from $185 to $285. Opened in January, the Swan is in the new Epcot Resort Area and is connected to Epcot Center by tram and a boardwalk. A boat ferries guests to Disney-MGM Studios.
The Contemporary Resort near the Magic Kingdom has rooms for two at $160 to $230. The budget-priced Caribbean Beach Resort is connected by bus to Epcot Center and Disney-MGM Studios. Rooms for two: $69 to $99. (Call 407-934-7639 for reservations at all Disney World hotels.) Outside the Disney complex, the luxury Hyatt Grand Cypress (800-228-9000) at 1 Cypress Boulevard, Orlando, charges $160 to $225 for two.
Budget choice: Travelodge (800-225-3050), where rates for two start at $41 and range up to $78, depending on proximity to Disney World, the day of the week and the month.
 
Where to Eat
Victoria and Albert's in Disney World's Grand Floridian hotel (407-824-2383) offers a fixed-price dinner of Continental cuisine and seafood for $65 a person, not including wine or drinks. The dinner includes a choice of three appetizers, two soups and salads, an entree and after-dinner cheeses and ports. The restaurant specializes in souffle desserts.
There are two or three sittings in the dining room, which has a hand-painted domed ceiling and a harpist. Reservations required.
Another popular Disney restaurant is the Louis XV-style Empress Room (407-828-3900) on the Empress Lilly river boat in Disney Village Market Place. Chilled avocado soup, mushroom salad and Dover sole are featured. Dinner for two with wine: about $130. Reservations required.
The Epcot Center World Showcase offers more economical dining with entrees starting at $10 at half a dozen restaurants. Each offers a different cuisine, including Italian, Chinese, British and Indian.
Outside Disney World, Montezinos (407-841-6668) at 800 North Magnolia Avenue in Orlando is a local favorite. The restaurant serves Italian and Continental cuisine in two dining rooms. Dinner for two with wine in the Gourmet Room: about $90; in the regular dining room, $70. The menu features grilled salmon with caviar champagne sauce and other seafood specialties. Reservations recommended.
The Park Plaza Gardens Restaurant (407-645-2475) at 319 South Park Avenue in Winter Park offers fresh seafood and Continental cuisine. Dinner for two with wine: about $60. Budget choice: Pebbles (407-827-1111) at 12551 State Road 535 in the Crossroads Shopping Village in Lake Buena Vista, known for its thumb bits, an appetizer of broiled beef marinated in a garlic sauce. Other specialties: breast of duck, seafood and pasta. Dinner for two with wine: about $25.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Dolphin at Disney World will be Florida's largest hotel; Lake Eola is just right for a stroll or boat trip; Juggling at a Church Street Station bar (Ricardo Ferro/Florida Fotobanc); map of Orlando, Fla.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (93%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (93%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (57%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (57%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (97%); 

CITY: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: DISNEY'S HOLLYWOOD STUDIOS (93%); DISNEY CRUISE LINES (70%); WALT DISNEY WORLD CO (58%); WALT DISNEY CO (57%); WALT DISNEY PARKS & RESORTS (56%); ORLANDO MAGIC (57%); JOHN F KENNEDY SPACE CENTER (55%); JOHN F KENNEDY SPACE CENTER (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ORLANDO (FLA)

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; NYTRAVEL TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); AIRPORTS (89%); FAMILY TRAVEL (78%); AIRLINES (77%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (77%); CRUISES (74%); MOVIE THEATERS (72%); SPACECRAFT (71%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (69%); RESTAURANTS (68%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (54%); 

PERSON: WOODY, TODD WALTER ELIAS 'WALT' DISNEY (93%); 



502 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1990

SECTION: Section 6; Page 14, Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 1163 words

HEADLINE: On Language;
If You Will

BYLINE: BY WILLIAM SAFIRE

 BODY:
The National - our first all-sports daily newspaper distributed nationwide - was launched last month by the ace sportswriter Frank Deford. It appears to be a literate publication; one headline in its first issue over a story about the New York Knicks basketball center Patrick Ewing was ''The Center Is Holding,'' an allusion to William Butler Yeats's poem ''The Center Cannot Hold.''
William Henry 3d, a classy writer who runs the section proudly labeled ''Press'' in Time magazine (others lump the print and electronic media together under media, but who ever heard of a ''full court media''?) posed this question in his coverage of the launch: Will the public support an all-sports daily? Time concluded that ''the National is hard to assess because it is unprecedented - one might say, a whole new ball game.''
Now we're into a whole nother problem: parrhesia, accent on the reezh, the Greek word for ''speaking boldly of something obnoxious,'' which can be stretched into a a second sense of ''excuse the joke.'' 
This preemptive apology, one might say, is a rhetorical balk. It says to the reader: ''Look, I'm going to do something egregiously pun-related, or outrageously metaphor-extending or simile-provoking, and you mustn't hold it against me - but for God's sake, notice it.''
Some speakers self-conscious about humor, or worried that their audience will miss their hard-earned easy wit, use the internal flag at the conclusion of the thigh-scratcher, like the Fred Allen Senator who would add ''That's a joke, son.''
The most familiar I-was-being-funny phrase is so to speak. This Britishism, originally meaning ''in the vernacular'' or indigenous dialect, was an aristocrat's apology for stooping to colorful downstairs language. In the United. States, it remains a staple of academics who get a kick out of pitching their lectures to classy listeners, so to speak. Another form of this elitist elocution, sometimes used self-mockingly, is as they say, ''they'' being the less refined types.
Politicians are parrhesiacs, too: Forgive me, but was Ronald Reagan's favorite way of sugar-coating some seemingly outrageous pill. This is a variation of you will permit me, or if you will forgive the pun, often shortened to if you will and put at the end. Some writers are shy not only about making a funny, but also about appearing to be too literate or la-te-da in their apology aforethought. These cringing comedians pretend to be speaking in their writing, and use a transcribed articulated schwa - er or uh - as in ''Some football commentators use language that, er, really came to play.'' Show off or shut up. Make your joke, or dazzle us with your double meaning, or skip rope on a trope without shyness or deprecation; spare us that twisting of the toe in the dirt that whispers ''I know this is awful,'' or digs us in the ribs and asks ''Get it?''
Wordplay is not foreplay; it may cause a groan or two, but won't provoke a passionate response. Man the ramparts of repartee with stout heart, perservere in your persiflage without shame - it's all good badinage, as it were.
Budget Brightness
''Just toss them a metaphor and cycical journalists go weak-kneed,'' wrote Michael Kinsley in The Washington Post. He was complaining about the attention given to the ordinarily stupefying ''Budget of the United States Government'' because Director Richard Darman enlivened the hefty tome with a personal introduction comparing the general perception of the Budget to the Cookie Monster on Public Television's ''Sesame Street.''
I enjoy bright writing in unexpected places and salute Mr. Darman for slipping some wake-up prose into the torpid, tumid, turgid world of governmentese.
The last time this happened at O.M.B. was in Cap Weinberger's day, when the Budget Director suggested that Nixonian economic projections could become a ''self-fulfilling prophecy.'' When he sent the draft out for comment to a score of departments and agencies, every single one returned the document with that line crossed out: the turn of phrase generated universal horror. Cap the Knife pretended to accept the deletion, sent out eight more re-drafts with the original thought excised, and then slipped it back in just before the budget went to the printer. He knew bureaucratic infighting better than most.
However, Mr. Darman - having dared to be colorful - invites close inspection of prose as well as numbers. Here are a few potshots:
''As all monsters are, Cookie Monster is initially intimidating.'' This is so grammatically correct as to be hopelessly stilted. What's the matter with the natural Like all monsters,? Mr. Darman knows how to do it; later in the document, he writes ''Like education, drug abuse is a problem.'' That's, like, the way, man - no graceful writer would try ''As education is, drug abuse is. . . .''
''The true cost of the previously planned and Congressionally approved defense program is. . . .'' In this explanation of the absense of a peace dividend, Mr. Darman tries to have it both ways on hyphenation. When an adverb ending in ly modifies an adjective before a noun, no hyphen is called for. Previously planned is correct; Congressionally-approved is a mistake.
''Federal investments in the future will only achieve their objectives if they are effectively managed.'' Because this comes in the context of improved returns on investment, I think he means ''In the future, Federal investments will.'' (He could be talking of ''investments in the future'' but that is usually placed in the section under Education.) Worse, the man charged with keeping track of more than $1.3 trillion has misplaced his modifier; he does not mean ''will only achieve,'' because achievement is not to be sneezed at. He means ''will achieve their objectives only if.''
A metaphor (in the case of the Cookie Monster, an analogy) is attention-getting. But in the future, Federal budget messages will achieve their objectives only if they are effectively copy-edited.
Ro, Ro, Ro Your Boat
You think powerful institutions are incapable of drastic change? You think the people are powerless to bring about fundamental reform in entrenched bureaucracies?
Consider this Editors' Note in The New York Times, reprinted here in its entirety:
''The Times today adopts the country name Romania, spelled with an o, in place of Rumania. The o form is preferred by many Romanians as a reflection of their Roman origins and has been favored in recent years by most English-language publications.
''Until now, in using the u, The Times has been guided by its main geographic reference, the Columbia Lippencott Gazetteer of the World. The gazetteer editors apparently believed that u, better than o, conveyed the Romanian pronunciation of the name.
''The gazetteer was revised most recently in 1961, and its publishers have no current plans for a new edition. The Times is shifting now because Romania has become more familiar to Americans than Rumania.''

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (58%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK TIMES

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; ROMANIA

SUBJECT: ENGLISH LANGUAGE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; SPELLING WRITERS (89%); BUDGETS (79%); BASKETBALL (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (72%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM; DARMAN, RICHARD G (DIR) RONALD REAGAN (51%); 



503 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1990

SECTION: Section 6; Page 18, Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 1311 words

HEADLINE: About Men;
The Case For Grad School

BYLINE: BY MARK McGURL: Mark McGurl is on the staff of The Times Magazine.

 BODY:
AT LAST IT HAPPENED. Four years of college, one more for good measure - all told a half-decade of great books and gregarious nights and green lawns and girls - and then one day some malignant force somewhere, some vile conspiracy of time and teachers and empty-pocketed parents had the nerve to hand me a diploma. I barely had the chance to read the thing, let alone get it framed, before that very same malignant force picked me up and hurled me, howling, through the air toward life.
I landed in New York City. I bought a few ties, found a cruddy apartment, got a job as a fledgling journalist, and started to pay taxes.
I felt pretty noble, all things considered. I was no longer freeloading, and I got up at a perfectly reasonable hour. I contributed to the gross national product, in a roundabout sort of way. But then I had the misfortune, on successive days, of bumping into two former girlfriends of mine, from whom I learned that getting out of bed in the morning isn't enough. 
Kristin works with the homeless. Every morning, just when my alarm clock is gearing up to give me the bad news, she can already be found on the train into town from a vastly less-expensive outer borough. She spends the day on the phone badgering politicians, or public housing officials, then heads down to street level with her ladle. For her efforts, she makes slightly more money than her clients, and slightly less than I do.
We decide to meet somewhere after work and discuss old times, because this is what ex-boyfriends and ex-girlfriends do. Before you know it we've found ourselves gabbing over coffee, served in suitably humble environs, about our chosen lives. As it turns out, we studiously avoid the past, though of course it's hovering there anyway. I was the one who initiated the breakup. I had handled the whole thing like an idiot. True to form, I'm being an idiot, though a different kind of idiot, right now.
''Kristin, this is just great, what you're doing. I really admire it. I wish I would do something like that.'' ''So why don't you?'' There are certain kinds of social workers who, fighting in the trenches all day, feel no need to apologize for riding the moral high horse. If they have to embarrass you to get you thinking, then so be it (especially if that embarrassment can simultaneously be put to the purposes of a little amorous revenge). Unbeknownst to me, Kristin had become one of these. I squirm, and my tongue stumbles.
''Well, I dunno. . . . I mean, I just never. . . .''
She lets me hang. But then some glimmer, some sliver of compassion for the privileged kicks in, and she takes me down off the rack. She changes the subject.
''How do you like working at that magazine?'' she asks, benignly enough, though I swear I hear a sneering edge to that last word.
''Oh, it's fine, I guess. I'm a nobody. I spend a lot of time at the Xerox machine.'' I'm losing. Losing what I'm not sure, but losing. ''Actually I just did some research on the homeless,'' I say, feebly, clawing at my tie, which suddenly seems absurdly, decadently silky, though I got it on sale. ''That's nice,'' she says. ''My God, I can't believe what I saw today. This guy on the subway was wearing ski boots, these big white plastic ski boots with normal clothes. I guess they were the best he could do for footwear, crazy city, just crazy, jeez. . . .''
She doesn't respond. I can suddenly tell she's sick of me, and every buffoon like me. She's wondering how she could have ever been interested in such a buffoon. In another mood she might be angry. Now she just seems bored. She has to catch her train. I put some money down on the table, ample funds for two coffees, and she quietly pushes half of it back at me, replacing it with her own. We say the usual things about seeing each other again, but this hardly seems likely.
Sheila, on the other hand, works on Wall Street. I have never figured out exactly what it is she does, but she has purchased a pair of wire-rimmed glasses with noncorrective lenses, so she will be taken seriously while she does it. She makes more money than Kristin and I and a few homeless people put together make. We make our date over the phone. She wants to meet at a place called Bice. ''What's that?'' ''Bice. Bee-chay. You know, it's spelled like BISE. It's a restaurant.'' ''Oh. Sure. When?'' There are delays on the subway, and by the time I get there she's already seated in the corner. She has brought her new boyfriend. This friend is a year ahead of her at the same investment bank, though he works in a different division. He is very handsome, and his suit fits him conspicuously well. As I approach the table he is telling her how to get herself involved in the interesting deals. I sit down and eventually the conversation politely turns to me. ''So what do you do?'' asks the friend. I tell him. I leave out the stuff about the Xerox machine.
''Right now I'm doing some research on homelessness for one of our editors,'' I say. ''I do a lot of things like that. It's pretty cool.'' ''Cool,'' he says, flicking something from the lapel of his suit. ''The people I work with are unbelievably smart,'' I say, hoping that this implies that I, too, could be described this way, and that this excuses the strip of slime I have tied around my neck, which I had previously thought was a fairly decent tie. ''Do you make enough to live on?'' asks Sheila, admirably direct. ''I dunno, I guess I do O.K. I mean, it all depends what you consider living.''
Sheila dishes out a smile, at once maternal and bankerly. She's looking exquisite - much, much better than when we were involved. The friend reaches for her hand, squeezes it, then orders me a drink. I am not consoled.
It turns out they're going to Berlin together tomorrow to check out all the revolutionary activity, which is covered with insufficient energy, or so they seem to be suggesting, by magazines like the one I work for. When Sheila and I went out, before that relationship, too, fell by the wayside, we used to watch movies.
When I get back from the bathroom they already have their coats on. I glance at the table and realize that they have paid the check. A voice inside me barks in outrage. I quickly slip my wallet from my pocket and remove a large, imposing bill. I stuff it into the friend's palm with a gesture that brooks no argument. He stares at it as though it were a used Kleenex. ''Please,'' I say. A few minutes later, when I am alone, I hear another voice inside me, of higher pitch this time, let out a long, plaintive yelp. This is the spokesman for my bank account. Humility would have been much cheaper. On the way home from the subway station I used my privacy to quietly bewail my fate to the jagged bits of sky visible between the tops of tall buildings. I felt poor, and grossly overstuffed, all at once. If I had been honest I would have admitted to myself that I had felt similar, contradictory things, even in the idyll of college. But at the time it was easier to blame all the confusion on ''real'' life, as opposed to the collegiate version, and leave it at that.
This interior symphony of whining and moaning was interrupted, just then, by a haggard man stepping from the shadows. He was by no means the first homeless person who had approached me that day; in fact he was probably the 12th, and I quickened my pace a bit to remove myself as quickly as possible from his sphere of need.
''Hey, my man, could you lend me $5,000? My Porsche needs a new transmission.''
This stopped me in my tracks. I turned to him and smiled. ''Yeah, I hate it when that happens.''
I gave him a few dollars, which certainly didn't help him with his Porsche, and probably didn't get him any closer to having a roof over his head, but which he didn't mind taking, and I didn't mind giving, it being late and the real world confusing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); WRITERS (73%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); TRENDS (70%); PUBLIC HOUSING (69%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (50%); 

PERSON: MCGURL, MARK MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 



504 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1990

SECTION: Section 7; Page 13, Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 911 words

HEADLINE: MATRONS WITH STICKY FINGERS

BYLINE: By JACK KATZ; Jack Katz, a professor of sociology at the University of California, Los Angeles, is the author of ''Seductions of Crime.''

 BODY:

WHEN LADIES GO A-THIEVING
Middle-Class Shoplifters in the Victorian Department Store.
By Elaine S. Abelson.
Illustrated. 292 pp. New York:
Oxford University Press. $29.95.
In the late 19th century, the large department store emerged as a new urban spectacle. Macy's in New York, Marshall Field in Chicago and Wanamaker's in Philadelphia displayed clothes against walls and carpets in never-before-seen colors, created miniature electrified theaters in windows, decorated doll-like rooms from top to bottom, occasionally brought in live music and even zoo animals and assembled an unprecedented diversity of goods around wondrous inventions like the escalator. Part of the spectacle was a new social problem: ''ladies'' were frequently caught shoplifting. Journalists went wild when, the day before Christmas in 1870, Macy's arrested five eminently respectable women, including Elizabeth B. Phelps, a rich philanthropist and vice president of the National Woman's Suffrage Association, who was charged with stealing a small package of candy. 
Shoplifting ladies in late-19th-century America posed three interpretive challenges, writes Elaine S. Abelson in ''When Ladies Go A-Thieving,'' which she addresses after research into store archives, 19th-century journalism and academic journals. First, how would scientific opinion of the times understand the shoplifter's motivation? Ms. Abelson, who teaches at the New School for Social Research, documents how metaphors from medicine - shaped by beliefs in uniquely female sources of character weakness - dominated the intellectual discovery of ''kleptomania.'' Middle-class shoplifters could still be ''ladies'' if their deviance could be attributed to puberty and the menstrual cycle, if ''their physiology . . . betrayed them.'' When Freudian thought became popular, scientific explanations were given a psychological turn, and they still show up occasionally in criminology as the suggestion that menopause induces crime. Feminist scholarship now presses us all to wonder why the theorists did not note that the customers as well as the shoplifters were primarily female.
Second, how did store management attack the problem? While only Lord & Taylor completely denied that its customers shoplifted (''a detective's time would be wasted utterly in our store,'' a spokesman told the press in 1883), department store managers, even those who prosecuted offenders, were extremely uncomfortable acknowledging publicly that there was a problem. Ms. Abelson suggests that there was a close connection between management's posture toward middle-class women shoplifters and toward employees. ''There was a poorly veiled assumption that neither group could be trusted.'' Today, stores ubiquitously post promises to prosecute shoplifters; Ms. Abelson's readers may suspect that, although the management posture is now tough, the most significant target is still employee theft.
On a third question - contemporary understanding of shoplifters' motives - Ms. Abelson struggles with limited materials. Today we have sources, from Ladies' Home Journal articles to research monographs, in which female shoplifters vividly recount how, with trembling hands, they inserted forbidden objects into magically alive purses, achieving pleasures they characterize as orgasmic. We also have reports from young shoplifters, male and female, in which they treat the event as an exciting game with tricky maneuvers and passes, time outs to revise strategies in dressing rooms, thrilling runs to the exit and little victory dances after the score. In interviews, amateur shoplifters outline vandals' attraction to defiling public places through attacking rather than acquiring property; often abandoning their booty, they seem less concerned with what they get than with getting away with it.
Ms. Abelson lacks such firsthand data on the process of deviance and imputes to her sneaky ladies the owners' narrowly materialistic focus on the value of merchandise. She opines that middle-class shoplifting emerged from a clash between an aggressive commercialism that stimulated impulse buying and the economic constraints experienced by women who were hard-pressed to demonstrate their family's social status with consumer goods. This does not account for society shoplifters, who knew no such constraints.
Middle-class women in the late 19th century were accustomed to other forms of retail buying. Society women were skilled at eliciting personal recognition and in demanding elaborately deferential personal service at small shops. Women with origins in working-class neighborhoods had frequently bargained over price and quality, employing their street smarts to seize bargains and to avoid being taken in by fraud. Both rich and poor women had been accustomed to emerge from shopping trips not only with things but with tales that spoke of their economic shrewdness and sensitive manipulation of social interaction.
The department store became a retail setting where prices were fixed, service was uniform, money alone counted and the customer, delighting in an elegant, ''modern'' environment, played a relatively passive role. For some customers, shoplifting exploited the act of acquisition for material proofs of personal superiority; it diffusely called upon one's emotions and intellect to beat a system that paradoxically enriched the display of goods while impoverishing the customer's contribution to shopping.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: WHEN LADIES GO A-THIEVING (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (91%); LEAGUE OF WOMEN VOTERS EDUCATION FUND (56%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS SHOPLIFTING (96%); BOOK REVIEWS (91%); RETAILERS (90%); DEPARTMENT STORES (89%); WRITERS (74%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (73%); PSYCHOLOGY (71%); MENOPAUSE (69%); 

PERSON: KATZ, JACK; ABELSON, ELAINE S ELAINE S ABELSON (93%); 



505 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1990

SECTION: Section 7; Page 29, Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 983 words

HEADLINE: LEARNING TO BE ITALIAN

BYLINE: By FREDERIKA RANDALL; Frederika Randall is a freelance journalist who lives in Milan, Italy.

 BODY:

WHERE IT ALL BEGAN
Italy 1954.
By Ann Cornelisen.
281 pp. New York:
A William Abrahams Book/E. P. Dutton. $18.95.
Its opening pages seem to suggest that this, Ann Cornelisen's sixth book, will be autobiographical - part of the life story of the person who, in the course of an intense 35-year relationship with Italy, has written such inspired accounts as ''Torregreca: Life, Death, Miracles'' and ''Women of the Shadows.'' But Ms. Cornelisen's easy style and vein of personal reminiscence should not really be mistaken for autobiography or, even more remote, confession. She is a natural storyteller, and the same interest in the lives and circumstances of others, the same economy of emotion that governed her earlier works also provide the structure here. An important (but not the most important) character in ''Where It All Began,'' Ms. Cornelisen is the outsider who measures against her own milder experience the destruction of war, as well as the misery and comic opera of village life in a remote town of the Abruzzi in the mid-1950's. 
When it comes to the personal, ''never apologize, never explain'' might be Ms. Cornelisen's motto. A firm net of discretion (and pride, no doubt) keeps us neatly away from any private satisfactions, any hardships, doubts or second thoughts she may have had while adjusting her American ways to Mediterranean peasant life. Better, she seems to say, to observe the great commedia of everyday life as you find it than indulge in questioning how comfortably you fit into it. Perhaps this is one way in which Ms. Cornelisen is, or has become, more Italian than American.
The place is the town of Ortona, on a bluff along the Adriatic coast of south-central Italy; the year is 1954. The author (age 27, newly divorced, at ease in the middle-class female freedoms of her comfortable Chicago upbringing and her Vassar education) has arrived in Florence with a trunk full of evening dresses and some very good introductions. In Rome, where she is to begin studying archeology, she accepts an invitation to visit Giovanna Guzzeloni Thompson, a young woman who is working for the British Save the Children Fund in the eastern Abruzzi. There Ms. Cornelisen finds an almost medieval society that is still reeling from a traumatic head-on collision with modern civilization.
Apart from enduring the Fascists' rule, which doesn't seem to have had a great impact, the town of Ortona had been the scene of a pitched battle between the retreating Germans and the Allied Eighth Army at the end of 1943. Reduced to open muddy pits and piles of rubble, Ortona was still a bomb site nine years after the end of the war. Driving into town, Ms. Cornelisen sees people leading their lives in two- and three-story houses with the facades blown off, eating and sleeping inside three walls as if on stage. Somewhat later, when she has begun to work for the fund herself, she visits a group of children who live in an abandoned mill at the edge of town. She finds herself ''staring through wide gaps in the floor boards, watching another woman with a broom or a child or an old man waving his arms in the room below. They were slatted scenes - a knife hacking at bread, a baby kicked away from its mother's skirt. Lean slightly forward and I saw a woman's face contorted in rage. Lean slightly back and through another gap I saw the man whose hands held the knife. He hacked at the bread, ignoring the woman.''
But what strikes Ms. Cornelisen more than poverty is the ingenious and sometimes corrupt ways that people trained in hardship manage to survive. There are men who deploy themselves in the town square, hoping to get hit by a passing car to collect damages. There is also the mother superior who runs a mountain convent where orphan refugees are being exploited in a cottage industry while the storeroom is bulging with international relief supplies to be sold on the black market. And then there is the carabiniere who leads tours past the house where Ms. Cornelisen and Giovanna are staying so that the villagers can peer through the windows and observe the Anglo-Saxon way of life, tea trays and all. And there is Giovanna herself, a young widow raised in Milan and later, during Fascism, in England, whose northern education and sense of responsibility for the south become a model for the newly arrived American.
And though she doesn't say so, it is clear that this first year in Italy was Ann Cornelisen's education, when she learned the restraint and discipline (serieta in Italian) that enabled her to be effective in a world whose codes were very different from her own. Her willingness to adapt (not an easy thing for a single woman in a society where only a dowry and children guaranteed a woman her ''rights'') made it possible for her to go on living and working for many years in Basilicata and Calabria, and to write books that rival those of Ignazio Silone and Carlo Levi in their enduring portraits of a peasant society that has now all but vanished.
Today the Abruzzi coast would no longer be called the south, that loosely defined realm that begins somewhere south of Rome, where local enterprise does not flourish and civil society is still struggling to take root. Abruzzi towns like Ortona are thriving with small industries, and the children don't suffer from hunger and disease but, if anything, from modern ills like drugs. A postscript to the book tells of a recent visit to Ortona. The author wonders where the prosperity has come from, and an old friend says, ''Nobody knows, but people always find a way to steal.''
Ms. Cornelisen leaves it at that, but she shouldn't. That too-cynical piece of village wisdom reflects a world that really has disappeared throughout much of Italy, except that the Italians haven't quite absorbed the changes yet. And in this too Ms. Cornelisen proves herself to be thoroughly Italian.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: WHERE IT ALL BEGAN (BOOK)

COUNTRY: ITALY (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); MEDITERRANEAN (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: ROME, ITALY (58%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WRITERS (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (77%); WOMEN (75%); ARCHAEOLOGY (60%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (60%); 

PERSON: RANDALL, FREDERIKA; CORNELISEN, ANN ANN CORNELISEN (96%); GIOVANNA GUZZELONI THOMPSON (57%); 



506 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1990

SECTION: Section 7; Page 24, Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: U.S. VERSUS JAPAN: A PROBLEM OF ATTITUDES

BYLINE: By CLYDE V. PRESTOWITZ; Clyde V. Prestowitz Jr., a former United States trade negotiator, is the author of ''Trading Places: How We Are Giving Our Future to Japan and How to Reclaim It.''

 BODY:

THE END OF THE AMERICAN CENTURY
By Steven Schlossstein.
537 pp. New York:
Congdon & Weed. $22.95.
Does America have to be No. 1? This is a question frequently asked in the current debate on the economic decline of the United States. In ''The End of the American Century,'' Steven Schlossstein minces no words in answering. The United States must reinvigorate the Pax Americana, he emphasizes, because the alternatives are either chaos or a Pax Nipponica that is likely to be very unattractive to the United States and the rest of the world. 
In explaining why, Mr. Schlossstein argues that Japanese dominance will be dangerous because many Japanese assert values that are diametrically opposed to those of most Americans. While we advocate freedom, equal rights and justice, the Japanese are governed by hierarchy, loyalty, conformity, duty and obedience. Moreover, he argues, the Japanese are obsessed with their own homogeneity, and as an example he cites former Prime Minister Yoshiro Nakasone's comments that Japanese education is superior to America's because Japan is not troubled with minorities. The combination of this emphasis on ethnic purity and other Japanese values, Mr. Schlossstein asserts, leads to totalitarianism and is dangerously close to racism. This is why none of Japan's Asian neighbors want it to gain hegemony and why, the author concludes, it is imperative that the United States not let it happen.
Before reaching this conclusion, Mr. Schlossstein takes the reader on an elaborate tour of Asia and explains in great detail the causes of American decline by contrasting the failure of our methods in key business areas with the success of Asian approaches. Japan and its clones - the so-called four tigers (South Korea, Hong Kong, Taiwan and Singapore) - pursue strategic economies instead of free markets and free trade. Here Mr. Schlossstein, the author of ''Trade War'' and other books, makes a telling point when he notes the futility of our devaluation of the dollar in the face of economic decision-making that is largely unrelated to prices.
Several chapters on education and the family also add some new elements to the debate. The author compares the success of Japanese education, which is based on peer pressure, teacher authority and strong parental involvement, with the stifling centralization of an American system choking on bureaucracy and dedicated to turning out cogs for an industrial machine that no longer exists.
Even more critical than the demise of our educational system, Mr. Schlossstein argues, is the disintegration of the family. He attributes this partly to American tax, welfare and parental-leave policies that penalize families. At the risk of rousing feminist ire, he also points to the clearly defined male and female roles in Asian families and the strong influence of the mother in educating children, and he contrasts this negatively with the disappearance of role differentiation in the American family.
Readers may find Mr. Schlossstein's habit of recounting the type of tea served during each interview he conducted, as well as his somewhat novelistic descriptions of the people he talked to, a bit irritating. More important, his prescription for re-energizing America is not as strong as his analysis of our ills, and one wonders about its curative powers. It may be that the decentralization of United States education is a good idea, but Japanese students seem to thrive in the world's most centralized system. Indeed, Asian-Americans seem to do very well in the United States system that Mr. Schlossstein decries as structurally hopeless. No doubt more child-care centers, more liberal parental-leave policies and higher tax exemptions for dependent children would be useful. But one wonders if they would really reverse divorce rates and lead to stable families dedicated to posterity rather than to the instant gratification that Mr. Schlossstein correctly identifies as a major problem.
Japan's former consul general in New York, Hidetoshi Ukawa, may be closer to the mark when he tells the author that the problem is one of attitudes. Indeed, Mr. Schlossstein demonstrates vividly that if Americans are to achieve a competitive attitude, they will have to reaffirm traditional values. This important book defines the nature of our competition with Japan more bluntly and directly than any other.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: END OF TEH AMERICAN CENTURY, THE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (94%); HONG KONG (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); TAIWAN (79%); ASIA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN CENTURY CORP (85%); AMERICAN CENTURY SERVICES CORP (85%); AMERICAN CENTURY PALLET CO (85%); AMERICAN CENTURY COS INC (85%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); FAMILY (89%); WRITERS (86%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); CHILDREN (74%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (68%); RACE & RACISM (66%); PARENTING (64%); TRADE DISPUTES (62%); DEVALUATION (61%); FAMILY LEAVE (60%); PRIME MINISTERS (53%); 

PERSON: PRESTOWITZ, CLYDE V JR; SCHLOSSSTEIN, STEVEN STEVEN SCHLOSSSTEIN (97%); 



507 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1990

SECTION: Section 10; Page 9, Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1090 words

HEADLINE: TALKING: Insider Deals;
A Guide To Co-op Bargaining

BYLINE: By ANDREE BROOKS

 BODY:
AS hundreds of residential buildings in the New York City area were converted from rental to co-op status in the last decade, the tenants, regarded as insiders, were offered their apartments at prices as much as 40 percent below those posted for outside buyers.
Tempting as those offers were, many tenants turned them down because their regulated rents were so low they were reluctant to take on the higher costs of ownership. Others, like Corrine Schmidt of Jackson Heights, Queens, an airline technician, could not afford to buy. But now those tenants are being offered a second chance to buy, and at sweetened prices as much as 60 percent off current market value. Before accepting, they should examine their options carefully, and they also should investigate whether the sponsor is having difficulty meeting his obligations to the co-op. Sponsor defaults are forcing some co-ops to raise maintenance payments. 
In the last few months, many rental tenants have been offered ''a second bite of the apple,'' as conversion professionals have dubbed the new wave of discount purchase deals. For example, Aaron Ziegelman, a converter who still owns some 3,000 occupied apartments, said he recently completed new proposals for 20 of his buildings.
Secondary offerings have occasionally been made in the past, but the big difference now is that the current owner - most likely either the sponsor or an outside investor who bought occupied units in bulk from the sponsor - has probably been caught in the downward spiral that has been reducing the value and marketability of such units.
A result is that the owner may no longer view the long wait until the protected tenant moves out as an opportunity to hold onto an appreciating asset. Or the owner's cash position may have deteriorated to the point where selling to an insider may be one of the only ways left to unlock sorely needed liquidity, especially as apartments are not selling as briskly as they formerly did even when they become vacant.
In others, the sponsor may have found that the cost of renovating a vacant apartment before offering it for sale has increased to a point where it makes economic sense to woo insiders more ardently, a conclusion reached recently, for example, by Bill Felder, a sponsor in Kew Gardens, Queens.
''The financial problems that sponsors are facing are about to create a windfall for insiders,'' said Alan J. Pomerantz, a real estate finance lawyer who represents lenders and is seeing firsthand how much financial pressure certain sponsors are under. Miss Schmidt of Jackson Heights, for example, ended up buying her unit for $40,700, nearly 60 percent under the $90,000 outside price.
For these reasons tenants who are not being solicited with such overtures from sponsors might want to initiate the idea. A second chance could be especially relevant to anyone whose rent has gone up sharply since the first offering. If such an offer is received, or if tenant wants to seek a discounted offer, what is the best way to negotiate terms?
The first move should not be to go directly to the sponsor but instead to find out how many other tenants are interested, said John Dandola, a New York City lawyer involved in dozens of conversions. ''The more potential sales you can offer that sponsor, the more clout you will have,'' he said.
Sponsors agree. ''If a person can bring in 10 people or more we will offer a greater discount,'' said Mr. Ziegelman.
When the group has been defined it might well be worth hiring a lawyer to handle the negotiations, as price should not be the only objective. ''You should also be looking for a new basket of goodies,'' said Alvin I. Apfelberg, a New York City lawyer who has negotiated many deals on behalf of tenants.
CONCESSIONS that increase value and the quality of life in a building include getting an increase in the sponsor's contribution to the reserve fund, negotiating the right to control the board of directors, selecting a mangaging agent of the resident's choice, rather than the sponsor's, and setting sales and sublet policies if that has not been done already.
Mr. Apfelberg recommends getting a new and independent engineering report, too, if the cost can be spread widely enough not to cause hardship. Also, he said, it is often wise to ask the sponsor to bring in new sales staff and lawyers to handle these secondary deals since there may have been ''resentments and animosities'' left over from the original offering.
This most often occurs, he said, when a sponsor intentionally bypassed the insiders the first time around because he did not want to make concessions and could get enough sales without them.
Anyone negotiating individually should be as comprehensive as possible in the sort of concessions being sought. There could be pleasant surprises. For instance, a tenant living in a spacious two-bedroom unit owned by Mr. Ziegelman on the Upper West Side - who preferred not to have his name used - was able to work out a deal whereby his purchase of the unit at $280,000 was contingent upon Mr. Ziegeleman's finding an outside buyer for it at around $600,000, its appraised vacant market value. A buyer is now being sought.
Similarly, Arthur Beckerman, a partner in Coronet Properties Company, another major converter, has begun offering purchasing tenants a $200 discount off monthly maintenance payments for the first two years. Mr. Beckerman is also one of a growing number of sponsors providing discount financing on the cost of the shares. For example, he does not charge points or an application fee and also provides insiders with 100 percent financing.
If the apartment is owned by an outside investor an even sweeter deal can probably be negotiated because the investor does not have to worry about alienating residents who might have paid more for their units two or three years ago, or even having to make the same bargain deal throughout the building. Michael Porter, president of the Harris Group, which sells sponsor-owned apartments to investors, said he recently heard about one tenant who, after discovering the apartment had been bought by an outside investor for only 30 percent of vacant market value, offered that investor about 15 percent more - and clinched a deal.
But Mr. Dandola warns tenants not to overreach in their bargaining.
''Don't wait too long or it may be too late,'' He said. ''As soon as those sponsors feel the pressure is off they will go back to holding on as long as they can to get as much appreciation as possible.''

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5141 GENERAL LINE GROCERIES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CO-OP ULM KONSUMGENOSSENSCHAFT EG (90%); CO-OP CHEMICAL CO LTD (90%); CO-OP '82 UA (90%); CO-OP ATLANTIC (90%); CO-OP SERVICES CREDIT UNION (90%); CO-OP JERUSALEM AGUDA ZARCHANIT SHITUFIT LTD (90%); CO-OP STAR RT (90%); CO-OP ZAFON HYPERSHUK MARKETING CHAINS LTD (90%); CO-OP BUILDING CONSULTANTS (90%); CO-OP MORAVA SRO (90%); CO-OP GRAIN & SUPPLY CO (90%); CO-OP COUNTRY FARMERS ELEVATOR (90%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; COOPERATIVES REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); RENT CONTROL (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (78%); 

PERSON: BROOKS, ANDREE ALVIN I APFELBERG (56%); AARON ZIEGELMAN (56%); CORRINE SCHMIDT (56%); 



508 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1990

SECTION: Section 10; Page 16, Column 4; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 395 words

HEADLINE: NORTHEAST NOTEBOOK: Elkton, Md.;
Maryland Wins A Site Battle

BYLINE: By MAUREEN MILFORD

 BODY:
MORE than a year of competition between Maryland and Delware has ended with this state's capturing a major research and development center proposed by Himont, an international chemical company based in Wilmington, Del.
Himont, the world's largest manufacturer of polypropylene and a major producer of polymer-based specialty composites and alloys, considered and rejected 12 sites in New Castle County, Del., before deciding on a 196-acre parcel in Cecil County, Md., just over the Delaware state line. The center, just north of I-95 at the juncture of Routes 277 and 316, will anchor Himont's United States research. 
Officials in Cecil County, which is far more rural than neighboring New Castle County in Delaware, say Himont will not only add to the tax and employment base, but also help attract similar industries. Himont has its headquarters in Hockessin, a few miles west of Wilmington, and employs about 650 people in Delaware, including those in its headquarters.
One of the requirements was that the property be close to Delaware, where most of the company's employees live. The campus-like Maryland research park, for which no builder has been selected and no details are yet available, will be minutes from Newark, Del., home of the University of Delaware, and a 20-minute drive from Himont's headquarters.
Himont needed a minimum of 100 acres already zoned and immediately available. A building boom in the last eight years in Delaware made large parcels scarce and those already zoned for commerce or industry almost nonexistent.
J. Randall Evans, secretary of Maryland's Department of Economic and Employment Development, said the research center ''promises to provide opportunities for Maryland's universities to participate in emerging technology.'' To land the center, state and county economic development offices worked closely with Himont on a package of incentives, including a $2.27 million, low-interest loan to help pay for infrastructure improvements and land acquisition and a state job-training program.
Himont was formed in 1983 as a joint venture between Hercules of Wilmington and Montedison of Milan, Italy. In 1987, Hercules sold its share to Montedison, which in January completed its acquisition of all publicly held shares. Himont has research and development centers in Italy, England, West Germany, Canada and Hong Kong.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS454310 FUEL DEALERS (91%); SIC5989 FUEL DEALERS, NEC (91%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); ITALY (87%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (75%); ENGLAND (50%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (99%); DELAWARE, USA (98%); 

CITY: WILMINGTON, DE, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL CHEMICAL CO (91%); UNIVERSITY OF DELAWARE (55%); UNIVERSITY OF DELAWARE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: HIMONT INC

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MARYLAND; DELAWARE

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS REAL ESTATE (90%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (90%); CHEMICALS (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); CHEMICALS MFG (90%); ZONING (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); COMPOSITE MATERIALS (78%); POLYMERS (77%); POLYPROPYLENE (72%); OFFICE PROPERTY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); JOINT VENTURES (50%); 

PERSON: MILFORD, MAUREEN



509 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1990

SECTION: Section 10; Page 1, Column 3; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 210 words

HEADLINE: POSTINGS: West Side Landmark;
Rebuilding a Stable

BYLINE: By RICHARD D. LYONS

 BODY:
The Claremont Riding Academy, a fixture on the Upper West Side for nearly a century - it stables 100 horses and serves almost 50,000 riders a year - has been rescued from the knacker and will undergo an extensive rehabilitation with the help of the city's Industrial Development Agency.
The horses will remain in the five-story building for the duration of the $2.6 million project, which is expected to be completed by the end of the year. 
Designed by Frank A. Rooke and put up in 1892, the building at 175 West 89th Street, near Amsterdam Avenue, is the oldest functioning stable in Manhattan. It was condemned in 1962 as part of the West Side urban renewal program. But it continued on a month-to-month basis and two years ago it was awarded landmark status by New York City's Landmarks Preservation Commission.
''No work has been done on the building for well over 20 years because we didn't know how long we could survive, so the renovation effort will be extensive,'' said Paul Novograd, who oversees the operation of the stables that his family has owned for over 60 years. Mr. Novograd said $1.8 million of the costs will come from low-interest bonds floated by the I.D.A., which spurs business development and the creation of jobs in New York.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Claremont Stables, 175 West 89th Street, will be renovated (The New York Times/Eddie Hausner)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MALAYSIAN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT FINANCE BHD (58%); INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCY (78%); CLAREMONT RIDING ACADEMY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLAREMONT RIDING ACADEMY; INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCY (NYC)

SUBJECT: HORSES; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); HISTORIC SITES (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); JOB CREATION (72%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (50%); BONDS (50%); 

PERSON: LYONS, RICHARD D PAUL NOVOGRAD (80%); 



510 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1990

SECTION: Section 10; Page 1, Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 2169 words

HEADLINE: Strategies for the Softer Resale Market

BYLINE: By SHAWN G. KENNEDY

 BODY:
JEREMIAH COLE sold his Chelsea co-op in a week by trimming his price and offering brokers 8 percent instead of the normal 6 percent commission.
Bruce and Rene Young reduced their price and are heavily advertising their two-bedroom co-op in the Riverdale section of the Bronx in Chinese-, Russian- and Korean-language papers and on bulletin boards in local hospitals, synagogues and churches.
John and Meredith Forsberg found a buyer for their house in Rockville Centre, L.I., by cutting the price, running their own selling campaign and giving up their weekends to hold open houses for prospective buyers.
David and Melissa Boyce sold their six-room Upper East Side co-op by cutting the price and by repainting some rooms and clearing away clutter to make the apartment more attractive.
The stories of these sellers in what all acknowledge to be a tough resale market illustrate some hard truths. The prime one is that almost every home that sells these days is going for less than the owners hoped for. Buyuers are looking for price breaks and few of them are willing to bite unless the hook is baited with what looks like a bargain. 
The other side of that coin is that sellers who refuse to take less than their inflated hopes, based on the boom prices of the mid-80's, are wasting their time. Moreover, ordinary houses and apartment that were snapped up in the buying frenzy of the mid-80's are, in some places, not moving at any price.
Figures of the National Association of Realtors show the steady decline in sales throughout New York State in the last three years. In 1987, 223,900 single family houses, cooperatives and condominiums were sold in the state. The following year, the number dropped to 213,400 and last year there was a further drop, to 187,400.
In that kind of climate, there is no question that homeowners who want to sell have to take a much more activist role in the search for buyuers. The good news is that most motivated sellers do eventually find buyers, although for some it takes a long time to find the silver lining behind the dark clouds hanging over the market. Here are the slow-market strategies adopted by some New York City area home sellers, some successful, some not.
WHEN Mr. Cole was looking for ways to sell his apartment in the Chelsea section of Mahattan quickly last summer, he focused on attracting the attention of brokers rather than buyers.
''I knew what I was asking for the apartment was very competitive to start,'' said Mr. Cole, a former health-care executive who now lives in Cambridge, Mass. He had put a $265,000 asking price on his two-bedroom co-op.
''Brokers carry around in their heads lists of apartments they want to show,'' he said. ''I knew I needed something that would make the apartment stand out for them. They decide what buyers see. If your apartment is not worth their time, they just won't show it.''
Mr. Cole, who is embarking on a new career as a freelance writer, was in a rush to move before the start of the school year. He notified neighborhood brokers last Aug. 1 that he would pay an 8 percent commission on a sale made within 30 days. As the former owner of homes in Los Angeles, Washington and San Francisco, he knew that was an optimistic timetable even in a thriving market.
''I had made up my mind that if I could not have the apartment sold and be in Boston by Labor Day,'' said Mr. Cole, who wanted his teen-aged son to start school on time, ''then we would probably stay in New York. So I guess it was an all-or-nothing proposition.''
Mr. Cole believes the bonus had more of a psychological than monetary impact. ''It really got the attention of brokers,'' he said. ''The response was much better than I expected, since not that much money was involved.
''In the case of my apartment, the extra money would have been about $5,000, half of which would have gone to the brokerage company.''
As it turned out, Mr. Cole, who sold his apartment for about $259,000, did not have to pay the premium even though a contract was signed long before his deadline. His buyer's final offer was a little lower than what Mr. Cole thought he could get for the apartment. In order not to lose the sale, the broker gave up the bonus in a compromise that satisfied all concerned. Mr. Cole said his goal was achieved, but at a cost. ''Even though I sold for slightly higher than I bought,'' he said, ''when the cost of selling was factored in, there was a slight loss. If there had been more time I think I could have done a little better.''
WITHOUT a doubt, say the Forsbergs, they broke the first rule of trading up in a soft market - to sell before buying. Nevertheless, the Rockville Centre couple seem to have have landed on their feet anyway.
After putting money down in December on a six-bedroom home four blocks from the house they wanted to sell, the Forsbergs, who have two children, put their four-bedroom Dutch colonial on the market in mid-January. They had a contract for sale by the end of the month.
''It was risky,'' said Mrs. Forsberg. ''But even with the market so soft, we felt we would lose this house if we waited until we had a buyer.''
When they turned to the task of selling their home, the Forsbergs, not wanting to see any profit eaten up by a broker's fee, decided to try a do-it-yourself sales campaign before listing their house with brokers. Their strategy was to write and place their own advertisements and hold weekend open houses rather than schedule appointments for house hunters.
''I think some people would be reluctant to do what we did,'' said Mrs. Forsberg, of their decision to include their address in the advertisement for the open houses. ''But we figured that by listing our address, we would save time by attracting only serious buyers. Anyone who was not interested in our house or living on our street just would not come in.''
Because their home is on a fairly busy street and the yard is small, the Forsbergs aimed their advertising campaign at couples with no children. They believed their house would be most attractive to empty-nesters from their community looking to trade down to a smaller residence or to a young couple in the market for a starter home.
''The ads for the older people stressed things like low taxes,'' said Mr. Forsberg, an executive with a Long Island bank. ''We put them in the Long Island papers.
''But the ads that we placed New York City papers, which we wrote with the yuppies in mind, talked about the easy commutation to the city.''
The Forsbergs, who say their home was in top shape to start with, employed a few time-tested house-showing devices that Mrs. Forsberg calls her ''broker's tricks,'' before opening their doors to the buying public on the second Sunday in January.
''We had a fire going in the fireplace,'' said Mrs. Forsberg. ''We scented the rooms, we had easy listening music on the radio.'' Had it not been for the stack of fact sheets and snapshots of their home left by the door, their open houses could have been mistaken for parties.
The Forsbergs said the bid they accepted was just below their asking price of $229,000, but they had no commission to pay and their advertising bills came to only $600. The couple buying their home are relocating from Manhattan to be closer to jobs on Long Island.
THE BOYCES were in the two-bedroom apartment they bought in the East 90's only two years before they had outgrown it. With one young son and another child on the way, the Boyces were forced back into the co-op market last year.
''We could not have picked a worse time to be trying to sell,'' said Mrs. Boyce, whose husband is a researcher with the Hitachi Chemical Company.
''We bought our apartment when prices peaked. They seemed to start falling as soon as we decided to sell.''
The first bids for their prewar apartment, which they sold last spring, were not close to their $570,000 asking price. Even after they dropped the price, they found that acceptable bids did not start coming in until after they spruced up their prewar apartment.
''You get used to your apartment looking a certain way,'' said Mrs. Boyce, ''Its not that there are major flaws, but just small things that your eyes have adjusted to but the buyers notice.''
The couple started their fix-up project by repainting some rooms. Next, toys and other odds and ends were relegated to the basement of their apartment building. Then extra pieces of furniture that did not quite fit were transported to the couple's second home in Virginia.
The idea was to make the rooms look more spacious and to give the whole apartment a more attractive look.
The strategy seemed to help because interest picked up, and six weeks later, the Boyces got a bid for about $525,000 that was close enough to what they wanted and they accepted it. They then bought a three-bedroom apartment on the same block. ''I don't think that painting and rearranging furniture is going to help you sell an apartment if the price is too high,'' said Mrs. Boyce. ''But these days you have make an effort to sell.''
A FEW years ago, the Youngs moved into their two-bedroom Riverdale apartment with their golden retriever. Then their daughter, Emily, was born and they hired a live-in housekeeper. While they are under no financial pressure to move, they feel squeezed and want to relocate to a suburban house.
The Youngs decided to seek sellers as broadly as possible. That is why they are using foreign-language weekly newspapers to reach the increasingly ethnically diverse population of their neighborhood. Mrs. Young who is a public relations executive, also put notices on bulletin boards in local institutions.
They hoped their low $110,000 asking price would be particularly enticing to first-time buyers.
Traffic through their home has increased in the last few weeks. But the Youngs admit to being frustrated and they are puzzled by what seems to be contradictory responses from potential buyers.
''It's not just that people say they like our apartment,'' said Mr. Young, who is an attorney. ''Everybody who is looking tells sellers they have a nice place.''
''But when buyers are not interested,'' he went on, ''they are usually in and out in a few minutes. The people who have come to see our apartment in the past few weeks really seem to be interested. They spend a long time looking around and asking questions. They make favorable comments about the building, the indoor parking garage and things like that. But we usually don't hear from them again.''
The couple theorize that some buyers today may be paralyzed by the wealth of choices.
''A lot of people are trying to sell right now,'' Mr. Young said. ''Buyers have a lot to choose from. Even when they find something they can afford and like, they resist making an offer because they are worried that there might be something else to see that they will like a little bit better.''
But Mr. Young, who is not only looking for more room but also wants to take advantage of the lower prices in the suburbs, is optimistic.
''When buyers realize that sellers can come down only so far,'' he said, ''maybe things will start moving.''
RICHARD WEATHERS is under the gun. A few months ago, he bought another home when he thought he had a buyer for his 4-bedroom, 3 1/2-bathroom, stone-and-frame ranch-style home in Armonk. But that deal evaporated days before a sales contract was to be signed when the buyer changed his mind.
''We lost two very valuable months with that buyer,'' he said. ''And prices dropped during that time.''
To remain competitive, Mr. Weathers cut his price when he put his home back on the market.
''SACRIFICE SALE - Original Price $429,500. Reduced Price $375,000,'' read the classified ad Mr. Weathers ran for several weeks. His was far from the only one written to appeal to bargain-hungry buyers. His advertisements were surrounded by scores of others reflecting the current flexibility - even desperation - of other sellers.
In an effort to improve his odds, Mr. Weathers is now sharing the marketing chores with the brokers who have the listing on his home. He has placed his own advertisements and is showing on his own as well.
The agreement he has with the brokers is that if one of them sells the house he pays a 5 percent commission; if he sells it, no broker's fee is owed.
But Mr. Weathers attributes his lack of success so far in selling the house, which is set on a wooded lot of more than an acre, to a home-sale gridlock rather than a price that is too steep for the market.
''There is log jam where homes sales are concerned,'' he said. ''People are looking for good deals but I do not think that at this point pricing is our main problem.
''Plenty of people are interested,'' he continued. ''Our living room is filled every weekend with young couples trying to trade up. But for a lot of them lower prices aren't helping much. ''Even those who can afford my house are sometimes stuck with smaller homes or condos that they can't sell.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: John and Meredith Forsberg with sons Evan, 8, and Logan, 2, at their Rockville Centre, L.I., house; Bruce Young and daughter, Emily, in their two-bedroom Riverdale apartment (The New York Times/Jim Estrin, Barton Silverman) (pg. 1); Jeremiah Cole, who sold his Chelsea co-op in a week, at his new home in Cambridge, Mass. (The New York Times/Jim Bourg) (pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (54%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; SALES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS REAL ESTATE (92%); EXISTING HOME SALES (91%); PRICE CUTTING (90%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (89%); HOME PRICES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); MARKETING STRATEGY (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); COMPANY STRATEGY (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (72%); CONDOMINIUMS (72%); HOSPITALS (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); RELIGION (71%); TRENDS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: KENNEDY, SHAWN G



511 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1990

SECTION: Section 12CN; Page 20, Column 5; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 636 words

HEADLINE: THEATER;
An American Sendup Of the British Royals

BYLINE: By ALVIN KLEIN

 BODY:
IN ''Rumors in the Palace,'' Enid Rudd's two-character sendup of royal tradition, British style, the oversexed future king (Arthur) and his frigid teen-age princess (Vivian, or Vi) play, teasingly, with plastic water guns. Before long, their fun and games are aimed toward kinky sex. Years later, in a hot tub, where the prince is playing with his little boat, they have a spat over mutual infidelities, and Vi tosses fried chicken nuggets at Artie. By the time they are enthroned, this king and queen of England have been diminished to blathering buffoons.
Miss Rudd, an American playwright, clearly has a message in mind beyond the sort of tacky sex comedy that runs for ages in London and closes in a flash on Broadway. Indeed, the message, about the pomposity and preposterousness of the royals, couldn't be clearer. Anachronistic, empty-headed endangered relics they are, and Miss Rudd telegraphs that throughout, mistaking restatement for development and thinly disguised topical celebrity baiting for satire. 
She also confuses double-entendres with metaphors. Apart from obvious name associations to the monarchy of the moment, one is reminded that the royal couple's favorite verbal game is Trivial Pursuit and that Vi is the champion. And Vi's ability to reach an orgasm occurs at the play's climactic moment, the coronation scene, thus literalizing the aphrodisiacal properties of power.
In roles that require a subtle command of constancy and change, Michael Lasswell and Deirdre Madigan work valiantly, but come off too adorably at first. Their English accents are basically dreadful, and periodically mercifully forgotten.
Whether he's feeling ''awfully badly'' about the homeless and otherwise victimized, or acknowledging his own ''bloody good luck,'' or going on about the formation of a think tank to deal with the troubles of inner cities, Mr. Lasswell has a disarmingly dopey air.
Whining about drafty castles and not caring ''a fig about ritual,'' Vi soon is advocating mandatory classes in etiquette and the importance of the curtsy. Miss Madigan adapts neatly to her role, which calls for varying degrees of petulance, with a bit of haughtiness thrown in. On video, Sarah Saltus and Joel Stedman play sparring newscasters with rather more style than those silly young royals.
Steve Karp's generally toneless direction is obediently farcical when it needs to be, but how is one to pursue a play that doesn't transcend its own triviality?
This production of ''Rumors in the Palace'' is its premiere, and Mr. Karp, who is also the artistic director of Stamford Theater Works, is holding to his objective of offering new plays to local audiences at least once a season.
This is the fourth full production for Stamford's new professional theater company, where plays have had two-week runs. Miss Rudd's work evolved from a staged reading at the Theater Artists Workshop in Westport.
Mr. Karp expected to extend the engagement of ''Rumors in the Palace'' through next Sunday. (It opened on Feb. 8.) But after last Saturday's matinee performance he learned that a grant from a local corporation had not come through. ''With it, we would have extended the run for sure, but we don't have the resources to gamble on another week,'' Mr. Karp said.
In addition to the play's operating expenses, the company would have been required to purchase the hot tub for $2,500. It is being rented for a nominal fee, only through today. The artistic purposes of playwrights are all too often compromised by economic realities. Perhaps the most pressing question raised by Miss Rudd's play is, is that hot tub really necessary?
''Rumors in the Palace'' will have its final performance at 2 P.M. today at the Sacred Heart Academy Center for the Arts, 200 Strawberry Hill Avenue, Stamford. 359-4414.

GRAPHIC: Photo; Deirdre Madigan and Michael Lasswell in a scene from Enid Rudd's ''Rumors in the Palace'' (Jayson Byrd)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: RUMORS IN THE PALACE (PLAY)

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (92%); UNITED STATES (86%); ENGLAND (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (86%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: SACRED HEART ACADEMY OF THE ARTS (STAMFORD, CONN)

SUBJECT: THEATER; REVIEWS THEATER REVIEWS (93%); THEATER (90%); BRITISH ROYALTY (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); BRITISH MONARCHS (78%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (78%); THEATER COMPANIES (77%); DRAMA LITERATURE (72%); 

PERSON: KLEIN, ALVIN SEGOLENE ROYAL (74%); 



512 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1990

SECTION: Section 12LI; Page 18, Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 909 words

HEADLINE: LONG ISLAND OPINION;
Our Greatest Asset: Educated Workers

BYLINE: By Ivan Frisch; Ivan Frisch is director of the Center for Advanced Technology in Telecommunications at Polytechnic University.

 BODY:
WE hear much of the economic decline of Long Island. The key to recovery is the creation of jobs in the service industries and the computer and communications technologies they depend upon.
In 1969 two of my colleagues and I left the faculty of the University of California at Berkeley to start a company in Glen Cove called Network Analysis Corporation. We had a number of good reasons for starting on Long Island, as well as some others that occurred to us later. It is worth examining those reasons because they give us clues about the directions that industry and university must take. 
Our field was computer and communication systems. Early on we had a key role in developing the world's first ''packet switching network,'' with the technology now being used in all modern computer networks. In today's terminology, we would call our field information systems. In this field, New York City was, and continues to be, the major center in the United States, with its concentration in publishing, banking, brokerage and insurance.
Part of the Island is a bedroom community for New York. However, we found that people who commute would gladly switch to appropriate jobs on the Island. We also learned that we could attract people who live in Queens and Brooklyn, or even Manhattan and New Jersey, because of the easy reverse commute, while considering the longer-term possibility of moving to Long Island.
The salaries we offered had to be competitive with New York City. On the other hand, the cost of office space is less than New York. When we started our company we rented an entire mansion, one of the old Pratt estates. The atmosphere was exotic, with the master bedroom serving as the president's office. When we outgrew the mansion we moved to more conventional, but still reasonably priced, facilities in Great Neck.
Long Island's labor force is affluent, educated and knowledgeable about information systems and other fields essential for business. As our company grew we were able to recruit, from the local community, superb financial, marketing, sales and administrative people as well as the technical people who were the heart of our business. We have been called a service economy in a post-industrial society. Rather than fight the designation we found it profitable to be part of it. Rather than business going to Texas or Tokyo, we were able to bring some of it to Long Island.
University education is the major factor in attracting and keeping industry on Long Island. The New York metropolitan area is one of a handful of centers in America with dozens of two-year and four- year colleges and universities, including some of the finest in the nation.
We obtained most of our new young hires, in the areas of computer science and electrical engineering, from the eastern section of this galaxy, particularly New York University, Columbia University, the City University of New York, including Queens College; the State University of New York at Stony Brook, and Polytechnic University, both in Brooklyn and in Farmingdale.
We asked faculty members we knew to recommend their best students. We built a team consisting of the best students, a highly motivated, dedicated group. We also taught as adjunct faculty at all the schools named above and once again made offers to the best students we saw. Even as we grew and needed far more employees, the technique was still effective. With creativity we can attract and keep our graduates on Long Island.
The university is also critical in attracting the less affluent and enabling them to join the community. It may appear that the high technology industries exclude these very people. The only real entry barrier is the willingness to exercise one's intellect. For example, Polytechnic University draws almost all its students from the New York area, with many students being the first generation in their families to attend college.
About 71 percent remain in the metropolitan area after graduation and if more jobs were available even more of them would stay. Among those who work in industry as co-op students while undergraduates, 83 percent are placed locally.
Of course, the university's impact does not stop with undergraduate education. In any technologically centered company, and particularly in information systems, professionals must be prepared to learn. However, many people must change their technical fields several times in a career. For lasting and deep knowledge, fundamentals must be presented in a coherent graduate program.
Our company was acquired in 1980, and I have now returned to teaching at Polytechnic University, where I continue to implement the tenets I preach. One program we offer is in telecommunications management and the other in information systems engineering. Some of the people who enroll in these programs are working on information systems but never were formally educated in either computers or in communications or both. The people who have graduated from the program compete and excel in two of the areas critical to the welfare of Long Island.
I do not minimize the magnitude of our problems. One does not overcome problems of tax burdens, job displacement, aging industries and international competition by penning a few words. But one can set objectives. Our future lies in our ability to capitalize our college-educated work force to stay at the forefront of information technology and attract business to Long Island.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (50%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (86%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (86%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (58%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LONG ISLAND (NY)

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; LABOR JOB CREATION (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); LABOR FORCE (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); ENGINEERING (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); OFFICE PROPERTY (69%); CITIES (67%); 

PERSON: FRISCH, IVAN ANN LIVERMORE (53%); 



513 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1990

SECTION: Section 12NJ; Page 1, Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1465 words

HEADLINE: >Fund Offers Aid To Children With Severe Illnesses

BYLINE: By SANDRA FRIEDLAND

DATELINE: WARREN

 BODY:
FOUR-YEAR-OLD Ryan Damrau was born with a hole in his heart and enough other medical problems to fill a pediatric textbook.
He is deaf and suffers from a chronic eye ailment. His body temperature fluctuates; he has no muscle coordination, and he lacks the sucking and swallowing reflexes needed to eat and drink. Four times a day, his parents must thread a tube through his nose and into his stomach to feed him.
''It's like having an infant in the house all the time,'' said his father, the Rev. Robert Damrau, pastor of the Mount Bethel Baptist Church here. He said he and his wife, Ulla, and their two older children communicate with Ryan mainly through touch. 
The boy's care has cost thousands of dollars a year beyond the amount covered by the Damraus' insurance. Lately, the family has been struggling to make the $453 monthly payments on a van to transport Ryan, whose high-backed wheelchair does not fit into a car.
 
$13,000 State Grant for Van
But now, thanks to a $13,000 grant from a new state fund, the van will soon be paid for, and the Damraus are breathing a little easier.
The fund, New Jersey's Catastrophic Illness in Children Relief Fund, is the only one of its kind in the nation, state officials say. It is intended to protect families from financial ruin when the care of a severely ill or disabled child generates staggering expenses that are not paid by insurance or other government programs. The fund covers children 17 years old or younger afflicted with either physical or mental disorders.
''This fills the gaps where other programs don't come into play,'' said Dr. Leah Ziskin, the Acting State Commissioner of Health. ''It will help those people who make too much money to qualify for Medicaid but have no health insurance, or who have insurance that doesn't cover such items as doctor visits, home care, prostheses or medical supplies.''
Financed through a $1 assessment on employers for every worker subject to the New Jersey Unemployment Compensation Law, the fund has nearly $5 million a year to dispense. It is administered by a nine-member commission, which is now accepting applications for help with expenses incurred in 1988 and 1989. The Damraus got one of the first three grants, which were announced last December.
 
Next Round of Awards
The commission will meet March 20 to consider the next round of awards.
Applications for aid are made through the Special Child Health Services program in each of the state's 21 counties. Families must have lived in New Jersey for at least six months before applying, although migrant workers who can prove they have worked in the state may also qualify.
Families earning up to $100,000 a year can qualify for aid if their child's unreimbursed medical expenses exceed 30 percent of their income. Families earning more than $100,000 a year can apply if their unreimbursed expenses account for more than 40 percent of their income. The fund will pay that portion of a family's eligible expenses that exceeds the 30 percent or 40 percent threshold.
The maximum award is $25,000, but the commission can grant additional aid to families with other hardships. Special consideration will also be given to families with more than one child with a catastrophic illness. The commission can also pay insurance premiums for a child.
Richard Ahlfeld, a commissioner of the fund, said the program was designed to be accessible and ''user friendly.'' But he stressed the need for applicants to have good documentation.
''Even if all the family has is a shoebox full of receipts, there has to be documentation,'' said Mr. Ahlfeld, who also is president of Children's Specialized Hospital in Mountainside. He said that case managers in the Special Child Services unit of each county had been trained to help families complete their applications.
 
Expenses Bring Hardships
''There are families whose lives are totally wiped out by their children's medical expenses,'' said Dr. Leta Bagden, director of the Child Development Center of Children's Hospital of New Jersey in Newark and a commissioner of the fund. She pointed out, for example, that bills for the care of a critically ill newborn ''can approach $100,000 in a very short time and throw the family into total chaos.''
In 1988, Gina and Michael DeFeo of the Camden County community of Clementon received a bill for $80,000 after their 11-day-old daughter Michelle, died of kidney failure in a Philadelphia hospital. She had been transferred there for special care after her premature birth in a New Jersey hospital. Her twin sister, Maria, did not need to be transferred, and she survived.
''As long as Michelle was in New Jersey, her bills were covered under an arrangement we had with the New Jersey hospital's clinic,'' Mrs. DeFeo recalled. ''But once she was taken out of the state, she wasn't covered. We were still mourning her death when that bill arrived. There was no way we could pay it. It was devastating.''
Mrs. DeFeo and her husband, who earned about $17,000 in 1988, were ineligible for public assistance and could not negotiate a settlement with the hospital. They lost their credit rating and faced deepening financial troubles.
 
'Christmas Present From God'
Then, last year, a county caseworker who had been helping them manage Maria's health care needs told them about the catastrophic illness fund. The commission agreed to pay $35,000 to the Philadelphia hospital.
''The news was like a Christmas present from God,'' Mrs. DeFeo said recently. ''We are talking to the hospital and hope they'll accept the money as full payment or at least for most of it.''
Dr. Ziskin of the Health Department said it had been extremely gratifying to make the first awards from the fund. ''This has been a public health professional's dream: to get money directly to families who feel abandoned and discriminated against by the system,'' she said.
State Senator Donald T. DiFrancesco, Republican of Westfield, introduced the legislation in 1986 that eventually led to the establishment of the fund. He was inspired, he said, by the experiences of two local families whose children had been involved in crippling accidents.
''I realize that we needed a program to take care of people who could go bankrupt from an illness or accident,'' he said in a recent interview. ''I focused on children because they are not in a position to decide what kind of insurance they must have or whether to buy it at all. They can't take care of themselves.''
 
Families May Reapply
Although he had first envisioned a program for children with physical problems, Mr. DiFrancesco said it was expanded to include the retarded and children with mental illnesses as well. Under the rules of the fund, families may apply for aid every year if they continue to meet the requirements.
Mary Ann Whiteman, executive director of the fund, pointed out that families with a chronically ill child may have little hope of increasing their income.
''Their income level often does not rise,'' Ms. Whiteman said, ''either because one parent must stay at home to care for the child or because the family needs insurance so badly that the wage earner cannot risk changing jobs for a promotion for fear of losing coverage. But long-term prospects are poor for these families ever paying all their bills.''
Cheryl and Alexander Holdosi of Dover have been told that their son will outgrow the severe kidney problems that almost killed him 1988. Alexander Jr., now 3 1/2, was hospitalized repeatedly and has required continual monitoring. The family's insurance paid for the hospital charges but not for the doctors' bills or the boy's outpatient laboratory tests or medications.
''We couldn't afford to pay, and we were denied Medicaid coverage,'' said Mrs. Holdosi, adding that she and her husband earned about $21,000 in 1988. ''Collection agencies were after us.''
Last December, the Holdosis learned that the catastrophic illness fund would pay $1,600 of the family's medical expenses.
''We still have bills left,'' Mrs. Holdosi said. ''But this has taken off a lot of the pressure. It really felt great.''
 
HOW TO APPLY
Families interested in applying for aid from New Jersey's Catastrophic Illness in Children Relief Fund should follow these steps, says Mary Ann Whiteman, the executive director of the fund:
Obtain an application by calling the fund headquarters in Trenton, (609)292-0600, or the Special Child Services unit of their county.
Isolate medical expenses relating to the child's care, dividing them by year and identifying the paid and unpaid bills.
Take the application and financial records to the appropriate county Special Child Services unit, where a case manager will help complete the application process.

GRAPHIC: Photo; The Rev. Robert Damrau helping his son Ryan, an invalid, into the special van that new state fund helped to finance (NYT/John Sotomayor)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL OF THE KING'S DAUGHTERS (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY CATASTROPHIC ILLNESS IN CHILDREN'S RELIEF FUND

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; HEALTH INSURANCE DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (89%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (89%); GRANTS & GIFTS (87%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (87%); HEART DISEASE (78%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (78%); MEDICAID (78%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); EYE DISORDERS & INJURIES (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (73%); MENTAL ILLNESS (64%); MIGRANT WORKERS (60%); 

PERSON: FRIEDLAND, SANDRA; ZISKIN, LEAH (DR) RYAN DAMRAU (63%); 



514 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1990

SECTION: Section 12WC; Page 26, Column 5; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: THEATER;
An American Sendup Of the British Royals

BYLINE: By ALVIN KLEIN

DATELINE: STAMFORD

 BODY:
IN ''Rumors in the Palace,'' Enid Rudd's two-character sendup of royal tradition, British style, the oversexed future king (Arthur) and his frigid teen-age princess (Vivian, or Vi) play, teasingly, with plastic water guns. Before long, their fun and games are aimed toward kinky sex. Years later, in a hot tub, where the prince is playing with his little boat, they have a spat over mutual infidelities, and Vi tosses fried chicken nuggets at Artie. By the time they are enthroned, this king and queen of England have been diminished to blathering buffoons.
Miss Rudd, an American playwright, clearly has a message in mind beyond the sort of tacky sex comedy that runs for ages in London and closes in a flash on Broadway. Indeed, the message, about the pomposity and preposterousness of the royals, couldn't be clearer. Anachronistic, empty-headed endangered relics they are, and Miss Rudd telegraphs that throughout, mistaking restatement for development and thinly disguised topical celebrity-baiting for satire. 
She also confuses double-entendres with metaphors. Apart from obvious name associations to the monarchy of the moment, one is reminded that the royal couple's favorite verbal game is Trivial Pursuit and that Vi is the champion. And Vi's ability to reach an orgasm occurs at the play's climactic moment, the coronation scene, thus literalizing the aphrodisiacal properties of power.
In roles that require a subtle command of constancy and change, Michael Lasswell and Deirdre Madigan work valiantly, but come off too adorably at first. Their English accents are basically dreadful, and periodically are mercifully forgotten.
Whether he's feeling ''awfully badly'' about the homeless and otherwise victimized, or acknowledging his own ''bloody good luck,'' or going on about the formation of a think tank to deal with the troubles of inner cities, Mr. Lasswell has a disarmingly dopey air.
Whining about drafty castles and not caring ''a fig about ritual,'' Vi soon is advocating mandatory classes in etiquette and the importance of the curtsy. Miss Madigan adapts neatly to her role, which calls for varying degrees of petulance, with a bit of haughtiness thrown in. On video, Sarah Saltus and Joel Stedman play sparring newscasters with rather more style than those silly young royals.
Steve Karp's generally toneless direction is obediently farcical when it needs to be, but how is one to pursue a play that doesn't transcend its own triviality?
This production of ''Rumors in the Palace'' is its premiere, and Mr. Karp, who is also the artistic director of Stamford Theater Works, is holding to his objective of offering new plays to local audiences at least once a season.
This is the fourth full production for Stamford's new professional theater company, where plays have had two-week runs. Miss Rudd's work evolved from a staged reading at the Theater Artists Workshop in Westport.
Mr. Karp expected to extend the engagement of ''Rumors in the Palace'' through next Sunday. (It opened on Feb. 8.) But after last Saturday's matinee performance he learned that a grant from a local corporation had not come through. ''With it, we would have extended the run for sure, but we don't have the resources to gamble on another week,'' Mr. Karp said.
In addition to the play's operating expenses, the company would have been required to purchase the hot tub for $2,500. It is being rented for a nominal fee, only through today. The artistic purposes of playwrights are all too often compromised by economic realities. Perhaps the most pressing question raised by Miss Rudd's play is, is that hot tub really necessary?
''Rumors in the Palace'' will have its final performance at 2 P.M. today at the Sacred Heart Academy Center for the Arts, 200 Strawberry Hill Avenue, Stamford. (203) 359-4414.

GRAPHIC: Photo; Deirdre Madigan and Michael Lasswell in a scene from Enid Rudd's ''Rumors in the Palace.'' (Jayson Byrd)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: RUMORS IN THE PALACE (PLAY)

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (92%); ENGLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (67%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (67%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: SACRED HEART ACADEMY OF THE ARTS (STAMFORD, CONN)

SUBJECT: THEATER; REVIEWS THEATER REVIEWS (93%); THEATER (90%); BRITISH ROYALTY (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); BRITISH MONARCHS (78%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (78%); THEATER COMPANIES (77%); DRAMA LITERATURE (72%); 

PERSON: KLEIN, ALVIN SEGOLENE ROYAL (74%); 



515 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1990

SECTION: Section 12WC; Page 30, Column 5; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1251 words

HEADLINE: WESTCHESTER GUIDE

 BODY:

 
A BIT OF HISTORY
An open house celebrating George Washington's birthday will be held from 2 to 4 P.M. today at the recently restored Jacob Purdy House in White Plains. It is the first of a series of events planned ''to acquaint people with a bit of history in their midst that is largely unrecognized,'' said John W. Harrington, president of the White Plains Historical Society, which acquired the building in the late 1960's.
''We have documentation that General Washington spent seven days in the house in 1776, before and during the Battle of White Plains, and six weeks in the summer of 1778,'' he said. Purdy was a captain in the militia and his 123-acre farm was a convenient meeting place and rallying point for the military.
The house, on two acres at 60 Park Avenue, was built in 1794 and remained in the Purdy family until 1963. ''The city moved it for us from a nearby urban-renewal area to its present site in 1973, saving it from demolition and restoring the exterior with H.U.D. funds,'' Mr. Harrington said. 
Restoration of the interior was completed by the historical society last fall at a cost of $85,000. International Business Machines contributed $25,000, the rest was raised from private donations. All the original wide-plank flooring and most of the wainscoting was preserved, along with the mantel in the main parlor, where Washington held his conferences. Funds must now be raised for appropriate antique furnishings. ''The house was empty and badly vandalized when we got it,'' Mr. Harrington said. ''It had been a rooming house and for a time, a brothel.''
Stephen Holden Jr., a local lawyer, will portray General Washington and act as host, while a number of costumed hostesses will serve gingerbread made from Martha Washington's recipe and a selection of teas and coffees. Five costumed militiamen will fire a musket volley for the raising of the American flag and the Washington Headquarters flag - a solid blue field with 13 white stars.
A special feature of the afternoon will be a harpsichord performance by Robert Canfield. The all-Early American program includes the Federal Overture by Benjamin Carr, written in 1794; Washington's March; the Marseilles Hymn; Carmagnole; Ca Ira; and Yankee Doodle.
To reach the house, proceed up Church Street opposite Macy's and turn left on Park Avenue to the red farmhouse. Everything is free, including refreshments.
 
ENSOR SELF-PORTRAIT
An exhibition called ''James Ensor: Self-Portrait in Prints'' opens today at the Neuberger Museum of the State University of New York at in Purchase, running through April 15. Devised by a student, Carrie Brewster, as her senior project in art, the show contains two lithographs and 14 etchings, all in black and white and all modest in size - up to about 20 inches - and all self-portraits.
One is called ''The Entry of Christ Into Brussels in 1889'' and is indicative of the Belgian artist's perception of himself as persecuted by the critics. ''Demons Tormenting Me'' has a tombstone in the background with his name on it, illustrating his preoccupation with his own death. He died in 1949 at the age of 80.
Museum hours are 10 A.M. to 4 P.M. Tuesdays through Fridays, and 11 A.M. to 5 P.M. weekends. Admission is free but a donation of $2 is asked.
 
ENVIRONMENTAL LAW
A moot-court competition and series of environmental-litigation workshops will be held at the Pace University School of Law in White Plains from 2 to 9 P.M. Thursday, from 10 A.M. to 9:30 P.M. Friday and from 10 A.M. to 9 P.M. Saturday.
Among the issues to be discussed are local and municipal recycling programs; protection of United States wetlands; the environmental role of the United States and the Soviet Union among developing nations; President Bush's proposal to amend the Clean Air Act; criminal environmental-law enforcement; regulation of petroleum transport; alternatives for energy management, and groundwater pollution.
A forum from 7 to 9:30 P.M. Friday titled ''Attack on the Venus Sky Traps: Strategy and Tactics to Abate the Roots of Global Warming'' will feature Richard L. Ottinger, a former Representative from Westchester who is now a member of Governor Mario M. Cuomo's Environmental Advisory Board, and a panel of government, academic and private-sector representatives.
Among the workshop speakers are John Meagher, director of the wetlands strategies and state programs division of the United States Environmental Protection Agency; Andrew Praschal, senior environmental counsel for BASF Chemicals; Judy LaBelle, deputy director and counsel of the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation; Lieut. Mike Kearney, assistant port safety officer for the United States Coast Guard; Victor Rocque, vice president and general counsel for Orange and Rockland Utility.
Dr. Michael H. Robinson, director of the National Zoo at the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, will address an awards banquet for competition winners from 52 teams representing 37 law schools in the United States and Canada, scheduled from 6 to 9 P.M. Saturday at the White Plains Hotel.
All aspects of the program are open to the public. Registration, from noon to 2 P.M. Thursday, is $50, or $25 for any law student and $10 for other students, in the Glass Lounge on the campus, at 78 North Broadway. Tickets for the banquet are $25. Call 422-4360 for more information.
 
A SILENT WILDE
The rarest of the films to be shown in a series beginning this week at Westchester Community College in Valhalla is ''Lady Windermere's Fan.'' Made in 1925 from an Oscar Wilde play, it was filmed as a silent feature starring Ronald Colman. Although not a word of Wilde's witty dialogue can be heard, Ernst Lubitsch's direction was credited with making the movie a hit. At the screening on March 3d the silence will be breached with a live and original piano score composed and performed by Lee Erwin, a specialist in the field.
''Pelle the Conqueror,'' the 1988 Danish film with Max von Sydow opens the series this Friday, followed on successive Fridays at 8 P.M. by ''Murmur of the Heart,'' France, 1971; ''Wuthering Heights,'' United States, 1939; ''Made for Each Other,'' United States, 1971; ''The Navigator,'' New Zealand, 1988; ''Lady Windermere's Fan''; ''Wings of Desire,'' West Germany, 1988, and ''Queen of Hearts,'' Britain, 1988.
A performance of the 1989 British film ''My Left Foot'' will end the season June 1 as a benefit for the college's Arts Fund. Subscriptions for the rest of the series cost $27, or $20 for the elderly. Single tickets are $4, or $3 for the elderly. Benefit tickets are $10. Each film is preceded by a reception at 7:15 P.M. Call 285-6700 to subscribe or obtain more information.
 
THE AIDS TRAGEDY
''AIDS: The Science and Ethics of a Social Tragedy'' will be discussed by Dr. Robert C. Gallo, co-discoverer of the AIDS virus at noon Wednesday at the Performing Arts Theater of Lehman College in the Bronx.
Dr. Gallo, who is chief of the Tumor Cell Biology Laboratory at the National Cancer Institute of the National Institutes of Health in Washington, also heads the institute team that developed a blood test used to detect the AIDS virus and is at work on developing a vaccine.
Dr. Gallo is a member of the National Academy of Sciences and has been awarded honorary degrees from several universities in the United States, Italy, Israel and Belgium. Admission is free. For more information, call (212) 960-8441. $90ELEANOR CHARLES

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IBMC (BRU) (55%); IBM (NYSE) (55%); IBM (LSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (55%); WHITE PLAINS HISTORICAL SOCIETY (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY)

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS HISTORY (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); ROOMING & BOARDING HOUSES (73%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (64%); EXHIBITIONS (62%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (60%); 

PERSON: JOHN W HARRINGTON (65%); JAMES ENSOR (58%); 



516 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1990

SECTION: Section 7; Page 28; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1348 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: February 18, 1990

 BODY:

 	 	 	 			Weeks	 	This	Last	On	 	Week	Week	List	Fiction		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 1	5	4	DEVICES AND DESIRES, by P. D. James. (Knopf, $19.95.) Adam Dalgitesh puzzles over a series of killings on the windy Norfolk coast.	 	 	 	 	 2	1	4	THE BAD PLACE by Dean R. Koontz (Putnam, $10.95.) A troubled sleepwalker hires a detective team to discover the causes and consequences of his behavior.	 	 	 	 	 3	3	5	VINELAND, by Thomas Pynchon (Little, Brown ($19.95.) The passions of the 1960's continue to rule the lives of members of a community in Northern California.	 	 	 	 	 4	2	5	A RULING PASSION, by Judith Michael (Poseidon, $19.95.) A young widow's entry into the world of television brings her adventures fraught with love, intrigue, revenge and murder.	 	 	 	 	 5	4	5	COLD HARBOUR, by Jack Higgins (Simon & Schuster, $19.95.) The O.S.S. agent Craig Osbourne on a perilous mission during World War II.	 	 	 	 	 6	7	25	CLEAR AND PRESENT DANGER, by Tom Clancy (Putnam, $21.95.) The C.I.A.'s Jack Ryan fights Colombian drug lords.	 	 	 	 	 7*	6	14	DADDY, by Danielle Steel (Delacorte, $19.95.) Unexpected crises wreck the safe, predictable world a man has built for himself and his family.	 	 	 	 	 8	11	3	COUNTERATTACK, by W. E. B. Griffin. (Putnam, $16.95.) The Marines in action, from Pearl Harbor to Guadalcanal, third volume in "The Corps" series.	 	 	 	 	 9		1	HOLLYWOOD, by Gore Vidal. (Random House, $19.95.) A docudrama of the 1920's, featuring Caroline Sanford, Washington newspaper publisher turned film star.	 	 	 	 	10	9	6	HARMFUL INTENT, by Robin Cook (Putnam, $18.95.) A physician struggles to clear his name in a "medical malpractice" death and to prevent others from occurring.	 	 	 	 	11	8	14	CARIBBEAN, by James A. Michener (Random House, $22.95.) The history of the sea islands told in fictional form.	 	 	 	 	12*	12	18	TALES FROM MARGARITAVILLE, by Jimmy Buffett (Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, $16.95.) Short stories set on a mythical Caribbean island.	 	 	 	 	13	10	16	THE DARK HALF, by Stephen King (Viking, $21.95.) After a writer of horror tales kills off his pseudonym, the deceased goes on a murderous rampage.	 	 	 	 	14	13	3	WHITE NINJA, by Eric V. Lustbader. (Fawcett, $19.95.) Returning to Tokyo, his spiritual homeland, a Caucasian-Oriental is haunted by an emotional crisis and a cunning madman.	 	 	 	 	15*	15	2	THE GREAT AND SECRET SHOW, by Clive Barker. (Harper & Row, $19.95.) The mail he reads in a dead-letter office engages a man in a cosmic struggle both barbaric and baroque.	 	 	 	 			Weeks	 	This	Last	On	 	Week	Week	List	Nonfiction	 	 	 	 	 1	1	4	MEGATRENDS 2000, by John Naisbitt and Patricia Aburdene (Morrow, $21.95.) Prognostications about political, economic and social developments in the next decade.	 	 	 	 	 2	2	4	BARBARIANS AT THE GATE, by Bryan Burrough and John Helyar (Harper & Row, $22.95.) The 1988 battle for control of RJR Nabisco.	 	 	 	 	 3	3	15	LIAR'S POKER, by Michael Lewis (Norton, $18.95.) Wall Street's tumultuous 1980's, as witnessed by a young bond trader.	 	 	 	 	 4	4	22	IT WAS ON FIRE WHEN I LAY DOWN ON IT, by Robert Fulghum (Villard, $17.95.) A new collection of inspirational essays.	 	 	 	 	 5	6	68	ALL I REALLY NEEDED TO KNOW I LEARNED IN KINDERGARTEN, (Villard, $17.95.) Inspirational essays about everyday matters.	 	 	 	 	 6	5	10	THE TEMPTING OF AMERICA, by Robert M. Bork (Free Press, $22.50.) A critique of the relationship between politics and the law by Ronald Reagan's Supreme Court nominee.	 	 	 	 	 7	7	4	THE EMPEROR'S NEW MIND, by Roger Penrose (Oxford University, $24.95.) A physicist maintains that computers will never replace human thinking.	 	 	 	 	 8	9	3	THE CUCKOO'S EGG, by Clifford Stoll. (Doubleday, $19.95.) An astrophysicist tells how he stalked a computer hacker from California across America to West Germany.	 	 	 	 	 9*	8	96	A BRIEF HISTORY OF TIME, by Stephen W. Hawking (Bantam, $18.95.) A scientist views efforts to create a unified theory of the universe.	 	 	 	 	10		1	THE SECOND WORLD WAR, by John Keegan. (Viking, $29.95.) A military history.	 	 	 	 	11	10	25	AMONG SCHOOLCHILDREN, by Tracy Kidder (Todd/Houghton/Mifflin, $19.95.) A year in the life of a fifth-grade schoolteacher in Holyoke, Mass.	 	 	 	 	12	12	15	DRIVE, by Larry Bird with Bob Ryan. (Doubleday, $17.95.) The basketball star's autobiography.	 	 	 	 	13*	15	5	WHO NEEDS GOD, by Harold Kushner (Summit, $18.95.) A rabbi tells how religious commitment can make great differences in our lives.	 	 	 	 	14	14	20	FROM BEIRUT TO JERUSALEM, by Thomas L. Friedman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $22.95.) The Arab-Israeli conflict as observed by a New York Times correspondent over the past decade.	 	 	 	 	15		9	WONDERFUL LIFE, by Stephen Jay Gould. (Norton, $19.95.) What a small quarry in the Canadian Rockies has revealed about the past.	 	 	 	 	16*		4	HEAD FIRST, by Norman Cousins. (Dutton, $19.95.) How the brain affects the body's endocrine and immune systems.	 	 	 	 			Weeks	 	This	Last	On	 	Week	Week	List	Advice, How-to and Miscellaneous	 	 	 	 	 1	1	53	WEALTH WITHOUT RISK, by Charles J. Givens (Simon & Schuster, $19.95.) A Florida entrepreneur's advice about how to make a personal fortune.	 	 	 	 	 2	2	10	THE GREAT WALDO SEARCH, by Martin Handford (Little, Brown $10.95.) A book of illustrations in which the game is to find an ubiquitous chap named Waldo.	 	 	 	 	 3	3	26	THE T-FACTOR DIET, by Martin Katahn. (Norton, $18.95.) A new regimen for weight loss.	 	 	 	 	 4	5	176	WEBSTER'S NINTH NEW COLLEGIATE DICTIONARY. (Merriam-Webster, $16.95.) A standard reference work, revised and updated.	 	 	 	 	 5	6	17	THE FRUGAL GOURMET COOKS THREE ANCIENT CUISINES, by Jeff Smith. (Morrow, $18.95.) Recipes from China, Greece and Rome.	 These listings are based on computer-processed sales figures from 3,000 bookstores and from representative wholesalers with more than 38,000 other retail outlets, including variety stores and supermarkets. The figures are statistically adjusted to represent sales in all such outlets across the United States.
 
*An asterisk before a book's title indicates that its sales, weighted to reflect the book-selling industry nationally, are barely distinguishable from those of the book above.
 
 
AND BEAR IN MIND
 (Editor's choices of other recent books of particular interest.)
 A LAW UNTO INSELF: Power, Politics and the IRS, by David Burnham. (Random House, $22.50.) An absorbing, critical, well-argued inquiry into our tax agency, by a former Times reporter.
 THE KNIGHT, DEATH AND THE DEVIL, by Ella Leffland. (Morrow, $22.95) This vigorous novel about Hermann Goring, Hitler's baroque enigmatic No. 2 Nazi, gives a credible sense of why Nazism succeeded in inflaming so many generatons.
 A TENURED PROFESSOR, by John Kenneht Galbraith. (Houghton Mifflin, $19.95.) A liberal economist learns to quantify investor irrationality and makes millions until conservatives cut him down in Mr. Galbraith's rollicking spoof of free-market ideology.
 ME AND MY BABY VIEW THE ECLIPSE, by Lee Smith. (Putnam, $18.95.) Powerful short sotires of small-town life and the passage of time in the American South, full of striving, jealously and pettiness but also of transcendent generosity and devotion.
 PASSING ON, by Penolope Lively (Grove Weldenfeld, $17.95) Tough and shrewd, precise and understated, Ms. Lively's eighth novel renders a family's painful efforts to sort out and overcome the emotional legacy of a truly awful mother.
 WHAT I SAW AT THE REVOLUTION: A Political Life in the Reagan Era, by Peggy Noonan. (Random House, $19.95.) Ronald Reagan's speechwriter, an articulate true believer in her President's greatness, is also a wide-awake observer of comings and goings in the Administration, rendering what she saw and heard into fine, sometimes brusque and rough-cut social comedy.
MARY REILLY, by Valerie Martin. (Doubleday, $18.95.) Stevenson's story of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde from the unexpected viewpoint of a housemaid, a woman fierce with love, loyalty, and the will to figure out what's going on between good and evil.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%); 

COUNTRY: CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (85%); COLOMBIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (55%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WORLD WAR II (87%); WRITERS (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); DRAMA FILMS (71%); PUBLISHING (67%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (60%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (50%); 

PERSON: STEPHEN KING (58%); 



517 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1990

SECTION: Section 12CN; Page 1, Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1432 words

HEADLINE: Tight Budgets Force Towns To Cut Costs

BYLINE: By ROBERT A. HAMILTON

 BODY:
ON Lincoln's Birthday last week, for the first time in years, there was no one at the New Haven Public Works Department to answer the phone in an emergency. This weekend, the street-sweeping trucks are not out as usual, as the city cuts overtime hours to save money.
''If it's a real emergency, people can get in touch with the Police Department on a holiday,'' said the acting public works director, Brian W. Funk. ''And for two days a week, the litter will have to accumulate.''
Those are some of the first visible effects of New Haven's money problems. The city is running a budget deficit this year estimated at nearly $12 million. 
In Bridgeport city officials are planning to come to grips with their problem this week. On Tuesday, Mayor Mary C. Moran will meet with union representatives to discuss an anticipated $28.6 million shortfall for the budget year beginning July 1, and the new chief financial officer, Richard V. Robinson, will announce his recommendations for cuts.
New Haven and Bridgeport are the most visible examples, but towns across the state are struggling with fiscal problems in increasing numbers, according to audits filtering into state offices.
Municipalities are faced with tax revenue that is lower than expected, largely because of the sluggish real-estate market. Anticipated money from building permits, real-estate transfer taxes and property taxes on new structures has not materialized. Leading many towns' unexpected costs are the arbitration awards won by municipal employee unions, especially those representing teachers.
Mr. Robinson said the possibility of layoffs in Bridgeport, ''is very real.'' He said the city pared its services to a minimum in an effort to pull itself out of a serious fiscal crunch in the mid-1980s.
''The easy cuts, they've all been made,'' Mr. Robinson said. ''Now we're looking at making cuts that will definitely have an impact on programs and services.''
Luca Cardozo, an administrative aide to Ms. Moran, said that when the Mayor took office in January, the deficit for the 1990-91 fiscal year was projected at $15 million. Last week, the city announced that the actual figure would be closer to $30 million.
''When you come in with one figure in your mind, and you start figuring out how to deal with it, but then that figure suddenly doubles, it takes you a little off guard,'' Mr. Cardozo said. ''It's not a matter of pointing fingers at anyone and laying the blame. We've got a serious job ahead of us, and we've got to get to work.''
Van Sullivan, a staff member of the State Municipal Finance Advisory Commission, said that in the 1988 fiscal year, seven towns reported a deficit in municipal fund balances.
This year, 9 of the 154 towns that have reported so far have deficits, and as many as 3 or 4 of the last 15 whose reports are expected by early March could be in the red.
''By and large, the towns are well managed,'' Mr. Sullivan said. But they all face rapidly increasing costs of providing services, he said, while some find that revenues are falling short of expectations.
 
Painful Choices
Earlier this month, Gov. William A. O'Neill added to the bad news when he announced that towns would get millions of dollars less in state aid than they had anticipated.
The legislative services director for the Connecticut Conference of Municipalities, James J. Finley, said: ''Every dollar they don't get in state aid, towns are going to have to make a decision: 'Do I cut services? Do I raise taxes? Or do I do some combination of both?' '' .
Mr. Finley said his group's analysis of the Governor's budget showed only a 2.4 percent increase in state aid to towns this year, less than half of the rate of inflation and down even more from what local officials had expected and, in some cases, built into their budgets based on state promises.
''The hits are on the education side, mostly,'' Mr. Finley said. Towns expected an $87.7 million increase in education cost-sharing grants, as required by law. But Mr. O'Neill has proposed a $44.9 percent increase, about 5.4 percent. For special education, the statutes called for an increase of $38.7 million this year, but the Governor's budget allots the towns just $22.5 million more.
 
Some Bright Spots
''That special-education money is reimbursement for money towns already spent, money they thought they were guaranteed, and now they're not going to get it,'' Mr. Finley said.
Revenue sharing has been eliminated, a loss of $10 million, and non-education grants are down $5 million, or 1.2 percent, he said.
Some of the bright spots in an otherwise bleak budget, Mr. Finley said, are increases in money for drug treatment and enforcement, to $12.5 million from $3.5 million; infrastructure grants, up to $67.5 million from $66 million; recycling grants, up from to $6 million from $2 million, and payments in lieu of taxes for private colleges and hospitals, to 50 percent of the tax they would otherwise pay, up from 40 percent.
But the bad news could make an already difficult situation worse for municipalities. Mr. Sullivan said that in the 1989 fiscal year, when state spending was considerably more generous, nine towns posted a municipal fund deficit.
The towns must report to the Municipal Finance Advisory Commission under the 1979 law that established it in the wake of Waterbury's fiscal problems. Officials in that city, however, are buoyed this year by the news that Waterbury finished the 1989 fiscal year with a $5.4 million surplus.
 
Matter of Accounting
Mr. Sullivan said the deficits posted so far range from $8,700 in Canaan to $1.6 million in Stratford.
In New Britain, one of the cities on the 1989 deficit list, the finance director, John Jedrzekczyk, said the shortfall is really an accounting deficiency. New Britain counts money paid to teachers in July and August against the fiscal year in which it is paid, while the state counts the funds against the previous fiscal year, he said.
The difference would be significant only if the city ''went out of business,'' Mr. Jedrzekczyk said.
Mr. Sullivan said: ''Normally, you try to keep 4 to 5 percent of your annual budget in your fund balance. But there doesn't seem to be any town in a really serious situation. If a town ran negative fund balances four out of the last five years, you have to look a little closer.''
In a small town, he said, having an unanticipated special-education student can put it in the red for one year. And some larger Fairfield County towns have had their finances disrupted when corporations picked up and moved out.
 
Correction Plans
''The things we look at are whether the towns have had a lot of deficits and the size of those deficits,'' Mr. Sullivan said.
This year for the first time, the Municipal Finance Advisory Commission will have the authority to call in towns that have financial problems and get an explanation of what they are are doing to correct the situation. Mr. Sullivan said he expects the first towns to be called in later this year, after the regulations become final, although he declined to speculate which towns might be the first.
Among the likeliest contenders are New Haven and Bridgeport. When John C. Daniels won election as Mayor in New Haven last November, the incumbent Mayor, Biagio DiLieto, was projecting a $3.7 million shortfall in the city's $235 million deficit.
But last month, Mr. Daniels announced the actual gap would be about $11.7 million, in part because departments are expected to spend $8.4 million more than budgeted and because anticipated revenues were overly optimistic.
The Mayor has ordered an immediate halt to overtime in an attempt to get control over expenses.
 
Cutting Fire Service
New Haven's Fire Chief, John P. Reardon, said he will not be able to authorize overtime when the vacation season starts in April.
''People might not like it, but it might mean eventually taking companies out of service,'' he said.
''When you get down to a certain point, you have to bring people back on overtime no matter what it's going to cost,'' Chief Reardon said. The department's job over the next few weeks, he said, is to determine just how low staffing can go.
At the Public Works Department, Mr. Funk said officials are hoping that if snow has to fall, it arrives between 8:30 A.M. and 4:30 P.M., Monday to Friday.
''Any bad weather, obviously, and we have to go out and plow,'' Mr. Funk said. ''But we're more careful about the use of overtime. If it's a real emergency, that's one thing. But if it's not, we find some alternative.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (94%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT; BRIDGEPORT (CONN); NEW HAVEN (CONN)

SUBJECT: FINANCES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TAXATION; REAL ESTATE REAL ESTATE (91%); BUDGETS (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); MAYORS (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); OVERTIME (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); CITIES (77%); POLICE FORCES (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (76%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (74%); TRENDS (71%); LAYOFFS (68%); LABOR UNIONS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (67%); PROPERTY TAX (65%); BUILDING PERMITS (50%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (50%); 

PERSON: HAMILTON, ROBERT A MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 



518 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1990

SECTION: Section 8; Page 1, Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 427 words

HEADLINE: NATIONAL NOTEBOOK: SEATTLE;
A Condo Plan For Downtown

BYLINE: By HARRIET KING

 BODY:
A $16 MILLION, 70-unit condominium project - the first major new condominium proposed since the early 1980's - is being planned for a downtown site by the Hammond-Pacific Development Company.
The plans call for a 26-story tower, called One Pacific Tower, at 2000 First Avenue and Virginia Street in the Denny Regrade area. The area, a little more than a square mile, was once hilly but was leveled for development around the turn of the century and named for David Denny, a city founder. Instead, it became a wasteland of bars and parking lots. 
Officials hope that the condominium attracts more residential complexes to the neighborhood, which abuts the downtown core. If that happened, people would be able to live, work, dine and attend cultural activities there. In the last two years, 753 rental apartments have been built downtown and, as the effects of radical changes in 1985 in the municipal code became increasingly manifest, 3,700 new units have either gone into construction or into the approval process.
Travis Hammond, president of Hammond-Pacific, announced the project a month ago and said he has reservations of interest for half the units even though prices have not been set. One-bedroom units will be 1,150 square feet, two-bedrooms 1,550 square feet and three-bedrooms 2,250 square feet, each with a den. There will be a health spa and ground-floor shops.
Condominiums have not fared well here. About 600 units were built in the late 60's and early 70's, but sales dragged and it took most of the 70's to sell them. Developers who built more units got squeezed financially when interest rates soared in the early 80's.
''We've tried to make it easier for residential developers,'' said Rebecca Herzfeld, manager of the city's code development and coordination. In 1985, the city revamped the municipal code to encourage housing and low-rise commercial construction and ban high-rise commercial building in the Denny Regrade. In return for building housing there, developers were granted higher commercial densities elsewhere in the city.
''People who had been holding onto land, hoping values would rise as sites for office towers, now are turning to housing instead,'' Ms. Herzfeld said.
The city also streamlined the permit process to lessen delays when several agencies were involved. One of the changes provided for a master-use permit, an umbrella permit for zoning, land use and environmental elements. Mr. Hammond has applied for one and hopes to begin construction this summer and be ready for occupancy by the fall of 1991.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (93%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: HAMMOND-PACIFIC DEVELOPMENT CO (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SEATTLE (WASH)

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; CONDOMINIUM CONDOMINIUMS (93%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (88%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); ZONING (78%); APPROVALS (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); CITIES (77%); COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (72%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (72%); NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (72%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (68%); INTEREST RATES (66%); 

PERSON: KING, HARRIET JOHN MAJOR (74%); TRAVIS HAMMOND (70%); DENNY REGRADE (70%); REBECCA HERZFELD (70%); 



519 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1990

SECTION: Section 7; Page 1, Column 2; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 2447 words

HEADLINE: PANAMA: OUR DANGEROUS LIAISON

BYLINE: By THOMAS POWERS; Thomas Powers, the author of ''The Man Who Kept the Secrets: Richard Helms and the CIA,'' is completing a book on Germany's failure to develop atomic bombs during World War II.

 BODY:

DIVORCING THE DICTATOR
America's Bungled Affair With Noriega.
By Frederick Kempe.
480 pp. New York: G. P. Putnam's Sons. $24.95.
 
OUR MAN IN PANAMA
How General Noriega Used the United States - and Made Millions in Drugs and Arms.
By John Dinges.
Illustrated. 416 pp. New York: Random House. $21.95.
Just about everything the journalists Frederick Kempe and John Dinges have dug up about Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega's life so far was at one time an official secret in Washington, classified in the interest of American national security. It is not hard to see why. Just about everything he did for us as an intelligence czar and, later, as dictator of Panama is an embarrassment - sometimes painful to acknowledge - and a trifling fraction of what he allegedly did for himself led to his being brought in chains to a Florida prison. 
The arrest was long delayed and notoriously difficult. Nearly two years after General Noriega was indicted on drug-trafficking charges by two separate grand juries in Florida - years in which he ostentatiously thumbed his nose at the United States and tightened the screws on opponents at home - President Bush finally sent the Army after him. What followed was the largest American military operation in nearly 20 years, cost the lives of 23 United States soldiers and several hundred Panamanians and set the stage for another generation of Latin American resentment toward the colossus of the north. The long history - there'll be a pop quiz later - of how the Americans recruited, paid, lectured, excused, protected and finally overthrew General Noriega with a bulldozer's finesse is the heart of the instructive tale told by Mr. Kempe and Mr. Dinges in their new books, ''Divorcing the Dictator'' and ''Our Man in Panama.''
Both books were largely written before General Noriega's overthrow last December and show signs of haste to include some account of the invasion. Mr. Dinges has been content to tell that part of the story in a few pages; Mr. Kempe has a much longer and fuller account of General Noriega's fall from power. But the bulk of both books centers on the rise of General Noriega and his genius for making himself indispensable to Washington. Most of the action takes place in Panama, of course, but it is still very much a Washington story. Few of the characters, from President Bush on down, emerge with dignity intact.
When the secrets start to spill out in a Washington scandal, the first thing the ever-innocent citizen wants to know is how bad it's going to get. The worst of it - that is, the secrets the United States Government tried hardest to keep - looks like this: the Central Intelligence Agency recruited Mr. Noriega as an informer back in the 1950's while he was attending a Peruvian military academy. According to these accounts, the relationship grew as Mr. Noriega rose through the ranks of Panamanian military intelligence, especially after he helped Gen. Omar Torrijos Herrera remain dictator of Panama in 1969.
What the C.I.A. got from Mr. Noriega, the authors say, was mainly information and logistical help; Panama served as the National Security Agency's principal listening post in Latin America. In the mid-1970's, the clever Mr. Noriega suborned a couple of United States Army sergeants who provided him with a menu of communications traffic that the National Security Agency intercepted, and he apparently passed it on to Fidel Castro, who was, of course, a principal N.S.A. target. When he found out about it, Gen. Lew Allen Jr., the head of the N.S.A. at the time, was furious and wanted to prosecute the sergeants, but George Bush, during his year as President Gerald Ford's Director of Central Intelligence in 1976, blocked the prosecution. He claimed that it was the Army that wanted to avoid prosecution, but the real reason seems to have been a desire to avoid the public embarrassment of a trial and to preserve Mr. Noriega's cooperation in other matters.
In the fall of 1976, the C.I.A. learned that Mr. Noriega had arranged some car bombings of United States targets in Panama. Torrijos hoped the bombings would persuade Washington to talk seriously about ownership of the Panama Canal. This seems to have sent a ripple of second thoughts through the intelligence community. It was no secret that Mr. Noriega was personally a nasty piece of work. The C.I.A. knew of several instances in which he had beaten up prostitutes, and in 1971 it received N.S.A. transcripts of Mr. Noriega joking over the radio that he'd learned never to throw a live man out of a helicopter - something he'd just done with a Roman Catholic priest who had offended a relative of Torrijos. No one said we had to like the guy. But handing over N.S.A. secrets to Fidel Castro and bombing American facilities in the Canal Zone was crossing the line.
In December 1976, Mr. Bush had lunch with Mr. Noriega in Washington, presumably to read him the riot act, according to Mr. Kempe and Mr. Dinges. But for reasons of expedience, Mr. Bush seems to have read it in a whisper. They met again in 1983, when Mr. Bush as Vice President was seeking Panama's support for the contras' back-country war in Nicaragua. Thereafter General Noriega referred to his friend the Vice President. Mr. Bush did not give his heart so easily. During the 1988 Presidential campaign, he denied ever having met General Noriega; after newsmen obtained a photograph of the two of them together, Mr. Bush conceded, well, maybe once or twice.
Trying to separate the white hats from the black hats is a hopeless task in the recent history of American diplomacy in Central America. In the case of General Noriega things began to get really sticky in the late 1970's when he sold arms to the Sandinistas and other leftist guerrilla groups in Central and South America. Typically, Mr. Noriega provided details of these shipments to C.I.A. friends, who used them to warn President Jimmy Carter of the leftist threat. Other friends of Mr. Noriega's in the State Department and Pentagon warned him that Florida authorities planned to arrest him for gun running. Mr. Kempe and Mr. Dinges say that Washington was grateful when Torrijos agreed to give the Shah of Iran a home for three months in early 1980, but at the same time United States officials were worried that Torrijos was turning leftward, growing closer to Fidel Castro. In July 1981, Torrijos was killed in a plane crash; rumors at the time held that General Noriega had murdered him. In September 1985, General Noriega arranged the brutal murder of Hugo Spadafora, a Panamanian who had publicly charged General Noriega with drug trafficking. Once again the National Security Agency overheard General Noriega discussing the crime. In 1987 one of his allies turned against him and claimed that not only had General Noriega murdered Torrijos but that the United States helped him do it.
Question, true or false (counts 10 points on your final grade): Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega was an ''asset'' of the Central Intelligence Agency?
This is the sort of stuff that keeps Government classification officers busy in Washington. Think of it as background music. In the United States, the main charges against General Noriega are that he helped the Medellin cartel of Colombia sell cocaine here and launder the proceeds through Panamanian banks. A number of General Noriega's former friends and associates are prepared to testify against him. His lawyers say they'll need two years to prepare for trial. Doubtless several tons of classified Government documents will be required as well. If the odds-makers in Las Vegas have any sense, they'll stand pat on even money for a conviction.
But a trial there will be, and unless you quit reading the newspapers you're going to be presented with many a twist and turn in the Noriega case over the next few years. It would be hard to think of better guides through the undergrowth than either of these two books. Both authors are journalists by profession, Mr. Kempe for The Wall Street Journal and Mr. Dinges for National Public Radio. Both have burrowed deeply into the huge published record and have talked to numerous Panamanian and American officials (the latter mostly unnamed). Most of the stories the authors tell are identical, but some are different. The explanation seems to be temperament. Mr. Kempe is a bit breathless; he can't wait to tell you all the incredible stuff he has learned. Mr. Dinges is more scholarly, speaks frequently of the legend and hearsay that invest popular accounts of General Noriega and is on guard to exclude anything doubtful from his book. Mr. Kempe, for example, gives a full and fascinating account of the 1983 meeting in Havana where Fidel Castro made peace between General Noriega and the Medellin drug cartel. The story comes from Jose Blandon, a former Noriega ally. Mr. Dinges thinks there are too many chronological and other discrepancies in the story to take it at face value, and he is not about to give house room to scandalous tales about Mr. Castro unless the evidence is overwhelming. In other instances, Mr. Dinges is prepared to entertain evidence that is underwhelming. If you choose Mr. Kempe, you can be sure you will hear everything, including a few bits of gossip of unproven rigor. If you read Mr. Dinges, you will get the details straight. But the truth is these two books complement each other nicely.
What emerges from them both is a portrait of General Noriega as a thoroughly repellent little man - superstitious, often drunk, sexually confused, bitterly envious of the well-born, the tall and the fair-skinned. He sought expensive treatment in Switzerland for his pockmarked cheeks, wore boots with high heels and hats with tall peaks, wrote a windy book called ''Psychological Operations,'' admired Adolf Hitler, shrank from the wrath of his wife, took beautiful women from fellow officers, flaunted a macho heterosexuality while showing more than a passing interest in good-looking young men, and betrayed everyone with the exception of his homosexual brother, who died young. He ran Panama from 1981 until last December but does not seem to have spent 10 minutes thinking about any of the ordinary issues of government.
But within this blighted figure there are certain gifts. General Noriega is intelligent, a shrewd judge of men, conscientious in taking care of business, a skillful intriguer. He extracted a lot of illicit money, but, except for routine personal luxuries, he seems to have spent most of it buying the loyalty of the Panamanian Defense Force.
He appeared to enjoy the personal humiliation of rivals and was responsible for several quite savage murders clearly intended to cow other opponents. But General Noriega is no Caligula. What he likes is politics - taking risks for power, then using it to win more. Being utterly without principle or long-term political goals, he had something to offer everyone and an uncanny ability to convince everyone - from Fidel Castro and the Sandinistas to his C.I.A. cronies - that they were getting the best of the deal. He helped the Medellin cartel through some tight spots and, for his anti-drug efforts, was showered with letters of commendation and grateful thanks by the Drug Enforcement Agency in Washington. He'd probably still be getting them if it weren't for those Federal prosecutors in Florida, who received zero encouragement from Washington. Their indictments didn't reveal anything the Government didn't already know, but they spilled it in public. That tipped the balance.
Essay question (counts 20 points on your final grade): Compare and contrast Soviet control over Gen. Wojciech Jaruzelski of Poland with American ditto General Noriega. Who got the most for their money as long as the relationships lasted?
General Noriega's career isn't over yet; other books will be written when the record is complete. But these lives of the dictator are everything we might ask for so close to the event. Winded by the effort to keep up with the story, both authors haven't much to add about what it all means (because of the invasion both books were rushed to into print several months early). They think it is shocking that we supported this man politically for as long as we did, and they seem troubled and saddened by the failure of Washington officials to handle the divorce with greater finesse. With a little clear thinking in 1988 and less worry about what General Noriega meant to Mr. Bush's Presidential prospects, these books suggest that the Panamanian strongman might have been forced into exile without the loss of lives, the wrecking of the Panamanian economy, the smoldering Latin American resentment of our intervention in the region to clean up a mess we ourselves made. I have got no quarrel with any of that.
But ''Divorcing the Dictator,'' which was excerpted in Newsweek last month, and ''Our Man in Panama'' also left me longing for the old-fashioned seriousness, civility and rectitude of American leaders like Henry L. Stimson, who served as Secretary of State from 1929 to 1933 and later as President Franklin D. Roosevelt's Secretary of War. When the highest officials in the land express themselves in Mr. Kempe's book in particular it is to dismiss something with an obscenity. When Stimson closed down the State Department's code breakers in the 1920's he made himself immortal with the simple claim, ''Gentlemen do not read each other's mail.'' Incredibly, that was then true.
It was not until World War II that the United States plunged into its romance with the clandestine. But the glory days of American intelligence during the cold war have long since faded, covert action is now frequently the instrument of first resort, and Washington's hunger for secret knowledge, secret allies and secret advantage has become an addiction. As the authors show, General Noriega told us secrets about Fidel Castro and the Sandinistas, and he let us set up high-tech gear to collect secrets of our own. During a secret tryst with Lieut. Col. Oliver North in London in 1986, he said he could set off bombs for us in Nicaragua, even offered to assassinate Sandinista leaders. Bombs were O.K.; from assassination we shrank. It pleases me to report this. In Washington they said that our dealings with General Noriega were all intended to promote democracy in Central America. Mr. Kempe and Mr. Dinges suggest not. Our affair with General Noriega had no romance in it; the encounter was more like an orgy no one wants to remember in the morning.
Question, true or false (counts 70 points on your final grade): The United States has learned its lesson in Panama?

GRAPHIC: Drawing: Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega (Raul Colon) (pg. 1); photo: Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega, center, in the custody of Federal agents last month. (Pg. 26)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: DIVORCING THE DICTATOR (BOOK); OUR MAN IN PANAMA (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); PANAMA (94%); LATIN AMERICA (58%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: G P PUTNAM'S SONS (91%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (63%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (87%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (77%); SCANDALS (77%); WRITERS (76%); INDICTMENTS (73%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (70%); GRAND JURY (67%); ARMED FORCES (66%); 

PERSON: POWERS, THOMAS; KEMPE, FREDERICK; DINGES, JOHN GEORGE W BUSH (52%); 



520 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 18, 1990

SECTION: Section 7; Page 36, Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: YOU'RE ONLY AS OLD AS WE SAY YOU ARE

BYLINE: By ROBERT H. BINSTOCK; Robert H. Binstock is the Henry R. Luce Professor of Aging, Health and Society at Case Western Reserve University.

 BODY:

HOW OLD ARE YOU?
Age Consciousness in American Culture.
By Howard P. Chudacoff.
Illustrated. 232 pp. Princeton, N.J.:
Princeton University Press. $19.95.
Throughout our lifetimes American society has been age conscious. But this has not always been the case. Until the mid-19th century, Americans showed little concern with age. The one-room schoolhouse was filled with students of varied ages, and children worked alongside adults. 
In ''How Old Are You?'' Howard P. Chudacoff, a professor of history at Brown University and the author of ''The Evolution of American Urban Society,'' suggests that age consciousness in the United States began in the late 19th century, when schools began to set age limits and pediatrics was established as a medical specialty. At the same time, old age began to be identified as a separate stage of life, marked by specific age boundaries. Older people were set apart from the rest of society, because it was assumed that they could not keep up with the demands of an increasingly scientific and economically rationalized world.
Mr. Chudacoff offers a lively picture of the development of age consciousness in urban middle-class culture. We learn that age norms were expressed in popular magazines and songs for the first time in the late 1800's, and that ''the rise of the birthday celebration as a commercial enterprise'' began around the turn of the century with the arrival of the first birthday cards. In the early decades of the 20th century age norms intensified, especially for the young, as child psychology, organized sports, age-peer organizations such as the Girl Scouts, street gangs and legislation regulating child labor and the age of sexual consent were established. Even though youth and old age were recognized as distinct life stages by the turn of the century, middle age was not ''discovered'' until after World War I. Mr. Chudacoff traces the evolution of age norms through the latter part of the 20th century briefly, but accurately. He focuses particularly on the changes that affected the elderly - the development of old-age peer groups and the enactment of Federal programs that use age as a criterion for regulating and distributing benefits. For instance, he notes that pensions for older people were instituted publicly through the Social Security Act of 1935, which designated age 65 as an eligibility requirement for retirement benefits.
Has the ascendance of age norms been good or bad? Mr. Chudacoff believes that there are certain advantages to living in an age-conscious society. Individuals can derive a sense of belonging and a sense of self from their age-based peer group. And policy makers are better able to identify ''problem groups'' - infants, teen-agers, middle-agers, the old and the ''old old'' - who need specific kinds of government help.
The major drawback of such a society is ageism - the attribution certain characteristics to all persons in an age category. Mr. Chudacoff notes the differences among age norms and the realities of age-group behavior, and he is sensitive to discrimination. ''Like gender and race,'' he writes, ''age cannot be changed. To disadvantage individuals merely because they possess a particular characteristic, one for which they cannot be held morally responsible, offends traditional American sensibilities of fairness.'' As a particularly apt example, Mr. Chudacoff points to the recent proposal, by the biomedical ethicist Daniel Callahan, that life-saving care be categorically and officially denied to old people, regardless of their clinical conditions.
Although Mr. Chudacoff notes that age consciousness may have already peaked, he does not analyze whether age norms have changed in recent years, or why Americans are beginning to ignore such norms in increasing numbers. As the social psychologist Bernice Neugarten has observed, we are now becoming an increasingly ''age irrelevant society.'' The ages at which we are marrying, giving birth, entering the labor force, holding political office and engaging in a variety of other activities and roles conform less and less with age norms. The implications of these changes for our culture and social structure may be profound. Perhaps we can look forward to Mr. Chudacoff's next book for an analysis of them.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: HOW OLD ARE YOU? (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL PROGRAMS (52%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (93%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (93%); BROWN UNIVERSITY (57%); BROWN UNIVERSITY (57%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); AGING (88%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); HISTORY (78%); AGE DISCRIMINATION (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY ACTS (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); CHILD LABOR LAWS (76%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (76%); CHILD LABOR (76%); CHILDREN (76%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (76%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (73%); WRITERS (70%); LEGISLATION (68%); PUBLIC POLICY (68%); PSYCHOLOGY (68%); GANGS (63%); WORLD WAR I (50%); 

PERSON: BINSTOCK, ROBERT H; CHUDACOFF, HOWARD P MICHAEL MCMAHON (84%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (84%); 



521 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1442 words

HEADLINE: New York State's Budget Troubles Are Rising, Approaching a Crisis

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH KOLBERT, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ALBANY, Feb. 18

 BODY:
After two years of bad news about revenues, New York's financial problems appear to be growing increasingly dire. Financial analysts and even politicians are warning that dramatic steps will be needed to arrest the state's slide toward fiscal crisis.
''This is a very serious situation for the state,'' said Maury Cooper, a senior vice president of the Standard & Poor's Corporation, which issues a credit rating that is crucial to the state. ''They have a structural imbalance in the budget. We have met with the state, and we have expressed our concern.''
The bad news about the state's finances has trickled out slowly over the last two years, as a slumping economy sent tax revenues further and further short of projections. Last week Gov. Mario M. Cuomo announced that the state's budget shortfall for the current fiscal year had grown by $300 million, to more than $1 billion. 
 
Less Service, More Taxes
Over the next few months, the most noticeable effect of the state's budget problem is likely to be cuts in state programs and increases in taxes for New Yorkers. But more subtly, the budget problems threaten to undermine the stability of the state government. They also pose tremendous political risks for the Governor and state legislators, especially in a year in which all are up for re-election.
It now appears that the state will end the current fiscal year, which closes on March 31, in record financial trouble.
To meet expenses through the end of the year, the state is expected to issue more than $600 million in deficit notes, more than ever before. At the same time, the state's long-term, or accumulated, deficit, which Governor Cuomo at one time took credit for restraining, is expected to grow to almost $5 billion, a record high.
 
Overly Optimistic Projections
The state's financial troubles, once considered a temporary aberration, now appear to be a long-range problem. On Thursday the Governor's budget office missed the legal deadline for releasing its five-year projections of the state's finances. But people familiar with the calculations say the forecast shows the state running deficits for the next several years.
The growing gap between state revenues and expenses is in part a result of an unexpectedly sharp downturn in the New York economy, and in part a result of overoptimistic projections by the Cuomo administration. Since Mr. Cuomo took office in 1983, state spending has been growing, on average, at a rate that well exceeds inflation. But during the mid-1980's New York's economy was so strong that for several years the state had a budget surplus, prompting the enactment of a four-year income tax cut in 1987.
''The softening of the economy was more severe than the consensus forecasters had anticipated,'' Ms. Cooper of Standard & Poor's said. ''In hindsight it's clear that the state should have been more conservative in its estimates.''
 
Handwriting on the Wall
Administration officials insist that their projections were not influenced by politics. But many financial analysts say that the administration's forecasts were so optimistic that they can only be explained as an effort to delay coming to terms with the magnitude of the problem.
''The handwriting has been on the wall for some time,'' said one government economist, who asked not to be identified.
Perhaps to avert panic, Governor Cuomo has tried to play down the significance of the budget problem, referring to it with a rueful smile as an opportunity and a challenge. But some politicians have already begun to call it a crisis.
''This is as big a crisis as the fiscal crisis of the 1970's,'' said the Assembly Speaker, Mel Miller, a Brooklyn Democrat. ''I don't know if people are writing it that way, but it really is.''
 
Coming at the Worst Time
The risks to the state of falling further into debt are substantial. Standard & Poor's has put a ''negative outlook'' on the state's credit, and many budget analysts fear that the state's credit rating could soon be lowered. If that happens, the state's financial problems will be magnified; it will become more expensive for the state to borrow money and more difficult for it to sell bonds to finance projects like road building.
''I certainly think it is time to think about getting ahead of this problem,'' said Felix G. Rohatyn, chairman of the Municipal Assistance Corporation. ''Because once you have trouble selling a bond issue, you don't argue your way out of it.''
The state's financial decline could hardly come at a worse time - the end of the state's four-year political cycle. This year is a re-election year for the Governor, the State Comptroller and all 211 legislators, and it is traditionally the time when the urge to avoid painful decisions and negative headlines is most irresistible.
But perhaps in a reflection of just how sobering the state's financial problems are, the colorful partisan attacks that usually enliven the budget season have been subdued this year.
 
'We Have to Start Dealing With It'
Republican members of the State Senate have issued a steady stream of press releases condemning the Governor for spending too much and decrying his efforts to cancel the next phase of the state's scheduled income tax cut. But unlike in previous years, the Senate majority has not tried to portray the state's fiscal trouble as a ploy by the Governor.
''I think we are truly in a mess,'' said one Republican Senate official, who asked not to be identified. ''There's red ink as far as the eye can see. We have to start dealing with it, because the longer you wait, the more it kind of festers.''
The state's budget problems have also had a moderating effect on the relationship between the Democratic Governor and the Republican State Comptroller, who have barely been on speaking terms during the last few years. Recently, the two men began to hold regular conversations about the state's finances.
Three weeks ago, the Comptroller, Edward V. Regan, warned that unless the budget for the upcoming year was based on ''demonstrably conservative'' revenue estimates, he would not approve it. Such a move would create fiscal chaos by blocking the state's access to credit.
 
Not an Opportunity for Ridicule
In other years Mr. Cuomo, who often belittles the Comptroller as failing to follow through on his threats, might have used Mr. Regan's warning as an opportunity for ridicule. But not now.
''The Comptroller has said he's going to be very tough, which makes him a player,'' said the Governor's chief of staff, Gerald C. Crotty. ''The Governor and the Comptroller have spoken quite a few times.''
There is tremendous temptation in Albany to patch over the state's fiscal problems until after the November election. But financial experts are warning that the state has already relied too heavily on ''one-shot'' revenues like reserve funds, and there appears to be a growing consensus in Albany that the experts are right.
What this means is that substantial new taxes and spending cuts are likely this year, despite the election-year taboos.
 
Millions in More Fees and Taxes
''You're in the worst possible situation,'' Mr. Miller said. ''You've got to cut and tax, and there's nothing more politically unpopular.''
Mr. Cuomo has already proposed significant tax increases in the $51 billion spending plan he presented to the Legislature last month. Not only did he recommend canceling the next phase of the state's scheduled income tax cut, but he also proposed almost $800 million in increased fees and taxes, including a new tax on long-distance telephone calls. He also proposed several hundred million dollars in spending cuts.
But the new taxes and spending cuts will not be enough. Last week, the Governor lowered his revenue estimates for the upcoming fiscal year by $250 million, leaving a gaping hole in his spending plan.
Additionally, many financial analysts have started to question whether the Governor's budget relies too heavily on reserve funds and refinancing deals that may turn out to be damaging to the state. If that is the case, then still more taxes or spending cuts will be needed to balance next year's budget, which is supposed to be in place by April 1.
While it is still too early to tell how the Legislature will react to the state's financial problems, some options are quietly being discussed that in other years would never have been mentioned, including an increase in the state gasoline tax and cuts in financing for drug treatment.
''The standard options have been played out,'' Mr. Regan said. ''I'm really concerned, and I think others are very nervous, too.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (83%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (83%); NEW YORK (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FORECASTS; TAXATION; GOVERNMENT BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS BUDGETS (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); POLITICS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); TRENDS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); COUNTRY RISK (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); CREDIT BUREAUS (76%); BONDS (76%); TAX LAW (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (71%); TAX RELIEF (69%); 

PERSON: KOLBERT, ELIZABETH MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 



522 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 2798 words

HEADLINE: Many in Medicine See Rules Sapping Profession's Morale

SERIES: Doctors In Distress
Second of three articles.

BYLINE: By LISA BELKIN

 BODY:
Even the most staid audience of doctors applauds with vigor when Dr. Arthur Caplan gets to the part about Gulliver and the Lilliputians.
In speeches around the country, Dr. Caplan compares Gulliver, the mythical traveler, to today's doctors, who have awoken to find themselves pinned to the ground by hundreds of 6-inch-tall Lilliputians.
In his modern parable the Lilliputians are not imaginary islanders but the growing number of official and unofficial regulators - insurance companies, government agencies, malpractice lawyers and employers - that make the doctor feel trapped.
 
Chained by 'Munchkins'
''They love that analogy,'' said Dr. Caplan, the director of the Center for Biomedical Ethics at the University of Minnesota. ''They applaud. They resonate. They come up to me and say, 'That's exactly what it's like out there, we're chained down by munchkins.' '' 
This feeling of being shackled by rules and overseers is nearly universal among doctors today, experts inside and outside the profession say. Doctors say they are overwhelmed by paperwork, prohibited by insurance companies from doing procedures and subjected to scrutiny by group employers like health maintenance organizations that can even include scheduling of restroom breaks.
 
Taking a Toll on Morale
There is a seemingly endless debate over whether all the supervision is necessary, with regulators saying doctors refuse to police themselves and doctors saying the level of policing is extreme. But both sides agree that it is taking its toll on the morale of the medical profession.
A poll taken last year by the Gallup Organization for the American Medical Association found that nearly 40 percent of all doctors probably or definitely would not go to medical school if they were in college today. The most common reason was government or insurance regulations that ''interfere with doing my job'' and cause a ''lack of autonomy,'' which was cited by 27 percent of the respondents.
''I've become irrelevant,'' said Dr. Joseph J. Merigo, a Boston doctor who bought a laundromat and is looking for a small restaurant to buy so he can close his medical practice. The last straw, he said, was when he had to send a patient home without treatment for several days because a new state rule required tests before the treatment and the insurance company refused to pay for them without a second opinion.
''Medicine is not really the profession that it was,'' he said. ''The regulators make up a formula, and they don't include the doctor in that formula. We no longer make important clinical judgments.''
These feelings are causing some concern but little alarm among those who regulate and study the medical profession.
''Accountants leave, lawyers leave, businessmen walk away from their jobs,'' said Bruce C. Vladeck, the president of the United Hospital Fund, a philanthropic and research organization in New York City that specializes in health-care matters. ''The fact that a 50-year-old guy who's been doing well decides he doesn't want to buck the bureaucracy anymore, that's to be expected.''
Many observers believe that ''doctors brought this on themselves,'' in the words of Prof. Uwe Reinhardt of Princeton University, an expert in health-care economics. In 1965 when Medicare was formulated, he said, doctors refused to accept limits on the amount they could charge patients, so they ended up with limits on the clinical procedures for which they would be paid.
''The regulations that rain down on physicians are largely of their own doing,'' he said. ''If they had accepted a fee schedule their lives would be much easier.''
Medicine is, in fact, more regulated than ever before, a change that can be traced to 1965, when Medicare began. Since then, the yearly cost of health care in the United States has risen more than tenfold, to $550 billion or 11.1 percent of the gross national product in 1987, and nearly all the new rules have been aimed at controlling costs.
The autonomy of doctors eroded slowly for nearly two decades, but after 1983 the pace increased when the Government adopted a system that broke down all known diagnoses into 467 subgroups and set a price that Medicare would pay for each. The price for each type of care in these Diagnostic Related Groups is based on the expected average cost in the region for the care. Regardless of what the care really costs, that is all a doctor or a hospital will receive from Medicare.
In a poll conducted for the American Medical Association last year, 81 percent of the doctors surveyed said that D.R.G.'s had ''a significant impact on medical practice'' and two-thirds of those felt the impact was ''primarily negative.''
Soon private insurance companies were following the Government's lead. Most companies now require doctors to ask permission, in effect, for major, non-emergency hospitalization and procedures. If the company does not approve the care in advance, it will not pay. The extra paperwork is annoying, doctors say, but even worse, companies occasionally refuse to authorize treatment that a doctor thinks to be neccesary.
These changes, and others, have led to more sophisticated, and more public, ways to rate the performance of hospitals and individual doctors. In March 1986, the Federal Government for the first time released the mortality rates of Medicaid patients in hospitals nationwide. Last year, New York State began compiling statistics on the rates of Caesarean sections at hospitals and trying to reduce the number of the expensive and often unnecessary procedures at hospitals having high rates.
Although it may seem to some doctors that the rules were designed only to harass them, the real purpose is to allow payers to exert some control over sky-rocketing medical costs, at a time when state and Federal government budgets are hard pressed and the well-publicized abuses of some doctors add to those costs by doing unnecessary procedures.
''There are certainly doctors whose attitude is 'well, the insurance company is paying,' '' said Dr. Cary Sennett, who now works for an insurance company. ''We do have a responsibility to guard against that.''
Two years ago, Dr. Betty Halpern, an internist in Houston, volunteered to serve on the utilization review board of the The Travellers Companies, which reviews doctor bills that the insurance company considers excessive. She said she joined the group expecting to be outraged at the restrictive decisions of the insurance company.
Instead, she found, that while her group approved many of the disputed charges ''there were also physicians who would do things repetitively that were inappropriate. Certain specialties were worse than others,'' she said, ''and you could see who had taken a course on how to code their charges to be maximally reimbursed. I saw a need for some control.''
 
 
Who Decides?
 
Doctors Debating The Insurers
 Of all these external influences, those that second-guess the doctors' care seem to chafe the most. ''They don't allow you to make your own decisions, they expect you to follow theirs,'' said Dr. Michael Rosenthal, who specializes in internal medicine and gastroenterology in Branford, Conn, near New Haven. ''I was trained to practice medicine, not debate with insurance companies.''
Dr. Rosenthal is currently debating wth Medicare about $2,000 in care for a patient last spring. The elderly man was admitted to the hospital with a broken hip and then suffered numerous complications, including pneumonia and an instance of cardiac arrest.
The hospitalization lasted three months, and Dr. Rosenthal said he saw his patient every day. But Medicare payment was disallowed for a number of those days, after the Government said the patient did not need to be visited then. Recently Dr. Rosenthal spent several hours at the hospital reviewing the patient's chart and preparing a detailed memorandum to justify the visits that were questioned.
The Government and insurance companies frequently stipulate minimum requirements for certain operations: for example, in some states a patient's airway must be 80 percent obstructed to warrant a tonsillectomy. Surgeons must often obtain approval from insurance companies or Government agencies before starting a case.
Dr. Ralph Bard, a 42-year-old general surgeon in Tullahoma, Tenn., told the American Medical News, the newspaper of the American Medical Association, that medicine had been ''a big disappointment.'' In an interview, he said he performed emergency surgery last year on a young boy with heavy intestinal bleeding. Because he did not call before starting the operation, Medicaid payment of his fee was refused.
''The last thing on my mind as I prepared the child for surgery was calling Medicaid,'' he said. ''But now before I do any procedure, I phone my office manager and ask: Can I go ahead?'' Dr. Bard said he plans to leave medicine. ''I wouldn't do it over again, and I tell others not to,'' he said.
 
 
The H.M.O.'s
 
Controls Within the Profession
 While most of the wrath of today's doctors is directed at outside regulators from the Government and private insurers, they also complain of internal controls. Health maintenance organizations, which are groups of doctors who accept a yearly fee from an employer or individual in exchange for nearly unlimited health care, are becoming more numerous and more complicated. In 1970 there were 37 H.M.O.'s enrolling 3 million people. This January, there were 607 serving 32.5 million, or nearly 13 percent of the population.
H.M.O.'s regularly issue lists comparing their physicians for the time spent with patients and the amount of medications prescribed - with the clear message that those highest on the list are a financial drain on the group. All care beyond the flat fee paid for a patient is absorbed by the organization, while all unused fees are profit.
Dr. Halpern, the Houston internist who is now in private practice, left two H.M.O.'s in the last five years. ''They're trying to make rules for disease, which doesn't follow rules,'' she said.
Her decision to leave was due in part to the fact that one organization went so far as to schedule her restroom breaks. More important, she said, she was tired of the monthly lists showing how many lab tests, X-rays and consultations each doctor in the group had ordered and frustrated at being urged to spend as little time on each patient as possible.
''I would be confronted by my bosses on how long it would take me to do a physical,'' Dr. Halpern said. ''Why wasn't I more like Doctor X, who does it faster? The system doesn't reward people for being competent or good or up to date. It rewards them for being superficial.''
 
 
The Bureaucracy
 
The Paperwork Grows Rapidly
 Both a cause and a consequence of the growing number of players in the health industry is a growing number of administrators. An American Hospital Association booklet lists 200 health-care careers, and 52 of those are administrative. Similarly, a study by the Journal of Internal Medicine found that the numbers of health administrators increased nearly fourfold between 1970 and 1986, while the number of doctors increased by half.
Doctors tend to see these administrators as another obstacle to what needs to be done and another cap on their authority. Dr. Sally Faith Dorfman, is a New York gynecologist and now, as Commissioner of Health for Orange County, she is an administrator. She recalls the time she spent as the medical director of a clinic in the Bronx.
Dr. Dorfman still sees patients once a week ''to keep me from being an ivory-tower bureaucrat.'' And she speaks for many doctors when she questions the effectiveness of administrators who have never been doctors.
Some, but not all, administrators, she says ''are frustrated physicians, who, for whatever reason, family, finances, grades, didn't go to medical school, and these people now have the power to regulate doctors. Some might even admit say they always wanted to be a doctor. I think some may delight in being able to tell doctors what to do and not necessarily for the right reasons.''
The growing bureacracy also brings more paperwork, another source of frustration. Dr. Robert and Dr. Dennis Wagner are brothers and have been practicing in Shiner, Tex., with a population of 2,500 for nearly 30 years. They say they no longer enjoy it and spending 40 percent of their time on paperwork is one of the reasons why.
They recently bought a $75,000 computer system to handle their insurance forms. The computer ''doesn't eliminate the paperwork,'' Dr. Robert Wagner said. ''It just makes it neater.''
One Boston internist estimates he is 200 hours behind on his paperwork, and the thought of adding catch-up hours to his already overloaded schedule exhausts him. ''I'm afraid I'm going to burn out at the ripe old age of 35,'' he said. ''I know a lot of happy doctors, but none of them take care of patients. For $72,000 a year, this isn't worth it.''
 
 
The Consequences
 
Many Are Leaving In Frustration
 In fact, many doctors are leaving medicine entirely. Dr. Michael McCarthy, who works in an emergency room in Seattle, is trying to become a journalist, specializing in medical writing. ''I like the emotional side of medicine,'' he said. ''But this isn't about emotion anymore, it's a business. I'm not a businessman.''
Dr. Sennett graduated from Yale Medical School in 1983, worked as a doctor briefly, then joined Aetna Life and Casualty in Middletown, Conn., in July. ''I did my residency at a time when Medicare D.R.G.'s were being implemented,'' he said. ''I saw doctors under increasing obligation to justify their decisions to people who didn't understand and certainly were not interested in learning.''
He hopes that by ''working within the system,'' he can ''make the policy more rational,'' but says that ''a lot of doctors I meet at parties, and who know nothing about me, don't like me because I work for Aetna.''
Other frustrated doctors are staying, some because they cannot afford to leave. One 29-year-old New York-area obstetrician says she has soured on her profession because ''the Government and the malpractice lawyers are always looking over your shoulder.''
She has thought of such alternatives as starting her own medical-transcription service, pursuing a business degree or becoming a professional musician. But if she does any of these things she will have to pay about $78,000 for a ''malpractice tail'' to keep her covered until the statute of limitations runs out on claims over cases she has handled.
As New York State Health Commissioner, Dr. David Axelrod has been responsible for such policies as the regulations on resident hours, the publishing of statistics on Caesarean sections and the proposed universal health insurance for the state. He complains that doctors have failed to police themselves.
''Laissez-faire has not been successful,'' he said. ''The regulatory process has stepped into a void. Physicians are going to have to recognize that if there is to be less regulation there has to be a more effective level of peer review.''
Others have reached the same conclusion. In their book ''Quality Health Care,'' published last summer by the American College of Physicians, the editors Dr. Norbert Goldfield and Dr. David B. Nash warn that in the near future regulators will cross the line from monitoring performance to rewarding and punishing on the basis of that performance.
Already, they said an H.M.O. in Pennsylvania planned to pay physicians bonuses based partly on their performances in quality measurement scales. And the Health Care Financing Administration, which watches over Medicare, is proposing to rate individual physicians, as it does individual hospitals, and make the results public.
''Physicians have to take the lead and be responsible for themselves,'' Dr. Nash, an administrator at Thomas Jefferson University Hospital in Philadelphia, said in an interview. ''I would rather have other doctors doing this than someone more pernicious. It's inevitable.''
Said Dr. Axelrod: ''I suspect that in the future the pendulum will swing away from the extraordinarily high level of regulation. I think the medical community's begun to recognize that if there is to be less regulation there has to be a change in attitude.''
But if that change comes, it will be too late for some.
''So many of the people you most want to go into practice have already been driven out of it,'' said Dr. Sennett of Aetna. ''Many of my patients told me they were very sorry that I was leaving. I took that as very flattering. But I couldn't plan a career in private practice as I saw the world shaping up.''
 
NEXT: A changing relationship.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dr. Dennis Wagner, left, and Dr. Robert Wagner, brothers who have been practicing medicine in Shiner, Tex., for nearly 30 years. They say they no longer enjoy their work, in part because they spend 40 percent of their time on paperwork (NYT/F. Carter Smith); Dr. Cary Sennett: Aetna Life and Casualty, Middletown, Conn.
''A lot of doctors I meet at parties, and who know nothing about me, don't like me because I work for Aetna.'' (The New York Times/Steve Miller); Surveys: doctors were asked whether they thought their control over patient treatment decisions had increased, decreased or remaind the same in the last several years, 1987, 1988, 1989 (Source: Gallup survey sponsored by the AMA); doctors were asked whether they would go to medical school if they were in college now,

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: SERIES

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GALLUP ORGANIZATION (54%); UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; SURVEYS AND SERIES; DOCTORS; HEALTH INSURANCE; MALPRACTICE; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; BUREAUCRATIC RED TAPE; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS INSURANCE (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (76%); DEREGULATION (76%); LAWYERS (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (74%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (73%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (73%); MEDICAL ETHICS (73%); INSURANCE LAW (71%); HUMAN SUBJECTS (70%); BIOMEDICINE (69%); ETHICS (69%); BIOETHICS (69%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (67%); RESTAURANTS (62%); PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (56%); 

PERSON: BELKIN, LISA MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 



523 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 3; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 553 words

HEADLINE: Chinese Students Remain a Human Rights Issue

 BODY:
To the Editor:
The vote on the visa status of Chinese students studying in the United States came to be defined as a foreign policy issue, rather than a human rights issue or an immigration issue (front page, Jan. 26), yet technically it is not a foreign policy issue. Saying that the status of these students is a foreign policy issue and therefore should fall under the Presidential prerogative is to make their lives a pawn of diplomacy: if the Chinese leadership remains obstinate and uncooperative, we will punish it by stealing some of its intellectual capital (the part that wasn't massacred last June); if it behaves reasonably and cooperatively, however the President wishes to define those, we will be nice and give back its students to arrest and execute.
I am not saying that President Bush intends to do this. I am saying that by asserting that the visa status of Chinese students in the United States should be up to the President as a foreign policy issue, the Administration implicitly asserts that the President has the right to dispose of them as he wishes (as long as it is in ''the national interest,'' the ultimate justification for any foreign policy action and one Mr. Bush cited in lifting the ban on sensitive technology to China, through a sleight of hand that equates the economic interests of a few companies with the national interest). 
Congress obviously viewed the issue as foreign policy as well, for although the vote was eventually lost because it came to be perceived as attempted President-bashing by the Democrats, the original impetus behind the motion to override the veto was Congressional displeasure with Mr. Bush's China policy.
The President urged caution, or rather timidity, on this issue because he was afraid of offending his old friends in Beijing (Mr. Bush's choice of friends is suspect - Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega used to be counted among them), maintaining that the Chinese Government would retaliate if Congress passed this bill. But why should we always be worried about how Beijing will react? There are many more sanctions we could impose (or reimpose) in response to any retaliation, and they would be far more damaging to China than anything China could do to us. (Of course, this might cause some short-term losses to businesses with interests in China.) Why should we always be worried about offending China's leadership and bowing to its threats, while it feels free to do whatever it wants, knowing that we will not respond? If we are not confident in our ability to control China's policy over student exchanges, what makes us confident that we can control it on strategic military issues?
Mr. Bush fancies himself a China expert because he spent a year and a half there. However, in the two years I spent in China (which ought to make me more of an expert), I noticed that a lot of people who had spent some time in China still had no idea of what was going on. I find it hard to believe that Mr. Bush has a special insight into China that the rest of us do not. I find it easier to believe that he wants to do anything to avoid offending his old friends, who happen to be butchers and despots.
 
ROGER CLIFF
Princeton, N.J., Jan. 31, 1990
 
The writer is a doctoral candidate at the Woodrow Wilson School of Princeton University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: LETTER

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; VISAS; TRAVEL RESTRICTIONS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (96%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); VETO (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); LEGISLATION (73%); 

PERSON: CLIFF, ROGER GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 



524 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 17, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: ESSAY;
Castro's Last Stand

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
''Socialism or Death'' is now Fidel Castro's slogan, repeated at the opening and close of his speeches. He may be right, but it is not socialism that is ahead for Cuba.
After 30 years in power, Castro is this hemisphere's Ceausescu: more dictatorial than ever, refusing to save his nation from disaster ''even if we were left alone and were the last ones,'' he swears to defend a system that promised security but delivered tyranny.
From the start, he made his nation a dependency of the Soviet Union; the Castro economic system, which insures total control of the political system, guarantees permanent hard times for Cubans. 
This made for a kind of depressed stability as long as Moscow would pick up the bill. In 1988, that subsidy totaled nearly $7 billion in hard currency, and did not decline last year; in return, Castro sent an army of 50,000 men to serve Soviet interests in Africa.
The adventure in Angola helped Castro beyond the rental of his troops: it kept busy an officer corps likely to turn against him. Last year, he executed Gen. Arnaldo Ochoa and other potential coup leaders on trumped-up drug charges.
We may one day see, at the trial of the deposed strongman of Panama, how Mr. Castro's regime profited from that drug trade; we will also learn how Cuban fishermen used Panamania cutouts to evade the U.S. trade embargo.
But the reason for Castro's coming downfall is the economic crisis facing his Soviet sponsors. An academician's article in Muskovskie Novosti revealed that Moscow is spending proportionately six times as much as the U.S. on foreign aid, the largest portion of this unsustainable cost of empire going to Cuba.
That sort of Soviet article is now banned in Cuba. The Cuban dictator has said he banned such publications of perestroika as Moscow News ''without vacillation'' because they cast aspersions on Lenin and socialism itself.
This unfraternal act was caused by delays in delivery of Ukrainian wheat and the oil Moscow arranges for Venezuela to deliver. Bread prices have jumped a third in Havana, and rationing has begun in the countryside.
In another self-defeating response, Castro has delayed shipments of fruit and sugar to the Soviet Union, where those items are especially scarce. Cuba has become a satellite trying re-entry into this world without a heat shield.
Some evidence of mutual cooperation remains. Moscow has inexplicably begun delivery of MIG-29 jets, making Cuba more dangerous in the Caribbean. Moscow has also failed to accelerate the removal of the remaining Cuban mercenaries from Angola, where the continued presence of more than 20,000 of Castro's troops has encouraged the Communist Government to break the truce in a last-ditch effort to defeat Jonas Savimbi's Unita.
Secretary of State James Baker, in his finest hour before the Soviet parliamentarians, hammered away at the MIG shipments and the ''intolerable'' Soviet subsidy of Cuba. By recalling Arthur Koestler's ''Darkness at Noon,'' he nicely alluded to the confession of General Ochoa at his show trial.
The Soviets should know by now that they can expect great resistance to any U.S. economic cooperation while they subsidize Castro's regime with money and food the Soviet consumers desperately need.
Cuts in Moscow's subsidy are inexorable. That means more rationing and higher inflation on the way. Cuban troops now exiled to Angola are coming home, further separating the army from the party.
The other day, a nervous Central Committee in Havana promised a ''critical analysis'' of Cuba's ''lack of freshness.''
But in an oblique warning to the army, it circled Castro's wagons, pledging to ''perfect'' its grass-roots organization that controls the country - the Committees for the Defense of the Revolution.
If help from Moscow turns to hostility; if the dispute over Cuba's $6.8 billion debt means that no fresh loans are granted by other sources; and if the U.S. turns up the economic heat both directly and through Castro's longtime sponsor, then a great many Cubans are going to get both hungry and angry.
Where is the Cuban Sakharov, Havel, Walensa, Fang Lizhi? Dissidents exist, though few are publicized; but the notion of a docile, brainwashed Cuban populace devoid of heroes offends logic and conflicts with reality.
We need incite nobody, though the dictator rails at our broadcasts as ''imperialist ideological tele-aggression.'' The Cuban people will turn against repression sooner rather than later. Freedom's tide will touch the sands of Havana.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OP-ED

COUNTRY: CUBA (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ANGOLA (92%); UKRAINE (79%); AFRICA (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CUBA; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CUBA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); ARMIES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (74%); ARMED FORCES (73%); COUPS (72%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (70%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (68%); CURRENCIES (68%); TRENDS (68%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (66%); DEPOSITIONS (65%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (63%); BAKED GOODS (60%); FOOD PRICES (60%); 

PERSON: CASTRO, FIDEL (PRES); SAFIRE, WILLIAM FIDEL CASTRO (93%); 



525 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 123 words

HEADLINE: William C.W. James, Lawyer, 70

 BODY:
William C. W. James, a former board chairman of the Salmagundi Club, the oldest professional artists' club in the United States, died Saturday in Fishguard, Wales, where he had retired in 1987 after working in New York. He was 70 years old. 
Born in Wales, Mr. James came to New York City with a British law degree after World War II. He earned additional degrees in accounting and economics from Columbia and New York Universities.
Mr. James was board chairman of the Salmagundi Club on lower Fifth Avenue from 1977 to 1987. He was a past director of the English-speaking Union and of the St. George and St. David Societies. He was made an Officer of the British Empire by Queen Elizabeth in 1977.
There are no immediate survivors.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OBITUARY

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); WALES (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK UNIVERSITIES (75%); SALMAGUNDI CLUB (80%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); LAW SCHOOLS (87%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (72%); WORLD WAR II (54%); 

PERSON: JAMES, WILLIAM C W ELIZABETH II, QUEEN OF THE UNITED KINGDOM (71%); 



526 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: Vero Beach: Dark Clouds Over Paradise

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: VERO BEACH, Fla., Feb. 16

 BODY:
This is not a town that stops everything to bow to royalty.
For one thing, a visit by the Prince of Wales, who arrived here Friday, is not a once-in-a-lifetime event; it is his second stop here this year.
For another, the town has other things on its mind these days: a lockout that has shut the Los Angeles Dodgers' spring-training camp to all but minor leaguers; a drought; layoffs in its citrus and aircraft manufacturing industries. 
Prince Charles came to town to play polo; the money raised by the two matches will benefit wildlife conservation in Africa, for the most part. But it seems to some people here that there are worthier causes closer to home.
 
'We Don't Want Him'
''We don't want him,'' said George Marchant, a 78-year-old former valve salesman from Boston. He said the Prince and his polo match do not change the poverty that persists amid the wealth, the million-dollar houses and the polo club.
''Some of them don't have enough to live on,'' said Mr. Marchant, waving an arm toward the poor neighborhoods to the northwest.
Off U.S. Highway 1, near the citrus fields and packing plants north of town, unemployed men sit under banyan trees, playing dominoes.
The Christmas freeze cut the harvesting season almost in half, and Piper Aircraft, one of Indian River County's biggest businesses, has laid off about 575 people. The year looks bleak for local workers.
''It'll be disastrous,'' said Dexter Francis, a 32-year-old outreach worker for the Economic Opportunity Council.
Even in hard times, people here could turn to the Dodgers, who have been training in Vero Beach since 1948 - it's not called Dodgertown for nothing. ''It's a big thing in this town, the Dodgers,'' said John Rolle, a 50-year-old construction worker. ''When they come here, it's just like they're playing the World Series.''
But while the Dodgers are likely to be back, if not this spring then another, other things the town has lost cannot be reclaimed.
Owners of citrus farms, their crops decimated every few winters by frosts like the one this past Christmas, have begun putting their properties on the market for development.
''They figure they can make more money by selling it off for development,'' said Maggy Bowman, an Indian River County Commissioner who is head of the Pelican Island Audubon Society.
At South Beach, Charlie Battles surveyed a parking lot full of cars with license plates from Canada and the Northeast.
''All this was woods and swamplands,'' said Mr. Battles, a city parks maintenance worker who grew up in Vero Beach in the 1940's. ''They puffed sand in and built it up. That was in the 50's, and they're still doing it.''
 
'It's Woken Up, I'm Afraid'
People who have lived here for years are beginning to wish that things had not gone so fast. The county's population has grown from 11,872 in 1950 to about 83,000 now, not counting winter visitors.
''We didn't have a mall, we didn't have a Pizza Hut, a K Mart, a Wal-Mart,'' said Shirley James, a front-desk clerk at the 90-room Driftwood Resort, one of a string of waterfront hotels lining Ocean Avenue on Orchid Island. ''The only shopping we had was downtown.''
Mrs. James, who spoke while attending to three people at the counter, moved to Vero Beach from Memphis almost two decades ago.
''That's why we came here, because it was a sleepy little town,'' she said. ''It's woken up, I'm afraid. People who've lived here a lot longer than I have are sad about it.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prince Charles with Jorie Kent, right, his hostess, Cathryn Hilker of the Cincinnati Zoo and a cheetah at a wildlife exhibition in Vero Beach, Fla., before a polo match to benefit the fight to protect wildlife in Africa. The cheetah is a threatened species and lives in the wild only in eastern and southern Africa. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (90%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (57%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES DODGERS (57%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;VERO BEACH (FLA)

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); POLO (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (76%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (75%); WILDLIFE (75%); CITRUS GROVES (70%); AIRCRAFT MFG (70%); CHRISTMAS (70%); COUNTIES (69%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (67%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (65%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (61%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (55%); 

PERSON: CHARLES, PRINCE OF WALES PRINCE CHARLES (90%); 



527 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 1990
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 13, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 472 words

HEADLINE: DOCTORS IN DISTRESS;
Some Point to Massachusetts as Extreme of Regulation

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL

 BODY:
In 49 states, grumbling private doctors are consoled by the fact that the regulation could be worse: they could be practicing in Massachusetts. In the name of controlling costs and improving access to medical care, that state has led the nation in enacting strict laws to govern doctors' practices and limit their fees.
But many say the good intentions have backfired. The American Medical Association estimates that more than 10 percent of doctors in private practice have left the state since 1985; the figure may be as high as 30 percent in some specialties, although a special state commission says the figures are difficult to determine. 
Doctors say three laws make practice in Massachusetts financially difficult:
* Limits on doctors' bills. Doctors have to accept as payment whatever an insurer, including Medicare or a private insurance company, will pay and cannot bill patients for the rest.
* Forced Medicare participation. To be licensed, physicians have to accept all Medicare patients.
* Retroactive malpractice payments. The state's Joint Underwriting Association lost money through much of the 1970's and early 1980's, and doctors are paying extra premiums to make up for these losses. According to Medical Economics magazine, a urologist was charged $16,000 for 1989 insurance and $15,000 in retroactive premiums.
With doctors' incomes in Massachusetts running 15 percent below the national average, many doctors are leaving.
At Dr. Scott Fox's ear, nose and throat office in Falmouth on Cape Cod, one of the areas hardest hit, one doctor retired, another moved to New York and Dr. Fox is the only ear, nose and throat doctor at his hospital. Departures by doctors have left the hospital emergency room without a general surgeon to cover one night in five.
Last year Massachusetts convened a special Physician Supply Commission to study the problem. That was in part to respond to legislators' claims that constituents in some areas were having trouble finding doctors. and to claims by hospitals in some parts of the state that they could not fill their staffs, said Matthew Fishman, Massachusetts Assistant Secretary for Health and Welfare.
Because of data problems, the report the commission issued in July, reserved judgment about whether the number of doctors practicing in Massachusetts was dwindling but acknowledged that ''there was significant room for improvement'' in the supply of doctors, especially on Cape Cod and in the western part of the state, Mr. Fishman said.
Among the commission's recommendations were incentives to practice in areas with few doctors and a pilot project to allow some doctors' bills to exceed insurance payments. The report ''did a lot of consciousness-raising in the Legislature and let them know that doctors here were really angry,'' Mr. Fishman said.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 5, 1990, Monday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
An article on Feb. 19 about regulation of doctors in Massachusetts misstated two provisions of state law.
One limits the fees that Massachusetts doctors can charge elderly patients to the amount permitted under the Medicare program, but the doctors are indeed permitted to bill patients - for 20 percent of the total.
Other provisions require that physicians who treat one Medicare patient must thereafter accept all Medicare patients and Medicare's fee schedule.
But the law does let doctors refuse to participate in Medicare entirely, by not seeing elderly patients.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (99%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (83%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSN (AMA) AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MASSACHUSETTS

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; DOCTORS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; FINANCES; FEES (PROFESSIONAL) PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (92%); MEDICARE (90%); INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); HOSPITALS (78%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (74%); OTOLARYNGOLOGY (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); INSURANCE UNDERWRITING (69%); UROLOGY (66%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, ELISABETH MATTHEW FISHMAN (73%); CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 



528 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: Maine's Rafters See New White-Water Battle

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: AUGUSTA, Me.

 BODY:
John Abbott used to spend summers leading rafting trips through the white-water rapids of the Kennebec River in Maine. Now he is a lawyer trying to rewrite state law, which he says gives long-established rafting outfitters like his former company an advantage over their fledgling competitors.
A bill written by Mr. Abbott and submitted by his local representative would revamp the way the state grants permission to conduct rafting trips on Maine's premier white-water rivers, the Kennebec and the Penobscot, by giving the same number of trips to every qualified outfitter.
Outfitters are now permitted trips according to a formula based on their experience, safety records, financial investment, quality of service and whether they completed most of the trips allowed in the previous year. 
The owners of several of the largest rafting companies in Maine say changing the formula would wreak havoc in a highly competitive industry.
 
Small Companies Complain
Owners of some smaller companies say the current restrictions are making it impossible to run a profitable business.
Priscilla Edwards, who operates a small rafting business with her husband, Brad, in Greenville, said, ''It has just become a system that protects the larger companies, their interests, their investment.''
From meager beginnings in the mid-1970's, commercial white-water rafting has grown into a $35 million-a-year industry in Maine, counting trips and other services. Last summer, 50,000 people signed up for the wet-and-wild rides in inflatable rafts - an experience that some compare to riding a particularly riled bronco through a rainstorm.
The congestion drove the state to limit commercial rafting on the two rivers in 1983 to preserve the environment and insure access for fishing and private rafting. The limits apply only on summer weekends, which are by far the most popular time for the trips.
Of the 27 outfitters licensed in Maine, 13 have all the prized weekend allocations.
There is no consensus among the states or Federal agencies on how to regulate river use. Some states do not impose any limits, while others use a lottery system. Still others restrict the number of outfitters, leaving almost no opportunity for new businesses.
 
'A Classic Problem'
''It's a classic problem in white-water rafting,'' said Tim King, a management analyst for the Colorado Parks Department. The agency is studying a system for the Arkansas River, one of the most popular white-water rivers in the nation. ''Once you get into a regulatory mode, you're going to step on somebody's toes.''
The trouble with Maine's current law, several Government officials said, is that it tried to encourage development of new businesses and protect existing businesses at the same time.
''You can't accomplish both,'' said Alan Clark, who oversees white-water rafting for the Maine Department of Inland Fisheries and Wildlife.
Jay Schurman, owner of Unicorn Rafting Expeditions, the second-largest outfitter in Maine, acknowledged that the law protects long-established companies, but said he thought the companies had earned that protection.
''Is it fair to take away the business these businesses have built?'' Mr. Schurman asked. ''How are you going to have business stability without giving existing businesses an advantage?''
 
Concern Over New Proposal
He said Mr. Abbott's proposal would hinder planning by rafting concerns because outfitters would not know how many customers they would be allowed to carry from one year to the next. He said the law would also make it more difficult for companies to borrow money from banks because they could not guarantee a certain level of business every year.
But State Representative Judith Foss, who introduced Mr. Abbott's bill in the Maine House of Representatives, said: ''I keep hearing they've had capital investment, they've bought land, sporting camps. But my question is, Why doesn't any other business have that same concern? If a dairy builds a new building, does that mean they've earned protection from competitors?''
The outfitters, meanwhile, have introduced their own legislation, which would help smaller businesses by cutting five weeks from the period governed by the limits, now May 18 through Sept. 18. The proposal would also automatically allow an outfitter to offer the same number of trips in successive years if it met a certain minimum.
''Some of these people have become quite wealthy in a business regulated with laws that protect existing businesses,'' Mr. Abbott said. ''There's nothing inherently wrong with making money as long as you go out and slug it out in the free market.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MAINE, USA (94%); 

CITY: AUGUSTA, ME, USA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MAINE; KENNEBEC RIVER; PENOBSCOT RIVER

SUBJECT: RAFTS AND RAFTING; RIVERS; LAW AND LEGISLATION BOATING & RAFTING (93%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); EXTREME SPORTS (89%); WATER RIGHTS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); LEGISLATION (77%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 



529 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: Washington Talk;
New Crops For Coca: A Harvest Is Unlikely

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 17

 BODY:
Before he left Washington earlier this week for his summit conference on drugs with the presidents of Colombia, Peru and Bolivia, President Bush had some blunt words for the farmers who produce coca, the raw material from which cocaine is refined.
''Grow another crop,'' the President said before departing for Cartagena, Colombia. ''Grow one that has a useful purpose and not an immoral purpose in the world.''
Treating addicts, jailing traffickers, stopping shipments of narcotics - all those things would be less important to the war on drugs, of course, if less coca were grown. That was a central tenet of policy in the Reagan Administration, in which a fellow named George Bush was the designated hitter against drugs. Under a pilot program promoted as a considerable success, the United States has paid a few Bolivian farmers not to grow coca - a new twist on the old farm-subsidy system here at home. 
President Virgilio Barco Vargas of Colombia, the host of the meeting, called for ''viable economic alternatives'' for those who grow coca plants. President Jaime Paz Zamora of Bolivia said he sought ''coca reduction in exchange for development aid.'' And President Alan Garcia of Peru warned that ''massive economic resources are needed'' if crops are switched because coca ''is enormously important to our economy.''
After the conference Thursday, Mr. Bush agreed, in language vague even by the standards of communiques, ''to support the Andean parties' efforts to counteract the socioeconomic impact of an effective fight against illicit drugs'' and to take part in joint ''actions to bring about a net reduction in the illegal cultivation of coca.'' So far, so good. But a top White House adviser says that while Mr. Bush would like to convince Bolivian and Peruvian farmers to grow something else, he now sees stopping the flow - and not subsidies - as the key to success in the war on drugs. That explains, the adviser said, why the President is still working on ways to use American military resources to stop the flow of drugs despite calling off plans to send an aircraft carrier to patrol the Colombian coast when Colombia protested.
The adviser, who spoke on condition of anonymity, questioned whether it was moral to subsidize farmers for obeying the law by ceasing to grow an illegal crop.
But the big problem with subsidies is money. An effective crop-replacement plan would cost far more than Mr. Bush is prepared to commit.
It is not simply a question of getting farmers to grow something else; that might be feasible, given the relatively modest amounts of money they earn. Nor is it a question of lifting trade barriers against things they do grow, like coffee or cut flowers. The serious money goes to the middlemen, the people between those who grow coca and those who use cocaine, and they pour much of their ill-gotten gains into other businesses. Without narcotics, that spending would dry up, undermining already marginal economies.
Mr. Bush has promised $2.2 billion in military, economic and law-enforcement aid to the three countries over five years. One report says $30 million would be available to ease the farmers' shift from one crop to another. But Rensselaer W. Lee 3d, who wrote ''The White Labyrinth: Cocaine and Political Power,'' published last year by Transaction Books, said the amount of aid under discussion ''doesn't even begin to compensate'' for what those countries stand to lose.
It will have to do, though, at least for now. As in so many areas, Mr. Bush is hemmed in by a political calculation, that the American people will not stand for increased taxes, and by a strategic calculation that it would be dangerous to divert money from the military to fight drugs.
Responding in Cartagena to the calls for more spending on subsidies, Marlin Fitzwater, the White House press secretary, used a phrase that has come to sound like the theme song of the Bush Administration.
''We don't have unlimited resources,'' he said.
True enough. No Administration has ever had bottomless pockets. But what the United States can afford to spend on any given program depends more than anything else on how high a priority it is given. And it is Mr. Bush, after all - the man who promised in his Inaugural Address to ''make the hard choices'' and who said of the drug epidemic, ''This scourge will stop'' - who sets national priorities these days.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); COLOMBIA (95%); BOLIVIA (95%); PERU (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PERU; BOLIVIA; COLOMBIA

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; COCA (PLANT); COCAINE; SUMMIT CONFERENCES; AGRICULTURE; FARMERS US PRESIDENTS (90%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (90%); COCAINE (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); DRUG POLICY (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); DRUG CROP ERADICATION (77%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); MILITARY VESSELS (60%); NAVAL VESSELS (60%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); APPLE, R W JR GEORGE W BUSH (91%); 



530 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 1990
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: Overnight Mail Service To End in Some Areas

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 18

 BODY:
Trading off speed for reliability, the Postal Service plans this summer to eliminate overnight delivery of first-class mail for millions of Americans.
When a letter is sent a short distance the Postal Service's goal is to deliver it overnight; that distance varies from place to place, but in many locations it includes mail within a city.
Starting this summer, the Postmaster General said in an interview, the boundaries of the areas in which mail is supposed to be delivered within one day will apply to 4 percent to 7 percent fewer letters. Express Mail, the service's premium overnight service, remains unchanged. 
At the same time, postal officials say, the service expects to raise its standard of reliability so that more mail will be delivered without the serious delays that have sometime occurred.
The changes would take place at a time when the Postal Service is seeking a 20 percent increase in the basic first-class postage rate, to 30 cents from 25 cents, to catch up with the rising cost of health-care benefits and other labor expenses that are expected to produce a record $1.6 billion deficit this year. Last year the service delivered 85.8 billion pieces of first-class mail.
Postmaster General Anthony M. Frank said that he was not pleased about the size of the increase but that it was necessary to meet the statutory requirement that the Service be self-supporting.
''We are user-paid - to the penny,'' Mr. Frank said of the Postal Service, which was separated from the Government in 1971 and receives no tax support. Rate increases require approval of the Postal Rate Commission, a Federal agency.
 
Plans to Cut Costs
He pledged to reduce future cost increases to one or two percentage points a year less than the inflation rate, beginning in 1990. He said costs rose less than the rate of inflation in the first quarter of the current fiscal year.
Mr. Frank also played down the importance of what he called the pulling back of one-day deliveries, to begin June 30.
''It's not a degradation of service,'' the Postmaster General said. In exchange for slower delivery of some mail, he added, ''we've got to have better consistency.''
Mr. Frank said that last year the new standards, including reduction in one-day deliveries, were introduced in the New York metropolitan area as an experiment and that they had produced almost no complaints.
 
Service Change in New York
In the past, the overnight delivery area for New York City extended north to Poughkeepsie and Monticello, south to Red Bank and New Brunswick, N.J., and included all of Long Island and a small part of Connecticut to Stamford. Under the new standards, the boundaries will be restricted to the city's five boroughs, where one-day delivery will continue.
Because of the continuing experiment, there should be no noticeable effect in New York regional service when the changes begin, officials say. In 1989 the percentage of New York area first-class mail that was delivered in one day climbed to 93 percent from 89 percent.
Elsewhere the effect is expected to be modest, though some newspapers and other publications have strenuously opposed the change because it could mean a loss in timeliness for their subscribers.
These adjustments in standards, the first in 20 years, are a result, in part, of new roads and population growth and, in part, are a response to customer surveys. While customers appreciate fast delivery, the Postal Service found, ''for first-class mail to be considered excellent, it must meet specific delivery times with a high degree of consistency.''
New standards for second-day and third-day delivery areas are scheduled to be implemented effect Sept. 22.
The changes seek to provide ''highly consistent'' overnight delivery within the same city and in other areas where volume warrants. Two-day delivery would be to all other locations in the home state, in nearby states within ''reasonable'' reach by surface transportation, and in other areas where volume warrants and timely air routes are available. All other destinations would have three-day delivery.
A tiny proportion of first-class mail - perhaps two-tenths of 1 percent - is to be switched to next-day status from second-day, the Service said. Among the areas where service will be improved are the Albany-Poughkeepsie area in New York and the Oshkosh-Madison area in Wisconsin.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 20, 1990, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article yesterday about a planned reduction in postal service included in some copies an incorrect example of the effects of the cutback. Letters mailed within the same city will still be delivered the next day.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Postmaster General Anthony M. Frank said the U.S. Postal Service plans this summer to eliminate overnight delivery of first-class mail for millions of Americans. (The New York Times/Jose R. Lopez)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: RED BANK MANUFACTURING CO LTD (50%); UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (92%); UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: POSTAL SERVICE, US

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: POSTAL SERVICE POSTAL SERVICE (95%); POSTAL RATES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (75%); INTERVIEWS (71%); CITIES (71%); APPROVALS (69%); INFLATION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (67%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR ANTHONY M FRANK (71%); 



531 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 9, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: UPHEAVAL IN THE EAST: Czechoslovakia;
Havel, U.S. Bound, 'Going to Learn'

BYLINE: By HENRY KAMM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PRAGUE, Feb. 11

 BODY:
Twenty-two years lie between Vaclav Havel's American visits, years of struggling for democracy and human rights under a repressive Government, years of persecution and prison.
His two decades as spokesman for the outlawed opposition and his leadership last fall of what he calls ''our velvet revolution,'' which peacefully overthrew Communist rule, conferred on the 53-year-old playwright such national backing that in December there was no other candidate when a new head of state was chosen.
So on Tuesday Mr. Havel will arrive on his second American visit, this time not to attend the premiere of one of his plays Off Broadway but as President of Czechoslovakia, to see President Bush. He is to travel to New York on Thursday, where a rock concert in his honor and a visit to the Museum of Modern Art are to be the highlights of his day. 
 
An Informal Way of Life
''We are not going to the United States to beg for big economic aid or loans or something similar,'' he said in an interview in his office in Prague Castle. ''We are going there to learn.
''We are going to learn from a democratic system like the one we enjoyed for only so brief a period, only 20 years, and lost. We can learn from American democracy. We can learn from a highly industrialized country, a highly developed education system and universities - from many spheres that can serve as examples to us.''
The President has not changed the informality of his writer's life; he has merely transferred its casualness to the august palace that was built for the Hapsburg emperors who ruled over Bohemia and then taken over by the democratic, Nazi and Communist leaders who followed them.
Mr. Havel puts on a suit and tie only for official foreign visitors of rank; he receives his other callers - his schedule is so full that much of it is in 15-minute segments - dressed as he would be in his apartment on the other side of the Vltava River, where only the secret police used to limit the number of callers. The President works in his intimidatingly sumptuous, high-ceilinged office in an open shirt and sweater.
To lessen the grandeur, Mr. Havel has moved from the immense hall in which his predecessor, Gustav Husak, a dogmatic Communist, worked to the smaller vastness that Mr. Husak used for his naps. To make himself feel more at home, the new tenant has surrounded himself with many modern paintings and sculptures.
 
A Home for Kitsch
''We thought we'd find a lot of Socialist Realist art, but it was worse,'' said Michael Zantovsky, the presidential spokesman. ''It was pure kitsch.''
The only examples of representational art that moved in with the new President are busts of Thomas G. Masaryk and Eduard Benes, the Presidents of the democratic prewar republic. The memory of both was consigned to oblivion under the Communists.
Mr. Havel has also brought with him many friends of his years as the country's leading and most frequently jailed dissident. His advisers and the specialists in karate who watch over his security form an inner circle of trusted men and women, around whom officials who did not stand aside from the old regime hold positions that may be of higher nominal rank.
One part of the job on which Mr. Havel seeks no advice is his public statements. He does all his own writing, asking help only in the search for exact quotations. He writes on weekends, at home or sometimes in the presidential manor in Lany, in the countryside near Prague.
The rest of the week Mr. Havel tends to be on the run - literally, for he trots even between the offices of the Castle - visiting as many places as he can and talking to the people. As his main duty until the elections tentatively planned for June, Mr. Havel sees the preservation of the respect that Czechoslovakia has gained for the orderly way in which it deposed a dictatorship.
 
'A Danger Almost of Chaos'
''There is a danger that rivalries and individual ambitions will emerge, negative human qualities,'' he said. ''People may throw the responsibility for all the incompetence of the past at one another's heads. There is a danger almost of chaos, I would say, unless some elements are introduced to prevent this. One is the spiritual - that is why I invited the Dalai Lama and the Pope.''
''This society has awakened, from the human and civic point of view,'' he said. ''But it has slept for so long and so deeply that on waking it still feels a little groggy, not yet in full command of its capacities. It is necessary somehow to watch over this awakening, to arouse the people to take charge of their spirit, to lead them back to a state of calm, mature, daytime vigilance.''
Rising, he added, ''I'll have more time to talk to you when I'm not President.'' Asked whether he would continue beyond the parliamentary elections, which he set as the limit of his presidency, he avoided an answer but said: ''I don't want to be President. I have a better profession.''
The President slipped into a black lumber jacket and ran off for a lunch engagement. On the back of the jacket, in green letters in English, it said, ''Awakenings.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%); 

CITY: PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CZECHOSLOVAKIA

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); POLITICS (77%); DRAMA LITERATURE (76%); THEATER & DRAMA (76%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); PAINTING (73%); SCULPTURE (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (69%); POP & ROCK (54%); 

PERSON: HAVEL, VACLAV (PRES); KAMM, HENRY GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 



532 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1529 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL/A2-9

 
Japan's Liberal Democratic Party under Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu held onto its parliamentary majority in elections, according to early returns. But the Japan Socialist Party scored significant gains. Page A1

 
In Japanese business life, an unusually and unlikely radical D1

 
Protesters in Bucharest seized the headquarters of the Romanian provisional government, demanding the ouster of President Ion Iliescu. A1

 
Conspiracy theorists in Azerbaijan believe the Kremlin manufactured the ethnic unrest in Baku leading to the imposition of an emergency decree. There is no proof, but circumstantial evidence abounds. A8 
 
 
Mood of gloom sweeps Russians about the process of change A8

 
Ethnic groups in Chicago aiding Eastern European homelands A9

 
Vaclav Havel says the aim of his trip to U.S. is to learn A9

 
Obscure U.S. agency pressing foreign economic policy D1

 
The South African Communist Party has been battered by the collapse of Communism in Eastern Europe. While its authority seemed persuasive under repression, it has been forced under freedom to jettison bits of its ideology. A1

 
Ethiopian prisoners of war held by two Eritrean rebel groups now exceed 55,000. Neither group will give the Red Cross access to them. But the prisoners, many of them teen-agers, are thought to be in generally good condition. A6

 
Catholics and Protestants in Northern Ireland's second largest city, Londonderry, are joining hands in a determined effort to revive areas devasted by the strife. But the alliance, as many realize, is fragile. A1

 
India grounds 14 Airbus aircraft after fatal crash D1

 
Police battle protesters in Nepal; four killed A3

 
Largest anti-Sandinista rally ever is held in Managua A3

 
The Prime Minister of Cambodia, Hun Sen, plans to urge Prince Sihanouk, leader of one of three guerrilla groups fighting Phnom Penh, to break with the Khmer Rouge and return to Cambodia as President. A3

 
China considerably eases economic controls D1

 
Shaoshan Journal: The Bethlehem of Maoism is revived A4

 
NATIONAL/A10-14

 
Rules and regulators shackle doctors with paperwork and intrusive scrutiny, they say. And they are taking their toll on morale. As one Boston doctor said, ''I've become irrelevant.'' A1

 
Some point to Massachusetts as extreme of regulation A13

 
A university retirement community in Ames, Iowa, is one of a new breed of retirement centers linked to universities and intended to appeal primarily to retired faculty and alumni. A1

 
The risk of radiation in airliners as a cause of cancer deaths is 17 times greater than was reported last week in a Government study, Department of Transportation officials said. A11

 
Nuclear weapons industry records compiled by the Energy Department are mismanaged, the National Archives says. Flaws in record-keeping could undermine efforts to make the nuclear weapons industry safer and more accountable. A12

 
Washington Talk: The war on drugs was seemingly embracing economic tactics at the drug conference in Colombia last week, but President Bush is still looking for ways to use the American military. A10

 
Moving California's primary from June to March will transform the Presidential campaign. But already there are warnings of unintended consequences. A11

 
Overnight mail delivery will end for millions of Americans, the Postal Service announced, saying it was trading speed for reliability. Express Mail, the premium overnight service, will not be affected. A10

 
Soviets tour Kennedy Space Center on eve of shuttle launch A11

 
Dark clouds hang over paradise in Vero Beach, Fla. A14

 
Court overturns conviction of female Marine in sex case A10

 
Four are killed in motel explosion in Maryland A10

 
In Maine, a move to rewrite guidelines on rafting A12

 
Government buys supposedly faulty weather radar system A14

 
Vermont suspends some jury trials A14

 
Couple is acquitted in death on son in religious healing A14

 
''America's Funniest Home Videos'' is the first hit for network television this season. The ABC program, the hottest show on television, has the potential of becoming the most profitable show as well. D1

 
Merger of giant utilities in New England worries industry D1

 
REGIONAL/B1-4

 
New York State's financial problems appear to be growing increasingly dire. Many analysts and politicians are warning that drastic steps are needed to arrest the state's slide toward fiscal crisis. A1

 
Have New Yorkers become chicken? Amid a sense that the city has become more menacing, New Yorkers' combativeness has given way to caution. Abdication, after all, is safer than confrontation. B1

 
A contributor to Senator D'Amato had a planned route for a Iroquois Gas Company pipeline moved off his empty field and into nearby homeowners' front yards after complaining to the Senator. B1

 
John Gotti's celebrity status has been enhanced after being acquitted for the third time in four years. The cheers and even fireworks disturb law-enforcement officials. B1

 
A pledge to stop using welfare hotels to house homeless families may not be fulfilled by June as promised, New York City officials say. B1

 
The New Jersey State Police is under pressure to submit to independent oversight of its operations after complaints that it aims investigations at minorities and homosexuals. B3

 
Jesse Jackson urges blacks to learn from Mandela's life B3

 
Second suspect arrested in killing of veteran in S.I. B3

 
BUSINESS DIGEST D1

 
SportsMonday

 
Autos: Cope takes Daytona 500 C3

 
Baseball: Amid impasse, a look to the future C2

 
 Mets seek workout, find frustration C2

 
Basketball: Missouri eyes No. 1 again C4

 
 Suns' Chambers gets 56 C9

 
Boxing: Douglas shuns Tyson for Holyfield bout C1

 
Column: Berkow on N.F.L. and college athletes C3

 
Golf: Trevino wins again C7

 
Hockey: Impossible Dream plus one decade C1

 
 Islanders lose 3d in row C1

 
 Weinrich fills void for Devils C4

 
 Lake Placid triumph opened doors to N.H.L. C5

 
 Islander recalls watching gold-medal moment C5

 
Horse Racing: Wunderkin wins C9

 
Track and Field: O'Sullivan seeks old form C3

 
Obituaries A18

 
Erik Rhodes, actor
 
Arts/Entertainment

 
News anchors' network-switching has been profitable, but not without adverse consequences. Diane Sawyer and Connie Chung in particular left positions as highly regarded newscasters for programs that have been ratings failures. C11

 
George S. Kaufman revived C11

 
Art in Embassies program C11

 
Music: Delta blues C15

 
 Musica Sacra plays Brubeck C15

 
 Muir String Quartet C16

 
 A journey with sound C16

 
Dance: Joseph Holmes troupe C16

 
 Warsaw Ballet's ''Giselle'' C16

 
Word and Image: Larry McMurtry's ''Montana'' C18

 
 A. N. Wilson's ''C. S. Lewis'' C18

 
Editorials/Letters/Op-Ed

 
Editorials A16

 Startling spring of 1990
 Bidding for the best, poorest
 Washington, de-debunked
 Crimes of hate
 
Letters A16

 
Tom Wicker: Force 6 on the Coast A17

 
William Safire: Castro's last stand A17

 
Roger Guenveur Smith: The rap on Frederick Douglass A17

 
Michael Krepon: 'Open skies' -money in the bank A17

 
Toan Truong: Hollywood's Vietnam, not mine A17

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: SUMMARY

TICKER: A (AMEX) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (56%); 

COUNTRY: ROMANIA (94%); JAPAN (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); AZERBAIJAN (92%); EUROPE (92%); CAMBODIA (92%); NEPAL (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ERITREA (79%); ETHIOPIA (79%); NICARAGUA (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (72%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); PHNOM PENH, CAMBODIA (79%); 

COMPANY: AIRBUS SAS (56%); PRISONERS OF WAR (55%); PRISONERS OF WAR (55%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (76%); CONSPIRACY (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (73%); ETHNICITY (71%); ETHNIC GROUPS (71%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (71%); CANCER (65%); RELIGION (65%); AIRLINES (64%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (64%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (64%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (61%); MILITARY WEAPONS (60%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%); 

PERSON: ION ILIESCU (57%); VACLAV HAVEL (56%); 



533 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 676 words

HEADLINE: Jackson Brings 'Message' From Mandela

BYLINE: By ARI L. GOLDMAN

 BODY:
Fresh from a trip to South Africa, the Rev. Jesse Jackson went to Harlem yesterday and asked black Americans to learn from the life of Nelson Mandela, who was released last week after almost three decades in prison.
''What is the message for New York?'' Mr. Jackson asked an overflowing crowd at Abyssinian Baptist Church at 138th Street between Lenox Avenue and Adam Clayton Powell Jr. Boulevard. ''Nelson Mandela spent 27 years in jail because he defines freedom as the right to vote. And yet, there are almost 1.2 million African-Americans and Hispanics in this city who are not registered to vote.'' 
Earlier, Mr. Jackson spoke at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine at 112th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. When a high school student asked him what young people could do to help bring about change in South Africa, Mr. Jackson said, ''Be sober, be sane, be sensitive, be alert and register to vote.''
Mr. Jackson, a Presidential candidate in 1984 and 1988, returned Saturday from a trip that coincided with the release of Mr. Mandela and the legalization of the African National Congress.
 
Invitation to Mandela
Mr. Jackson, who appeared at the cathedral with Mayor David N. Dinkins, said that he had conveyed an invitation to Mr. Mandela from the Mayor to visit New York City and that Mr. Mandela had accepted. No date has been set, Mr. Jackson said.
At both his appearances in Manhattan yesterday, Mr. Jackson took issue with newspaper headlines around the world that announced, ''Mandela is Free.''
''That is not true,'' Mr. Jackson said. ''Mandela is not free. He is in front of the bars and not behind the bars, but the chains are still on his arms and legs.''
As long as the system of racial separation called apartheid is in force in South Africa, Mr. Jackson said, Mr. Mandela and other blacks will be imprisoned. He said Mr. Mandela emerged from prison ''with more credibility than the whole Government'' of South Africa, yet he is denied the right to vote, the right to live where he wants, the right to send his children to the school of his choice, the right to use a public restroom.
 
'Hope Is Beyond Apartheid'
Mr. Jackson repeatedly referred to these limitations against blacks as sanctions, and said that economic sanctions of other Governments, especially the United States, should not be lifted until the sanctions of apartheid are fully removed.
Mr. Mandela, he said, believes that President F. W. de Klerk, the South African leader, is a ''man of integrity'' who realizes that ''South Africa's brightest days and greatest hope is beyond apartheid.'' But, Mr. Jackson cautioned, ''time is working against both leaders,'' adding that ''the will to struggle within the country is very intense.''
''The expectations are well ahead of the negotiations,'' he said.
Mr. Jackson was received with a warm ovation when, midway through the service, he took a seat on the stage at Abyssinian and was embraced by the pastor, the Rev. Calvin O. Butts 3d. Mr. Jackson rose and asked his daughter, Santita, a member of the church, to also rise from her seat in the congregation.
 
'Just a Suffering Servant'
Mr. Jackson urged the historic Harlem church, once led by the Rev. Adam Clayton Powell Jr., to ''adopt a sister church'' in South Africa. He said South African churches were in desperate need of financial and moral support because their pastors were often denied pensions and other benefits after they had spoken critically of apartheid.
Mr. Jackson called the triumph of Mr. Mandela ''a vindication for the principle of non-violence'' as practiced by the American civil rights leader, the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr., and the leader of Indian independence, Mohandas K. Gandhi.
''Mandela sat there without a bullet, without a missile, without a plane, without an army, without a bank account, without a political position, without a portfolio,'' he said.
''Just a suffering servant, who suffered his way into power.''
He concluded, ''My hope is that Mandela will be free, that all South Africa will be free.''


GRAPHIC: With him, from left, were Tebogo Mafole, chief representative of the African National Congress at the United Nations, the Rev. James Parks Morton, dean of the cathedral, and Mayor David N. Dinkins. (The New York Times/Chester Higgins Jr.)
Photo: The Rev. Jesse Jackson at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine, where he talked about Nelson Mandela.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SOUTH AFRICA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (82%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (82%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SOUTH AFRICA

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); PRISONS (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (68%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (67%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (63%); 

PERSON: GOLDMAN, ARI L; JACKSON, JESSE L (REV); MANDELA, NELSON; MAFOLE, TEBOGO; MORTON, JAMES PARKS (VERY REV) JESSE JACKSON (93%); 



534 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1574 words

HEADLINE: Gotti: Dapper Celebrity Or Ruthless Mob Boss?

BYLINE: By SELWYN RAAB

 BODY:
They came every day to see John Gotti and to shake his hand. For three weeks strangers queued up outside a Manhattan courtroom for a glimpse of the man the authorities call the nation's most powerful Mafia figure.
''Why not?'' explained Philip Weisler, a salesman from Fort Lee, N.J. ''Gotti is a celebrity, and this is a chance to see what he really looks like or even talk to him before they make a movie about him.''
Mr. Gotti's was acquitted Feb. 9 of charges of assault and conspiracy, his third acquittal in four years.
The cheering and fireworks displays after the acquittal disturbed law-enforcement authorities, who conceded that misplaced public sympathy for him is mounting. 
 
'People Are Hurt'
''Sure, I'm bothered,'' said the United States Attorney in Brooklyn, Andrew J. Maloney. ''It's like the crowds that cheered Al Capone. People don't see the fruits of his labor, the violence he creates, how people are hurt and extorted through his various rackets.''
''With all this media coverage he's beginning to look like a folk hero,'' said Jules J. Bonavolonta, director of the F.B.I.'s organized-crime division in New York. ''What the public should realize is that he is the boss of the largest Cosa Nostra family, that he surrounds himself with ruthless killers and that he is flat out a criminal.''
Mr. Gotti declined to be interviewed, but his chief counsel, Bruce Cutler, insisted that his client has no ties to organized crime and that he is popular because of a growing distrust of government and because he ''is a champion for the little man.''
Dr. Charles Bahn, a consultant to law-enforcement agencies on criminal behavior, attributed the acclaim to vicarious envy. ''People, especially at the bottom of the economic ladder, don't see him as a threat,'' he said. ''They identify with him as a winner, as someone who fights City Hall.''
Mr. Gotti courted the attention he got at the trial. He smiled and waved at television cameras, and trial-watchers were quoted as fussing about how his bodyguards gave money to homeless men living in cardboard boxes outside the courthouse. He was particularly attentive to television reporters, discussing off camera with them the color combinations he favors for his clothes and the liqueurs he laces his coffee with.
But investigators who have tracked his rise maintain that his broad smile, opulent clothes and the Fourth of July street parties that he sponsors camouflage a substantial record of arrogance and violence.
Mr. Gotti grew up in the East New York-Brownsville section of Brooklyn, dropping out of high school at age 16. By the time he was 24, he had nine arrests and several brief jail sentences for street fighting, public intoxication, stealing cars, burglaries, bookmaking and gun possession.
In 1969, at 28, he was convicted of hijacking. In 1973, he was accused of posing as a detective to ''arrest'' a man in a Staten Island bar who was believed to have abducted and killed a nephew of Carlo Gambino, the founder of the crime family. When the man resisted, witnesses said, Mr. Gotti and a companion dragged him outside and shot him dead. He fled before being apprehended by the F.B.I in 1974.
Plea bargaining by his lawyer, Roy M. Cohn, reduced the charge to attempted manslaughter, and Mr. Gotti was jailed for four years.
Prosecutors say he was promoted from soldier to capo, or captain, in the Gambino family in the late 1970's and given charge of a crew.
Lieut. Remo Franceschini, the commander of the Queens District Attorney's detective squad, began watching Mr. Gotti at that time.
 
'A Short Fuse'
''He hasn't changed that much over the years,'' said Lieutenant Franceschini. ''He is very volatile, with a short fuse and he'll blow his top at any moment.''
On a tapped telephone in 1981, Mr. Gotti is heard warning one of his associates that he would blow up his home and kill him if he did not return calls promptly. ''I need an example,'' Mr. Gotti said angrily. ''Don't you be the [expletive] example, you understand me?''
As the associate pleads that he never got the messages, Mr. Gotti says: ''Listen, I called your [expletive] house five times yesterday; now if your wife thinks you are a [expletive] dunsky or if she's a [expletive] dunsky and you're gonna disregard my [expletive] phone calls, I'll blow you and that [expletive] house up.''
The man starts to say ''I never disregard anything you . . .''
Mr. Gotti says: ''Well, you call your [expletive] wife up and you tell her, or I'll get in the [expletive] car and I'll go over there and I'll [expletive] tell her.''
 
Disappeared or Murdered
Two men who have crossed Mr. Gotti's path have disappeared or been murdered.
Mr. Gotti's 12-year-old son, Frank, was killed in 1980 when his minibike swerved into the path of a car driven by a neighbor, John Favara, 51, near the Gotti home in Howard Beach, Queens. Mr. Favara, who knew the Gottis, apologized to them, but began getting anonymous death threats, investigators said, and made plans to leave the neighborhood. Four months later, while Mr. Gotti was in Florida, witnesses saw three men club Mr. Favara on the head and stuff him into a van in a Long Island parking lot. He is presumed by the police to have been slain.
In 1988, Wilfred (Willie Boy) Johnson, who Federal prosecutors said had been an informer for a decade while working for Mr. Gotti, was shot to death in Brooklyn.
Mr. Gotti, through Mr. Cutler, denies any knowledge about Mr. Favara's disappearance and Mr. Johnson's murder.
In 1984, when Mr. Gotti was not well known publicly, he was arrested in Queens, accused of punching a man who had honked his horn because Gotti's double-parked car had blocked his. The police said he also took the man's wallet, with more than $300. By the time the case came to trial in 1986, Mr. Gotti had been identified by the authorities as a major Mafia boss and the complainant said he was unable to recognize Mr. Gotti as his assailant. The charges were dismissed. F.B.I. agents and state investigators have contended in testimony that Mr. Gotti gained control of the Gambino family in 1986 after engineering the murder of the previous boss, Paul Castellano. #19,000 Conversations Taped From April 1985 to May 1986, the state's Organized Crime Task Force recorded 19,000 separate conversations consuming 750 hours from court-authorized electronic bugs planted at the Bergin Hunt & Fish Social Club in Ozone Park, Queens.
At Mr. Gotti's trial on state assault charges, the prosecution played 25 conversations that they asserted were snapshots of him progressing from capo to boss. Mr. Cutler dismissed them as conversations taken out of context or altered by overzealous investigators.
Investigators say Mr. Gotti's life style changed after he became the Gambino family head in 1986. He exchanged his slacks and Windbreaker-style jackets for custom-tailored silk suits. Instead of spending most of his time in Ozone Park, he appeared almost daily at Manhattan cafes and clubs.
He has infuriated law-enforcement officials by defying bans on fireworks at his Fourth of July street barbecues in Ozone Park and by having his lawyers openly assail prosecutors as ''persecutors'' engaged in ''vendettas'' against him.
F.B.I. agents and other investigators maintain that Mr. Gotti inherited a thriving criminal empire now grossing $300 million a year that Mr. Castellano had developed.
Mr. Bonavolonta of the F.B.I. said Mr. Gotti was known as an unsophisticated ''strong-armed thug'' when he took over the family but has since shown ''managerial experience,'' and has relied on older capos to maintain the family's income.
 
Prison Terms for Some
But in the last two years, reputed family leaders, including Mr. Gotti's brother, Gene, who was convicted of heroin trafficking, were sentenced to long prison terms.
Another brother, Vincent, was sentenced in 1986 to six years to life for selling cocaine.
Investigators say Mr. Gotti relies on two other brothers, Peter and Richard, for advice and relaying important orders. He is trying to insulate himself by holding abrupt meetings while walking in the street with other suspected mobsters, investigators say.
''He's just reaping the harvest,'' said Lieutenant Franceschini. ''As boss, he gets a percentage of everything without having to do anything except settle disputes.''
According to transcripts of tapes played at the trials of Mr. Gotti and other suspected Gambino mobsters, he was heard in 1986 describing himself as being ''a boss'' who can no longer ''socialize with these guys.''
He says: ''They can't have that liberty. In other words don't get me wrong, I'm not talking about close guys, I'm talking about, Ange, they have to go through a skipper, then go to an underboss.''
One month after the authorities said he became the head of the family, he was heard demanding ''respect'' from underlings and stressing the necessity of capos having to work on Sundays.
Mr. Gotti's ''importance has been blown all of out proportion by the media,'' said G. Robert Blakey, a professor of law at University of Notre Dame, who was the principal author of the Federal Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act, known as RICO, used in prosecuting organized-crime figures.
''Gotti - or maybe we should call him Gaudy - is going down,'' Professor Blakey added. ''He's not untouchable. It's just a matter of time.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Gotti returning to his home in Howard Beach, Queens, after being acquitted earlier this month. (The New York Times/Steve Berman)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: CRIME AND CRIMINALS; ORGANIZED CRIME ORGANIZED CRIME (91%); CELEBRITIES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); ACQUITTAL (89%); EXTORTION (77%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (75%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (75%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (74%); LAWYERS (71%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); HOMELESSNESS (50%); 

PERSON: RAAB, SELWYN; GOTTI, JOHN JOHN GOTTI (97%); 



535 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: Metro Matters;
A Commissioner For Consumers Has High Hopes

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
Twenty years ago this month, New York City imposed its paradigmatic consumer protection law. Bess Myerson was consumer affairs commissioner then, followed briefly by Betty Furness. Those were the golden days of the consumer movement.
Tomorrow, though, may herald the resurgence of an agency with the rare ability to collect more money than it spends while also enhancing the reputations of its commissioner and the mayor. Mayor David N. Dinkins is to swear in Mark Green as the city's Consumer Affairs Commissioner. 
For Mr. Dinkins, the appointment of Mr. Green represents an opportunity to convey the image of an administration vigorously protecting the salaries of the middle class and the dwindling resources of even more vulnerable New Yorkers - the young, the elderly, the poor and the disabled - when budget constraints are forcing the Mayor to curtail city services.
For the glib but cerebral Mr. Green, who sometimes speaks in slogans, the position offers public exposure and an opportunity, after 20 years as an independent consumer advocate, to put the city's money and legal might where his mouth is.
''While the department has been a competent licenser, it has been a relatively quiet advocate,'' Mr. Green said. ''There's a lot of room to raise the agency's voice and revenue.''
The job marks a major adjustment for the 44-year-old Mr. Green, an energetic Ralph Nader protege who has spent the last decade - with a detour in 1986 to run unsuccessfully against Alfonse M. D'Amato, the Republican United States Senator - lobbying for a liberal agenda through his nonprofit Democracy Project.
''This is the first job in which I haven't had to help raise money for my own salary,'' Mr. Green said of the $97,000-a-year commissionership.
''In fact, I may be the only commissioner whose salary went up when he joined city government. My sacrifice is not financial, but mobility.''
In 1979, Mr. Green rejected the job of consumer adviser to President Jimmy Carter -largely, he said, because of philosophical disagreements about energy deregulation and other issues.
After Mr. Dinkins was elected last November, Mr. Green stepped aside as co-chairman of a panel searching for a consumer affairs commissioner once he was persuaded that he need only look in a mirror to find the perfect candidate.
Mr. Green hopes to transform the Consumer Affairs Department from a monitor of weights and measures and collector of license fees and fines (it took in $11.9 million last year and spent $10.4 million) into a more vocal advocate and law-enforcement office. The fact that his most recent predecessors (identify one if you can) are not household names is a reflection of their styles, if not their records.
''Let's ask why Bess Myerson succeeded 20 years ago,'' Mr. Green said. ''Because Bess exploited a prior prominence, hired a great staff and had a supportive mayor. I'm no Miss America, but several of those elements exist for my tenure, too.''
Mr. Green seeks to elevates concerns of consumers, and, therefore, their champion, to a higher plane than ''housewife issues.''
''Tell it to a family of four earning $20,000 that is overpaying $1,000 for an old refrigerator sold as new,'' he said, cautioning that cumulative abuses erode not only the economic health of families on the margin but also their faith in government.
Might not aggressive consumer advocacy sometimes clash with Mayor Dinkins's eagerness to cast his administration as receptive to business?
''I will be resolutely anti-business-abuse, which is pro-business,'' Mr. Green declared. ''The scale of consumer justice is tilted against consumers - business has the resources, lawyers, contacts. My assignment and history are to lend my weight and voice to the consumer side of the scale so there will be a better balance.''
Will public office still his partisan voice? Mr. Green said he is satisfied for now that he has persuaded the Senate to investigate conflict-of-interest allegations against Mr. D'Amato. ''My private opinion of Al D'Amato has not altered, but I won't spend time prosecuting the case,'' Mr. Green said. Will he run again for the Senate in 1992? Less likely now than before his appointment, Mr. Green said. The only Sherman-like statement he would issue is a pledge to enforce the antitrust law of the same name.
''It is wrong to precondition appointive office on not seeking elective office,'' Mr. Green said, slyly recalling the appointed City Clerk who ran three times for Manhattan Borough President, David Dinkins.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mark Green

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONSUMER AFFAIRS, DEPARTMENT OF (NYC)

SUBJECT: CONSUMER PROTECTION CONSUMER PROTECTION (93%); CONSUMER LAW (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); CITIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); BUDGETS (72%); FUNDRAISING (70%); LOBBYING (69%); SENIOR CITIZENS (69%); LIBERALISM (64%); US PRESIDENTS (64%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (64%); ENERGY REGULATION (60%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (50%); 

PERSON: GREEN, MARK; ROBERTS, SAM RALPH NADER (79%); JIMMY CARTER (50%); 



536 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 2, Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 842 words

HEADLINE: Mets Seek Workout, Find Frustration

BYLINE: By JOSEPH DURSO, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PORT ST. LUCIE, Fla., Feb. 18

 BODY:
The Mets in exile, who were locked out of their training camp Thursday because of the baseball labor dispute, reported for their informal morning workout at a Little League field here today and, to put it bluntly, were locked out.
The infield gate at the public park was chained and locked, and a sign said, ''Facility Closed, Keep Out.''
''Locked out again,'' muttered Bob Ojeda, the senior member of the Mets. ''We get no respect.'' 
Ojeda and three teammates hopped the wire fence and started tossing a baseball on the outfield grass. But a park supervisor drove up in his Jeep and told them to quit. There was nothing personal or strategic in this lockout, he said. It had nothing to do with economic warfare; it was just a case of cricket warfare.
''I'm sorry to do it,'' said the official, Harold Biller. ''But we've got to keep the field free. We've got chemicals on the grass to get rid of the crickets and we're trying to fertilize the rest of it.''
So, the four Mets kept improvising, as they have been doing since their spring training camp was closed by order of the club owners' Player Relations Committee, which is trying to negotiate a new basic agreement with the Players Association. The Mets crossed a gully and went to a grassy area about 100 yards away and once more tossed baseballs lightly before splitting for some basketball and fishing.
The training cadre was small today: Ojeda, Keith Miller, Terry Bross and Alejandro Pena, the pitcher acquired in a trade this winter from the Los Angeles Dodgers, who was making his debut with the Mets under the strange conditions that prevail. The Mets' modern two-year-old training complex with its six baseball fields and elegant locker room stood empty, three miles away, while the four Mets went through the motions outside a Little League field besieged by crickets.
 
Contrast With '76
The Mets conceded that their camp-in-exile was radically different from their regular training base. It was also radically different from the highly organized rump camps run by players during a similar lockout in 1976, when the training complexes were closed until March 17.
In those days, the main issue in the labor dispute was free agency, and the players conducted their camps with due regard for the high stakes. Tom Seaver, Bud Harrelson and Willie Stargell organized one of the biggest and best, a fairly formal workout class held every morning at Eckerd College in St. Petersburg, and they drew a couple of dozen players from the Mets, St. Louis Cardinals, Philadelphia Phillies and Pittsburgh Pirates.
But this year, the players' union vetoed such camps on the ground that they might lull the club owners into a sense of serenity in the labor talks.
''The owners see 20 guys out here working,'' Ojeda reasoned, ''and what's their incentive to settle? So, we keep it low-key. We don't do it for the owners; we do it for ourselves.
''But I'm ticked. You see what we do here: toss the ball, play basketball, go fishing. So, I'm here dinking around, and up the road they've got this beautiful new stadium that the people here raised their taxes to build. And now the people who sold them the bill of goods are telling them the stadium's closed.''
 
No Fantasy-Camp Lockout
The Mets' training stadium was filled with old Mets this weekend. They were in town to play a series of games against the paying customers at the fantasy camp operated at the Mets' minor-league base by Steve Zabriskie, the broadcaster, and Harrelson, a Met coach. And many of them were also alumni of the lockout camps of 1976.
''Tom Seaver and Buddy organized it with Stargell, and all the guys started showing up,'' Jerry Koosman remembered. ''We felt that we needed to stay in shape so we wouldn't hurt ourselves when the regular camps opened. We had calisthenics, live batting practice, throwing on the side, all the things you normally do in camp.''
He smiled faintly and said, ''I won 21 games that year.''
''We just got some bats and balls, and the guys brought their own stuff,'' Harrelson recalled. ''Stargell and Mike Easler came from the Pirates, and Ted Simmons from the Cardinals, and a bunch of us from the Mets and Phillies. It was fairly organized. Two hours a day. We got a lot of work done.''
Larry Bearnarth, once the premier relief pitcher for the Mets, was the pitching coach for the Montreal Expos when the camps were locked in 1976. He remembered that the Expos' coaches spent the time working with their minor leaguers at Daytona Beach.
''We had 24 players and 10 minor league coaches, the farm director, the manager and some other guys,'' he said. ''We almost had one coach for every player. But our varsity players meanwhile were holding their own training camp at an aeronautical college in West Palm Beach, and they were highly organized workouts.''
''We kept an eye on them,'' acknowledged Bearnarth, who is in his second stint as the Expos' pitching coach. ''More than we're allowed to do this time.''
He sighed and said, ''It was different then from now.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (50%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK METS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; LOCKOUTS LOCKOUTS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (89%); YOUTH SPORTS (89%); ATHLETES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); BASKETBALL (72%); 

PERSON: DURSO, JOSEPH MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 



537 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 8, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1176 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL REPORT;
Fine-Tuning Panama's Bank Policy

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON

DATELINE: PANAMA

 BODY:
As a senior banking executive for the Panamanian branch of the Chase Manhattan Bank many years ago, Ruben D. Carles received an unexpected visitor late one afternoon, the kind of person he says banks here seldom see anymore.
The man had a suitcase filled with more than $1 million in small bills and asked Mr. Carles to open an account. Told the bank was closed, the man asked to put the suitcase in the vault. Told the vault could not be unlocked until the next morning, the man asked if Mr. Carles would store the suitcase under a bank counter. 
Rebuffed a third time, the man left with his cash.
Although some American officials maintain that Panamanian banks did a brisk money-laundering business at least through December, Mr. Carles, the nation's new comptroller, says changes in the law and in the economic and political scene have dried up the large, suspicious cash deposits believed linked to the drug trade.
A former economics professor and longtime critic of the military Government that dominated life here for more than two decades, his position reflects the commonly held view in Panama City that narcotics profits no longer fill the nation's banks.
 
No Hot Issue
''It is an activity that has almost disappeared now,'' Mr. Carles said in a recent interview. ''It is no longer a hot issue.''
''We cannot change our banking laws just because somebody in the United States thinks they are not proper. They are important for other uses that are not drug-related.''
American officials were pleased by the changes made so far but want even more stringent rules to combat money laundering.
The banks in Panama, gleaming and pristine structures that shimmer in the tropical sun and form Panama City's skyline, dominate life in this nation of 2.4 million.
From the moment of stepping off the plane at the international airport near Panama City, their omnipresence is apparent. The airport terminal's walls are decorated with large billboards touting high-quality service and maximum confidentiality.
Almost all the senior officials from the president on down are or have been connected to one or more of the 110 international and local banks that are officially registered. Banking and related financial services represent 16 percent of the gross domestic product, providing 8,000 jobs directly and large amounts of business for local lawyers and accountants.
The country's banks include branches of American, Swiss, Japanese, Korean and German institutions. Officially, many exist to service the $4 billion a year in commerce that passes through the free trade zone in nearby Colon, the largest such zone in Latin America.
For two years, the banking industry has been hit hard by economic sanctions imposed by the United States. Deposits on hand have declined sharply, falling from more than $29 billion two years ago, to $7.8 billion when Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega surrendered to American troops in December. Before the banking laws were rewritten in 1970 to make the country a money haven, Panamanian banks reported deposits of $250 million.
Bankers say foreign investments are beginning to trickle in again. Panamanian officials are trying to walk a tightrope on banking policy, promising some modifications while at the same time trying to lure back some of the enormous amounts that fled to other jurisdictions.
''In the past, Panama has not been the most law-abiding nation,'' said Carlos F. Rodriguez, the new Ambassador to the United States and chairman of the Dadeland Bank in Miami. ''Panamanians have been the major victims of money laundering. It has led to abuses which cost Panama its democracy.''
 
Money-Laundering Cases
The two largest money-laundering cases prosecuted so far in the United States were against Panamanian banks and the current case against General Noriega also involves sweeping accusations of money laundering. A recent Senate report listed Panama as one of six nations most widely used to launder illegal profits. The others are Switzerland, Hong Kong, the Bahamas, Canada and Luxembourg.
In approving the first part of a $1 billion aid package, Congress has required the Bush Administration to prepare a report by April 15 that outlines what steps are being taken to modify Panama's strict bank and corporate secrecy laws.
In response to calls for such changes, Panamanian officials say they will soon require banks to begin keeping special records of deposits of more than $10,000 under a rule similar to one in the United States. But precisely what the requirement will do remains unclear.
In addition to the banking laws, the nation's corporate secrecy laws make it virtually impossible to determine the real owners of businesses used as fronts for illicit operations.
Lawyers here report business is as brisk as ever in forming secretly registered companies for anywhere between $300 and $1,000 a company, many little more than brass plates on a door. The actual founders and shareholders of such companies are never disclosed, and Panama receives no taxes so long as the business is offshore.
Asked about the corporate secrecy laws, Ambassador Rodriguez said, ''That is a different matter completely.'' Other officials said there would be no important changes in the corporate secrecy rules.
 
Role of American Banks
Jose Antonio de Gracia, economic analyst for the National Banking Commission, a regulatory body, says banks in the United States have a more important role in moving ill-gotten gains than Panamanian banks.
''The laundering and ironing is always done in other places - places like Miami, San Francisco and New York,'' Mr. de Gracia says. ''It's true that the final product is deposited here through wire transfers, but the responsibility for those improper deposits should rest with the banks in the United States.''
It is a widely shared view among the members of the commission, which regulates banks here and is dominated by Panamanian bankers.
To these bankers, the new administration presents opportunity. As long as the corporate and banking secrecy laws are maintained, Panama will remain a haven for foreign investment.
 
A State of Mind
''Banking,'' Sam Kardonski said, ''is a state of mind.''
From behind his empty desk and in front of an empty bookcase in his second floor office, he says the present state of mind is optimistic. Mr. Kardonski, a Russian emigre who arrived in Panama in the 1920's, owns Tower Bank International. The removal of the economic sanctions and restrictions on the withdrawal of deposits promises to bring in much needed foreign investment, he said.
Downstairs, a burly man with a submachine gun in his hands and a pistol on his side patrols the bank. With no adequate police force, the banks have faced a rash of robberies.
''We have no reservations about it: if something we feel is not kosher, we tell them to find another bank,'' Mr. Kardonski said. ''The stigma of money laundering - the medicine is stronger than the sickness. It is more damaging to the industry than anything else. It's immoral.''

GRAPHIC: ''We cannot change our banking laws just because somebody in the United States thinks they are not proper,'' said Ruben D. Carles, Panama's new comptroller. (Agence France-Presse for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PANAMA (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: CHASE MANHATTAN BANK NORGE AS (58%); CHASE MANHATTAN BANK OF CANADA (58%); CHASE MANHATTAN BANK FRANCE (58%); CHASE MANHATTAN BANK DELAWARE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PANAMA

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; CLASSIFICATION OF INFORMATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; MONEY LAUNDERING BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANK BRANCHES (89%); BANKING LAW (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); MONEY LAUNDERING (74%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (74%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); INTERVIEWS (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); AIRPORTS (67%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (67%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (61%); 

PERSON: LABATON, STEPHEN; CARLES, RUBEN D RUBEN D CARLES (79%); 



538 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 5, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: Publishing;
Industry Is Troubled, but Booksellers Are Thriving

BYLINE: By EDWIN McDOWELL

 BODY:
THE American Booksellers Association has been around for 90 years, but it is now friskier than ever and brimming with confidence - almost as if its 7,600 members were unaware of the difficulties in the publishing industry.
While some publishers are talking about cutting back the size of their lists and their print runs, the association's membership, staff, budget and activities are all growing at record rates.
What this strongly suggests is that the foundation of the book industry is far stronger than the high rate of book returns and unearned advances indicate.
''In 1983, we were 15 people in a 5,000-square-foot office, living from hand-to-mouth on a gross volume of about $2 million,'' said Bernie Rath, the association's executive director. ''Today we own 13,200 square feet on two floors in a 12-story condominium loft, have a permanent staff of 42 and our gross volume is between $7 million and $8 million.'' 
Moreover, total membership rose 11 percent last year, to 7,600.
Not surprisingly, the association's growth parallels the growth and vitality of the independent bookstores. Dispirited and seemingly facing extinction only a few years ago, when the chain stores were growing rapidly, independent bookstores are now flourishing.
But even when the independents were suffering, Mr. Rath inspired and cajoled them to stop feeling sorry for themselves and begin asserting their power.
That outspokenness did not always endear Mr. Rath to everyone in the association. In fact, his insistence a few years ago that independent booksellers deserved the same discounts that the chain stores received led Waldenbooks to quit the organization.
But it has since rejoined, and last year Waldenbooks and the association successfully challenged the constitutionality of a law in Colonial Heights, Va., that would have forbidden display of such magazines as Playboy and Penthouse in stores.
''When I was hired in 1984, there was a kind of Darwinian theory that if the independent stores were not efficient enough to cut it, too bad,'' said Mr. Rath, a one-time book salesman and the former executive director of the Canadian Booksellers Association. ''The independents have since shown they not only can compete but prosper. The publishers are now more amenable to dealing with us.''
A big reason the publishers are more amenable is that the lawsuits filed by the Northern California Booksellers Association, and supported by the American Booksellers Association, led publishers of rack-sized mass-market paperbacks to stop giving larger discounts to chain bookstores than to independents.
But they are amenable also because they recognize the independents' growing economic strength. In recent years, the independents were largely responsible for the early success of ''A Brief History of Time'' by Stephen W. Hawking (Bantam Books), ''The Closing of the American Mind'' by Allan Bloom (Simon & Schuster), ''The Rise and Fall of the Great Powers'' by Paul Kennedy (Random House), '' Great Plains'' by Ian Frazier (Farrar, Straus & Giroux) and ''The Tempting of America'' by Robert H. Bork (Free Press).
Lawrence Hughes, the chairman of the Association of American Publishers, is much impressed by Mr. Rath and by Edward Morrow, the president of the booksellers association (and the owner of the Northshire Bookstore in Manchester Center, Vt.). ''The two of them are intelligent, extremely well read and very good business people,'' he said.
The association and the publishers developed a plan that enables bookstores to order minimum quantities of a single title at a high discount rate. (Previously, many publishers would not bother with single orders.) Through a wholly owned subsidiary, Booksellers Order Service Inc., the association sells shopping bags to bookstores at bulk rates. It also sponsors Garrison Keillor's live weekly broadcast, ''The American Radio Company of the Air.''
Moreover, the association recently opened a library of book publishing in its Manhattan headquarters, for the use of scholars and other interested parties. And, in an industry notorious for its lack of statistics, it established a statistical department to compile data on everything from the size of bookstores to sales per store, sales per capita and average pay per bookstore employee. Now Mr. Rath wants the association to start a newsletter to advise its members on First Amendment issues, and he hopes to put together a videocassette on opening and operating a bookstore.
There may be some risk in trying to do too much to quickly; as some publishers have been learning to their sorrow, bigger is not necessarily better. But the association's growth has not seemed to have stifled innovation.
''At a time when there don't seem to be many new ideas coming out of other parts of the book industry,'' said Michael Shatzkin, a publishing consultant, ''the A.B.A. has had one creative idea after another.''

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (53%); SIC5942 BOOK STORES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WALDEN BOOK CO INC (53%); AMERICAN BOOKSELLERS ASSOCIATION (93%); AMERICAN BOOKSELLERS ASSOCIATION (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BOOKSELLERS ASSN AMERICAN BOOKSELLERS ASSOCIATION; 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; BOOK TRADE; INDUSTRY PROFILES BOOKSTORES (94%); PUBLISHING (90%); RETAILERS (87%); BOOK PUBLISHING (77%); LITERATURE (77%); BUDGETS (77%); BOOK REVIEWS (76%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (73%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (72%); OFFICE PROPERTY (69%); EVOLUTION THEORY (66%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%); 

PERSON: RATH, BERNIE; MCDOWELL, EDWIN BERNIE RATH (91%); 



539 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: Business and the Law;
Brokerage Case Goes On and On

BYLINE: By Stephen Labaton

 BODY:
Three years ago the Supreme Court was swayed by arguments of the securities industry that arbitration is swift, relatively inexpensive and fair. In their ruling in Shearson/American Express Inc. v. McMahon, the Justices locked the doors of Federal courthouses to most customers who contend that they were defrauded by stockbrokers.
The case that set the precedent is now entering its seventh year. The couple who brought the action are still pursuing their claim that they were defrauded of $560,000 through ''churning'' - excessive buying and selling to create commissions. The dispute has cost both sides hundreds of thousands of dollars. 
In one of several decisions in the McMahon case, a Federal appeals court said last week that the tactics of Shearson ''unreasonably and vexatiously multiplied'' the proceedings.
The case seems to have fulfilled the prophecy of Justice Harry A. Blackmun, who predicted in his 1987 dissent that the Supreme Court ruling would have the opposite effect of its intentions, actually leading to more litigation over satellite issues.
In its landmark decision, the Supreme Court reversed course on 24 years of rulings. Previously, securities fraud disputes, even those in which the parties had signed agreements favoring arbitration, had been accepted by the courts. But in the McMahon case, the Justices approved standard form agreements signed by customers and brokers that have clauses, usually in fine print, relegating all such disputes to arbitration.
The McMahons had argued that they should be allowed their day in court. Like other customers who challenged the securities industry, they said the arbitration panels, often made up of former securities executives, tend to award smaller damages and favor broker-defendants. But in the McMahon case, the Supreme Court ruling has done little to reduce legal bills or insure swift justice.
''It's getting to be more and more like a court case,'' said Theodore G. Eppenstein, the McMahons' lawyer, who said the two sides are now fighting over what evidence can be obtained.
The plodding pace has not been lost on Wilfred Feinberg, a Federal Appeals judge who was part of the panel from the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit that last week issued the ruling on a related aspect of the McMahon case. Told during arguments where the case stands, Judge Feinberg said, ''So much for a speedy and economical method of resolving the dispute.''
Jeffrey L. Friedman, a lawyer for Shearson, declined to comment on the appeals court's unusually critical language regarding his client.
The McMahon proceeding has interested some members of Congress who are examining the arbitration process. Three weeks ago, the House Committee on Energy and Commerce asked the General Accounting Office to review how the industry conducts arbitration.
The latest wrangling in the McMahon dispute has been over a move by Shearson to have Mr. Eppenstein penalized for one aspect of the case.
Mr. Eppenstein said he had elected to file with the American Arbitration Association because he considered it fairer than the New York Stock Exchange, in which a person from the securities industry is included on each panel and the parties in the dispute can challenge the seating of only one member of the three-member panel.
Despite a Federal District Court order saying the McMahons had the right to choose where to file, Shearson filed the arbitration with the Stock Exchange. Mr. Eppenstein then went to New York Supreme Court to stop Shearson's move, provoking Federal District Judge Lloyd F. MacMahon to impose a $1,000 fine on the lawyer.
In a significant decision on Rule 11, the Federal Rule of Civil Procedure that has been increasingly used to penalize lawyers for filing frivolous motions, the appeals panel exonerated Mr. Eppenstein and criticized the brokerage house, saying it had drawn out the legal proceeding.
Quoting Charles Dickens, Federal Appeals Judge Richard J. Cardamone said Rule 11 was motiviated by a fear that lawyers had been engaging in ''stages of an endless cause, tripping one another up on slippery precedents, groping knee-deep in technicalities, running their . . . heads against walls of words, and making a pretense of equity with serious faces, as players might.''
Despite Mr. Eppenstein's vindication on the Rule 11 issue, Shearson has had its way on the forum. The case is in arbitration at the New York Stock Exchange, although not even a pre-arbitration conference has been scheduled.
Asked why the case wound up there, Mr. Eppenstein said that another move in the Federal courts would not be worthwhile for his clients. ''We decided that we didn't want to take that issue up to the Supreme Court,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (58%); FEDERAL APPEALS (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: SHEARSON/AMERICAN EXPRESS INC

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; ARBITRATION, CONCILIATION AND MEDIATION LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); APPEALS (90%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (90%); APPEALS COURTS (89%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (89%); VERDICTS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); COSTS & ATTORNEY FEES (78%); INSURANCE ARBITRATION & MEDIATION (78%); JUDGES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (77%); ACCOUNTING (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); SECURITIES BROKERS (72%); BONDS (67%); 

PERSON: BLACKMUN, HARRY A (ASSOC JUSTICE); LABATON, STEPHEN; MCMAHON, EUGENE THEODORE G EPPENSTEIN (92%); 



540 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 998 words

HEADLINE: A Spotlight On Obscure Agency

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 18

 BODY:
After the upheaval in Eastern Europe and the United States invasion of Panama, the Bush Administration is using a little-known Federal agency as a tool to achieve one of its main international policy goals - market-oriented economic reconstruction.
The disintegration of Communism has given the Overseas Private Investment Corporation probably the greatest opportunity to flex its muscles in its two decades of existence, said its president, Fred M. Zeder.
One of the few Government agencies that actually make money, the agency, among other projects, insures shrimp farms in Haiti, methanol operations in Argentina, brick and tile manufacturing in Botswana, bauxite mining in Guyana and carbon-black production in Indonesia.
 
Protecting Companies
For the insurance protection it offers American companies against nationalization, civil disorder, political unrest, inconvertibility and other foreign investment risks, it charges fees that last year gave it record net income of $122 million, increasing its reserves in the Treasury to nearly $1.5 billion. 
On Friday Mr. Zeder is taking a score of top executives, from companies like A.T.&T., GTE and Unocal Geothermal, to Panama to explore investment opportunities to ''jump start'' that economy.
From a similar mission it took to Poland in November, more than $1 billion in insurance registrations were signed, indicating prospective investments in cable television, telecommunications, light industry, accounting, banking and other financial services.
''We signed up stuff right away,'' Mr. Zeder said. ''Usually it takes up to three or four months.''
 
Contract in Hungary
In February, the agency signed its first insurance contract in Hungary, covering a $150 million investment by the General Electric Company to make light bulbs.
The agency is run by an old friend of the President. Mr. Zeder, a 68-year-old former Dallas venture capitalist and World War II fighter pilot who like Mr. Bush saw action in the Pacific, speaks of his ''rapid deployment force,'' which organizes investment missions in seven weeks rather than the seven months it used to take.
''We are much more conscious of our responsibility of taking an active place behind the President's foreign policy initiatives,'' said the burly executive, who held minor posts in both the Nixon and Ford Administrations and enjoys ''walk in'' privileges at the Bush White House.
The insurance agency, which started in the early 1970's through legislation introduced by Senator Jacob K. Javits, the New York Republican, is getting high grades from American business. Much of the praise now is for Mr. Zeder, who has been in office since June 23.
 
'In Front of the Curve'
''He's doing a bang-up job,'' said Willard A. Workman, director for international policy and programs at the United States Chamber of Commerce. ''They're doing things very aggressively. They're very much in front of the curve.''
But organized labor, which fought Congressional renewal of the agency's operating charter in 1988, continues to harbor fundamental objections to its existence.
''We maintain that the U.S. Government really has no business using public resources to insure U.S. corporations for offshore production,'' said Mark A. Anderson, an international economist at the A.F.L.-C.I.O.
Labor's opposition is rooted in fears that agency operations lead to job losses for American workers, a point the agency disputes. Creating Jobs in U.S. Noting that a third of American exports are generally bought by foreign subsidiaries of American companies, Mr. Zeder said the agency actually stimulates exports, leading to net American job creation.
For instance, the agency calculated that the 115 new projects it supported in 35 third world countries last year will yield an annual positive net contribution of $1.6 billion toward the United States balance of trade over the first five years.
Until the tumultuous events of recent months in Eastern Europe, labor fought against the agency's operations in that region on the ground that the old Communist governments violated basic standards of worker rights, like freedom of association, the right to bargain collectively, workplace health and safety and stipulations against forced labor.
In recent weeks, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and the agency have reached accords under which the agency will require that language related to worker rights be included in every contract the agency makes with corporate investors.
 
Equity Investments
Besides writing insurance and guaranteeing commercial loans for foreign investments, the agency has now been cleared by Congress to make equity investments for the first time.
''People refer to us as an insurance agency,'' Mr. Zeder said, ''but we're moving away from that concept to become merchant bankers. We're really in the business of encouraging equity capital.''
Now Mr. Zeder is adopting the so-called growth fund concept to pour seed capital into enterprises in Eastern Europe and the third world.
The $30 million Africa Growth Fund is being readied to begin, probably in April. It is managed by the Equator Bank of Hartford, and its limited partners including Citicorp, Coca-Cola, Kellogg and the Rockefeller Foundation.
 
Guaranteed Loan
The partners are expected to put up $10 million. For the other $20 million, the agency will provide a $20 million federally guaranteed loan, which can be sold like a Treasury bond to pension funds and other institutional investors.
Mr. Zeder said the Africa fund, which was started to demonstrate to American business ''that you can make money in Africa,'' will be replicated in Eastern Europe, the Caribbean and Asia. In addition, he is planning another fund to support environmental projects globally.
''Because we're suddenly living in a more peaceful, more trusting world, the demand for our assurances has gone up dramatically,'' Mr. Zeder noted. ''The total market has increased, and we're ready to do business.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Bush Administration is using a little-known Federal agency, the Overseas Private Investment Corporation, as a tool to achieve one of its main international policy goals - market-oriented economic reconstruction. Fred M. Zeder is the agency's president. (The New York Times/George Tames) (pg. D3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (66%); GEC (LSE) (66%); GE (SWX) (66%); GE (NYSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (72%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); HUNGARY (92%); EUROPE (92%); ARGENTINA (79%); GUYANA (79%); BOTSWANA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); HAITI (79%); POLAND (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); 

COMPANY: OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORP (72%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (66%); OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORP (92%); OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORP (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORP (OPIC)

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); INSURANCE (78%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); VENTURE CAPITAL (77%); NATIONALIZATION (76%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (75%); WORLD WAR II (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); CARBON BLACK (72%); ALCOHOLS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (70%); AQUACULTURE (55%); BAUXITE MINING (55%); 

PERSON: FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H; ZEDER, FRED M MICHAEL MCMAHON (80%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (80%); 



541 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1313 words

HEADLINE: A Different Drummer in Japan

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Feb. 18

 BODY:
So often in Japanese business life, success comes to those who avoid risks and follow the well-trodden paths. Then there are people like Kazuo Wada, chairman of the Yaohan Department Store Company, who personifies another Japanese type: the devoted renegade.
The avuncular Mr. Wada, a trim 61-year-old man with a ready smile who prefers plain gray suits, is an unlikely radical, but in his genteel but determined way he has built one of Japan's most unusual retailers by breaking just about every rule of the game as it is played here.
His guiding business philosophy, he said, has been ''to give my company a special character that nobody else had.'' He has clearly succeeded. 
 
Atypical Geography
Where the economic and Government center of Tokyo has been the focus for most big Japanese retailers, the Yaohan supermarket chain has eschewed the capital for the provinces. While most Japanese companies expanding overseas have gone to the wealthy nations of Europe or the United States, Yaohan has focused on Hong Kong, Malaysia, Singapore, Taiwan and Brunei.
Instead of renting landmark locations, Yaohan generally searches for less glamorous but practical sites -the kinds of places where you might find a vegetable stand, which is how Yaohan got started in a provincial town outside Tokyo.
And most Japanese companies have only one ideology: work hard and be loyal. But Mr. Wada and his mother, Katsu, who helped found the company, are leaders in a new Japanese religion, known as Seicho No Ie, which is loosely translated as House of God's Children. It is an amalgam of Shinto, Buddhism and Christianity, which stresses the Confucian ethic of respecting authority and of seeking harmony. Nearly all of Yaohan's managers are members of the sect.
Yet no step has been more unusual, or risky, than the one Mr. Wada announced late last year to move Yaohan's international headquarters from Japan to Hong Kong, the politically fragile British colony that is to revert to Chinese control in 1997.
Many Chinese professionals are fleeing Hong Kong because of concern over how the Communists on the mainland will manage the prosperous capitalist enclave. But where they spot trouble, Mr. Wada says he spots opportunity. As he noted, from his new home in the prestigious Peak district of Hong Kong island, he will look out over the largest potential market in the world.
The headquarters move is partly a matter of thrift. Hong Kong has some of the lowest taxes in the world, and land prices there are considerably cheaper than the inflated levels of Japan.
''Taxes and land are one consideration,'' Mr. Wada admitted. ''But more important was that I see big possibilities in Asia and China in the future. This is the era of Asia.'' Of China, he states bluntly that it is not rich enough yet to support his supermarkets, but that will come. He said that over the next few decades he plans to develop along the country's relatively prosperous coastal regions a huge network for buying goods as well as for a chain of stores. It will all add up to one of the most extensive, if not the largest, distribution systems connecting all of Asia.
''Yaohan has developed into an interesting story, in part because they have realized that there is clearly a higher profit potential overseas than in Japan, given the costs you face here,'' said Mike Allen, a retailing analyst at Barclays de Zoete Wedd, a securities house.
Mr. Allen said he is somewhat skeptical of Mr. Wada's ability to pull off his plan. Two problems are the store's middle-brow image, which may make it hard for it to distribute higher margin goods later, and some labor problems that he said it has had in the United States, reportedly because of its insistence that employees follow the company's rigid tenets. That may make it tough for Yaohan to maintain consistent service outside of Japan. Nonetheless, Mr. Allen said the strategy is potentially attractive in the long run.
Although Mr. Wada's unusual vision is distinctly Asian, it is not being applied only to this part of the world. Yaohan operates six stores in the United States, including a large supermarket in Edgewater, N.J., just across the Hudson River from Manhattan. The store sells Japanese and Asian foods almost exclusively.
In New Jersey, Mr. Wada plans to build Yaohan's first hotel, which will have some unusual features, by Edgewater standards. Its roof will be equipped with a traditionally Japanese pool-sized communal tub. After taking the cedar-scented waters, guests will be able to relax in Japanese cotton robes, yukata, on the traditional straw tatami mats, eating Japanese food and sipping sake as the lights of New York City blink in the background.
In Japan, Yaohan has 55 company-owned stores and another 35 franchised stores around the country. In addition, it has 22 stores overseas, including a big new wholesale distribution center in Singapore.
About a third of the $1.2 billion in sales it registered in the fiscal year that ended May 20, 1989, come from its international business. But it expects the overseas sales to match the domestic sales by 1992. The company reported a profit of $18.5 million in the last fiscal year, a 32 percent jump from the previous year.
 
A Folk Hero
As different as it is in many ways, Yaohan is very much a creature of Japan. Mr. Wada's mother has become something of a folk hero here, with a life story that could have been written by an Asian Horatio Alger. Her tale was told, in fact, in one of the most popular television series ever broadcast in Japan, which gave her the fictional name, Oshin.
It told of how she came from a family so poor she was put to work before she was 10 years old, and of how her hard work and persistence brought her business success and, eventually, a good husband. Together, they started a greengrocer that eventually became the chain of stores in the hands of her dedicated and pious son. It is the sort of tale of struggle and success against long odds that the Japanese immediately identify with.
Although Yaohan is publicly held, members of the Wada family dominate the management and maintain the largest shareholding. One younger brother, Terumasa, is president, and another, Mitsumasa, is senior vice president. Together, the family members own about 13 percent of the company's stock.
For his part, Mr. Wada concedes that, in many ways, he was forced to take the international route. ''The main reason was high land prices'' in Japan, he said. ''If land had been more reasonable, I wouldn't have gone overseas.''
 
Low-Rent Neighborhood
In an interview in the decidedly modest office his company keeps in a low-rent Tokyo neighborhood, he also said: ''I had the choice of opening stores in Osaka, Tokyo or overseas. Given the situation with land prices, I chose overseas.''
After an initial failure in 1971 in Brazil, which has a large Japanese community, he persisted and began to open successful stores around Asia. Yaohan's first American location, at Fresno, Calif., was opened in 1979. Now Yaohan has stores in California in Los Angeles, San Francisco, Costa Mesa and Torrance, as well as the New Jersey store. Mr. Wada admitted that the largest, in Edgewater, was not profitable yet, but he said it was meeting all his projections.
Although the American stores show promise, Mr. Wada said Asia still offers the best prospects for growth because of the region's explosive accumulation of wealth and rising standard of living. He rattles off precise figures of the national income of the nations of Southeast Asia, and clearly specifies Yaohan's prospects in each.
Once he moves to Hong Kong in a couple of months, Mr. Wada will be giving up his new $7 million home on a spectacular seaside site in Atami, a hot spring resort 55 miles southwest of Tokyo. But, as he put it, ''All of Asia will become my home.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kazuo Wada, chairman of the Yaohan Department Store Company, who says his guiding business philosophy has been ''to give my company a special character that nobody else had.'' (The New York Times/Ellen Rudolph) (pg. D1); graph of consolidated sales for Yaohan Department Store Company from '83-'89 (source: Yaohan Dept. Store) (pg. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (58%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (96%); HONG KONG (94%); CHINA (92%); ASIA (92%); MALAYSIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); TAIWAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (76%); BRUNEI DARUSSALAM (75%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

COMPANY: YAOHAN DEPARTMENT STORE SINGAPORE PTE LTD (58%); YAOHAN DEPARTMENT STORE SDN BHD (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: YAOHAN DEPARTMENT STORE CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE RETAILERS (90%); DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); RELIGION (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (86%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); ETHICS (75%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (64%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (64%); 

PERSON: WADA, KAZUO; STERNGOLD, JAMES KAZUO WADA (94%); MIKE ALLEN (56%); 



542 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 609 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

International
The Administration is using a little-known Federal agency as a tool to achieve one of its main international policy goals: market-oriented economic reconstruction. On Friday the agency, the Overseas Private Investment Corporation, plans to take a score of top executives - from companies like A.T.&T., GTE and Unocal Geothermal - to Panama to explore investment opportunities to ''jump start'' that nation's economy. [Page D1.] 
South Africa's financial markets have been erratic since the release of Nelson Mandela. Remarks by the nationalist leader last week seemed capable of driving down the price of gold companies' stocks and of other financial instruments, then pulling them up again only to push them back down. [A1.]
China's leaders have considerably eased economic controls and returned in part to policies that preceded the violent crackdown last June, Chinese officials and foreign diplomats say. [D1.]
The Indian Government grounded all 14 Airbus A320 aircraft flown by its domestic carrier. The crash of an Airbus plane last week killed 97 people. [D1.]
The prosecutor of the Guinness stock-manipulation case made his opening statement last week in London, telling the jury that the four defendants on trial were ''carried away by greed and ambition'' during their 1986 takeover battle for Distillers. [D3.]
The Yaohan supermarket chain has grown by breaking just about every rule of the game as it is played in Japan. Nearly all its managers are also members of a sect that stresses the Confucian ethic of respecting authority and seeking harmony. [D1.]
If the Bond Corporation fails, it will be the biggest business failure Australia has ever had, with debts estimated at $6.7 billion in U.S. dollars. [D8.]
Banks dominate life in Panama. Almost all senior Government officials are now, or have been, connected to one or more. [D8.]
The Bank of England has stepped in to rescue the Eurotunnel project to link Britain to the rest of Europe, bankers said. [D3.]
 
The Media Business
ABC has a new, undeniable hit: ''America's Funniest Home Videos.'' It has the potential of becoming, within a matter of months, the most profitable show on television. [D1.]
The American Booksellers Association is growing at record rates in membership, staff, budget and activities, paralleling the growth and vitality of independent bookstores. [D5.]
Mullen Advertising, a small suburban Boston agency, has won some high-profile clients. [D5.]
There are signs of progress at Sky Television, Rupert Murdoch's satellite programming service in Britain. [D5.]
 
 
 
Companies
The utility industry in the Northeast is worried over a likely merger between Northeast Utilities, New England's largest electric utility, and the New Hampshire power company that built the Seabrook nuclear plant. Ballots from shareholders and creditors of the Public Service Company of New Hampshire are due March 7, and approval is expected. [D1.]
Johnson Controls has introduced what it maintains is the next generation of computerized systems to control heating, security and other functions in buildings. [D2.]
The U.S. has agreed to buy Unisys weather radar equipment costing $359 million, despite failures of the system in tests. [A14.]
 
Today's Column
The aftermath of the Supreme Court's 1987 ruling in the case of Shearson/American Express Inc. v. McMahon seems to have fulfilled the prophecy of Justice Harry A. Blackmun, who predicted in a dissent that the ruling would lead to more litigation over satellite issues. Stephen Labaton: Business and the Law. [D2.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: NU (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (60%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (55%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (53%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (53%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (50%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (75%); 

COMPANY: OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORP (91%); PUBLIC SERVICE CO OF NEW HAMPSHIRE (60%); AIRBUS SAS (55%); BANK OF ENGLAND (53%); NORTHEAST UTILITIES (50%); OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORP (84%); OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORP (84%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (85%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (83%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (83%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); TAKEOVERS (77%); BONDS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (74%); MERGERS (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (74%); ETHICS (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (72%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (72%); JURY TRIALS (71%); POWER PLANTS (71%); BOOKSTORES (69%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (69%); CENTRAL BANKS (62%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (60%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (52%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (50%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (50%); 

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (50%); 



543 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 19, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 0; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1176 words

HEADLINE: UPHEAVAL IN THE EAST;
Moscow a Year Later: Rutted Streets and Despair

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Feb. 16

 BODY:
A few impressions of Moscow after an absence of a year:
The rutted streets and cluttered courtyards of the city center speak of a marked deterioration in the economy, in just a year. Russian friends speak of empty shelves in the stores, which seem about as empty as they were a year ago, and say the reason for this is that nobody sees much point in working hard anymore.
And there is a sense of despair about the process of change that was not evident a year ago.
Echoing several other intellectuals, a friend who works on the staff of the Central Committee of the Communist Party said President Mikhail S. Gorbachev waited too long to try to push through serious economic changes. Now it may be too late. New Executive Powers Diplomats and Russians agree that the Communist Party, whose Central Committee voted last week to give up its constitutional guarantee of the leading role prescribed for it by every Soviet political leader since Lenin, had long ago lost the authority or the ability to put the country's affairs in order. 
It will not collapse suddenly like the Communist parties of East Germany and Czechoslovakia, they say, not in Russia at least, but the parties of the ethnic Muslim republics along the country's southern border are beginning to collapse in a way that looks, from a distance, remarkably like the way the ones in Eastern Europe fell apart.
''Perestroika,'' which has brought a new openness and freedom of debate, seems to have gone seriously wrong as a policy of pulling the country out of economic decline, and Mr. Gorbachev told the elected legislature this week that it was in a critical stage.
Now, too late, some believe, he is asking for sweeping new executive powers. The legislature, several deputies say, talks and talks, just as freely and openly as the House of Commons or the United States Senate does, but unlike them it gets little done. The country needs a strong executive, Mr. Gorbachev told them, because an elected president ought to replace the Communist Party Politburo, which in a democracy should not have such executive powers anyway.
 
Not Yet a Democracy
''A rule-of-law state has no room for dictatorship by any class, and even less so for the power of a management bureaucracy,'' said the party's draft platform that the Central Committee approved last week. But it only recognized a state of affairs that already exists. The party is no longer ''the'' party.
But neither is the Soviet Union, yet, a democracy. ''We don't have a tradition of democracy in this country,'' said the writer Anatoly N. Rybakov, one of the earliest beneficiaries of Mr. Gorbachev's policy of glasnost. ''People don't understand that in a democracy, you can lose elections, and when you lose, you have to submit to the rule of the majority until your turn comes again.''
Mr. Gorbachev has not yet proceeded to serious economic revision. The legislature is still debating whether and how to introduce private property.
But the only kind of private enterprise ordinary people can see around them, they do not like much: private farmers charging 15 rubles a kilogram for hothouse tomatoes, and mafia-like joint-venture businessmen who rent Zil limousines and dine in private restaurants that accept Western currency only, imitating the mores and privileges of the now discredited party elite.
''People in Russia are used to having nothing,'' said Anatoly S. Pankov, a journalist from Siberia. A Central Committee official said, ''The ideal of social justice here is that everybody should have nothing not that entrepreneurs should prosper and spread the wealth.''
 
Mood of Gloom and Anxiety
The party's draft platform puts it this way: ''We have approached a point when the previous system of economic management and government is not operating to a considerable extent, while new mechanisms have not yet started to work at full capacity.''
In plain Russian, to many people, that means that Mr. Gorbachev has wrecked the old system, with its assurances of social and economic stability at the price of intellectual freedom, and given them a half-baked new one that does not work but leaves them free to take to the streets to protest.
And so the mood among the ordinary people in Moscow, unlike the mood in Prague or even East Berlin these days, is not one of eager anticipation of new freedoms but one of gloom and anxiety.
''I hear a million people could be on the streets on Feb. 25,'' a Communist functionary said of a rumored demonstration, though that seemed like just one more rumor. But it seemed credible because several hundred thousand people did take to the streets on Feb. 4, as the Central Committee was gathering for its session, to tell their leaders that they were not happy with the way things were going.
 
Concessions on Arms Control
Small wonder, with all of that going on, that Mr. Gorbachev is making concession after concession in arms control, and even seeming to agree to the idea of German unification in a country that still remembers, painfully, the 20 million dead it suffered at the hands of the Nazis in World War II.
''He has to find some way to sell that to the people at home that doesn't make it sound like a capitulation,'' a Western diplomat said. A Russian journalist friend thought that would be difficult. ''A lot of people think he's wrecked our internal stability, now he's taking away our external security belt,'' he said. ''And maybe they'll decide pretty soon that they don't want him anymore.''
Perhaps. The only thing that is certain in Moscow these days is that everything is uncertain.
 
2,000 NATIONALISTS PROTEST
 MOSCOW, Feb. 18 (AP) - About 2,000 Russian nationalists staged a rally today to complain about President Mikhail S. Gorbachev's reforms, the warming of relations with the United States and the growing nationalism in non-Russian republics.
The protesters gathered in deep snow near the Soviet television's 1,600-foot-tall transmission tower also heard speakers accuse Mr. Gorbachev of being power-hungry and plunging the Soviet Union into poverty and misery.
The harshest attack on Mr. Gorbachev came from Boris Unko of the United Front of Workers of Russia, a group fighting Gorbachev's market-oriented economic reforms and unhappy about the nationalism in non-Russian republics.
Among the evils wrought by Mr. Gorbachev's reforms, Mr. Unko said, were rock music, ''modernism and pornography,'' ''insults'' to heroes of the Bolshevik Revolution and World War II and others ''who built socialist society.'' He said Mr. Gorbachev had sold out to the elite and forgotten about the working class.
He said Mr. Gorbachev is trying to become a dictator, adding that the Soviet leader should have known his reforms would bring more harm than good.
Mr. Unko said: ''Any grandmother could have predicted the consequences of such a course. But you keep different company, the elite, property-holders. You make friends with President-murderer Bush, also a fighter for democracy who spilled blood in much-suffering Panama.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL COMMITTEE (80%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); MOSCOW (USSR)

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); TRENDS (70%); APPROVALS (67%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R MIKHAIL S GORBACHEV (90%); 



544 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 1990
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1623 words

HEADLINE: Rising Hopes for Castro's Fall Have Cubans in Miami Abuzz

BYLINE: By DAVID E. PITT, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MIAMI, Feb. 18

 BODY:
Across South Florida, bumper stickers proclaim the end of the Castro era: ''Next Christmas in Havana.'' On Spanish-language radio, hour after hour is devoted to fevered speculation about a democratic millennium to come in Cuba. Even the Governor has joined in, convening a commission to imagine a Florida after Fidel.
Buoyed by the stunning collapse of Communist governments in Eastern Europe, many of this country's more than one million Cuban-Americans, most of whom live in the Miami area, are abuzz with the notion that Mr. Castro's Government will be next.
From Miami's Little Havana to the suburban enclaves of Hialeah and Hollywood, Fla., the excitement is higher now than anyone can remember since Cuban emigres began pouring into South Florida three decades ago. 
''I am ready to sell all, to sell my business and go back to Cuba,'' said Miguel Alvarez, president and owner of National Distributor Magazines, a $2-million-a-year wholesaler of Hispanic publications in South Florida.
It matters little that most experts see no evidence that the Cuban leader is in any imminent danger of being overthrown, despite shortages of food and consumer goods and the possibility of cuts in Soviet aid. An announcement over the weekend by Cuba's Communist Party leadership, pledging improvements in the system but a continuation of one-party rule, was widely seen as little more than a symbolic response to growing pressures for change.
 
A Longing to Return
None of that has prevented an outbreak of what one Cuban-American commentator calls ''wishful thinking-cum madness'' among many exiles, whose loathing of the Castro Government is exceeded only by their longing to return to their homeland.
Miami's Mayor, Xavier Suarez, who came to the United States from Havana as a child, said any Cuban-American who watched the dramatic television scenes of the dismantling of the Berlin Wall had to be encouraged.
''I think everybody definitely feels a sense of imminence about the situation in Cuba,'' said the Mayor, who is 39 years old. Referring to the high hopes of some Cuban exiles, he added, ''You're almost a conservative in your estimates if you say Castro will last no more than a year.''
While residents of other Communist countries travel with newfound ease, a decision to flee Cuba is still a life-or-death matter, often involving days adrift at sea on makeshift rafts. Coast Guard officials say they picked up 391 refugees last year, five times the number of the previous year.
The new arrivals' tales of economic deterioration only serve to feed the notion here that collapse in Havana is at hand.
Some exiles who have been in Miami for years have reportedly told their families that since Mr. Castro's overthrow is a certainty, it is time to begin selling their homes and other property in anticipation of returning to Cuba.
 
Objections From the Young
In some cases, such plans have come in the face of strenuous objections by their families, especially the younger members, who have grown up here and cannot imagine being uprooted from the United States.
Mr. Alvarez, who said he planned to set up a new magazine distributorship in Cuba, said that his wife and family were behind him 100 percent. But he added that his 19-year-old son ''says he's not going.''
Another businessman, Jesus Fernandez, a 56-year-old Miami developer whose company grossed $12 million last year, said he was also ready to sell his business, return to Cuba and start over in the same line of work.
 
Family Willing to Return
Mr. Fernandez, who backed the Castro Government before becoming disillusioned in the mid-1960's, said his wife and three grown children were willing to return with him.
Still others have rushed to their lawyers for advice about how to relocate their businesses, reinvest life savings or reclaim land and houses confiscated long ago by the Castro Government.
''I'm sure people are looking through their vaults to find the deeds to properties they haven't seen in 30 years,'' said Bernardo Benes, a Miami banker who left Havana in 1960.
Other Florida bankers report some speculating in old Cuban bonds in the hope the Castro Government would be replaced by one that would be more inclined to redeem them in dollars. The bonds include a pre-Batista issue that would have matured in 1977 if they had not been canceled by Mr. Castro.
''When will Castro fall?'' asked Gen. Manuel Benitez, an exile leader whose anti-Castro views are broadcast on Miami's Radio Mambi and in his weekly magazine, De Frente. ''Very soon, but he's going to fall full of blood and our convulsed nation will have to suffer longer because of his wickedness and his cadre of henchmen.''
 
'Free Cuba' Panel Named
Many Cuban-Americans, who make up 60 percent of Miami's population, feel especially encouraged by Gov. Bob Martinez, who announced earlier this month that he had appointed an 18-member ''Free Cuba Commission'' to prepare a report on how the ouster of Mr. Castro would affect the state, especially in terms of commerce, tourism and immigration. One question the panel can be expected to address is: if Cuba is freed, would the flow of people be greater to or from Florida?
''I don't know anyone who believes that Castro and Communism can continue,'' Mr. Martinez said. ''So we should prepare for the moment that they will no longer be there.''
Such optimism, however justified, is in keeping with the intense, deeply rooted patriotism of the Cuban exile community, which has a long history of being willing to try virtually anything to weaken Mr. Castro, including sabotage and murder - or, at the very least, to demonstrate to the world how much he is hated in Miami.
''Cubans are very patriotic, you know,'' said Orlando Padron, who was born in Pinar del Rio, Cuba. ''As soon as they hear Castro's name they go wild.'' Mr. Padron, who came to Miami with his family in 1961, when he was 6 years old, is now assistant manager of his father's cigar-rolling concern, the Piloto Cigar Company.
 
Plans for a Human Chain
On Calle Ocho (Eighth Street), in the heart of Little Havana, storefronts display posters advertising plans to assemble enough anti-Castro protesters next Saturday to make a human chain stretching from Calle Ocho to Key West - about 160 miles.
One Miami-based anti-Castro group announced this month that it had released 1,500 balloons in the hope that they would blow toward Cuba as part of an ''aerial attack'' designed to spark an uprising against Mr. Castro, who was depicted in accompanying flyers hanging, Mussolini-style, from a pole, his ankles and hands bound.
Such symbolic protests have become almost routine over the years, especially among anti-Castro Cubans in Miami. But the more extreme behavior inspired by events in Eastern Europe worries a few Cuban-American leaders, who say they see a kind of hysteria is developing.
Some have criticized Governor Martinez, a Republican, for establishing the Free Cuba Commission, which they say encourages wildly unrealistic expectations.
The Governor has insisted that the panel is nonpolitical, but it could bolster his support among Cuban-Americans who might be expected to back Mayor Suarez if he decides to challenge Mr. Martinez in the gubernatorial primary this year.
 
A Matter for Concern
Sergio Lopez-Miro, a Cuban-American journalist who writes a weekly column for The Miami Herald, said that it was hard to gauge how many Cubans were ready to sell their belongings in anticipation of Mr. Castro's ouster, but added that it was certainly a matter for concern.
''I don't believe that 50 percent of the community is doing it, but if 20 percent or 30 percent is, that's still a substantial number of people whose lives are being disrupted, and that could affect the state's economy in and of itself,'' Mr. Lopez-Miro said. ''The Governor has established this ridiculous commission to study the effects of Castro's supposedly imminent demise,'' he continued. ''But maybe he should be looking instead into the effects of this hysteria on this community.''
Mayor Suarez, who is regarded as a moderate among Cuban-American leaders, said he thought it was unfair to take political advantage of the gullibility of the exile community over the Castro issue.
''I would caution people, politicians and otherwise, to be very careful not to play on people's hopes,'' he said.
Mr. Suarez said that while the idea of a commission to study the impact of Mr. Castro's ouster seemed sensible, ''I do quarrel a little bit with the idea of looking at tourism and commerce, which are really much better left to the private sector, which in the case of Cuba is going to do extremely well.''
 
A Yearning to Return
Mr. Benes, the banker, agreed. ''I know for a fact that if Castro goes tomorrow, the day after tomorrow retail stores in Miami are going be selling goods to five million additional people, which is the population of Cuba,'' he said. ''You don't need to plan for that.''
Norberto Pino, a 61-year-old retired hotel operator who fled Cuba in 1962, says he would love to spend his last years in his homeland. Although he said he was not packing his bags just yet, he remained hopeful that Mr. Castro would go the way of Communist leaders in Hungary, East Germany and Romania.
''I think something has to be happen but I don't know when,'' Mr. Pino said between games of cards and dominoes in Little Havana's tree-shaded Gomez Park, a few blocks from where President Ronald Reagan, a hero among anti-Castro Cubans, once sampled the local cuisine and later had an avenue named after him.
''If I could go back I would stay in Cuba forever,'' Mr. Pino said. ''But my kids - never. They like it in the States.''

CORRECTION-DATE: February 23, 1990, Friday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
An article on Tuesday about Cuban-Americans' hopes for an end of Fidel Castro's rule omitted a word from remarks by a Miami banker, Bernardo Benes. He said ''half'' in his comment: ''I know for a fact that if Castro goes tomorrow, the day after tomorrow retail stores in Miami are going be selling goods to five million additional people, which is half the population of Cuba.''

GRAPHIC: photo: Cuban-Americans in Florida, buoyed by events in Eastern Europe, are anticipating the collapse of the Government of Fidel Castro. Norberto Pino, center, who played cards in Miami's Little Havana, said he would love to spend his last years in his homeland but was not packing his bags just yet. (The New York Times/Susan Greenwood) (pg. A14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CUBA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (93%); EASTERN EUROPE (88%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (97%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CUBA; MIAMI (FLA); FLORIDA

SUBJECT: CUBAN-AMERICANS; REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; FORECASTS HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); REFUGEES (87%); MILLENNIUM (78%); ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS (78%); CHRISTMAS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); WHOLESALERS (73%); SUBURBS (69%); FAMILY (67%); FOOD CHARITIES (66%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (51%); 

PERSON: CASTRO, FIDEL (PRES); PITT, DAVID E; MARTINEZ, BOB (GOV) FIDEL CASTRO (92%); 



545 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1362 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Vote And the U.S.

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Feb. 19

 BODY:
As relations between Japan and the United States rapidly deteriorate, officials of both countries today turned to the same question: Will the strong victory posted by Japan's governing party help contain the trade and security disputes tearing at the Pacific alliance?
For the most part, they concluded that the election strengthened the Japanese leadership after a year of scandal and power struggles, doing far better than most people expected and thus making it easier for Japan to offer concessions and compromises that had been politically impossible before the election. Yet Japan's renewed leadership will barely have time to finish counting votes before it heads into its most tense negotiations with the United States in years.
On Tuesday, Secretary of Defense Dick Cheney arrives here amid reports that he will announce a 10 percent reduction in the number of American troops in Japan and press for a major increase in military contributions from this country. On Thursday, the two nations resume talks on mutual demands that the other fundamentally reorganize its economy, trying to reconcile two varieties of capitalism that have taken diverging paths. 
And over the next few months, a series of deadlines will arrive for resolving increasingly bitter specific disputes ranging from building satellites to importing rice. Officials on both sides have expressed fear that this will produce a spring of heated polemics and threats of economic retaliation.
''This election should make things a lot easier,'' a senior American official here said today, after a morning poring over the election results. ''They have bitten the bullet before, and made choices that no one thought Japan would make. It can happen again.''
Even with the Liberal Democrats' victory, however, the ruling party still does not control the less powerful upper house of Parliament, which it lost control of last summer.
Thus, the Government can push through changes that require only guidance from Japan's bureaucracy or action only by the lower house - as, for example, the purchase of supercomputers, satellites or certain services that have been major irritants in American-Japanese relations. But the Government is likely to be stymied in any area that requires legislative action by both houses and thus the agreement of the opposition - something that applies to any major piece of domestic legislation.
Over the last year, impatience with Japan has grown in the United States. Japan now evokes a visceral reaction in Congress that one Senator, Tim Wirth, a Colorado Democrat, said on a recent visit here ''often borders on irrationality.'' Japanese officials say they were surprised to discover last week that a poll they commissioned in the United States showed a far greater distrust of Japan's motives abroad than anyone here expected.
A New York Times/CBS News Poll in January found that the percentage of Americans expressing negative views of Japan had significantly increased in recent months, although 67 percent of those polled said they still have generally friendly feelings toward Japan. As these feelings have built, the big Japanese-American trade deficit in Tokyo's favor has not gotten any smaller.
 
Sensitivity to U.S. Criticism
The Japanese, in turn, are increasingly reacting to American criticism with anger, spurring sentiments among nationalists that if Japan is big enough to supply the world with computer chips, cars and even some foreign aid, it is also big enough to to resist demands from the United States, a country some here regard as shrill and undisciplined.
''We are facing the perception here that the only thing we do is concede to American pressure,'' said Mitoji Yabunaka, who heads the division of Japan's Foreign Ministry that handles economic relations with North America. ''Those arguments are beginning to have some influence.''
In subtle ways, the results of the election Sunday bear out that view. According to final returns, the Liberal Democrats won 275 of the 512 seats in the lower house of Parliament, where 257 make up a majority. The party had 295 seats in the last Parliament. The loss of 20 seats was not as severe a setback as most analysts had predicted, and many of the minor opposition party candidates who survived are expected to be forced into some alliances with the conservative Liberal Democrats.
The Socialist Party won 136 seats, up from 83. Rural areas, where farmers have sensed that the ruling Liberal Democrats were preparing to give way on agricultural liberalization, voted heavily for the Socialists, who promised stronger protection from imports. Several prominent members of the party who made names for themselves as ''internationalists,'' like Motoo Shina, a defense expert who also urged a broader view of Japan's role in the world, were unexpectedly defeated.
 
Prefer Own Guidance
''There is a turn inward that is easy to miss at first, but definitely noticeable in the results,'' a senior Japanese diplomat said.
Still, both Japanese bureaucrats and American officials got the result they openly favored: an election decisive enough that Japan's leadership is not likely to be thrown into a crisis or required to form coalitions with opposition parties to pass legislation in the lower house. ''All of the issues that can be solved by bureaucrats alone are past us,'' a top Japanese trade negotiator said the other day. ''The questions that are left are political.''
In some areas, like defense, the election victory will probably make it far easier to avoid conflict. Throughout the campaign, the Liberal Democrats spoke of the need to preserve the mutual security pact that is the centerpiece of the Japanese-American alliance, and Tokyo seems prepared to pay more of the cost of stationing American troops here.
Undoubtedly, however, there will be squabbling over how much to pay, and over the far more difficult question of whether Japan will seek to use more of its own technology to build weapons, rather than continuing a heavy reliance on the United States.
 
Deeper Divisions on Trade
On trade issues, divisions are far deeper. Chief among them is how far Japan is willing to go in fundamental changes in the economy that the United States is demanding in the talks on the two nations' economic systems, the mutual critiques called the ''Structural Impediments Initiative.''
Some of the American complaints strike at the heart of the way Japan organizes itself, such as the extensive cross-holding of stock among companies that tends to create an exclusive club, one that American suppliers have a difficult time breaking into. Other American efforts seem doomed to fail, like the demand that Japan revise laws that make it exceedingly difficult to open a large, competitive, import-oriented department store in neighborhoods of small shops.
''It would require new legislation that has to pass the upper house,'' which has been dominated by the opposition since the election last summer, a senior Japanese official noted. ''The political reality is that it will not pass.''
Another American complaint, that prices of imported goods are far higher in Japan than anywhere else in the world, has been adopted by Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu; today, at a news conference after his victory, he again discussed the need to bring prices down.
Gerald Curtis, a Japan scholar at Columbia University, said today that the stage was set for concessions. ''The L.D.P. can now say to Japan, 'We don't want to open markets, but pressure from the U.S. is so great that we have no choice.' '' But he also said that such an often-used tactic could backfire ''because eventually there is an American backlash.''
The sides seem near a solution on supercomputers: the Ministry of International Trade and Industry is barring Japanese companies from offering the 80 percent discounts that kept American makers from selling to Japanese campuses. The satellite issue is more difficult because Japan refuses to back away from a research project that it says will allow the country to build its own.
And on topics like rice and other agricultural products, no solution is in sight.

GRAPHIC: photo: Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu celebrating his victory by coloring in the eye of a daruma doll yesterday. During a campaign, Japanese politicians fill in one eye of such a doll; after a victory they fill in the other. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (98%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: CBS NEWS DIVISION (50%); LIBERAL DEMOCRATS (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PUBLIC OPINION; ELECTIONS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (69%); ARMED FORCES (68%); TRENDS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); 

PERSON: KAIFU, TOSHIKI (PRIME MIN); SANGER, DAVID E; CHENEY, DICK (SEC) DICK CHENEY (73%); 



546 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1149 words

HEADLINE: Business Taps the East Bloc's Intellectual Reserves

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA

 BODY:
Most American companies view the Soviet Union and the newly opening nations in Eastern Europe as potential markets for their products or as sources of low-cost manufacturing labor. And a growing number are expected to tap another resource they describe as plentiful and underused: brainpower.
Although most East bloc nations have well-deserved reputations for shoddy consumer goods, they also have scientific research institutions with distinguished academic histories.
Already, the Monsanto Company has signed a three-year contract to finance biological research at the Shemyakin Institute in Moscow in return for the right to market discoveries in the West. The Perkin-Elmer Corporation of Norwalk, Conn., has supplied equipment for the work of a theoretical physicist in Leningrad on analytical instruments. The Du Pont Company has sponsored research at the Institute of Organic Chemistry and Biology in Czechoslovakia on diseases caused by viruses, including AIDS. Du Pont has also collaborated with Prof. Antonie Djordjevic of the University of Belgrade in Yugoslavia to develop computer software and is seeking to set up joint research projects in the Soviet Union in a number of areas. 
 
Advances Languish
The lack of market forces to encourage the development of products in the East bloc has left many scientific advances languishing in academic journals. But the success of the Soviet space and weapons programs demonstrates that high quality and technical sophistication can be achieved if the right incentives are in place.
''Basic research in the East bloc is world class,'' said Deborah Milenkovich, director of the Institute on East Central Europe at Columbia University. ''But they could benefit from partnerships with Americans in applying the research.''
New arrangements of this kind would help bring Eastern European and Soviet scientists back into the mainstream of research after decades of isolation.
Financing research in the East bloc has at least two important advantages for American companies, said Barney O'Meara, an official of Kiser Research, a Washington-based consulting firm specializing in East-to-West technology exchanges. It can be a way of holding down research costs, and a way of repatriating - in the form of scientific developments - profits earned in currencies that cannot yet be converted to dollars.
''It costs $250,000 to $300,000 a year to support a top-level scientist at major American corporations,'' Mr. O'Meara said. ''You can have the same caliber of talent - complete with overhead, lab space, graduate students and so forth - in the East for $25,000 to $30,000.''
A company that has accumulated Soviet rubles or Hungarian forints in trading with the East could finance local research and bring its profits home in the form of new kinds of technology that can be marketed outside the Eastern bloc, Mr. O'Meara said.
Soft-currency transactions of the kind suggested are largely in the future, but they represent a potentially valuable way to use nonconvertible currencies that companies have been accumulating from transactions in the East bloc.
 
Gains for East Bloc Institutions
Academic institutions in Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union, on the other hand, are eager to earn hard currency and to gain access to advances in scientific equipment through links to the West. So far, most if not all of the deals have been for dollars.
Among the outstanding research organizations in the East bloc, American executives said, are the Shemyakin Institute in the Soviet Union, which concentrates on biology; the Institute of Macromolecular Chemistry in Czechoslovakia, which is said to be a world leader in polymers, and the Institute for Structural Macrokinetics in the Soviet Union, which has developed advanced techniques for fabricating ceramic materials.
In Monsanto's contract with the Shemyakin Institute, the company will provide $500,000 a year to support 10 Soviet scientists and cover their overhead for work in six laboratories.
''This is a way for us to increase our biotechnical research with some of the finest minds on earth,'' said Michael A. Petrilli, director of international development for the St. Louis-based company. He said Monsanto's scientists were familiar with work done at the institute, which is part of the Soviet Academy of Sciences, and had recommended the alliance.
 
'Network of Contacts' Sought
Mr. Petrilli said the company is negotiating with another institute in the Soviet Union for a contract for research on ways to deposit thin films of hard materials on softer substances, like plastics. In addition to the possible fruits of research, Mr. Petrilli said, the academic links help reinforce Monsanto's position in the Soviet Union. ''We need relationships beyond selling and buying raw materials,'' he added. ''We need a network of contacts.''
For more than two decades, Perkin-Elmer has had ties to a theoretical physicist at the Leningrad Polytechnic Institute, Prof. Boris V. L'vov. In the late 1960's, Perkin-Elmer learned that Mr. L'vov had proposed changes in an instrument that it produced, an atomic absorption spectrometer, which measures the concentration of metallic elements in materials.
''His ideas helped make it particularly attractive in chemical applications,'' said Walter Slavin, a senior scientist in the instruments division, ''and since then we have been back in his laboratory each year for 20 years.''
Perkin-Elmer has provided equipment in return for access to Mr. L'vov's research.
 
'Untapped Technical Potential'
''There is a tremendous untapped technical potential in Eastern Europe,'' Mr. Slavin said. ''Their education system is fine, and they produce top theoretical mathematicians and physicists.''
As for Du Pont, ''we are actively talking to the Soviets right now and we will be visited by a delegation of Russian scientists in early March,'' said Richard K. Quisenberry, director of central research.
He said the increase in scientific interchange was related to the increase in sales the company has made in the Soviet Union in the last few years. Because the ruble is not convertible and hard currency is in short supply, ''the Soviets have proposed giving us something back in the form of products or some technology they have that had been invisible to us,'' Mr. Quisenberry said.
Mr. O'Meara said his company had placed five research contracts in Eastern Europe for clients he declined to identify. All five involve polymeric plastics, with three in the Soviet Union and the others in Czechoslovakia and East Germany.
Mr. Slavin said that despite the tottering economies in the Eastern bloc, it is wrong to think of these nations as part of the third world. Countries like Hungary and Czechoslovakia were as advanced as those in Western Europe before the imposition of Communist regimes stifled development, he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PKI (NYSE) (90%); MON (NYSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334519 OTHER MEASURING & CONTROLLING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS334516 ANALYTICAL LABORATORY INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (90%); SIC3829 MEASURING & CONTROLLING DEVICES, NEC (90%); SIC3826 LABORATORY ANALYTICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); SIC3823 INDUSTRIAL INSTRUMENTS FOR MEASUREMENT, DISPLAY & CONTROL OF PROCESS VARIABLES & RELATED PRODUCTS (90%); NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (72%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (72%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (72%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (90%); SERBIA (79%); HUNGARY (78%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (57%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: PERKINELMER INC (90%); MONSANTO CO (72%); SHEMYAKIN INSTITUTE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: DU PONT DE NEMOURS, E I, & CO; SHEMYAKIN INSTITUTE (MOSCOW)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE, EAST; EUROPE; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); YUGOSLAVIA

SUBJECT: SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; RESEARCH; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS CHEMICALS (90%); CHEMICALS MFG (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (78%); SCIENCE FUNDING (76%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); PHYSICS (71%); CHEMISTRY (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); CURRENCIES (65%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (59%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (52%); MILITARY WEAPONS (51%); 

PERSON: HOLUSHA, JOHN BARNEY O'MEARA (56%); MICHAEL A PETRILLI (56%); 



547 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 2605 words

HEADLINE: Wariness Is Replacing Trust Between Healer and Patient

SERIES: DOCTORS IN DISTRESS: LAST OF THREE ARTICLES.

BYLINE: By GINA KOLATA

 BODY:
Doctor-patient relationships are becoming a distorted version of the rosy image so many Americans have long held dear.
Both doctors and patients tell of communication gone awry and of warmth and caring replaced by distrust and leeriness.
The widow of a Connecticut cancer patient, embittered by her experiences with what she felt were cold, uncaring doctors, said that what has happened to medical care is ''hideous and grotesque.''
 
'Most Doctors Mean Well'
A Washington doctor, beaten down by what she sees as increasingly hostile patients, complained that more and more people ''think that doctors are the enemy,'' and added: ''Trusting is considered naive and inappropriate. Why is it that society cannot permit itself to accept the fact that most doctors mean well?'' 
Although there are still devoted doctors who cherish life-long relationships with loyal, trusting patients, such doctors and such patients appear to be a diminishing breed.
''I think there is no question that doctor-patient relationships have changed and changed dramatically,'' said Dr. Elliot Leiter, a urologist in private practice in New York. ''The major problem is that there's an adversarial relationship that wasn't there before.''
 
Physicians Feel Loss of Esteem
Opinion polls indicate that doctors feel they are losing the public's esteem, that they believe patients have unrealistic expectations of what medicine can do and that they think patients are demanding more services than are necessary.
Patients, in turn, express dissatisfaction with their doctors in opinion polls. Sixty-seven percent of 1,500 people questioned in a Gallup poll last year for the American Medical Association said that doctors are too interested in making money and 57 percent agreed that ''doctors don't care about people as much as they used to.'' Three-quarters said that doctors ''keep patients waiting too long.''
The poll also found that 26 percent of Americans say they respect doctors less now than they did 10 years ago. The most frequent reasons they cited were that doctors were ''in it for the money'' or lacked concern for their patients.
Fourteen percent, in contrast, said that they respected doctors more now, the most frequent reasons being that doctors are more educated and more knowledgeable or that the respondents were older and needed doctors more.
In interviews, many patients complained that doctors were acting more and more like aloof business people. To insure good treatment, some patients say, they have to learn all they can about their disease and take charge of their own treatment. The Causes Distrust at 2 Ends Of the Stethoscope The fraying of doctor-patient relationships stems from many causes. The fear of malpractice suits has led some doctors to mistrust patients, the consumer movement has led some patients to mistrust their doctors and feel they have to decide for themselves what treatments they need. The growth of prepaid medical plans meant that more and more people are not able to choose their doctors and are encouraged to consider doctors as interchangeable technicians.
Discouraged by the current climate, many doctors are saying they need time for themselves and that they are unwilling to be available 24 hours a day. And doctors who are feeling an economic crunch have tended to overschedule their patients or give each one less time and attention, in order to maintain their income level.
The disintegrating relationship is seen most vividly in doctors' reactions to the threat of malpractice litigation. St. Paul Companies of St. Paul, Minn., a group that claims to be the nation's largest medical malpractice insurer, recorded 13 malpractice claims for each 100 doctors in 1988, a figure that, although it has fluctuated throughout the 1980's, is still about 30 percent higher than it was a decade ago.
Doctors complain that patients no longer trust them and are always ready to sue.
 
Suits Emotionally Devastating
Even if they win, malpractice suits can be emotionally devastating, said Dr. Michael A. Ross, a gynecologist who practices in McLean, Va.
When a patient decides to sue, ''it becomes a hatred, a vindictive thing,'' Dr. Ross said. Doctors feel that the patients suing want vengeance as much as retribution, he added. ''It's a matter of, 'You should rot in hell and all your family members should rot with you,' '' Dr. Ross said.
Dr. Ross said a friend who also is a doctor was sued recently, and although he was vindicated, the suit permanently affected him and his partners. It ''turned a very well-educated, happy-go-lucky bunch of guys into people who are always nervous, looking over their shoulders,'' Dr. Ross said, ''and it took a tremendous amount out of their families.''
Dr. Devra Marcus, an internist in private practice in Washington, said: ''What's happened is that we have antennas out for patients who might sue us. That didn't happen 10 years ago.''
Dr. Marcus said she found this posture particularly disheartening because she went into medicine thinking it was ''a noble profession.''
 
Affected by the Consumer Movement
Patients have changed in other ways too, doctors assert. They say that the growing consumer movement has led patients to think they can decide for themselves what care is needed, leading them to treat doctors as technicians rather than as healers.
Patients hear about medical advances on television or by reading newspapers and magazines and then challenge their doctors, the doctors say. In a Gallup poll conducted last year for the American Medical Association, half the doctors surveyed said patients are demanding more services from them than are necessary.
''You start off with what is a good trend, that people should be aware of what their problems are and that they should understand their bodies and understand what's wrong,'' Dr. Leiter said. ''Then comes a whole trend that supposes that with appropriate explanations people can have the kind of understanding without the background. That they can understand all the nuances and that they have the ability to evaluate the data without having lived through the development of the data and seen trends come and go or seen conflicting manuscripts and reports.''
 
Patient Pressure for Tests
Dr. Stephen Brenner, an internist in private practice in New Haven, Conn., said he is often pressured by patients who demand unnecessary tests and procedures. For example, he said, patients with lower back pain will demand a computerized tomography, or C.T., scan. He said the scan would be ''clearly very inappropriate'' because it would not necessarily show what was wrong and would be an unjustified use of a very expensive technology. Dr. Brenner said that he has to ''delicately negotiate'' with such patients. ''To flatly say no often loses patients,'' he said.
Dr. Brenner said he has been dismayed to find some of his patients even ordering their own laboratory tests. ''I just saw a woman who had been having dizzy spells,'' he said. ''When her lab tests came back, they included a cholesterol test, her blood group and her blood type. That was clearly off the wall. When I called her and asked how those tests got done, she said she asked for them because she was curious.''
Although, in theory, laboratories are supposed to have the doctor's authorization before doing tests, in practice, technicians sometimes do tests at a patient's request, Dr. Brenner said.
 
Masterminding the Treatment
But many patients say they do not fully trust their doctors and feel obliged to mastermind their own treatment.
Barbara Sikes, a freelance photographer who lives in Midland, Tex., said she became cynical and disillusioned during a three-year quest to become pregnant. ''I thought you go in and tell them what's wrong and they will fix it,'' she said of her initial response to the medical profession. But she said the doctor she initially consulted suggested treatments that Ms. Sikes later learned were considered inappropriate.
The doctor ''wanted to do some very drastic things,'' she said, adding, ''I went to the library and got books on infertility and I bought a few books.'' She ended up going to Dallas and waiting six months for an appointment with a highly regarded endocrinologist.
 
'You Can't Depend on Doctors'
''I learned that I have to get other opinions, do research, and then make my own informed decisions,'' she said. ''You can't depend on the doctors to do it for you. If you're not a desperate person and aggressive and well educated, you will have trouble. If you trust doctors blindly, you're going to lose. You need brains and money and a little bit of pushiness. That, to me, is frightening.''
Increasingly, many patients with serious diseases like AIDS say they feel that they have to make themselves at least as informed as their doctors to be sure they get the best treatment. Peter Staley, a New Yorker with the AIDS virus, said that when he learned he was infected in October 1985, he immediately got his own subscription to The New England Journal of Medicine and the Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report, a publication of the Federal Centers for Disease Control in Atlanta.
''My doctor was another resource for me, like a medical journal,'' Mr. Staley said.
Mr. Staley added, ''There are certainly huge numbers of AIDS patients who let the doctor control the entire show, but I consider that dangerous since most doctors in this country are terrible AIDS doctors.'' The Loss Relationships Are Impersonal Doctor-patient relationships are often increasingly impersonal in prepaid health plans, like health maintenance organizations, according to both doctors and patients.
Dr. Paul Bearman, the director of urgent care at Park Nicollett Medical Center in Minneapolis, which cares for patients served by H.M.O.'s, said that doctor in these groups ''have to deal with patients more rapidly than is comfortable.''
''The ability to have the same kind of caring relationship, I think that's gone,'' he said. ''There is the feeling that you could just replace one physician with another and that's unfortunate. A lot of the really good doctors feel bad.''
 
Long Relationships Are Rare
Dr. John J. Barton, a professor and the chairman of the department of obstetrics and gynecology at Illinois Masonic Hospital in Chicago, said that prepaid medical plans ''severed the doctor-patient relationship.'' Because long-term relationships with patients are becoming increasinly rare, many doctors say that they are becoming acutely conscious of their own needs to have free time for themselves and to spend with their families. Some are increasingly reluctant to make themselves routinely available to patients.
Dr. Ross said he recently gave up the practice of obstetrics because he wanted more of a personal life. Although he is embittered by the malpractice crisis in obstetrics, he insisted that that alone would not have driven him out of the business of delivering babies.
''When I look back at what I did before, I say, 'How did I ever live like that?' '' he said. ''People respect my evenings now. Before, no matter how educated my patients were, if they had a little problem they did not feel bad about bothering you.''
Dr. Ross said he will now put off calling patients until after he has gone running or after he has returned from watching his daughter's soccer practice.
 
Thinking About Free Time
Young doctors, too, say they are thinking more and more about how they will live and what sort of free time they will have when they plan their careers. Dr. Brendan Magauran, a 28-year-old emergency room doctor at St. Luke's Hospital in New Bedford, Mass., said he became a doctor thinking he would have close, time-consuming, long-lasting relationships with his patients, like his father, a general practioner.
''My Dad was always available,'' Dr. Magauran said. ''You could call him on Christmas Day and he'd be available. I saw him form lifelong relationships with patients. I saw how happy he was, I saw the rewards he got out of his work. I thought that's what I would like.''
Dr. Magauran was accepted in a general surgery program, but he dropped out, deciding that he could not remain in a field where ''you have to be available 24 hours a day.'' He said, ''I felt it fundamentally had come down to a choice of saying, 'What is more important, your family or your work?' ''
Working in an emergency room, Dr. Magauran will not have personal relationships with his patients. But he said, ''The nice thing about it is that when your shift is over, your shift is over.'' The Results Image of Medicine As Just a Business Medical ethicists say that advertising by individual doctors has reinforced the impression that the practice of medicine has become just another business. The American Medical Association reports that 16 percent of doctors are advertising for patients and that more than 20 percent of doctors in general and family practice are doing so.
Advertising ''is undermining the doctor-patient relationship,'' said Dr. Lawrence J. Nelson, an ethicist with the Bioethics Consultation Group in Berkeley, Calif., who has studied physician advertising. Buying medical care begins to look like ''going out and buying a new or used car rather than going to a physician and being sure that he or she is there for your best interests,'' Dr. Nelson said.
 
Like Finding an Auto Repair Shop
In such a setting, ''it is quite reasonable at times for prospective patients to wonder if the doctor is trying to run up the meter,'' he said.
Some doctors, like Dr. Ross, readily admit that the practice of medicine is becoming much more of a business. Patients look at finding a doctor like they look at finding an automobile repair shop, he said. ''You'll go to a car dealer until he scratches your car and then you'll find another,'' he said.
But patients say they are increasingly concerned and bitter about what they see as doctors' excessive interest in the bottom line. They resent it when doctors ask for payment before they will do an expensive procedure, like a magnetic resonance imaging scan. They also resent the time they spend waiting in doctors' offices so that the doctor can be assured that no income is lost through failure to schedule a patient.
Lila Bucklin, a Connecticut woman who has spent the past two years struggling with doctors to get the care she wanted for her husband, who recently died of cancer, is especially bitter about the monetary aspect of the doctor-patient relationship. She felt that the doctors did not seem to care about her husband. The doctors ''never call you and ask how is he doing,'' she said.
 
'Realm of a Medical Industry'
''You have to dog them around for days sometimes,'' to get answers to questions, Ms. Bucklin said. ''It's gotten into the realm of a medical industry or business rather than dealing with human life.''
At one point, Ms. Bucklin said, she had to arrange and pay a round trip fee of $300 for an ambulance to take her husband a half a mile down the road to a doctor who needed to do a simple procedure that took five minutes. The doctor refused to come to see her husband at home, Ms. Bucklin said, adding: ''It's so inhumane. You feel like a commodity, like a way for doctors to make a living.''
Physicians like the Washington internist Dr. Marcus, who say they went into medicine to have long-term personal realtionships with patients, are chilled by the turn that doctor-patient relationships have taken. ''When you start out as idealistic as I was, it's hard not to be disillusioned,'' Dr. Marcus said.

GRAPHIC: photos: Dr. Brendan Magauran stitching an accident victim's head in the emergency room at Parkwood Hospital in New Bedford, Mass. When Dr. Magauran entered practice he thought he would have long-lasting relationships with his patients. But after discovering that, in general surgery programs, he would be on 24-hour call, he switched to emergency room practice. (The New York Times/Rick Friedman); Dr. Stephen Brenner: Internist, New Haven, Conn., ''I just saw a woman who had been having dizzy spells. When her lab tests came back, they included a cholesterol test, her blood group and her blood type. That was clearly off the wall.'' (The New York Times/Rollin A. Riggs) (pg. D15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (59%); 

CITY: NEW BEDFORD, MA, USA (59%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (59%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSN (AMA); GALLUP POLL AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION; 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; SURVEYS AND SERIES; PUBLIC OPINION; DOCTORS; FINANCES; RATES; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (91%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (79%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (79%); CANCER (79%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); UROLOGY (66%); INTERVIEWS (60%); PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (50%); 

PERSON: KOLATA, GINA MICHAEL A ROSS (76%); 



548 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1479 words

HEADLINE: New York Property Tax Bills Soar As City's Real-Estate Boom Ends

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK

 BODY:
The owners of cooperatives, condominiums and rental apartments in New York City, who have already seen their property values stung by the stumbling of the local economy, have been getting more bad news in the mail: tax increases now coming due based on the ascent of real-estate values in the mid-1980's.
The New York City Department of Finance has sent out tentative 1991 tax assessments that are up 15 percent for the average apartment owner. That comes after average increases of 20 percent in this fiscal year, which began July 1. These were far higher than increases during most of the 1980's.
''We are definitely in a catch-up situation,'' said Kathleen Grimm, the chief deputy finance commissioner. 
 
Complaining - A National Rite
A chorus of protests from property owners is part of a national rite during tax season. But many experts say the New York City complaints have taken on a special urgency this year because assessments have increased just as the market value of most properties has leveled off or declined.
Many owners, real-estate lawyers and some state officials worry that the tax increases may further weaken an already sluggish market for co-ops and condominiums. When property taxes go up, the costs of paying for an apartment go up. And when costs go up, values tend to sink.
''People are seeing their property values shot out from under them,'' said Dan Baumol, a former Finance Department official who helped draft the city's property tax procedures.
The increase in assessments is not the result of any decision by the city to raise more money, but simply a reflection of the rising market value of most real estate in a boom that has now faded, and the tendency of the assessment on any building to lag behind its market value when values rise steeply.
Some increases also represent, in part, the phasing-in of taxes that had been temporarily excused for thousands of property owners who benefitted during the boom years from city tax-abatement programs intended to encourage housing renovation and new construction.
 
Up From $500 to $7,000
In an extreme example of how taxes can build up, the bills on the 64 apartments in Mr. Baumol's own cooperative, a converted office building at Broadway and Warren Street in lower Manhattan, would increase from an average of under $500 a year to more than $7,000 a year by 1994. The increase is tied both to a rising assessment and the expiration of a 14-year tax exemption.
The increases are also renewing calls by co-op owners and lawyers to overhaul the city's real-estate tax system, which was adopted in the early 1980's. Some critics say it is weighted in favor of small homeowners and residents of wealthier neighborhoods.
The system limits increases in the assessments on one- to three-family homes to 6 percent a year or 20 percent over five years, while allowing much larger increases on co-ops, condominiums and rental buildings.
State officials say the approach has created many inequities, even among the owners of small houses protected by the limits. People in wealthier neighborhoods, whose property values increased at more than 20 percent a year between 1984 and 1987 and whose assessments increased only 6 percent, received the biggest benefits, the critics say.
''Gross inequities in the city's property tax system have gotten much worse,'' said Edward V. Regan, the New York State Comptroller, who wants the system changed.
But apartment owners are already feeling the brunt of a system under which tax bills build up over time.
''We are being drained,'' said Linda O'Keefe, a Manhattan attorney who with her husband, Kevin, a dentist, bought a three-bedroom cooperative on West 82d Street in 1988, even though they knew the real-estate boom had cooled off. They bought, they said, partly because their monthly maintenance charge would be $834, less than those on many three-bedrooms.
But the assessed value of their building, $520,000 in 1988, has been tripled -tentatively assessed at $1.7 million for 1991. Unless it is reduced through a challenge to the city's Tax Commission, the new assessment would mean taxes on each of the 38 apartments, now averaging $1,200 a year, would rise to more than $4,000 by 1994.
New York State law requires that rising property tax bills in large co-ops, condominiums and rental buildings be increased in increments over five years. That means those affected by the current wave of reassessments will not pay the full bill for four more years.
For many owners, other deadlines are approaching. Thousands living in buildings that got temporary tax benefits under city tax abatement programs are finding that full taxes are finally coming due.
 
Untaxed for 14 Years
Mr. Baumol's building was fully renovated in 1980 under the J-51 program, which delayed taxes to encourage renovation - and was almost completely untaxed for 14 years.
But the exemption expires in 1994. Meanwhile, the underlying assessment - the value a city assessor places on the building for tax purposes - has been rising.
''This is not the Trump Plaza, and people in this building are living on a budget,'' said Mr. Baumol, the former Finance Department official, who is now a financial analyst for NYNEX and has two small children. He said he doubted everyone in the building would be able to afford the huge increase. The owners each would be paying thousands more a year in taxes.
''If they can't sell, I don't know what they are going to do,'' he said.
Nor are the increases being felt only in Manhattan or only in buildings where owners would want to sell even if they could.
''We simply don't have the money the city wants us to pay,'' said Irene Rubin, board president at Lyndon Towers Number Five, a middle-income co-op just off the Whitestone Expressway in Flushing, Queens.
She said many of the 206 apartment owners at Lyndon Towers bought in 1960 when the co-op was built and are now retired. The property tax increase sent in January would require the board to raise maintenance payments 25 percent, to roughly $500 a month per apartment.
City officials say the relatively large assessment increases of the last two years were bound to come, and many people benefited by paying too little tax during the mid-1980's.
 
Not Much Sympathy
Nor do City Hall experts harbor much sympathy for those who have already saved thousands of dollars because of tax breaks and should have known through their lawyers, a check of their building records, or a visit to the assessor's office that the benefits were going to expire.
Ms. Grimm, of the Finance Department, said that because of the ''difficult fiscal times'' faced by the city, ''accurate assessments are more important than ever.'' Property taxes, the city's biggest source of revenue, make up 40 percent of its tax revenues.
One of the complexities that slowed city assessors is that different rules are used to determine the assessed value of a one- to three-family home and of a building filled with co-ops and condominiums. Assessors may value houses by looking at the recent selling prices of homes comparable in age, location and condition.
But state law prohibits their assessing co-ops or condominiums the same way. All apartment buildings must be treated as if they were rentals, and assessors must determine how much rent they would take in and how much that would make them worth.
With most property values levelling off and some declining, a small minority of assessed values have been reduced, and more could be in the future. But because of the city's fiscal problems no one holds out hope for a broad reduction in property tax bills. In fact, if the city's fiscal problems are not reversed, even higher tax rates are likely, many experts say.
Mayor Dinkins has already proposed increases in the tax rates. The tax rate is the percent of the assessed value that must be paid.
The Mayor proposed a 9.38 rate for apartment owners in large co-ops and condominiums, up from 9.23; a 9.69 rate for owners of one- to three-family houses, up from 9.45; and a 9.69 rate for the owners of offices and most other commercial properties, up from 9.54. The City Council must vote on the increases.
''If one looks at the condition of the city economy with an eye on what is going into its cash register,'' said Stephen J. Weinstein, executive director of the Municipal Assistance Corporation, which oversees the city's finances, ''one quickly sees that there is breathing room to increase the revenue it gets from real-estate taxes.''
Although the state limits the amount New York City can tax its property owners, he said, the rapid rise in values in the 1980's meant that the city is now far below the maximum. In the mid-1970's, city real-estate taxes came to more than 90 percent of the state's ceiling, he said. Now tax bills now are only 70 percent of it.

GRAPHIC: photo: ''People are seeing their property values shot out from under them,'' said Dan Baumol, a financial analyst. He and his wife, Sabrina, say they are unhappy over new assessment on their 261 Broadway cooperative. (The New York Times/John Sotomayor) (pg. B3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK CITY DEPARTMENT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: HOUSING; TAXATION; PROPERTY TAXES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; SALES; PRICES; CONDOMINIUMS; COOPERATIVES; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; APARTMENT HOUSES TAXES & TAXATION (94%); PROPERTY TAX (93%); REAL ESTATE (92%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (91%); CONDOMINIUMS (91%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (78%); TAX ASSESSORS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); TAX INCENTIVES (77%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (73%); LEGISLATION (69%); 

PERSON: ;LUECK, THOMAS J DAN BAUMOL (66%); 



549 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 6, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1094 words

HEADLINE: Fear of Disorder Shadows the Opposition Campaign in Nicaragua

BYLINE: By MARK A. UHLIG, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MANAGUA, Nicaragua, Feb. 19

 BODY:
In the heated last-minute campaigning for national elections on Sunday, opposition leaders have found themselves confronted by a dark new campaign issue: not whether their fragile coalition would make a good government, but whether it could even survive.
The issue has focused in part on conflicts in the coalition, the National Opposition Union, whose 14 parties remain deeply divided by ideology and personal rivalries. But it has been sharply underscored by senior Sandinista officials, who have openly hinted of chaos and disorder if the opposition wins the vote.
''A lot of people are simply afraid to see the opposition win,'' said a young Nicaraguan businessman, adding that he had decided after much hesitation to vote for the Sandinista National Liberation Front. ''It would mean immediate confrontation with the Sandinistas, and it would put us right back where we started.'' 
 
Outcome Hard to Predict
In a country battered by a decade of war, economic crisis and political polarization, voters remain deeply reluctant to discuss their personal views, and even the best-informed foreign experts say they are at a loss to predict the election's outcome. Diplomats say the problem is not necessarily that the election will be close - there is little reputable polling data and one side or the other could win by a wide margin -but that clues to its outcome are scarce and contradictory.
Now the uncertainties that would accompany an opposition victory have become a conspicuous element in the campaign itself.
Although Sandinista leaders have publicly committed themselves to surrendering the Government if they lose, they have suggested that the military and security forces would remain loyal to the Sandinista revolution regardless of the election outcome. High Sandinista officials like Tomas Borge Martinez, the Interior Minister, have warned that any attempt by an opposition government to dismantle those forces would make the country ''ungovernable.''
''Given the existence of revolutionary armed forces,'' said the official Sandinista newspaper, Barricada, describing Mr. Borge's views, ''how could the officers obey the wild orders of those who were named Minister of Defense and Minister of the Interior?''
The tensions between the two sides have been heightened by the presence in the opposition coalition of several former leaders of the American-backed contra army, against whom the military and security forces have fought a bitter eight-year war. The stakes of a potential post-election dispute have also been raised by the continued presence of more than 10,000 armed contras inside Nicaragua and at camps across the Honduran border.
 
A Risk of Splits
Although most diplomats and outside experts say the contra army would be little match for the Sandinista military in a showdown, few say they believe that Sandinista leaders would flatly repudiate an opposition victory at the polls. Such a move, they say, would risk grave splits in their own ranks and provoke a devastating reaction around the world. Against the fast-changing political backdrop of the Eastern bloc, many diplomats say such a move would be opposed even by crucial Sandinista allies like the Soviet Union, which provides roughly 90 percent of Nicaragua's oil.
''If they tried to keep power by force, they would be absolutely isolated worldwide'' said a European ambassador. ''There would be no need for an outside invasion; the Soviets would just have to stop the oil from coming and that alone would bring them down.''
Far more likely, most diplomats say, would be an attempt, possibly backed by street demonstrations, to preserve the military and security forces as a source of Sandinista power in negotiations over the shape of the new government.
Mr. Borge and other Sandinista leaders have never directly threatened military force to impose such a settlement. But they have repeatedly suggested that the public would rise up to protect Sandinista influence, a suggestion that has widely been understood to refer to action by the ''Turbas Divinas,'' the belligerent pro-Sandinista crowds that were once widely used to exert pressure on the Government's opponents.
 
Reconciliation Is Urged
Some hard-line opposition leaders, like the vice presidential candidate of the National Opposition Union, Virgilio Godoy Reyes, have joined the oratorical fray over the implications of an opposition victory, declaring that anti-Sandinista leaders would take advantage of an election victory to ''settle the score'' with defeated Sandinista officials. Other, lower-ranking opposition leaders have suggested that the contras could be used to enforce an opposition government's will.
But the main opposition presidential candidate, Violeta Barrios de Chamorro, who is running with Mr. Godoy, has repeatedly said she would seek an immediate reconciliation with Sandinista leaders, and her solution focuses not on the contras but on the Sandinista military.
Although Mrs. Chamorro frequently speaks of her vow to end the military draft, and says she would like to ''send all the weapons to the bottom of the sea,'' her spokesmen have taken great care to point out that although an opposition government would dismiss the highest Sandinista commanders, the rest of the military and security forces would be preserved intact.
''The armed forces will have to understand that they would have to move gradually from a party army to a national army,'' said Alfredo Cesar Aguirre, the chief adviser to Mrs. Chamorro. ''But we would give them that chance.''
Opposition leaders say they hope that in the short run such a policy will enlarge their vote by convincing the large numbers of military personnel that they need not fear dismissal or reprisals after an opposition victory. If the opposition coalition manages to win, they say, the policy could help divide the military and undermine its value as a tool of Sandinista influence.
But diplomats point out that the continued existence of a strong military whose officers would remain loyal to the Sandinistas could greatly inhibit the willingness of the United States to provide vital foreign aid to a government led by Mrs. Chamorro. It would almost certainly be unacceptable to the contras in the field, raising the risk of a continuing rebel war in the countryside.
In addition, they note, the cost of maintaining such a large military apparatus was largely responsible for the country's deep economic problems. And they say it would place an enormous drain on the resources of an opposition regime.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: NICARAGUA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); HONDURAS (79%); 

COMPANY: SANDINISTA NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (95%); NATIONAL OPPOSITION UNION (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NICARAGUA

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ARMIES (89%); CIVIL WAR (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (72%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (53%); 

PERSON: UHLIG, MARK A TOMAS BORGE MARTINEZ (59%); 



550 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1490 words

HEADLINE: In School Conflict, Selma Discovers Old Racial Tensions Are Unresolved

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SELMA, Ala., Feb. 15

 BODY:
In the daily rhythms of life here, whether it is the solemnity of the church or the raucous exuberance of a drag race, blacks and whites touch one another, mingle and even seem to tolerate one another.
But the divisions that surfaced 25 years ago in a bloody civil rights march are not gone. Beneath the surface there remains a tension and disquiet that can erupt unexpectedly.
''We're still two separate and paranoid communities, even though the blatancy of the racism has gone,'' said William King, minister of music at Our Lady of Peace Roman Catholic Church.
Mr. King, a black member of the City Council, said there is a blind spot among some whites that still prevents them from seeing blacks in a variety of roles. And many blacks, sensing this like an invisible net around their lives, feel a bitterness and anger. 
These forces were in play over the last few weeks as a racially divisive dispute over the dismissal of Selma's first black school superintendent sparked demonstrations, provoked fears of violence and disrupted schools. But they underscore even more deeply felt attitudes toward race here, and in many similar towns in the South.
 
Gospel That Won't Offend
Our Lady Queen of Peace was formed in 1970 through the merger of an all-white parish and an all-black one. Over the years, Mr. King has spiced the services with black gospel music in recognition of his heritage and that of other parishioners. But he has moved carefully.
''Not hard gospel,'' said Mr. King, who is a professionally trained lyric baritone. ''It's done in a style designed to not offend whites and with the awareness that not everybody can sing or relate to black gospel.''
Just outside the city at Bill Maddox's Selma Dragway, every Saturday the engines roar, tires squeal and the air is redolent with gasoline and exhaust fumes as nearly 1,500 spectators and drivers join in a glorification of the automobile and speed that has long been associated with the white South, rebel yells and good ol' boys.
Last week the disputes and racial tensions surrounding the Selma schools prompted Mr. Maddox to ponder for the first time, he said, the extent to which there are both blacks and whites among his audiences and drivers. That had not been the case in the 1960's, said the 38-year-old former marine, who added that whites did not consider the importance of the black population at all then, and hardly did more recently until they were forced to. But now he finds himself wondering whether the local unrest might thin the crowd or turn the races into bitter grudge matches.
Pointing down the raceway, he said he hoped that would not happen. ''The only battle lines we have out here was the left lane and the right lane,'' he said, ''We don't have a white lane or a black lane here.''
There has been vast change here since the 1950's. Blacks and whites shop at the same stores and often work side by side. While the fancier restaurants in town cater mostly to wealthier whites, fast-food outlets and family restaurants featuring salad bars and childrens's menus are racial melting pots.
 
Blacks Outnumber Whites
But there persists an ''us against them'' atmosphere, made more urgent in the eyes of some whites because they are outnumbered in the ''black belt'' counties clustered near the state's western border, so named because of the region's rich, dark soil. Blacks are 52 percent of Selma's population of 27,000 and account for nearly 60 percent in surrounding Dallas County.
Indeed, though the schools are integrated, both white and black parents can readily tell of incidents in which their child was called a name or beaten up in what they believe was a racial incident.
William Bernard, a professor of history at the University of Alabama, refers to the ''dual view of great change and no change'' in the South. In dozens of towns like Selma,, the laws have changed; there are black faces on the City Council, the school board and the county commission. But the social order and the economic power are unaltered.
''Like Sinclair Lewis's 'Main Street,' there is a group of real estate, banking and other professional people who are the power in town, and much of the way people live is more affected by the decision of the banker than of the City Council,'' said Dr. Bernard. ''You don't have black bankers, but neither do you have white bankers from the wrong side of the tracks.''
In Selma, there are four blacks among the nine City Council members, and five of the 11 members of the appointed school board are black. There were no black members of either panel at the time of the civil rights march in 1965. Blacks make up 30 percent of the police force and 53 percent of all municipal workers, according to the city's 1989 report to the Federal Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. Both numbers are large increases from the mid-1960's.
 
'White Elites' and 'Blue Bloods'
Yet time and again in interviews over seven days here - in the living rooms of modest homes, in small factories, offices and churches - the issue of what blacks called ''white elites'' and what many whites termed the ''blue bloods'' arose.
Aspiring black business owners spoke of their inability to get loans and financial help, and whites hinted darkly at a group of powerful whites who behind the scenes discouraged the establishment of new businesses that might raise the cost of labor.
The new round of racial unrest here began Dec. 21 when the school board, in a vote along racial lines, decided not to renew the contract of Dr. Norward Roussell, the black superintendent. The decision triggered a walkout by four black board members, daily demonstrations, a school boycott by many black students and a five-day sit-in at the high school. Schools reopened Feb. 13 with the issue of the superintendent's contract still unresolved.
Dallas County, of which Selma is the county seat, is the most densely populated of the 10 counties that make up the ''black belt.'' In all of the counties, blacks are a majority, ranging from 52 percent in Marengo County to nearly 89 percent in Macon County, said Annette Watters, assistant director of the Center for Business and Economic Research at the University of Alabama.
She said the percentages are expected to rise in future years because of high black birth rates and a high rate of migration from the area by whites between 20 and 39 years old. Underlying these figures is the fact that there is little industry and few jobs in the area. Some blacks say this is because the white elite discourages high-paying industry. Some whites say it is because industry is reluctant to locate in areas with black majorities.
 
To Find a Job, Young Move Away
Whatever the cause, said Ms. Watters, the result is unemployment, which in 1988, the latest year for which county figures are available, was 12.1 percent over all in Dallas County, and probably double that for blacks. Statewide, the unemployment rate in 1988 was 7.2 percent and the national rate was 5.5 percent.
''When a young person is looking for their first or second job they know they have to move,'' she said. ''
Fear of their children's moving away is strong for Otey and Diane Crisman, a white couple whom many neighbors and friends view as racial moderates. Mrs. Crisman, who was 15 at the time of the Selma-to-Montgomery march that helped bring about the passage of the Voting Rights Act, said that while she had no black friends then, her children do. They attend a public school system that has a 70 percent black student body.
''We live in an integrated neighborhood, and 25 years ago whites would have moved out when a black moved in,'' she said. ''We fought to overturn the all-white policy at our church. I'm just a different person from the person my mother was back then.''
Mr. Crisman, who owns a small company that makes hickory-shafted golf putters, agreed. He said that whites 25 years ago considered blacks ''lower than them,'' but today they simply consider blacks different.
''There are places where there is openness, and there are places where there isn't openness, and I don't always say it is wrong,'' said Mr. Crisman. ''We have a black Elks Club and a white Elks Club, and that's all right with me. We are differentm and we have different cultures.''
But Mr. King and others said that such views ignore the overwhelming economic domination of whites. ''We win offices and appointed posts, but it just seems that it's all for show and not for the dough,'' he said.
For some whites like Mr. Maddox, the unrest has prompted a closer look at these economic disparities.
''I see that I have white racers who own auto parts stores and garages and black racers who work for somebody as a mechanic or work in the pulp mill,'' he said. ''The white racers can invest more in their cars than the black racers can, for the most part. I just never thought before that race was involved in my business.''

GRAPHIC: photo: ''We're still two separate and paranoid communities, even though the blatancy of the racism has gone,'' said William King, a councilman and teacher in Selma, Ala. Mr. King helped a junior high school student. (The New York Times/Carl Berquist)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CITY COUNCIL (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SELMA (ALA); ALABAMA

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; RACIAL RELATIONS; BLACKS (IN US); SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; SCHOOL ADMINISTRATION AND COMMUNITY ROLE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BLACKS (IN US) RACE & RACISM (90%); RELIGION (90%); MUSIC (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (78%); MUSIC GENRES (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); CIVIL RIGHTS (73%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (72%); CITIES (69%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (67%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (67%); TRENDS (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: SMOTHERS, RONALD MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 



551 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 15, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: VETERANS' LOANS FOCUS OF DEBATE

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 19

 BODY:
The Bush Administration's proposal to start requiring veterans to make down payments on home loans uses a forecast that a veterans' affairs official says is too pessimistic about foreclosures.
The Administration, in its budget for the 1991 fiscal year, said it wants V.A. loan borrowers to make a 4 percent down payment on loans over $25,000. Currently, the V.A. loan program is distinguished from other mortgage programs by the lack of a required down payment.
The Administration also proposes raising to 1.75 percent from 1.25 percent a loan-making fee that took effect in January. It also wants to limit the number of veterans who can gain exemption from the fee because of disabilities resulting from military service. 
The Department of Veterans' Affairs says the changes are needed to keep the program afloat in the face of rising losses due to foreclosures. Officials attribute the foreclosure problem to national and regional recessions in the past decade.
 
Some Optimistic Projections
According to the Administration's economic projections, personal income is supposed to rise more than one-third over 1988 levels by 1995, while wages and salaries are supposed to rise by more than half. Unemployment, the forecast says, will probably stabilize at 5 percent of the labor force.
The V.A. based its proposals to raise fees on a projection of likely future foreclosure rates of 10 percent to 11 percent over 10 years, said Bill Lutes, assistant director for program management in the V.A.'s loan-guaranty service. He said that figure represents a balance between the relatively low foreclosure rates of the 1970's and the double-digit rates of the 1980's.
But in a hearing last April before the House Veterans' Affairs subcommittee on housing, Keith Pedigo, director of the V.A. loan-guaranty program, said the 11 percent projection was too high.
''My personal opinion is that the actual foreclosure rate will be somewhat less than 11 percent,'' Mr. Pedigo said under questioning by the Representative Harley O. Staggers Jr., the West Virginia Democrat who serves as chairman of the subcommittee.
''I think the range of 7 to 8 percent is probably more realistic than 11 percent,'' said Mr. Pedigo.
 
Criticism From Congress
The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office used a rate of 7 percent over 10 years. Mr. Pedigo, in a recent interview, conceded that the 11 percent figure ''would be on the high side.'' But he maintained the projection was, nevertheless, ''within the reasonable range.'' He insisted that the optimistic economic projection underlying the Bush budget does not apply to the loan program.
Some members of Congress involved in veterans' issues argue that the Administration put the new loan proposal together too hastily. They say it ignores a separate effort by lawmakers to reinvigorate the V.A. program.
''The proposals appear to be a broad attack by the President and the Office of Management and Budget on a 46-year-old program to which Congress overwhelmingly recommitted itself just three months ago,'' said Senator Alan Cranston, the Calfornia Democrat who serves as chairman of the Veterans' Affairs Committee.
Critics of the Administration proposal, both in and out of Congress, as well as various Government audits, say the V.A. has to bear much of the blame for losses because of insufficient staffing and poor management.
They also complain that the V.A. for too long has unloaded V.A. loan portfolios for quick cash, rather than waiting for the loans to mature.
 
Protective Fund Is Created
The money raised by the higher loan-origination fee would go to the Mortgage Guaranty and Indemnity Fund, which was created in January.
Congress said the trust fund would protect the lender, borrower and Government from losses on bad loans and would sustain itself through the decade.
But V.A. officials, in a budget briefing last month, disagreed with Congress on how well the fund would work. They presented a chart showing that the fund would be $193 million in the red by 1995 unless a down payment were required and the loan-origination fee raised.
Congress and the V.A. disagree on the prospects for the fund's success because they disagree on the severity of the foreclosure problem.
An earlier fund that relied on a 1 percent fee was set up differently and made no effort to be self-sufficient. As a result, $2.4 billion in home-loan losses have been absorbed by the Treasury since 1984.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: BUSH ADMINISTRATION (93%); AFFAIRS COMMITTEE (61%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; VETERANS; MORTGAGES; FORECASTS; DEFAULTING VETERANS (92%); FORECLOSURE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); VETERANS LOANS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); LABOR FORCE (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) KEITH PEDIGO (70%); 



552 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 546 words

HEADLINE: Coffee, Chrysanthemums and Cocaine

 BODY:
The drug summit meeting in Colombia wasn't just about drugs. Its vital sub-theme was economic survival. What are coca farmers and processors to do for a living if they don't grow coca? Indeed, what will sustain Colombia, Bolivia and Peru? 
The four Presidents addressed the problem with a clear but undetailed commitment to ''economic cooperation, alternative development [and] encouragement of trade and investment.'' Coffee and chrysanthemums are a good place to start.
Colombia is pressing Washington to renew the International Coffee Agreement, which expired last July, and to cancel anti-dumping duties on cut flowers. On coffee, the Colombians have a case against Brazil; on flowers, they have a legitimate gripe against the U.S.
The coffee agreement, which has been on again, off again since 1962, established a price support cartel among 74 producing and consuming countries. Each producer got a set share of the market. Negotiations for a new pact collapsed when the U.S., the largest consumer, sided with producers seeking bigger quotas, which meant less for Brazil.
The key point is taste. Consumer preference has been shifting from Brazilian beans to a milder bean grown in Mexico, Central America and Colombia. But Brazil had the largest quota, 31 percent, and wouldn't cede one bagful. Without an agreement, producer prices have plunged by almost half; consumer prices are down only slightly, which suggests that someone in the coffee chain is profiting handsomely.
Frequent breakdowns of past agreements on coffee and other commodities should be proof that they offer only temporary price support. But they are an article of faith in countries dependent on commodity income, and Washington has pledged support for a new one for coffee. Brazil, awaiting a new president next month, still hasn't budged.
Another agreement would help all producers. An agreement that properly reflected consumer tastes would also help with the battle against drugs, by giving a boost to Colombian coffee. Washington isn't the problem.
Flowers are something else. The Commerce Department made a preliminary finding in December that Colombian chrysanthemums and carnations were being dumped in the U.S. Dumping means selling a product for less than ''fair market value,'' based on estimated costs. If imports are dumped, the Government can impose duties raising the price to the supposed ''fair'' level.
Anti-dumping laws are a favorite weapon of protectionists. There is no agreed formula for determining what's fair, and producers and aggrieved competitors are adept at manipulating the numbers. The Commerce Department insists that it acts solely on facts. But there are few hard facts in these cases, while political pressure from domestic producers is intense. As usual, the consumer pays.
The anti-dumping fees matter to Colombia beause flowers are its third-largest legal export -$200 million a year, mostly to the United States. A final decision is due in April. The department should use its discretionary authority to find a way to reverse itself, putting the interests of American consumers ahead of a handful of politically powerful growers. The national interest recommends encouraging our Latin friends to ship us more chrysanthemums instead of cocaine.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: COLOMBIA (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); BRAZIL (94%); PERU (93%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PERU; COLOMBIA; UNITED STATES; BOLIVIA

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; EDITORIALS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; FLOWERS AND PLANTS; COFFEE; IMPORT QUOTAS; COCAINE COCAINE (92%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COFFEE (90%); COFFEE & TEA (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); ANTIDUMPING LAWS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); DRUG POLICY (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); MARKET SHARE (77%); TRENDS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (76%); PRODUCER PRICES (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (75%); EXPORT PRICES (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (73%); IMPORT CONTROLS (72%); CARTELS (70%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); 



553 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 208 words

HEADLINE: TOPICS OF THE TIMES;
Making the New Serve the Old

 BODY:
New York City's Landmarks Preservation Commission is scheduled to vote today on a proposed 12-story office building in the South Street Seaport Historic District in lower Manhattan. The vote raises a large issue: whether the Landmarks Commission and the city will embrace a balanced approach to development in historic districts. Such an approach could actually encourage the preservation of older buildings by permitting construction of compatible new buildings.
The owners of the site at 50 Water Street, Paul and Seymour Milstein, have been trying to build there for seven years. The current design, a brick and granite base with stepped-back upper stories in stone and glass, is undeniably sensitive to the architectural spirit of the maritime district. Some fear that the 148-foot structure would overpower the existing buildings, mostly four and five stories. But that ignores reality.
Some of the smaller buildings are crumbling for want of investors. Unless efforts are made to increase the seaport's overall economic vitality, restoration will languish. By any reasonable measure, the proposal now before the Landmarks Commission strikes a laudable compromise between the district's historic scale and the need for modern development.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TITLE: TOPICS OF THE TIMES (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: LANDMARKS COMMISSION (78%); LANDMARKS PRESERVATION COMMISSION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LANDMARKS PRESERVATION COMMISSION (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SOUTH STREET SEAPORT (NYC); NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; ZONING; HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES; EDITORIALS; OFFICE BUILDINGS HISTORIC SITES (92%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (91%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); HARBORS & PORTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (78%); ZONING (78%); 



554 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 397 words

HEADLINE: Malpractice Report Told but a Part of Grim Story;
Combine Plans

 BODY:
To the Editor:
That David Axelrod, New York State Health Commissioner, proposes a no-fault medical malpractice compensation program (news article, Jan. 25) is welcome news. It would be the perfect adjunct to the Axelrod proposal for a single-payer universal health insurance system for New York State.
The best news is that it might attract strong physician support for the health insurance program, which is critically important for the people and businesses of the state. 
A compensation program for medically caused injuries with a statutory prohibition against malpractice suits could be easily incorporated into a New York universal health insurance plan. Compensation has worked for workplace injuries, and in 1985 Congress enacted a compensation program for vaccine-caused injuries.
A compensation program that is part of universal medical insurance would not be concerned with paying for additional medical services made necessary by medically caused injuries. These would be covered by the health insurance. Compensation for disability could simply extend the principles of social insurance to cover both temporary and extended loss of earning power.
The current system is wasteful. It uses lawsuits to obtain compensation for the few who can afford to sue and the same suits to deter future malpractice. The high legal costs and unnecessary medical tests done to prevent litigation inflate the cost of care. These costs are passed on to the patient and ultimately to the insurers and employers of the state.
A medical injury compensation program would protect patients better: all injuries would be compensated, and universal reporting of injuries would be a fairer and more effective basis for preventing future injuries than a system that attends only to cases in which legal action is taken.
Prevention of medical injuries would make entering the medical care system safer and less expensive. As an adjunct to the single payer insurance plan, a malpractice compensation program would permit elimination of malpractice insurance and some reduction of physician fees. Physicians, no longer caught in the economic squeeze, would welcome the other aspects of Dr. Axelrod's health insurance plan, which guarantees access to and payment for all medical services.
 
ANTHONY ROBBINS, M.D.
Professor of Public Health
Boston University
 Boston, Jan. 27, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MALPRACTICE; DOCTORS; NO-FAULT INSURANCE HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY INSURANCE (77%); OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS & INJURY (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (73%); INSURANCE (72%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (70%); PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (58%); 

PERSON: AXELROD, DAVID (COMR); ROBBINS, ANTHONY (DR) ANTHONY ROBBINS (64%); ANTHONY ROBBINS (64%); 



555 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 273 words

HEADLINE: Cuomo Budget, Far From Austere, Exceeds Inflation Increase

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''Mr. Cuomo, at Least, Is Serious'' (editorial, Jan. 18) inaccurately states that Gov. Mario M. Cuomo's proposed budget for New York State is ''austere.''
Under Governor Cuomo's proposed budget, state-funded spending (which excludes Federal grants) will rise by 8.2 percent, compared with inflation of 4.2 percent. The Cuomo budget proposes spending levels 104.4 percent higher than when he took office, compared with inflation of 33.7 percent over the same period. The Governor should not seek to obscure these facts or blame others for the spending growth that his plan represents.
If the Governor recommended a budget that limited growth in total state-funded spending, not just the general fund, to inflation, $1.4 billion less in revenues would be needed. This amount is equal to the costs of canceling the tax cut ($400 million) and the many tax and fee increases the Governor has proposed ($1 billion). These tax and fee increases will raise taxes on everything from used cars to phone calls.
Our economic competitiveness lags behind neighboring states, all of which have lower tax rates on personal income. Since 1982, 196,000 people have left New York State on a net basis. New Jersey, which has a top tax rate on personal income of 3.5 percent, gained 109,000 people over the same period.
I don't understand why Governor Cuomo chose to risk the state's economic future with tax increases, rather than living up to his promise to keep spending growth in line with inflation.
 
(State Senator) JOSEPH L. BRUNO
Chairman, Legislative Commission
on Public-Private Cooperation
 Albany, Feb. 5, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION BUDGETS (92%); TAX INCREASES (91%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); GRANTS & GIFTS (72%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (66%); 

PERSON: CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); BRUNO, JOSEPH L (SEN) MARIO M CUOMO (93%); 



556 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 329 words

HEADLINE: Cuomo Budget, Far From Austere, Exceeds Inflation Increase;
A Gift to the Rich

 BODY:
To the Editor:
New York State faces new realities as its leaders construct a new budget. The economy is softening all over the Northeast. Revenues fall short of all reasonable expectations. Demands for aid and services multiply. 
We need a new vision to face such realities. The myth of the personal income tax cut contains no such vision. Indeed, the so-called tax cut has become a tax shift. Faced with decreased state aid, increased demands and continuing state mandates, local governments have been forced to raise the regressive property tax to maintain services. We are not paying less in taxes, but simply paying different taxes. And the burden is falling on those who can least afford it.
State Senator Roy M. Goodman writes (Op-Ed, Jan. 13) that the so-called tax cut would benefit middle-income wage earners. But a family with an annual income of $36,000 to $72,000 would save only $62 to $117 in personal income taxes; those with incomes between $18,000 and $24,000 would pay more in personal income tax.
However, those who make $125,000 to $260,000 will see substantial savings from the personal income tax. They will save $466 to $1,499. Add the cost of the property tax shift, and most low- and middle-income wage earners face an increased tax burden. A family of four with a $24,000 income would pay $130 more in taxes. But, even with property taxes added, those with incomes of $260,000 would reap a $770 tax savings.
We have seen this year that the tax cut program has gone too far. The state must fill a $700 million budget gap just to finish the fiscal year. That's before we grasp the problems for fiscal year 1990-91.
New York State's personal income tax may be higher than other states, but then New York is not other states. We have a history of providing quality, broad-based services that make New York State an enviable place to live.
 
JOSEPH E. MCDERMOTT
President, Civil Service
Employees Association
 Albany, Feb. 1, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION INCOME TAX (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGETS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); 

PERSON: MCDERMOTT, JOSEPH E



557 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 21, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: FOREIGN AFFAIRS;
On or Off the World?

BYLINE: By Flora Lewis

DATELINE: MINNEAPOLIS

 BODY:
Awareness is spreading among the public that profound changes are racing through the world, and that they will make a big difference to the U.S. role.
''What should we do?'' was the dominant question among students and others at a five-college forum here, honoring the Nobel Peace Prize and supporting universal human rights. Given the sponsors and the subject, the attitudes were essentially liberal, not widely representative if the opinion polls are correct.
But they showed a convergence of the right and left. For quite different reasons, both are arguing with increasing intensity that it's time for the U.S. to get off the world. One side argues there's no more reason to accept burdensome responsibilities, the other that America should stop interfering with everybody else and look after its own. 
At the extremes, the right is saying the world is too bad a place, with too many hostile conspirators, for the U.S. to be involved. The left says the U.S. is too bad, too arrogant, too flawed to presume to lead. Both are moving toward a new isolationism, laced with resentment at economic challenges from former clients.
The more moderate ask what the U.S. is doing locked into alliances and supporting a huge military establishment if there is no longer a serious Soviet threat. Why are we parading nuclear weapons around the Indian Ocean and exposing our workers to competition from multitudes who have to labor for subsistence wages? said one young man, a teacher.
George Washington and his warning against entangling alliances are back in vogue. (Was that from the right or the left?) People brush aside the fact that in Washington's time, the maximum speed for moving people and information was set by the horse or the sailing ship. They know that makes a difference, but they seem to think it shouldn't.
There is concern about deterioration within American society, the foreign debt, the decaying infrastructure, the huge gap between the comfortable and the underclass. People want it to be addressed, and feel that can be done by shutting off the world and focusing on our own problems -whether poverty and education, or crime and family cohesion.
For so long, national security in terms of military strength has been the justification for U.S. foreign policy that there is confusion about purpose ahead. A threat expressed in guns and missiles provoked a response of guns and missiles. If the threat is gone, why worry about unpronounceable places abroad?
America's leaders have an enormous job now to unravel military and political considerations in people's minds. It is more complicated to explain why America's political and economic interests remain vitally engaged than it was to picture the danger of losing an arms race.
Remember Harlingen, Tex.? One of President Reagan's arguments for the contra war in Nicaragua was to protect Harlingen from Communist attack and invasion by refugees from a Red South. Who believes that now?
The hardest part for Americans in making a transition to the emerging world may be accepting that not being first doesn't end the need for commitment and cooperation.
There is good reason for pride in the overall success of American policy in the last 45 years. There were failures. But it is now clear that the main goals were achieved - no world war, restraint on Soviet expansion, spread of democracy, which means more friends and fewer enemies, therefore more security.
Countries are doing what we urged, taking more responsibility for themselves. There is no reason to say that means they no longer need us and we no longer need them. The success was achieved by joint effort - not, as some Americans like to think, by the U.S. single-handedly. And it will take joint effort to consolidate it and go on to face new, global problems.
The choice isn't between running the world and getting off. The U.S. is too important to try to curl itself up into some kind of Burma or Albania, and even those small countries illustrate the misery and impoverishment of isolation. What should we do? Above all, understand that we still have a lot to do, both at home and abroad, even if we aren't in charge.
The Bush Administration is being criticized for passivity and lack of ''the vision thing.'' The real failure now isn't in not commanding the world but in not giving Americans a clear sense of our new relations with it and why they matter. That should be Washington's new activism.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OP-ED

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); NICARAGUA (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (69%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (87%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); NOBEL PRIZES (71%); ARMS RACE (70%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (67%); NATIONAL SECURITY (65%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%); FOREIGN POLICY (60%); HUMAN RIGHTS (56%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, FLORA RONALD REAGAN (61%); 



558 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 21, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: ABROAD AT HOME;
But We Close Our Eyes

BYLINE: By Anthony Lewis

DATELINE: BOSTON

 BODY:
From the Soviet Union to South Africa, societies are confronting their fundamental problems. Immobilism is giving way to change. There has never been a time in the world like this, we say to each other.
But one great country is not confronting its problems. It is avoiding them, refusing to risk the uncertainty of change. That country is the United States. 
America's problems are no secret. Commissions have reported on them, Presidents talked, commentators thundered. But doing something -something meaningful - is another matter. That would take courage, and cost money.
Education is an example. We have become an ill-educated society. Our working population is at a growing disadvantage with the well-schooled people of Japan and other East Asian societies, or of Germany or France.
In our major cities public education is a disaster: starved for funds, mismanaged by bureaucracies. Middle-class families, unlike their counterparts in most places abroad, send their children to private schools. Huge numbers of Americans are functional illiterates.
In his 1988 campaign George Bush said he would be the ''education President.'' His budget last month, discounted for inflation, actually proposed less spending than the previous year for education.
Health is another profound problem. It cuts across lines of class and region, affecting the middle class and the poor, cities and rural areas.
The United States is one of only two industrialized countries that have no national system of health insurance for the entire population. (The other is South Africa.) Most Americans have private insurance - but at ever-higher rates, burdening them and their employers. Medical care for the uninsured is provided, inadequately and at heavy cost, by local hospitals.
Infant mortality is higher in this country than in some less affluent societies. A recent study in Chicago hospitals showed large numbers of children, up to age 5, who had not had the measles immunization that all should have had by 12 to 15 months.
New York City's great teaching hospitals, once well endowed, are in severe financial difficulty now because governments compensate them so badly for the care they give poor patients. The hospitals are overwhelmed, their doctors unable to function properly. And the crisis is not going to be limited to New York.
Then there is homelessness, a largely though not entirely urban problem. How many of us, middle-aged or older, ever thought we would walk down an American street as we would Calcutta, indifferent to desperation because we are so hardened to it?
A host of economic problems menaces our position in the world: slow growth in productivity, inadequate investment and saving, a tax structure and cultural milieu that encourage business to think of the short term instead of the long. Again, there is no sign of a serious effort to address the dangers.
Finally there is the most profound problem of all, the environment. George Bush said he would be the ''environment President,'' too. His record in office is a particularly graphic example of the current American habit of talking about problems without doing anything that would be really difficult.
Mr. Bush has taken a more caring position on the environment than President Reagan. He picked a genuine conservationist, William K. Reilly, to head the Environmental Protection Agency.
But on a succession of tough issues Mr. Reilly has been overruled. When he drafted a Bush speech on the greenhouse effect and global warming, the speech was toned down and those very phrases eliminated. The President did not call for international action, as the State Department as well as the E.P.A. had proposed.
The President promised a strong policy to protect wetlands. But after weeks of delay, the Administration issued wetlands rules that gave way on key points to developers.
The White House chief of staff, John Sununu, has been blamed in the press for those and other retreats on the environment. But of course Mr. Sununu does what his boss wants.
On all the hard issues Mr. Bush is doing fine in the polls by talking but not acting. The public is hardly in a daring mood these days, and doing something always offends someone. But leadership requires more than the attitude of the Victorian verse:
 
Mother, may I go out to swim?
Yes, my darling daughter;
Hang your clothes on a hickory limb,
But don't go near the water.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OP-ED

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); SOUTH AFRICA (93%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); FRANCE (71%); GERMANY (71%); INDIA (57%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); WEST BENGAL, INDIA (57%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; ENVIRONMENT EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); TRENDS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (75%); BUDGETS (75%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (75%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (74%); ENDOWMENTS (73%); FAMILY (73%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (72%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (71%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (71%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (69%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (68%); MEASLES (66%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (64%); INFANT MORTALITY (50%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%); PRODUCTIVITY (50%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, ANTHONY GEORGE W BUSH (55%); 



559 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 5, Column 2; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: Salary Arbitration a Key Factor As Baseball Talks Are Stalled

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

 BODY:
Salary arbitration, the system that has resulted in an aggregate 98 percent raise for about one-quarter of all major league players, continued to keep baseball's club owners and players sufficiently apart yesterday to jeopardize the start of the exhibition schedule.
The chief negotiators for both sides reported after a two-hour session that they were still mired in a deadlock over arbitration. The talks had resumed, after a two-day recess, on the fifth day of the owners' spring training lockout.
The talks were held at the commissioner's office in Manhattan. Negotiators will meet again today. 
''It's going to take a lot of flexibility on both sides,'' Charles O'Connor, the owners' labor spokesman, said after the fruitless meeting, discussing the arbitration issue.
Acknowledging the problem, Donald Fehr, his counterpart for the players, said: ''If we are not at the point where we are implicating the first regularly scheduled spring training games, we are very close to that. It takes more than just a day or two or three of tossing on the side for a pitcher to throw in any kind of a game situation. The first games are clearly in jeopardy.''
The exhibition schedule is supposed to begin March 1, and Fehr said both sides would have to reach a settlement this week for the initial games to be played.
No settlement, however, is in sight. Other issues remain to be resolved, particularly the owners' contribution to the players' pension and benefit plans, but for the moment, salary arbitration is the seemingly insurmountable roadblock to a settlement.
The players want to reduce from three years to two the amount of major league service needed for arbitration eligibility. The owners want some way of controlling salaries gained in arbitration.
The owners, in Commissioner Fay Vincent's plan, proposed a 75 percent cap on salary increases in salary arbitration. But O'Connor said yesterday that proposal was more off the bargaining table than on.
''We've heard the union loud and clear,'' he said.
The owners have made it clear that they do not like salary arbitration. The results from this year's salary arbitration proceedings make it clear why the owners don't like it.
With only a handful of cases remaining, the players who filed for arbitration and have negotiated salaries or had them decided by arbitrators have had their salaries increase by an aggregate 98 percent from last year. That is up from a 71 percent increase the arbitration group had last year.
Players who have lost their cases and those who were eligible for arbitration for the first time have fared especially well.
The 10 players who have lost in arbitration have increased their salaries by 110 percent. A year ago, the losers in arbitration gained an aggregate 16 percent increase in salaries. The 51 first-timers have had raises amounting to 162 percent, compared with 137 percent for last year's first-time eligibles.
While the figures explain why the owners would like to eliminate arbitration or at least alter it significantly, they also show why the players are adamant about keeping it intact and want to expand it to more players.
The players want to return the eligibility level to two years, the standard that was in effect until the last negotiations in 1985. The owners' revenue-sharing plan would have eliminated arbitration altogether. Having abandoned that proposal, the owners, through Vincent, went to the idea of a cap on arbitration awards.
''Nothing's going to happen as long as there are caps on the table,'' Paul Molitor, the American League player representative, said before the negotiators resumed talks today. ''There won't be an agreement. There's no number that would be acceptable.''
Of the 20 players whose salaries have been decided by arbitrators, five winning players and five losers have had their salaries rise by more than 75 percent. Numerous other players who have negotiated contracts have had such increases. The players feel that if there were a 75 percent cap on awards, clubs would have little incentive for negotiating such contracts.
As for the players' desire to reduce the eligibility level, Molitor said: ''We made a concession in 1985 based on their revenue projections. They said they had economic problems. Now that that's no longer true, we asked that we get back the year we gave then. Two years is the right way to go.''
''They have to do something,'' said Molitor, whose salary rose 72 percent in average annual contract value this year after he filed for arbitration. ''They haven't come in our direction. We'll just have to wait and listen.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (57%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (57%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; MAJOR LEAGUES; LOCKOUTS BASEBALL (92%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); LOCKOUTS (89%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (89%); LABOR UNIONS (79%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (77%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY PAUL MOLITOR (71%); FAY VINCENT (57%); DONALD FEHR (57%); CHARLES O'CONNOR (57%); 



560 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 585 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL
 
U.S. and Japanese officials seem to feel that the election victory of Japan's governing party has strengthened that nation's leadership after a year of scandal and power struggles. Tokyo may thus find it easier to offer concessions and compromises as Japan heads into an especially intense series of negotiations with the U.S. News analysis. [Page A1.] Japan's business community expressed relief but little joy at the victory of the Liberal Democratic Party. [D2.] 
 
China broke its silence over President Bush's decision to void the sale of a Seattle aerospace supplier to a Chinese Government agency. China's official news agency said the purchase of Mamco Manufacturing was legal and did not pose any threat to the U.S., as the Administration had asserted. [D1.]
 
Hungary's stock exchange seems more like a student project than a functioning financial market. The first stock market in Eastern Europe, it consists of a dozen personal computers around a square table in a stuffy, windowless room. [D1.]
 
THE ECONOMY
 
The fallout from the bankruptcy of Drexel Burnham Lambert is likely to include higher interest rates. Some securities dealers note that although the liquidation of Drexel's holdings was swift, much of its paper remains on the shelves of brokers and other intermediaries. This overhanging inventory is expected to add upward pressure on domestic interest rates. Credit Markets. [D1.]
 
Union leaders and a new investment firm are forming a fund to help workers buy factories that might otherwise be closed. The Employee Partnership Fund was announced in Florida at the annual gathering of leaders of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. [D1.]
 
What happened to the $180 billion of paper money that seems to have disappeared? Experts are unable to explain such currency mysteries, but some think that most of the money has moved abroad, in drug transactions and in legal payments. [D1.]
 
COMPANIES
 
The big U.S. airlines are gambling on a turnaround and for the most part are proceeding with ambitious expansion plans. With a record number of new planes set for delivery, the carriers could find themselves stretched to remain profitable, and the outlook for some is not promising. [D1.]
 
Twenty-five-thousand Drexel brokerage accounts were acquired by Shearson Lehman Hutton. Drexel's British units are dismissing 210 employees. More than 3,000 employees were dismissed in the U.S. on Friday. The firm's parent company filed for bankruptcy protection last week. [D10.]
 
MARKETS
 
The dollar closed slightly higher against the yen in overseas trading. The yen weakened after the Liberal Democrats retained power in Japan. U.S. markets were closed. [D10.]
 
TODAY'S COLUMNS
 
Henszey & Albert offers prospective clients a range of services, including package design, sales promotion and direct marketing. Randall Rothenberg: Advertising. [D11.]
 
VMS Realty Partners' suspension of nonessential payments to outsiders provided further evidence of serious problems in the real estate syndication business. Robert A. Stanger, a consultant on real estate securities, says better investment judgment, not more regulation, is the answer. Talking Business. [D2.]
 
Three Japanese companies are set to benefit from their ties to the aerospace industry, some analysts say. Mitsubishi, Kawasaki and Fuji are among the biggest foreign suppliers of components to the Boeing Company. Market Place. [D8.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TITLE: BUSINESS DIGEST (NYT)

TICKER: LEH (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (93%); HUNGARY (79%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); LIBERAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (56%); 

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (88%); CURRENCIES (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SALES & SELLING (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (76%); PARENT COMPANIES (76%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); LIQUIDATIONS (75%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); SALES PROSPECTING (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); DIRECT MARKETING (73%); US DOLLAR (73%); SALES PROMOTIONS (70%); DISMISSALS (69%); JAPANESE YEN (67%); AIRLINES (66%); INTEREST RATES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); LABOR UNIONS (64%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (54%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 



561 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 3086 words

HEADLINE: Airlines' Big Gamble on Expansion

BYLINE: By AGIS SALPUKAS

 BODY:
The nation's biggest airlines, stung by higher fuel prices and a slowdown in traffic in recent months, are nevertheless gambling on a turnaround and for the most part proceeding with ambitious expansion plans. But with a record number of new planes set for delivery this year, the carriers could find themselves stretched to remain profitable if current conditions continue, analysts say.
Much of the expansion will be focused on international routes and on filling vacuums in the United States that are created as weaker airlines retreat. Analysts expect weaker carriers like Pan American World Airways and Trans World Airlines to sell off more of their routes if hard times continue. That would only solidify the position of the large carriers that analysts think are most likely to prosper in the near future: American, United, Delta, Northwest and USAir.
Expansion might not seem the best course at a time when the market is weak and retrenchment could prove smarter. But most airline executives say it is worth the risk to grab the limited number of airport gates, landing slots and international routes when they become available. 
Most analysts agree that it is too early to make major cuts in expansion plans, but some warn that if things do not pick up by the second half of this year, there will be cause for worry.
''It's going to be a rough year,'' said Paul Karos, airline analyst at First Boston. ''Fortunes will have to improve or they will have to begin looking at changing expansion plans.''
After a strong first half last year in which their operating profit was $1.2 billion, the industry's major carriers had a loss of $488 million in the fourth quarter, finishing with a loss of $38 million for the second half of the year, estimated Helane Becker, airline analyst at Shearson Lehman Hutton. The 1989 operating profit of about $1.2 billion was well below the $2.95 billion in 1988.
Profits will fall 15 to 30 percent more this year, Mr. Karos estimated. His estimate was fairly typical of those by analysts.
The Air Transport Association, the industry trade group, does not yet have profit figures for the entire year 1989, but it found that even without including the fourth quarter -the industry's worst last year - operating profit for the first three quarters had fallen 23 percent, to $2.3 billion, from $3 billion in the period a year earlier. The association's figures include many smaller carriers that Ms. Becker's do not.
 
Caught Off Guard by Fuel Costs
The rapid rise in fuel costs, up by more than 30 percent in the last year, to about 70 cents a gallon, has caught airline management largely off guard and forced fare increases. Traffic, which had risen robustly in 1987 and 1988 in terms of miles traveled by paying passengers, grew by only 2 percent last year, with domestic flights virtually flat.
Those factors, combined with the collapse of the United Airlines buyout in October and a decline in takeover speculation, have contributed to a 35 percent drop in airline-industry stock prices in four months.
Despite the stagnation in traffic, the industry expects to take delivery of a record 250 airplanes this year, up from the 194 delivered last year. Capacity is expected to grow about 3 to 4 percent this year, compared with 1 percent last year, analysts say.
Thus, travelers will probably find plenty of discount fares as airlines compete to fill their extra seats, although the industry is expected to continue to seek fare increases until fuel costs moderate.
 
Vulnerable to a Recession
The industry has ordered or has an option to buy about 2,500 planes worth $130 billion over the next decade. Such a pace of expansion makes airlines more vulnerable in any recession, Ms. Becker said.
''To finance that they will have to do unbelievably well,'' she said. ''I don't think they are going to be able to raise fares to cover a lot of the spending.''
Still, some executives of major carriers are not ready to begin cutting their ambitious expansion plans significantly, although some are becoming more cautious.
''We laid out our growth plan with the idea that things could change,'' said Donald J. Carty, senior vice president for finance and planning at American Airlines. ''We have not had any second thoughts.''
Delta Air Lines has also not changed course, said Al Kolakowski, vice president for sales. ''While this year may be softer, it was not totally unexpected.''
But the surge in the price of fuel has made other carriers, like USAir, a little more cautious. Randall Malin, executive vice president for marketing at USAir, said the airline expected to phase out more of its older planes and fly 2 percent less capacity than it had planned this year.
 
Two-Tier Wage Systems
Since the deregulation of the industry 12 years ago, airlines have sensed that they will not remain viable unless they grow enough to support the frequent-flier programs, computer reservation systems, hub operations and route systems that the biggest carriers use to great advantage. What is more, because many airlines have adopted two-tier wage systems, which pay newer workers on a lower scale, any expansion means that per-employee labor costs go down.
Because airport gate space, landing slots and cities that are well suited to be hubs are limited, the airlines jump at each opportunity to grow.
If high fuel costs and weakness in traffic persist, the biggest airlines stand to fare better than smaller, financially weaker carriers. The fleets of the three weaker carriers -Eastern, T.W.A. and Pan Am - are made up mostly of older airplanes that consume as much as 40 percent more fuel than some of the new planes. What is more, those carriers have fewer new planes on order.
Such weaker carriers may therefore have to sell more of their routes and other assets to raise the cash to keep operating, said George James, president of Airline Economics Inc., a consulting firm in Washington.
The industry enters the 1990's with eight airline companies controlling more than 90 percent of the market. Following are summaries of each company's prospects and maps showing each carrier's major hub cities. No. 1 Carrier Is Set For Still More Expansion Weakness in passenger traffic or not, the nation's largest carrier has been expanding so quickly that it does not have enough planes to reach all the European cities in the way it wants. But help is on the way. American Airlines, owned by the AMR Corporation, has 446 planes on order or on option. It expects most of its expansion in the next decade to be to Europe and Latin America.
Growth has been essential to American's success under deregulation. In 1984 Robert L. Crandall, chairman and president, persuaded his unions to accept a two-tier wage system. Mr. Crandall has since expanded the carrier's work force to 79,000, from 42,000 in 1984. And because most of the new people were hired at what have become known as B-scale wages, American has made itself far more competitive.
To stay on the fast track, Mr. Crandall scored a coup in December when he acquired the Latin American routes of Eastern Airlines for $349 million. Analysts say the deal, while expensive, will pay off handsomely in the long term. Because international routes are governed by agreements between governments and because airports have limited capacity, such routes are difficult to get.
About 8 percent of American's revenue now comes from international routes, up from 3 percent in 1984.
But while expansion has increased AMR's revenues - up 18.8 percent last year, to $10.48 billion - profit has fallen. In the fourth quarter it earned $38.9 million, down from $116.7 million a year earlier. For the year profits were down 4.6 percent, to $454.8 million. Distracted by Buyout Moves In Effort to Get Back on Top The nation's largest airline until American passed it two years ago, United has attempted to regain the lead but has frequently been distracted by turmoil involving the ownership and holdings of the company.
Most recently, Coniston Partners, which owns 11.8 percent of United's parent, the UAL Corporation, has put pressure on the company's board to do more for shareholders. The stock price has fallen 56 percent, to $130.75, from $294 since a buyout deal fell apart in October. The UAL board is considering a large payout to stockholders or a sale of the company, possibly to a group including the carrier's unions. But no bid has materialized.
Whatever is done, United will almost certainly end up with much higher debt and less money to spend on new aircraft and expansion. Management worries that the airline will therefore be at a disadvantage against the likes of American.
 
Difficult in Other Ways
The takeover attempt aside, last year was difficult in other ways for UAL. Fourth-quarter profit fell 67.4 percent, to $6.8 million. For the year the company earned $342.2 million, compared with $1.12 billion in 1988, when the company had extraordinary gains from the sale of assets. Revenue for the year rose 8.9 percent, to $9.8 billion.
United grew by only 2.8 percent last year in terms of available seat miles, compared with 12.9 percent for American. United's expansion plans for this year once again focus on the Pacific and Asia. But the airline will also begin its first flights to Europe on May 15. Strength of Route System Forces Takeover Defenses Delta Air Lines, the nation's third-largest carrier, is considered one of the strongest domestic airlines in terms of financial resources, fleet age and network of hubs and routes. The carrier's strength makes it an attractive takeover target, and Delta has taken some defensive steps, selling 5 percent stakes to Singapore Airlines and Swissair and buying back some of its own shares.
But Delta, which has historically expanded during downturns in the industry and has 517 planes on order or option, could find itself in a difficult position if the current problems last a long time. In its second quarter, the most recent, Delta reported that while revenues rose 10.1 percent, to $2.05 billion, earnings fell 25 percent, to $64.2 million.
 
A Slow Start Globally
The airline also has higher labor costs, a weaker computer reservation system and a slower start on international service than its major rivals.
Delta made an important acquisition in Western Airlines in 1987; the deal transformed Delta into a nationwide carrier and gave it a strong presence in the West. It has built up Salt Lake City as a hub, coordinating flights with its major hub in Atlanta. In the coming year Delta will concentrate on expanding in Europe.
Eastern Airlines, trying to rebuild under the protection of bankruptcy laws, has made Atlanta its major hub, taking on Delta. So far, however, Eastern has had a hard time attracting passengers accustomed to flying Delta. Known for Bouncing Back, But Record Losses Mount Frank Lorenzo's airline group - Eastern and Continental, which together have the fourth-largest share of the market - has surprised some analysts with its resilience. But for 1989 the company reported the largest loss in the history of the industry - $885.6 million, on revenues of $6.7 billion - topping the record loss of $718.6 million it had set only a year before. And analysts worry about whether the Texas Air Corporation can generate the cash to finance its $5.1 billion debt, particularly if Eastern fails to reorganize successfully under bankruptcy protection and has to be liquidated.
Continental has emerged as a nationwide carrier with a major presence in the East. It is also flying routes in the Pacific and to Europe. After large losses while it integrated People Express and Frontier Airlines, the carrier had two profitable quarters last year, and it narrowed its loss in the most recent quarter despite high fuel prices.
But even though the carrier fits Mr. Lorenzo's concept of what an airline should be under deregulation - one that has the lowest labor costs in the industry and well-placed hubs - Mr. Lorenzo has continued to try to sell it. Keeping Continental in the race with its bigger rivals is expensive, and Mr. Lorenzo likes to shop the carrier around to see if an attractive sale can be arranged.
 
Rebuilding Quickly After Strike
Eastern, which is trying to reorganize as a smaller carrier under the protection of the bankruptcy laws, surprised many people by rebuilding so quickly from a strike by machinists, pilots and flight attendants that began last March. But the airline has had rough going of late. While its pilots and flight attendants have called off their strike, the airline's passenger loads have been low and, under pressure from unsecured creditors, Eastern's management has scaled back its plan to rebuild the carrier.
The goal now is to be about two-thirds its former size, compared with more than 80 percent last fall. Eastern lost $852.3 million last year and expects to lose $155 million in the first six months of 1990. The carrier expects to begin to break-even after that.
Eastern will soon file a reorganization plan with the bankruptcy court outlining how it plans to use its cash reserves of $600 million to rebuild around its new hub in Atlanta.
Most analysts say Eastern must win back customers and begin to break-even by this summer if it is to become a viable carrier. Otherwise it will have to be liquidated. Fate Now in Hands of Man With Little Experience The fate of Northwest, the nation's fifth-largest airline company, is now in the hands of a man with almost no airline experience. Alfred A. Checchi, its chairman, who took the carrier private in August, and the man he brought in as president, Frederic V. Malek, have spent much of their careers in the hotel business, at the Marriott Corporation.
Northwest has historically had a strong balance sheet and a well-maintained fleet. Mr. Checchi and Mr. Malek have embraced much of the growth strategy of their predecessor, Steven G. Rothmeier, the former chairman. They have kept in place his orders for aircraft, which total 229 for delivery through the 1990's. This year the company will take delivery of only 12 aircraft, but by 1994 the rate will increase to 51 planes.
The airline is concentrating most of its expansion on routes in the Pacific, where the airline expects capacity to grow by about 20 percent. Northwest expects expansion on its domestic routes to be modest - about 2 to 3 percent a year.
 
An Image for Service
Mr. Checchi and Mr. Malek think their own strength is in improving the airline's image for service, which suffered after a merger with Republic Airlines in 1986. Northwest recently said it would spend $422 million over the next five years to improve service, adding flight attendants, upgrading the food and reconfiguring its planes.
But the carrier, the biggest United States airline across the Pacific, will soon face more competition as routes are awarded to new carriers. And although the airline is strong financially, the takeover has increased its debt, making it more vulnerable during a long downturn. An Uncertain Outlook After Debt Is Piled On After taking over T.W.A. in 1985, Carl C. Icahn helped the airline return to profitability in 1987 and 1988. Then he was distracted by his battle for control of Texaco Inc. and later the USX Corporation. And many of his employees were not pleased when in late 1988 he took the airline private, ending up with $469 million for himself but leaving the company with $2.6 billion in debt.
Now, with growing competition on its routes to Europe and with higher fuel costs for its older-than-average fleet, the nation's sixth-largest airline has an outlook that is uncertain at best. The carrier is expected to report a loss of about $150 million for 1989, and that is after counting a $150 million gain from the interest on its large amount of cash.
While Mr. Icahn, prodded by the airline's unions, placed a $3 billion order for new airplanes a year ago, the first of the planes will not be delivered until 1994. Some analysts worry that by then the airline will be too far behind to catch up. After Piedmont Merger, Big Adjustment Problems USAir, the nation's seventh-largest airline company, is undergoing what has become a rite of passage for a carrier merging with another major carrier to stay in the race with the big airlines. Despite a huge effort to merge smoothly with Piedmont Airlines beginning in August, there have been problems.
The transition cost more than expected. In the fourth quarter the carrier lost $101.7 million, compared with income of $22.8 million a year earlier. And for the year USAir lost $63.2 million, compared with income of $165 million in 1988. Revenues for the year rose 9 percent, to $6.2 billion.
The carrier's service also suffered, and its on-time performance rate plummeted. There have been more than the usual number of canceled flights and misguided bags.
While performance has been improving as USAir has adjusted its timetables to account for delays, the carrier is expected to lose money during the first half of 1990, Ms. Becker said. Still, analysts say the carrier is strong financially and has a dominant position in many Eastern cities.
The airline has concentrated on consolidating the markets it gained with its mergers with Piedmont and with Pacific Southwest Airlines in 1987. It is the largest carrier not to have set its sights on rapid expansion internationally, although it does have some flights to Europe. Slow Liquidation Seen Without Merger Partner Pan American World Airways has survived on money raised by selling assets, but there is general agreement that the carrier will end up slowly liquidating itself unless it can link up with another major airline.
For the first nine months of 1989 Pan Am lost $158.3 million, after losing $21 million a year earlier. The carrier has not reported fourth-quarter results. Revenues for the nine months totaled $2.7 billion, down 2.4 percent from the year-earlier figure.
Thomas G. Plaskett, chairman and chief executive, acknowledges that the carrier has no future unless it can link up with a strong airline. Talks between Pan Am management and each of the major carriers have taken place from time to time. Pan Am's international routes, particularly its operation out of Heathrow Airport in London, are especially attractive. But no carrier has been willing to take on the enormous task of renewing Pan Am's aging fleet and integrating its unionized workers with its own employees.

GRAPHIC: graphs of miles flown by paying passengers; fuel prices per gallon; airline industry's operating profits from '81 to '89 (pg. D1); airline stocks weekly close in '89; '89 U.S. airlines market share; number of new planes from '85 to '89 (Sources: Air Transport Assoc., First Boston, Knight-Ridder Tradecenter and Shearson Lehman Hutton) (pg. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (90%); PAN AM CLIPPER CONNECTION (57%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (53%); AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; INDUSTRY PROFILES; PASSENGER SERVICES; JET FUEL; PRICES AIRLINES (92%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); JET FUEL (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); LAYOFFS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (68%); 

PERSON: SALPUKAS, AGIS HELANE BECKER (65%); 



562 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1095 words

HEADLINE: Drexel Fall May Push Rates Up

BYLINE: By H. J. MAIDENBERG

 BODY:
While the credit markets appear to have weathered the collapse of Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. last week, the full fallout from the bankruptcy is likely to include higher interest rates.
One reason for the debt markets' calm response to the liquidation of Drexel's holdings, ranging from Treasury issues to high-yield, high-risk ''junk bonds,'' is that not all of the paper was absorbed by investors after the firm's parent, the Drexel Burnham Lambert Group Inc., sought protection under Chapter 11 of the Federal Bankruptcy Code on Tuesday.
 
Overhanging Inventory
Some Government securities dealers noted on Friday that while the liquidation of Drexel's holdings was swift, much of the paper from its portfolio remained on the shelves of brokers and other intermediaries. That overhanging inventory will be one factor adding upward pressure on domestic interest rates, since the increase in supply is likely to lower bond prices and raise yields. 
Other pressure on interest rates will come from overseas, because the cost of credit in the United States is increasingly governed by foreign interest rates, which are rising.
''One of the hidden problems facing domestic borrowers is the concern that has gripped the European commercial paper market since the Drexel Burnham bankruptcy,'' said John M. Blin, the president of Advanced Portfolio Strategies, an investment manager for financial institutions.
''It was Drexel Burnham's need to cover some $30 million of maturing commercial paper on Feb. 12 that led to its bankruptcy filing the next day,'' he said. ''How much more Drexel Burnham commercial paper is still uncovered we do not know. What is known is that the European commercial paper market has in recent years become an important source of credit for many domestic corporations, including Wall Street houses such as Drexel Burnham.''
 
Rolling Over Debt
Commercial paper, sometimes termed capital notes, are unsecured i.o.u.'s, generally for 30 days. The paper is continually rolled over so that, in effect, it becomes much longer debt. Corporate borrowers favor such short-term financing because it often does not show up in their statements as debt, as do most other borrowings.
Many Wall Street brokerages also prefer to use the Eurocommercial paper market rather than borrow from banks, which are increasingly expanding into all areas of the securities business.
Because of the collapse of Drexel, once considered a prime name in the Eurocommercial paper market, Mr. Blin said European lenders were wary about extending such credit and would undoubtedly make it more expensive for borrowers.
''All this comes at a time when domestic banks have become far more cautious in extending credit,'' Mr. Blin noted. ''Many of these banks were still reeling from losses on foreign loans, when their real estate and other domestic loans began going bad.''
 
Higher Japan Rates Seen
David M. Jones, the chief economist at Aubrey G. Lanston Inc., a primary dealer in government securities, observed: ''Foreign interest rates have become a major influence on the domestic cost of credit. We expect the Bank of Japan to raise its discount rate from its present level of 4.5 percent once their election results are in.''
The Liberal Democratic Party of Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu was returned to power in Japan's national elections on Sunday. The party has governed for 35 years.
The markets will be watching closely today, as Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, testifies before the House Banking Committee about the Fed's projections for economic growth and the money supply.
While the testimony will be closely scrutinized, many economists, including Irwin L. Kellner, the chief economist of the Manufacturers Hanover Trust Corporation, contend that the Fed ''has lost most of its control over monetary policy, which is now increasingly governed by developments in foreign markets.''
 
Policies Under Fire
Mr. Greenspan will be facing many legislators who agree with the Bush Adminstration that the Fed is keeping interest rates too high and that this policy is keeping the economy from realizing its potential.
''He will continue to justify the absence of easing and repeat his theme that the specter of a recession is receding and that the economic decline is bottoming out,'' said Philip Braverman, the chief economist of DKB Securities, the domestic arm of Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank Ltd. in Tokyo, the world's largest bank.
Mr. Jones of Aubrey G. Lanston said the Fed faced two vexing problems. ''One, the economy is still strong enough to give the Fed concern about inflation,'' he explained. ''Secondly, if the Fed eases credit, it could weaken the dollar and discourage foreign investors from dollar-denominated securities, including Treasury paper.''
Further upward pressure on interest rates is expected in Europe, particularly in West Germany. The rise in West German rates is fueled by fears there that moves toward monetary and political union with East Germany could cause a sharp rise in inflation. Rising West German interest rates have already driven up the cost of credit in Britain and elsewhere in Europe.
Last week, Canada, the United States' largest trading partner, sharply raised its basic interest rates, and it may have to do so again.
 
Influences on Rates
Mr. Braverman of DKB Securities also noted that the Treasury's auctions of $18 billion in two- and five-year notes tomorrow and Thursday could keep interest rates from falling.
So could the working capital needs of the Resolution Trust Corporation, which is expected to announce its short-term cash needs. The agency, which was created in August to sort out the debacles in the savings industry, is expected to tap the credit market for as much as $100 billion by selling short-term paper this year. Its two initial borrowings through selling long-term bonds proved costly.
Mr. Braverman expects Resolution Trust to borrow $11 billion in the balance of the quarter, initially through offerings of cash-management bills. ''Later on,'' he continued, ''the Treasury will help the R.T.C. by adding $1 billion or so each to their weekly auctions of three- and six-month bills.''
Last week, the prices of corporate high-grade and junk bonds were basically firm. In the Treasury market, the 8 1/2 percent bond due in 2020 rose to 8.46 percent, from 8.33 percent, and a modest flight of capital to the short-term market caused a dip of two-hundredths of a percentage point in the discount rate on 90-day bills, to 7.68 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: DREXEL BURNHAM (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: DREXEL BURNHAM LAMBERT INC

SUBJECT: CREDIT; INTEREST (MONEY); BANKRUPTCIES; CORPORATE BONDS; STOCKS AND BONDS INTEREST RATES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); BONDS (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); LIQUIDATIONS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (90%); PAPER & PACKAGING (89%); PULP & PAPER MARKETS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMMERCIAL PAPER (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (77%); FOREIGN LENDING (66%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (66%); 

PERSON: MAIDENBERG, H J JOHN M BLIN (58%); 



563 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1576 words

HEADLINE: Billions Elude Dollar Tally; Is Currency in Use Abroad?

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 19

 BODY:
Call it the mystery of the missing money.
Why is it, some want to know, that about $1,000 worth of currency is now in circulation for each of the 240 million Americans when the Government estimates that people and businesses hold the equivalent of $250 for each person? What happened to the $180 billion or so of paper money that has been printed over the years and seems to have disappeared?
No one really has the answer. But specialists think most has moved abroad, some in drug transactions but some from other sources like repatriations from immigrants and payment for imported goods.
The flow has been so great, the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, told Congress last year, that ''perhaps more than half of U.S. currency is outside the United States.'' 
For most of the last 30 years, the growth of currency in circulation was quite predictable, closely correlated to the amount of personal spending and interest rates - as spending grew, the amount of currency in circulation expanded in kind. But in late 1988, the Federal Reserve found currency growth in recent years to have substantially outpaced increases in personal spending. It called this an unprecedented development, occurring for ''no readily apparent reason.'' Experts are still baffled.
''It's quite a mystery where all the cash is,'' said Gregory E. Elliehausen, a Federal Reserve Board analyst who has studied the phenomenon. ''I think we'd love to know.''
 
Effects Are Not Clear
Another thing that is not clear is whether - if huge amounts of currency are moving abroad - the effects are good or bad.
Although the parallels are rough, the current upheaval in Eastern Europe has directed some attention to the American experience. For example, Chancellor Helmut Kohl of West Germany is proposing monetary union with East Germany by making Bonn's mark, which already circulates outside the country to a limited extent, their common currency.
Some economists say such blurring of the currency borders tends to make the world economy less efficient and therefore all of us slightly poorer. One reason could be that in the case of the United States currency, dollars are often not invested in new enterprises that would create wealth.
But others contend that the availability of dollars in financially distressed countries like Argentina -where billions of dollars circulate as a second currency - probably allows transactions that would otherwise not occur and actually increases total wealth.
One thing, though, is sure: The United States makes a profit out of this through seigniorage, the difference between what it costs a Government to print or mint money and the money's face value. Because it costs only about 2 1/2 cents to print a $1 bill, there is a Treasury profit of 97 1/2 cents if this bill winds up, say, under a foreign mattress. For larger denomination bills the production costs are the same and the profit even greater.
Think of it as similar to American Express selling traveler's checks that are never cashed. Is $250 Per Capita Too Low? The explanation that the missing currency is moving overseas arises to some degree through the process of elimination. The other reasons sometimes raised for the discrepancy between the $250 in currency held per capita and the $1,000 printed per capita do not seem to explain much.
The possibility that people fib about how much currency they have seems unpersuasive because there is no obvious motive for them to do so. Those who suggest the huge rise in currency is the result of the proliferation of automatic teller machines come up against the fact that the machines probably reduce the number of people carrying large sums of ''walking around'' money because the machines make cash replenishment easier. Moreover, larger purchases are increasingly made with credit cards and checks.
Do merchants and other businesses have the missing currency? It seems unlikely because most are sophisticated enough to put cash to work earning interest, and they are also generally eager for security reasons to keep cash in stores to the change-making minimum. At most, business holdings match those of individuals, the Federal Reserve has estimated, accounting for about $125 per capita.
Collectors of paper money are assumed to have only negligible amounts.
 
Effect of Illegal Activities
But this leaves no accounting for about 75 percent of the United States currency that has been printed.
Many people attribute the currency explosion to drug traffic and other illegal or underground activities. Among other things, they cite a rapid increase in demand for high-denomination bills, which officials say do not exhibit the seasonal variations in demand of lesser-denomination notes.
Yet a recent Treasury study on whether to withdraw $100 notes as legal tender because of their purported use in illegal activity found that ''the usage of these notes in financial transactions is limited.'' The study also reported that only 12 percent of currency seizures by the Customs Service in 1988 consisted of $50 and $100 bills and that random seizures by the Drug Enforcement Administration from 1986 to 1988 showed a similar pattern.
At the same time, the part of the underground economy consisting of legal activities that typically involve tax evasion may well be growing more slowly. Sharp cuts in Federal income tax rates have reduced incentives for tax cheats.
 
Dollars Abroad
In looking abroad for the explanation, political instability in Eastern Europe and elsewhere may have signficantly increased recent demand for dollars. Mr. Greenspan had said in his testimony last year that dollars had long acted ''as sort of a second currency in a number of countries.''
The Fed chief mentioned, without further identification, one Latin American country in which $5 billion to $7 billion in United States currency was then circulating freely. It may have been Argentina, which recently has considered ''dollarization'' of its economy as a possible remedy for hyperinflation. John S. Reed, chairman of Citicorp and an experienced Latin American hand, noted last year that the dollar is so widely used in Argentina now that ''I received U.S. change from a taxi driver.''
Another example is Poland, where the Government in 1988 estimated that $5 billion of dollars was circulating along with other hard currencies.
So now the United States is in the peculiar position of borrowing frantically from abroad to cover its budget deficit while exporting currency to the four corners of the world.
 
New U.S. Printing Plant
This year the Government will spend $182 million to print seven billion notes, a level of demand that has helped force the Treasury to build a new printing plant, its first outside Washington. This plant, in Fort Worth, is expected to open by early 1991. Printing costs are expected to rise sharply from the present $26 per 1,000 notes when new bills designed to foil copy-machine counterfeiters are introduced.
One economist who thinks the effect of huge dollar exports is economically undesirable is John Mueller, chief economist for Bell Mueller Cannon Inc., an Arlington, Va., research firm. He said that while this was a ''pure boon'' to the Treasury because it allowed the Government to spend more than it taxed its citizens or borrowed in capital markets, the overall effect was probably harmful.
He reasons that these dollars are used heavily abroad to store value -a usually lesser characteristic of money than as a means of payment. They are kept under mattresses or exchanged hand-to-hand rather than invested in wealth-creating businesses, he said.
On the other hand, Alan S. Blinder, professor of economics at Princeton University, suggested that the existence of such offshore dollars ''probably increases the efficiency of the world economy'' by allowing transactions that would otherwise not take place.
Richard N. Cooper, a Harvard economics professor and formerly Under Secretary of State for Economic Affairs, has done some research on the subject and said a flow of dollars into a country shows something is wrong with the foreign economy. This ''makes sensible economic management in those countries more difficult,'' he said, because the supply cannot be controlled and because it contributes to an underground economy that cannot be taxed.
 
Reversal Might Be a Problem
Paul Samuelson of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology said he does not think ''it's anything bad'' for the United States to be sending so much of its currency abroad. He noted that Israeli-held dollars had helped cure that country's triple-digit inflation in the early 1980's. But there might be a problem, the Nobel laureate said, if the dollar became suddenly unpopular and the process ''reversed.''
More technically, however, it is widely accepted that the vast foreign holdings of American currency have rendered the aggregate that the Fed calls the monetary base, the bulk of which consists of currency, nearly useless as an analytical tool, much less a policy target.
One obvious American gain from widespread acceptance of the dollar - the world's principal means of black-market exchange, Professor Blinder called it - is the ego boost and extra convenience for the nation's travelers.
''Our money is universal,'' said Ira M. Polikoff, a spokesman for the Treasury's Bureau of Engraving and Printing. ''There's not one country that won't accept it.''

GRAPHIC: Graphs of the value of U.S. paper money in circulation, by denomination. (source: Treasury Dept.); the amount of cash in circulation, including coins and currency (source: Treasury Dept.) (pg. D4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); GERMANY (90%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (53%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; DRUG TRAFFIC US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MONEY SUPPLY (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); IMMIGRATION (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (70%); IMPORT TRADE (70%); INTEREST RATES (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR ALAN GREENSPAN (54%); 



564 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: Japan Business Leaders Ambivalent on Election

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Feb. 19

 BODY:
Japan's worried business community expressed relief but little joy after the election victory Sunday of the pro-business Liberal Democratic Party. Some executives expressed concern over the economic problems that a divided Parliament faces in coming months.
Big business raised more than $200 million and perhaps as much as $1 billion to help the Liberal Democrats fend off a concerted opposition challenge in what was the most expensive election in Japanese history.
But in their comments today, many business leaders were decidedly ambivalent. Although they view the ruling party as preferable to the opposition, some executives said the Liberal Democrats did not have the will or ideas to push through effective legislation that addresses domestic economic problems. 
 
Opportunity Was Lost
''It is not a result we can be happy with,'' said a top auto industry executive. ''It was a brief opportunity for real change, and it was lost. That may be good in the short run, but over time we will pay the price in not reforming the economy, for consumers and for everyone else.''
Eishiro Saito, chairman of the Keidanren, Japan's most politically powerful business group, commented, ''I can breathe a little easier now that political stability is secured, at least for the time being.''
That stability is likely to help Japan address the growing trade tensions with the United States, some executives said. But on the domestic front, economic worries have come to the fore.
The Tokyo stock market reflected this mood. The Nikkei index rose 150 points at the opening today, in a brief flurry of excitement. By midday it was down and closed with a loss of 237.72 points, at 37,222.60. Trading volume was a dull 330 million shares.
Investors apparently focused on nagging inflationary pressures. The economy is growing smartly, but there is a severe labor shortage, which is putting upward pressure on wages. In addition, rising land prices and the weak yen have helped fuel rumors that the Bank of Japan may be prepared to raise interest rates for the fourth time in less than a year.
Inflation is running at only about 2 percent this year, but investors have focused more on the challenges ahead than the current state of affairs.
The bond market took a hammering today. Interest rates on the Government's benchmark 10-year bond jumped to 6.93 percent from 6.87 percent.
 
'An Awful Lot to Do'
''The attitude in the markets was, 'O.K., they won, but now they have to get down to business, and there's an awful lot to do,' '' said Robert Alan Feldman, an economist at Salomon Brothers Asia.
Paul A. Summerville, an economist at Jardine Fleming Securities, observed, ''There's an undercurrent of pessimism that came through once the election was out of the way.''
The Government also faces a number of tough social challenges. Many believe the Parliament must find ways to share the nation's prosperity with consumers by reducing prohibitive land and housing prices and eliminating price differentials that can make many consumer goods significantly more expensive here than overseas. In addition, the Liberal Democrats must find a way to alter the unpopular consumption tax, many in the business community believe.
All that will be difficult because, although the Liberal Democrats held on to the lower house with a reduced majority, they lost a majority in the upper house of Parliament last summer. That split means that the ruling party may face a stalemate on important legislation.
''With the situation between the two houses, it will be very difficult to create aggressive legislation,'' said Takatoshi Ito, an economics professor at Hitotsubashi University. ''There is great uncertainty because of the possibility of deadlock.''
This problem was underscored by the fact that the Japan Socialist Party, the leading opposition group, made sizable gains in the lower house. While many in the business world reject the program offered by the Socialists, they worry that the Liberal Democrats may not be able to fashion creative solutions to the nation's problems, further strengthening the Socialists in later elections.
The Socialists' success, said Eiji Suzuki, president of the Japan Federation of Employers, ''displayed the peoples' strong criticism about the Liberal Democrat's politics.''
And Mr. Saito of the Keidanren said, ''I hope the L.D.P. loses no time in reforming itself and grapples boldly with such problems as political reform, improvement of relations with other countries, and land reform so that we can realize a truly affluent society.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (52%); JARDINE FLEMING SECURITIES (50%); LIBERAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (93%); THE SOCIALISTS (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: LIBERAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (JAPAN)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ELECTIONS POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INFLATION (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); TRENDS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); BONDS (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); BOND MARKETS (69%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (67%); STOCK INDEXES (67%); CENTRAL BANKS (62%); INTEREST RATES (61%); LABOR SHORTAGES (50%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES



565 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 4, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 362 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS PEOPLE;
Consultant in Textiles Becomes Manufacturer

BYLINE: By DANIEL F. CUFF

 BODY:
Roger J. Gilmartin, a European textile consultant, will try his hand at running an American textile company, Opp and Micolas Mills Inc., which has mills in Alabama and offices in New York. One of his strategies will be to expand export markets in Europe.
Mr. Gilmartin, 45 years old, has been named chairman and chief executive of Opp and Micolas, a unit of Johnston Industries Inc. He succeeds Gaines R. Jeffcoat, 67, who will remain a vice president and director of Johnston Industries. Philip Stanley, 57, will continue as president and chief operating officer of Opp and Micolas. 
Mr. Gilmartin has been based in Brussels as senior vice president and director of Werner International Inc., management consultants to the textile and clothing industry. Werner is part of Saul Steinberg's Reliance Group Inc.
Mr. Gilmartin said he had been doing things like advising the Australian Government on textile policy. He has also been working closely for the last six years with Opp and Micolas, a Werner client.
The mill, which makes textiles for the industrial and home furnishings markets, has been looking to export markets in the last four years, Mr. Gilmartin said, and he hopes to increase that business by grafting his international experience onto managment.
''Many American mills in the export markets are opportunistic,'' he said, ''going in and out according to economic conditions. We want to have a constant presence.''
Mr. Gilmartin grew up in Britain and received a degree in textile engineering from the Bolton Institute of Technology. He became what is called in Britain a Chartered Textile Technologist.
He had started out wanting to be a journalist, he said, but took a summer job in a textile mill, found that he enjoyed the industry and applied to the textile school. Later, from 1969 to 1973, he worked for Courtaulds, a diversified British giant, as it was building a textile division.
Mr. Gilmartin is spending part of this week in Opp, Ala., population 8,000 and the site of the Opp and Micolas mills. He will be operating mostly from the New York offices and is looking for a home in the region for his wife, Lynn, and their three children.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS PEOPLE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: JII (NYSE) (68%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS313310 TEXTILE & FABRIC FINISHING MILLS (91%); SIC2261 FINISHERS OF BROADWOVEN FABRICS OF COTTON (91%); NAICS313210 BROADWOVEN FABRIC MILLS (83%); SIC2211 BROADWOVEN FABRIC MILLS, COTTON (83%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPE (92%); BELGIUM (79%); AUSTRALIA (70%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN TEXTILE CO (91%); JOHNSTON TEXTILES INC (83%); RELIANCE GROUP INC (70%); WERNER INTERNATIONAL (56%); NEW YORK (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: OPP & MICOLAS MILLS INC; JOHNSTON INDUSTRIES INC

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES TEXTILES (94%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); TEXTILE MFG (90%); TEXTILE MILLS (78%); FABRIC MILLS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (73%); CHILDREN (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (65%); 

PERSON: CUFF, DANIEL F; GILMARTIN, ROGER J; JEFFCOAT, GAINES R; STANLEY, PHILIP SAUL P STEINBERG (56%); 



566 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 8, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 589 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Aerospace Plays Develop in Japan

BYLINE: By Robert J. Cole

 BODY:
MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES, Kawasaki Heavy Industries and Fuji Heavy Industries, which are among the biggest foreign suppliers of aircraft components to the Boeing Company, ''are going to be the core of the Japanese aerospace industry,'' Dr. Edward Yardeni, economics director for Prudential-Bache Securities, forecast the other day.
And Donald M. Krueger, the aerospace analyst for Sanyo Securities Ltd. in New York, said aerospace was becoming so crucial to Mitsubishi that there was a strong chance that by the end of the decade the big Japanese company could change its name to Mitsubishi Aerospace Industries.
Mr. Krueger said he expected Mitsubishi's profits to grow sharply this year, reflecting its growth in the aerospace sector. 
For the six months ended Sept. 30, Mitsubishi's net profits soared 90 percent, to 31.2 billion yen (about $215.7 million at current rates). Kawasaki's profits jumped 48.5 percent, to 4.9 billion yen ($33.9 million). Fuji's net profits slumped 18 percent, to 5.1 billion yen ($35.3 million), and it reported a loss on operations for the period of 3.99 billion yen ($27.6 million). Picking Mitsubishi as his favorite among the three, Mr. Krueger said: ''Its stock might not move a lot tomorrow or even in the next year. But just as an investor might want G.E. as a long-term core stock in a U.S. portfolio, he or she might want Mitsubishi Heavy Industries as a long-term fundamental core stock in a Japanese portfolio. We're recommending it.''
Dr. Yardeni said the three Japanese companies are ''completely involved in building the FSX fighter with General Dynamics.'' He said Japan's Ministry of International Trade and Industry ''has been providing them with lots of seed money to stimulate aerospace.''
The three companies, which have big capitalizations, are ''in a consolidation phase,'' said Masahiko Goto, first vice president of New Japan Securities International of New York, Stocks with big capitalizations, he said, were a major force in the Japanese bull market until the middle of last year, when prices peaked.
As in other markets, he explained, interest rates are a big factor in how Japanese stocks behave. When the official Japanese discount rate was declining, as it was several years ago, he said, big-capitalization issues were big beneficiaries. Now, with rates rising, he said, smaller-capitalized issues lead the market, which is another way of saying that Mitsubishi, Kawasaki and Fuji Heavy Industries are lagging.
Mr. Krueger of Sanyo said he would ''stay away'' from Fuji Heavy Industries because the Subaru, its automotive product, was ''not selling well'' and the company, even though the Nissan Motor Company rejects the idea, might one day merge with Nissan.
He argued that while Kawasaki was similar to Mitsubishi, Mitsubishi ''is a stronger play in aerospace.''
He said he expected ''lackluster growth'' in other Mitsubishi businesses but that aerospace could become its most important sector in the next three years. He forecast that the company's revenues would rise but that profits could lag while it concentrated on getting into the market.
Mitsubishi was trading yesterday on the Tokyo Stock Exchange at 1,070 yen (about $7.40 a share); Kawasaki at 1,010 yen (about $7 a share), and Fuji at 863 yen (about $6).
The long-range Japanese strategy, some analysts argued, is to make aircraft parts now, and, through licensing agreements and joint ventures, to learn what they need to become competitive with the American industry in civil aviation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (93%); BAB (BRU) (93%); BA (NYSE) (93%); 7011 (TSE) (90%); 7270 (TSE) (84%); 7201 (TSE) (60%); 7012 (TSE) (58%); GD (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (93%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (90%); NAICS333924 INDUSTRIAL TRUCK, TRACTOR, TRAILER & STACKER MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (90%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (90%); SIC3612 POWER, DISTRIBUTION, & SPECIALTY TRANSFORMERS (90%); SIC3537 INDUSTRIAL TRUCKS, TRACTORS, TRAILERS & STACKERS (90%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (90%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (58%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (58%); NAICS336992 MILITARY ARMORED VEHICLE, TANK & TANK COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: KAWASAKI, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (93%); MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES LTD (90%); FUJI HEAVY INDUSTRIES LTD (84%); NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (60%); KAWASAKI HEAVY INDUSTRIES USA INC (58%); KAWASAKI HEAVY INDUSTRIES LTD (58%); GENERAL DYNAMICS CORP (53%); NEW JAPAN SECURITIES INTERNATIONAL INC (52%); NEW JAPAN SECURITIES INTERNATIONAL LTD (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES LTD; KAWASAKI HEAVY INDUSTRIES LTD; FUJI HEAVY INDUSTRIES LTD

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN

SUBJECT: AEROSPACE INDUSTRIES AND SCIENCES AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (90%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (62%); 

PERSON: COLE, ROBERT J MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 



567 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 9, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 326 words

HEADLINE: Heavy Activity Despite a Shortened Week

 BODY:
Treasury financings this week include today's weekly auction of three- and six-month bills, followed by an auction of two-year notes tomorrow and a five-year note on Thursday.
Last Friday, the outstanding three-month issue was bid at 7.68 percent, while the six-month issue was bid at 7.66 percent. In when-issued trading, the two-year note was being offered at a price to yield 8.32 percent and the five-year note, 8.34 percent.
Government agency activity this week includes the Federal Farm Credit Bank Funding Corporation's plans to announce on Wednesday interest rates for a three-part bond issue totalting $2.99 billion. The agency will be selling, through various securities dealers, about $1.35 billion in securities with a maturity date of June 1; $1.14 billion in securities due on Sept. 4, and $500 million in securities due on March 1, 1991.
The following new fixed-income issues are scheduled this week:
 
TAXABLE
TUESDAY
Sears Credit Account Trust 1990-B, $250 million in credit-account pass-through certificates, NR/Aaa/ AAA. Dean Witter Reynolds Inc.
 
ONE DAY THIS WEEK
Greenery Rehabilitation Group Inc., $143.75 million in zero-coupon convertible senior subordinated notes due in 2005, with about $42 million expected in proceeds, B-1 Moody's. Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc.
Utah Housing Authority, $10 million in taxable one-family program mortgage revenue bonds. Goldman, Sachs & Co.
 
Source: McCarthy, Crisanti & Maffei Inc.
Ratings: MCM/Moody's/Standard & Poor's.
 
TAX-EXEMPT
 
TUESDAY
Clark County, Nev., (Airport), $60 million in general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 
TENTATIVE OFFERINGS THIS WEEK
City and County of Honolulu, $65 million in general obligation bonds. Goldman, Sachs & Co.
Texas Utilities Electric Authority, $90 million in pollution control revenue bonds, $50 million for Brazos River Authority, and $40 million for the Sabine River Authority. Goldman, Sachs & Co.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (95%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (95%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (95%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (95%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (95%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (95%); SIC8069 SPECIALTY HOSPITALS EX. PSYCHIATRIC (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); 

CITY: HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (95%); GREENERY REHABILITATION GROUP INC (68%); DEAN WITTER REYNOLDS INC (68%); FARM CREDIT BANK OF WICHITA (57%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; AUCTIONS TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); DEBT NOTES (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BONDS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (76%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (76%); RIVERS (75%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); BOND ISSUES (74%); ZERO COUPON SECURITIES (73%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (70%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (69%); TAX LAW (67%); CONVERTIBLE SECURITIES (65%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (63%); 



568 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 20, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 10, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 362 words

HEADLINE: Dollar Rises Against the Yen

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: LONDON, Feb. 19

 BODY:
The dollar closed slightly higher today against the yen, which weakened after the Liberal Democratic Party retained power in Japan's general election on Sunday.
The market was generally thin, with the United States markets closed for Washington's Birthday.
Traders said the Liberal Democrats had been widely expected to win the election, and the result was quickly overtaken by renewed speculation that the Bank of Japan would raise interest rates. 
''The next thing on the agenda will be the expected Japanese interest rate hike which will be little more than an official confirmation of what market rates are anyway,'' one trader said.
The market has been expecting Japan to raise interest rates, and traders said the money-supply figures that Japan is to report on Tuesday might give the central bank the opportunity it has been waiting for.
The dollar closed at 1.6759 West German marks in London, down slightly from 1.6777 marks on Friday. Against the yen, the dollar rose to 144.55 yen, from 144.15.
The pound closed at $1.7050, up from $1.6995 on Friday. The dollar fell slightly against the Swiss franc to end at 1.4875, compared with 1.4885. It rose to 5.6915 French francs, from 5.6885.
Gold fell $1, to $416.75 an ounce in London.
In Tokyo stock trading, the key 225-share Nikkei average closed 237.72 points, or 0.63 percent lower, at 37,222.60 after easing 11.67 on Friday.
''An excuse for market weakness has been election anxiety,'' said Marshall Auerback, fund manager at G. T. Management of Japan. ''Now people are saying maybe there's something more fundamental to be anxious about.''
London stock prices fell heavily today, but traders were unable to find any specific reason for the weakness. ''There are just no buyers at all,'' one trader said.
The Financial Times-Stock Exchange index of 100 leading British shares sank 28.8 points, to 2,297.1, near the day's low of 2,294.9.
West German stocks slumped in a quiet Frankfurt session, depressed by a continued fall in German bonds as traders worried about the economic cost to West Germany of rescuing East Germany's economy. The DAX index of 30 shares fell 24.47 points, to 1,869.19.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (64%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (64%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (57%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (96%); GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); TOKYO, JAPAN (78%); 

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (64%); BANK OF JAPAN (57%); LIBERAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); 

ORGANIZATION: LIBERAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (JAPAN)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; ELECTIONS MARKET OPEN CLOSE (99%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); LIBERALISM (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); MONEY SUPPLY (74%); GERMAN MARK (74%); BRITISH POUND (67%); MUTUAL FUNDS (64%); 



569 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1067 words

HEADLINE: Upheaval in the East;
GORBACHEV VOICES NEW RESERVATIONS ON GERMAN UNITY

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Feb. 20

 BODY:
President Mikhail S. Gorbachev conceded today that the two Germanys had a right to unity but stressed the Soviet Union's own ''inalienable right'' to insure that reunification does not lead to ''moral, political or economic damage'' for the Soviet Union.
In his longest remarks on the likelihood of a reunified Germany, the Soviet leader seemed to go out of his way to reassure Soviet people, possibly unnerved by the unification of their World War II enemy, that the Germans had changed in the postwar years. Mr. Gorbachev also emphasized that nations like Poland that suffered in the war must not be ''left out'' of the evolving formula for German unity.
 
'Several Years' to Unity
Other qualifications over the fast pace of the moves toward reunification were voiced in a separate interview by Foreign Minister Eduard A. Shevardnadze, who estimated that reunification would not happen ''as quickly as they imagine in Bonn.'' Many West Germans have talked of unification before the end of this year. 
''It requires several years,'' he said in an interview with the Soviet Government newspaper, Izvestia, again stressing Moscow's concern that a united Germany not be part of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. Bonn and the Western allies want a united Germany to be part of NATO with the provision that no NATO troops would be stationed in East Germany.
Procedures for German unity were worked out in Ottawa last week, where it was agreed that the two Germanys and the four major Allies from the war - Britain, France, the Soviet Union and the United States -would be responsible for the details.
 
Broader Approval
After that, there is a general agreement that a 35-nation East-West conference involving the United States, Canada and most of the nations of Europe would be held to give broader approval to a German accord.
Poland, concerned that a unified Germany might seek to regain lands given to Poland at the end of the war, has pleaded to be included in the talks. On this issue the Solidarity Government has sought Soviet backing, even though it has loosened ties with Moscow.
While not backing away from the Ottawa agreement, Mr. Gorbachev apparently sought to reassure the Poles by saying: ''We rule out an approach when three or four will initially arrange things and then tell the other participants the already agreed upon position. This is unacceptable.'' [Excerpts from interview, page A11.] President Gorbachev's long remarks were made in an interview to be published Wednesday in the Communist Party daily newspaper Pravda. The Soviet press agency Tass made the remarks available in advance of publication.
In the interview, the Soviet leader blended favorable observations that ''there is no denying the German people learned lessons from Hitler's rule,'' with cautions that ''no one has a right to ignore the negative potential formed in Germany's past.''
He also took note of his recent sudden acceptance of President Bush's proposal on European troop reductions. He referred to his concession of a numerical advantage to the United States as an ''important and positive'' result of the Malta summit meeting in early December, rather than as a weakening of Soviet defenses.
The Soviet leader's remarks came as the Soviet public prepared for another critical round of competitive regional and local elections in which citizens and politicians have been increasingly outspoken on their concerns over Germany and their responsibility to the millions who died in the war.
 
'Concern Is Understandable'
''This concern is understandable both historically and psychologically,'' Mr. Gorbachev said. But he added that ''new generations matured in both German states.''
''Their view of Germany's role in the world is different from the one that existed over the past 100-odd years and particularly in the period of Nazism,'' he said.
The Ottawa formula is to set up a two-stage process by which West and East Germany first would discuss the domestic details of unity and then meet on the issues of postwar security with the Allied powers that defeated Nazi Germany.
Mr. Gorbachev did not retreat from the Ottawa agreement, asserting that the Soviet Union never opposed German reunification and that ''the Germans should themselves decide on the ways, forms and time-frame of their unification.''
He noted that in the early postwar years, when the focus at international meetings was on how to bring about German unification, the Soviet Union often made proposals toward this end. Efforts to united Germany eventually broke down in the East-West divisions of the cold war. By 1949, separate West and East German states were created, and two opposing military blocs were in place by the mid-1950's.
 
Other Countries' Interests
While asserting that the Germans should decide for themselves on unification, Mr. Gorbachev said ''this is just one side of the matter.'' He repeatedly stressed the importance of approaching the issue ''stage by stage'' with a basic aim toward ''the general European process'' rather than as prematurely determined formula that does not provide full consideration to ''the special interests of other countries.''
''It is very important that Germans, deciding the question of unification, should be aware of their responsibility and of the fact that not only the interests but also the feelings of other peoples should be respected,'' he continued, citing the enduring memory of the horrors of the war.
The Germanys, he added, should be particularly sensitive in this regard toward the people of the Soviet Union, who have ''an inalienable right'' to ''exert efforts to insure that our country should not sustain either moral, political or economic damage from German unification.''
 
Shevardnadze Remarks
The latter concern, economic damage from a dominant unified Germany, is one of the fears being voiced lately by the economically battered Soviet public.
Mr. Shevardnadze, in his separate interview, which may have been aimed as much at a foreign audience, said that while Bonn pushes the drive for reunification, Moscow ''has not yet had its say'' on how the Ottawa formula should be applied.
''Let nobody think that Moscow will remain indifferent if a united Germany joins NATO,'' he said. ''We have some variants to suggest,'' he said, without citing such specifics as the neutrality he previously proposed.

GRAPHIC: Maps of Germany in 1933 and 1950 (pg. A11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GERMANY (97%); POLAND (94%); CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EAST GERMANY; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); WEST GERMANY; POLAND

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; GERMANY, REUNIFICATION OF INTERVIEWS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); POLITICS (79%); WORLD WAR II (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (71%); ARMED FORCES (50%); 

PERSON: CLINES, FRANCIS X; GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S MIKHAIL S GORBACHEV (91%); 



570 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: Greenspan Sees Modest Growth In the Economy

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 20

 BODY:
Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve Board and the dominant force in economic policy making, told Congress today that the economy's ''weakest point may have passed'' and that the nation could expect ''moderate economic expansion'' this year.
In testimony much more explicit than remarks he made three weeks ago, Mr. Greenspan told a House subcommittee that Federal Reserve officials expected the economy to grow by 1.75 to 2 percent in 1990. In the previous testimony he had said for the first time since the slowdown began in the fall that the chances of recession had diminished.
 
Less Optimistic Than Bush
While slightly more favorable than the consensus of private economists, today's forecast is significantly less optimistic than the Bush Administration's projections. By the Administration's own reckoning, a growth rate in the range Mr. Greenspan suggested would result in a budget deficit in the next fiscal year at least 25 percent higher than the Administration is anticipating. 
Mr. Greenspan's report on monetary policy and the economic outlook, which is required by law every six months and which is watched carefully by the financial markets, implied that the central bank would not move soon to lower interest rates further.
Prices in the stock and credit markets fell sharply today, in apparent reaction to the prospect that the Federal Reserve is not planning to ease interest rates. The Dow Jones industrial average was off 38.74 points, and the Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond fell more than $20 for each $1,000 of face value, while its yield jumped to 8.66 percent, from 8.46 on Friday. [Pages D6 and D12.] Testifying before the Subcommittee on Domestic Monetary Policy of the House Banking Committee, Mr. Greenspan made these other points:
* The Government never had an ''inclination'' to bail out Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc., the brokerage house that specialized in high-yield ''junk bonds'' and that collapsed last week.
* The trend toward junk bonds got out of hand in the late 1980's, but such high-yield bonds, which provide financing for high-risk ventures, have a ''logical niche in the system.''
* The high level of corporate debt in the United States threatens economic expansion.
* The inflation and unemployment rates should remain steady in 1990, with inflation running at 4 to 4.5 percent and unemployment in the fourth quarter at 5.5 to 5.75 percent.
* The American economy is influenced much more from abroad than in the past, but interest rates here primarily reflect domestic economic conditions.
* The money supply, by the most common measure, will be allowed to grow by 3 to 7 percent, the same range that was set last summer.
 
Possible Turning Point
Addressing the outlook for the economy, Mr. Greenspan said the anemic growth rate in the fourth quarter of last year, a half of 1 percent, may have marked a turning point.
From recent data, he said, ''one can infer the beginnings of a modest firming in economic activity.'' He added, ''While we cannot be certain we are as yet out of the recessionary woods, such evidence warrants at least guarded optimism.''
Mr. Greenspan said an inflation rate in the neighborhood of 4 percent was too high and the Fed was determined to bring it down.
An annual growth rate of 1.75 to 2 percent would be about the same as the 2.4 percent rate in 1989, if the agricultural rebound from the drought in 1988 is discounted, he said.
The Bush Administration is basing its estimate of a $63 billion deficit in the 1991 fiscal year on a 2.6 percent growth rate in the 1990 calendar year.
 
Deficit Would Be Larger
In the budget documents it sent Congress last month, the Administration estimated that a growth rate of 1.9 percent, at the upper end of Mr. Greenspan's range, would result in a deficit more than $14 billion larger.
That is because the Government receives more tax revenue in a stronger economy. In addition, if the diminished concern about recession results in the Federal Reserve raising interest rates to restrain inflation, that could lead to an even larger deficit, since the Government would have to pay higher interest on the securities it issues.
The average forecast of 50 private economists polled 10 days ago by Blue Chip Economic Indicators was that the gross national product would rise by 1.6 percent this year.
So far this year, Mr. Greenspan observed today, the central bank has left the interest rates it directly controls unchanged, but the rates on Treasury securities and private loans have risen because of favorable economic data, a rise in energy prices and higher rates in Europe.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (54%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (54%); DOW JONES & CO INC (54%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FORECASTS ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (89%); BONDS (89%); INTEREST RATES (88%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); MONEY SUPPLY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); TRENDS (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); BOND MARKETS (71%); CORPORATE BONDS (70%); CORPORATE DEBT (65%); 

PERSON: GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN); ROSENBAUM, DAVID E ALAN GREENSPAN (93%); 



571 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1316 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

International A2-12
 
Germans have a ''right to unity,'' President Gorbachev conceded. But he insisted that Moscow has the right to insure that reunification does not threaten the Soviet Union morally, politically or economically. Page A1
 
Helmut Kohl visited East Germany, plunging into the intense political campaign for East German elections now less than four weeks away. ''We are one Germany,'' he told a cheering throng in Erfurt. A1 
 
East Germany's role in reunification must not become subordinated to West Germany's, Prime Minister Hans Modrow told Parliament in East Berlin. A10
 
Polish lawmaker says only war can change Poland's border A10
 
Moscow's chief rabbi expresses fear of rising anti-Semitism A11
 
C.I.A. chief warns of active, resolute K.G.B. A8
 
New powers for Mikhail Gorbachev over the legislative and executive branches of government have been drafted in a legislative bill by a committee of the Soviet Parliament. A12
 
President Bush met Vaclav Havel at the White House, hailing him as a symbol of Eastern Europe's dramatic transformation and offering new trade benefits for Czechoslovakia. A10
 
Britain has eased its sanctions against South Africa, breaking ranks with the other members of the European Community, which rejected a proposal to soften sanctions. A7
 
Many of South Africa's exiles welcome the changes that have taken place in recent weeks, but few are prepared to test the extent and permanence of those transformations by returning home. A6
 
Annual U.S. report on human rights rebukes Israel A6
 
Baker calls on U.N. to adopt global plan against drugs A3
 
Prime Minister Mulroney of Canada unveils austere budget A5
 
Japan increases its lead in computer research race D1
 
U.S. and Japan reach agreement on new jet fighter project D1
 
National A14-22
 
Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. paid bonuses totaling hundreds of millions of dollars to its executives shortly before its parent decided to file for bankruptcy, Wall Street executives said. A1
 
Moderate economic expansion can be expected this year, said Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve Board. He told Congress that the economy's ''weakest point may have passed.'' A1
 
Interest rates soar to highest level since May D1
 
The Governor of Puerto Rico said he would sell the Government-owned telephone company and use the proceeds to create two ''perpetual funds'' of $1 billion for public education and rebuilding the island's infrastructure. A1
 
An end to the Pittston coal strike is near, as miners ratified an agreement ending the 10-month strike. Reports that Eastern Airlines, strike bound since March, received a huge Government contract dampened union celebrations. A14
 
Spraying insecticide over California to halt the spread of Mediterranean fruit flies is harmless, officials say, but a grass roots movement made up of several organizations opposed to the spraying is taking hold. A14
 
The cost of cigarette smoking to the nation in health expenses or time lost from work is $52 billion, the highest estimate yet, the Health and Human Services Department said. A18
 
New York's new consumer chief faults R.J. Reynolds on ads A18
 
Democrats' campaign finance bills are not jeopardized by dissention, they said. Last week Democratic supporters of the legislation accused Senator Alan Cranston of trying to dilute reforms. A15
 
A parent's Fifth Amendment right does not allow him to disobey a court order to disclose his child's whereabouts even if the disclosure is incriminating, the Supreme Court ruled in a closely watched child abuse case from Baltimore. A20
 
Washington Talk: Bush is obsessed with press and secrecy A16
 
Lawyers request delay in release of Reagan's testimony A22
 
Grand jury that indicted Mayor Barry resumes investigation A22
 
Vermont widow keeps her house as negligence suit is settled A20
 
Mississippi journal: The hottest issue of all is deer dogs A14
 
Regional B1-4
 
Investigators in the car bombing of an off-duty Suffolk County detective now want to question a Nassau County police officer, who they say may have been jealous over an his wife affair with the detective. A1
 
Bishop Thomas V. Daily, the new head of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Brooklyn, said he would have Governor Cuomo barred from speaking in parishes in the diocese because of his support for abortion rights. A1
 
Man in the news: Thomas V. Daily, Bishop of Brooklyn B4
 
The union leader Barry Feinstein has emerged as one of the most astute political strategists - and perhaps the most influential union leader - in city or state government, as a result of New York City's mayoral election last year. B1
 
Homeless people with AIDS will be placed in newly created medical sections of large public shelters, the Dinkins Administration announced, reversing its position. B1
 
Painting hustle ends in brush with the law B1
 
Blacks were ''brainwashed'' on their past, Mayor Dinkins says B2
 
Employment agency is accused of discrimination B3
 
Bradley International Airport in Connecticut, perpetually a second choice for many travelers behind Boston or New York airports, is vying to become an attractive, congestion-free alternative. B1
 
Neediest Cases B4
 
Business Digest D1
 
The Living Section
 
Food
 
The Super Bowl of bake-offs C1
 
The flame that lights three stars C1
 
60-Minute Gourmet C2
 
At the Nation's Table C3
 
Eating Well C4
 
Brazil's cooling fruit juices C4
 
Food Notes C7
 
Wine Talk C10
 
De Gustibus C11
 
Living
 
Vanishing species: the hangout C1
 
Metropolitan Diary C2
 
Arts/Entertainment
 
A novelist who thinks Victorian C13
 
Music: Freni in ''Manon Lescaut'' C13
 
Photography: Houston Fotofest C13
 
Word and Image: Korean's view of the Korean War C17
 
''Simpsons,'' a prime-time cartoon C18
 
Sports
 
Baseball: Season opening may depend on talks D21
 
Winfield says he's confident D21
 
Basketball: Nets lose to Bucks D23
 
Column: Berkow on a symbol of springtime's hope D21
 
Football: Jets sign free agent D24
 
Hockey: Kisio sparks Rangers D22
 
Tennis: Wightman Cup is suspended for '90 D22
 
Education
 
Nurturing bright inner-city students can be a difficult task. While students in traditional gifted programs are found primarily through standardized test scores, inner-city children are not so easily identifiable. A1
 
Lessons B8
 
Biologist turns down nomination as president of M.I.T. B9
 
Obituaries
 
Francis Keppel, former U.S. Commissioner of Education A22
 
Michael Powell, a film director, screenwriter and producer A23
 
Rev. Dr. James Iley McCord, ex-chief of Princeton Seminary A23
 
Editorials/Letters/Op-Ed
 
Editorials A24
 
Underdogs and California
 
No sun in Lebanon
 
Bureaucrats with clean hands
 
The Senate's idea of service
 
Letters A24
 
Russell Baker: The joy of daring A25
 
Ralph I. Fine and Kenneth E. Sharpe: Nicaragua A25
 
Alan Dershowitz: The real point of Barry's ''sting'' A25
 
S. I. Hayakawa: Common language, common sense A25

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: GERMANY (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (92%); PUERTO RICO (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); POLAND (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: EASTERN AIR LINES INC (55%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (54%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (54%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (70%); BUDGETS (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (65%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (65%); HUMAN RIGHTS (64%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (63%); AIRLINES (62%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (61%); EDUCATION FUNDING (61%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (60%); CENTRAL BANKS (60%); INSECTICIDES (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); ALAN GREENSPAN (50%); 



572 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1298 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Status Quo;
Economic Interests Stifle the Outrage In the Electorate Caused by Scandals

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Feb. 20

 BODY:
In the last year, Japan has experienced the downfall of two Prime Ministers, widespread outrage over the official and after-hours behavior of politicians, protests by women and other events suggesting that this most stable of nations was on the verge of great political change.
Yet today, as the governing Liberal Democratic Party of Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu savored its sweeping victory in the elections on Sunday, many Japanese were asking a new question. Why did voters cap an extraordinarily turbulent year with a resounding endorsement of the status quo?
The clear consensus among analysts, even in the governing party, is that after a year of scandal and criticism of its policies, the party's victory was less an affirmation for its record than a reflection of voter uneasiness with the ideologically splintered and querulous opposition.
''The Liberal Democratic is not a party of strong supporters, but a strong party of weak supporters,'' said Gerald L. Curtis, director of the East Asia Institute at Columbia University. He said voters ''held their noses'' and did what they have done for 35 years - keep the party in power. 
 
Economics and Outrage
Japan also proved no exception to the axiom that it is difficult to reject an incumbent party at a time of peace and prosperity. Despite many concerns about growing economic inequities, Japan's economic growth has pleased its citizens no less than it has astonished the world.
As for peace, security concerns were not an issue, except insofar as they worked against the Socialist Party's doctrine of favoring cutbacks in the military partnership with the United States. Partly because it is a key to Japan's economic success, that partnership enjoys broad public support.
In a broader sense, many analysts said the potential for change had been exaggerated this year, as it often has been in the past. ''There was indignation among the voters,'' a Government official said. ''But people responded more to their economic interests than their sense of outrage.''
More than any political party in the world's major industrial democracies, the Liberal Democratic Party has faithfully represented the views and interests of the conservative establishment. For its service, the party has never been turned out of office since its inception in 1955.
 
Sales Tax and Women
Last year, however, the party plummeted in the public's esteem and, for the first time in its history, it lost an election for the upper house of Parliament. Thanks to its continuing majority in the more powerful lower house, the party held on to the Government and the post of Prime Minister.
After the elections, Prime Minister Kaifu promised changes, but most did not take place. The electorate did not seem to care, and the system worked in the party's favor. Although the Liberal Democrats won less than half the total vote, they captured most seats because the opposition was divided.
For example, women were at the forefront last year of protests against the newly enacted sales tax and the disclosures of extramarital affairs of senior politicians. Mr. Kaifu responded by promising to bring more women into government, and myriad articles were written about feminist fury in Japan.
The governing party ended up fielding only one woman of 337 candidates, and she lost on Sunday. The Socialist Party did only a little better, somewhat to the embarrassment of Takako Doi, the Socialist leader who had advanced farther than any woman in Japanese politics.
 
Campaign Contributions
''The number of women is not that large, in fact it's rather small,'' Miss Doi said, adding that lower-house candidates are drawn from the ranks of local organizations less concerned with social revolution than with who can be most effective in channeling patronage to the district.
Mr. Kaifu and party leaders also promised that there would be less reliance on party factions and on money from business and special interests. There too, their promises were ignored, and again the voters did not seem to care.
Because most of Japan's 130 parliamentary districts elect three to five members, voters seem to think that fights within the governing party are inevitable, and that joining a faction continues to be a local way for a candidate to get access to money and electoral organizational help.
The governing party won the election not only because it was the best-organized party, with ties patiently cultivated over the years to countless local organizations, but because it was also the richest.
 
Role of Recruit Scandal
It raised $200 million in bank loans and industry contributions, a sum said to represent only a fifth of the total raised from small businesses and individuals. Direct corporate contributions are not illegal in Japan, unless it can be proved in court that a specific favor was done in return.
The Socialists tried to make an issue of those contributions, but they did not succeed in stirring widespread resentment of the corporate sector in a country that owes so much of its prosperity to big-business success.
After a huge amount of publicity and hand wringing, the corruption issue of last year, centering on millions of dollars in cash and stock distributed by the Recruit Company, the information-services conglomerate, failed to backfire even on the politicians named as recipients. Even one politician who was indicted was re-elected.
Indeed, this week, those same candidates said they had been exonerated by the voters, as if all the acts of contrition - the apologies, resignations and demands for reform - had suddenly been rendered irrelevant.
 
Money and Political Influence
Tolerance of such behavior seems related to a feeling that it is all right for politicians to receive gifts of cash or stock as long as the funds do not benefit them personally. Indeed, the evidence is that the electorate can be impressed that the flow of money is a sign of political influence.
Mr. Curtis of Columbia University, a longtime observer of Japanese elections, said he found a case where a politician told constituents he had not accepted money from Recruit and then apologized, saying that did not mean that he should be criticized for lacking influence.
Another issue that appears to have been smothered by the election was the widely unpopular 3 percent tax on goods and services enacted in defiance of public opposition in late 1988. Liberal Democrats appear to have won their wager that eventually, voters would come round to accept it.
The Socialists and other opposition parties are still vowing to repeal the tax. But the electorate now seems aware that doing so would only mean increasing some other tax to pay for badly needed social programs. As a result, a compromise on the tax seems most likely.
 
Farmers' Revolt Dissolves
A final feature of the winds of change of last year was the threat by farmers to bolt from the Liberal Democratic Party because of fears that the party would yield to American pressures and allow in more farm imports.
In fact, the Socialists did best among farmers by putting forward a frankly protectionist program, despite the fact that many people found it odd for left-leaning politicians to favor producers over consumers.
One reason for the Socialist strategy was that Japan remains a country of imbalanced representation, with some farm districts fielding as many legislators as urban districts with three times the population.
It appeared today that farmers came home to the Liberal Democrats, in part because they did not believe the Socialists could carry out their promises.
As for the population imbalance between disticts, the Government has repeatedly promised to rectify the inequities but never followed through. No action is expected now.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (78%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ELECTIONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); WOMEN (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (66%); 

PERSON: WEISMAN, STEVEN R; KAIFU, TOSHIKI (PRIME MIN) KAIFU TOSHIKI (72%); 



573 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 672 words

HEADLINE: Drugs Pit Baker vs. Third World at U.N.

BYLINE: By PAUL LEWIS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Feb. 20

 BODY:
Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d called on the General Assembly today to adopt a global program against drug traffickers. But third-world speakers demanded that the United States and its industrialized allies curb demand for drugs and help poorer nations cut production.
Mr. Baker spoke at the opening of a four-day special session of the Assembly called to improve the United Nations anti-drug effort and focus political attention on the trade in illegal narcotics, which is now estimated to be worth $500 billion a year, more than the world trade in oil and second only to the arms trade.
He urged the Assembly to adopt a drug control program ''that commits us to concrete activities, that is fully implemented by the agencies of the United Nations system and that is backed by complementary efforts at the national and regional levels.'' 
Speaking the week after President Bush signed an anti-drug pact with the leaders of Bolivia, Colombia and Peru in the Colombian resort of Cartagena, Mr. Baker urged countries to follow America's lead in ratifying the 1988 Vienna convention against trafficking in illegal narcotics, which makes it more difficult for smugglers to protect their fortunes against seizure.
 
Richer Nations Faulted
The United States today became the fifth country to formally ratify the convention when Mr. Baker deposited the signed instrument of ratification with the United Nations. The convention has been signed by 89 countries.
While Mr. Baker called for rapid international action, speakers from countries in Latin America and Asia where drugs are produced accused the richer, industrialized nations of not bearing their fair share of the burden.
Although Foreign Minister Julio Londono Paredes of Colombia said the Cartagena meeting last week showed ''a change is beginning,'' he still accused the United States and its allies of ''sneaking away from the dock where they really belong'' by attacking production rather than demand and by failing to give producing countries the economic assistance their farmers need to stop growing drug crops.
Mexico's Attorney General, Enrique Alvarez del Castillo, said both suppliers and consumers are responsible for the international drug crisis. But he asked industrialized countries to do more to limit the availability of chemicals used in drug manufacturing and control sales of modern arms to drug-smuggling cartels.
 
Lack Of Resources Cited
He said ''unilateral mesures, positions that slander and intimidate, threats that offend the sovereignty of peoples and the dignity of individuals, must not be tolerated.'' This was a clear reference to President Bush's plan to use aircraft carriers to form a ''radar net'' that would track drug flights. Colombia has objected to the idea, and Mr. Bush chose not to raise the issue at Cartagena.
Jamaican Foreign Minister David Coore of Jamaica said many third world producers are ''engulfed in a multiplicity of development programs and do not have access to the necessary financial, technical and human resources to actively confront the onslaught of drug trafficking and transhipment.''
Since it was launched by Britain and the United States last year, the effort to involve the United Nations more heavily in the war on drugs has been plagued by the divisions between industrialized and third world nations.
Originally Britain and the United States wanted the Security Council to oversee a new international drive against drug smuggling; they argued that drug traffickers' efforts to destabilize the Colombian Government meant that the smugglers have become a ''threat to international peace and security'' under the United Nations Charter.
But third world countries oppose any expansion of the Security Council's authority, arguing that it is an undemocratic body controlled by the five permanent members, including Britain and the United States, who hold a veto over decisions. Led by Brazil, the developing countries promoted the idea of a special General Assembly session instead.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); COLOMBIA (94%); JAMAICA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); PERU (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

CITY: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (50%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); DRUG POLICY (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); SMUGGLING (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); ARMS TRADE (76%); RADAR SYSTEMS (68%); CARTELS (60%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (60%); 

PERSON: BAKER, JAMES A 3D (SEC); LEWIS, PAUL GEORGE WALKER BUSH (56%); 



574 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1990
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 4, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 679 words

HEADLINE: CANADA PRESENTS AUSTERITY BUDGET

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: OTTAWA, Feb. 20

 BODY:
The Government of Prime Minister Brian Mulroney unveiled austerity measures today intended to bring down a budget deficit that is proportionately one of the highest among industrial countries and to ease the financial markets' recent concern about the management of the Canadian economy.
Presented to Parliament today by Finance Minister Michael Wilson, the budget proposal includes a two-year freeze on federal payments to the 10 provinces to help finance health care programs and post-secondary education, the virtual elimination of cash grants to businesses, and a cap of 5 percent a year on increases in military and foreign aid spending.
The package also includes plans to privatize Petro-Canada, Canada's biggest domestically owned oil company. Market analysts say the sale could bring $3.3 billion. 
But with Canadians already burdened by high taxes and with signs of a revolt looming over a 7 percent consumption tax due to be imposed next January, Mr. Wilson chose not to raise any taxes or impose new ones.
 
Some Criticism Voiced
While the spending cuts were generally praised by the financial community, they were strongly criticized by labor and some business leaders. John Bulloch, president of the Canadian Federation of Independent Business, said Mr. Wilson's measures were taken ''to satisfy the international community, but there's a tough price to be paid by all Canadians.''
The budget proposal follows several weeks of pressure on Ottawa in international financial markets. A brief attempt by the Bank of Canada last month to bring down domestic interest rates prompted heavy selling of the Canadian dollar, which has lost more than 3 United States cents since it reached a peak of 86.5 United States cents late in December.
Since then, Ottawa has been forced to push up interest rates again. Banks last week lifted their prime lending rate to a seven-year high of 14.25 percent. Canadian short-term interest rates are now about 5 percentage points higher than their American counterparts compared with the 1.5- to 2-point spread once considered normal.
Mr. Wilson predicted in his budget speech that the federal deficit would edge down from $25.3 billion (American) in the year ending March 31 to $23.7 billion in fiscal 1991 and $8.3 billion by 1995.
 
Public Debt Up Sharply
According to the Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development, Canada's budget deficit stood at 4 percent of gross domestic product last year compared with 2.9 percent for the United States.
Canada's public debt has ballooned in the last five years from $166 billion (American) to $290 billion. More than 80 percent of the increase has been in the form of compounding interest.
William Walton, economics professor at McGill University in Montreal, cautioned that Mr. Wilson's deficit projections may be proved wrong by over-optimistic assumptions, including an expected fall in short-term interest rates from an average of 12.2 percent last year to 9.5 percent in 1991. ''The markets may catch on that this is not as tough as it looks,'' he said.
The sale of Petro-Canada would be by far the biggest step in a privatization program that has so far seen Ottawa dispose of its holdings in 18 companies, including Air Canada and the Toronto-based aircraft maker De Havilland, bought by Boeing Company of Seattle.
Petro-Canada produces about 5.5 percent of Canada's oil and 6 percent of its natural gas. Its five refineries account for more than one-fifth of domestic capacity, while its 3,400 retail outlets have a 19 percent share of the gasoline market.
Mr. Wilson said the Government also plans to privatize Telesat Canada, a highly regarded satellite operator.
The budget proposal's casualties also include a $565 million (American) icebreaker, known as the Polar 8, which was intended as a way for Canada to assert its sovereignty over parts of the Arctic Ocean, notably the Northwest Passage. The icebreaker project began in 1985 after a United States Coast Guard vessel sailed through the Northwest Passage without asking Ottawa's consent.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 23, 1990, Friday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
An article on Wednesday about the unveiling of Canada's budget misidentified a Canadian economics professor who commented. He is William Watson.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PCZ (NYSE) (70%); PCA (TSX) (70%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (70%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (70%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: QUEBEC, CANADA (79%); 

CITY: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (79%); 

COMPANY: PETRO-CANADA (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CANADA

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (94%); BUDGET CUTS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); SALES TAX (78%); BUDGET FORECASTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); PRIME RATES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); TAX LAW (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); EXCISE TAX (74%); HEALTH CARE (72%); CURRENCIES (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (69%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (57%); 

PERSON: MULRONEY, BRIAN (PRIME MIN) BRIAN MULRONEY (74%); HOLCOMBE 'MICHAEL' WILSON (73%); 



575 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 8, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 532 words

HEADLINE: C.I.A. CHIEF WARNS OF RESOLUTE K.G.B.

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BALTIMORE, Feb. 20

 BODY:
The Soviet Union's primary intelligence service, the K.G.B., has not slackened its espionage and other actions against the United States under Mikhail S. Gorbachev, but it has become less ''blatant and flat-footed'' at what it does, the senior American intelligence official said today.
Speaking to the Baltimore Council on Foreign Affairs, William H. Webster, the Director of Central Intelligence, said American counterintelligence experts saw ''robust intelligence activity by the K.G.B. throughout the world'' even as East-West tensions continue to ease.
''On the other hand, the sort of clumsy intimidation associated for many years with the K.G.B. in certain areas seems to have diminished,'' he said. He did not elaborate. The Soviet spy agency was long known for its ruthless suppression of internal dissent and, in previous years, for its occasionally ham-handed efforts to recruit agents in the West. 
 
Sophisticated Soviet Agents
In recent years, however, American intelligence analysts have described Soviet espionage agents as among the most sophisticated and well informed of all Russians active abroad.
Mr. Webster touched on the K.G.B. in a brief review of developments in the Eastern bloc, in which he also forecast a ''deep and prolonged'' economic and social crisis in the Soviet Union under President Gorbachev or his successors.
He also said that several Eastern European nations in the process of political change appeared to be reassessing their policy of conducting espionage activities on behalf of the Soviet Union.
In particular, he said, Hungary's new Government has denounced the nation's participation in the recruitment and handling of a United States Army sergeant, Clyde Lee Conrad, who was arrested in 1988 and charged with stealing top-secret war plans from NATO.
 
Soviet-Trained Bureaucrats
''The new political leadership in Eastern Europe will also bring in new oversight mechanisms'' for eastern spy agencies, Mr. Webster said. ''We hope oversight will reduce some hostile intelligence activity, such as passing sensitive technology to the Soviet Union, an activity which is incompatible with requests for U.S. loans.''
Mr. Webster added, however, that significant changes in the ties between the Soviet espionage services and the Eastern bloc were unlikely as long as Soviet-trained bureaucrats continued to run the Eastern bloc spy services and the Warsaw Pact remained in force.
The treaty requires Eastern bloc nations to share with the Soviets any military intelligence they gather.
Mr. Webster has frequently warned in recent months that Soviet intelligence activity against the West is likely to increase as relations between the two nations thaw. Today, he said American counterintelligence experts had concluded that the K.G.B. had stepped up its work, ''particularly in the United States, where recruiting of people with technical knowledge or access to technical knowledge has increased.''
He attributed the increase in part to the Soviet Union's economic problems, which he said required it to collect more technical and scientific information lest it fall further behind the West in industrial and military prowess.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (93%); EASTERN EUROPE (91%); HUNGARY (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%); 

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (90%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA); KGB (SOVIET SECURITY POLICE)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: ESPIONAGE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (93%); ESPIONAGE (92%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); ARMIES (72%); ARRESTS (63%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%); 

PERSON: WINES, MICHAEL; WEBSTER, WILLIAM H (DIR); GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S WILLIAM H WEBSTER (91%); MIKHAIL S GORBACHEV (58%); 



576 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 951 words

HEADLINE: Upheaval in the East: Czechoslovakia;
Bush Praises Havel and His 'New Page'

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 20

 BODY:
President Bush welcomed Czechoslovakia's leader, Vaclav Havel, to the White House today, promising his country new trade benefits and hailing his journey from political prisoner to President as the symbol of Eastern Europe's dramatic transformation in the past year.
Mr. Bush, noting that Czechoslovakia has not asked the United States for any economic aid but only the opportunity to trade freely, said he was immediately waiving trade restrictions that had been imposed on Prague when emigration was sharply curtailed under Communist rule. As soon as a new trade agreement can be negotiated between the two countries, Czechoslovakia will be given most-favored-nation trade benefits, meaning that its exports will be subject to the the lowest possible tariffs.
The President also authorized the Export-Import Bank to help finance trade with Czechoslovak companies and said Washington would back Czechoslovakia's request for readmission to the International Monetary Fund and World Bank. In addition, Mr. Bush said Peace Corps volunteers would be sent to Czechoslovakia by autumn to teach English. 
Mr. Havel's appearance in Washington, though, was less an occasion for business than for celebration - both for him and his hosts. Only a year ago the 53-year-old playwright and human rights campaigner was imprisoned by the Communists then ruling Prague for trying to lay a wreath at the grave of Jan Palach, a student who burned himself to death as a protest after the 1968 Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia.
 
'Miraculous Transformations'
Addressing Mr. Havel on the White House lawn after their two and a half hours of talks, Mr. Bush said: ''Mr. President, your life has been one of miraculous transformations, from the world of drama to the world of dissent; from the life of the artist to the life of the activist; and of course in the space of just one short year, the most miraculous journey of all, from prison to the presidency. President Havel, Czechoslovakia has turned to you to lead the way. And is it not fitting for a nation that each day writes a new page in its history, to have elected a playwright as its President?''
Mr. Havel was the first of Eastern Europe's new rulers to visit Washington since the upheavals there last year, though Lech Walesa, the founder of Solidarity, who holds no formal government post in Poland, came last November following an itinerary similar to that scheduled for Mr. Havel.
The Czechoslovak President and his entourage, which included not only cabinet ministers but also some of the student leaders who sparked the revolution that toppled the Communists and brought him to power on Dec. 29, evinced a combination of ingenuousness rare in political figures and steely conviction.
 
Uncomfortable in Ties
An awareness of their remarkable change of fortunes was apparent in the bemused, can-you-believe-all-this looks Mr. Havel and his aides kept shooting at one another as they were escorted around town by brawny Secret Service agents talking into their wired lapels. It was also apparent in the discomfort Mr. Havel and his associates seemed to feel at having to wear suits and ties, rather than their customary blue jeans and leather jackets - a fact which Mr. Bush himself could not resist commenting on.
Speaking to Mr. Havel on his departure from the White House, Mr. Bush said: ''For years as a dissident subject to arrest and imprisonment at any time, you could never go out without your toothbrush in your pocket, but now as President you can never go out without one of these neckties.''
Mr. Havel began his stay in Washington not by meeting with power figures, but by going to Georgetown University and answering students' questions with the same mixture of insight and irony that characterize his plays.
When one student asked Mr. Havel if the Czechoslovak embassy in Washington would continue representing Cuba, he answered with a mischievous smile: ''When I was elected President all the ambassadors in Prague congratulated me; all of them were smiling at me except one: the Cuban ambassador. Maybe there was a frown on his face because he could forsee that the relations between my country and his would have a different character from that which they used to have under my predecessors.''
 
Freedom to Publish, Even Havel
Asked by another student whether there would be full freedom of speech in Czechoslovakia, Mr. Havel answered: ''The time when some clerks or officials can direct what is allowed and what isn't allowed is gone. From now on there will be no directions for publishing houses. They will be independent and free to publish what they want, so that works by authors like Kundara, Kafka, and even by Havel, will be published too.''
Mr. Bush also told Mr. Havel that the Atlantic Alliance ''will continue to play a vital role in assuring stability and security in Europe,'' and ''America will continue to play its part, including a strong military presence for our security and for Europe's.''
Mr. Havel and his Foreign Minister, Jiri Dienstbier, have said that both the United States and the Soviet Union need to eventually remove all their troops from Europe and that both NATO and the Warsaw Pact need to dissolve into some sort of pan-European security organization.
Briefing reporters after Mr. Havel's meeting with the President, the Assistant Secretary of State for European Affairs, Raymond G. H. Seitz, said that the Czechoslovak leader did not make any requests for American toops to leave Europe, or for NATO to dissolve along with the Warsaw Pact. Rather, said Mr. Seitz, Mr. Havel affirmed that for now both NATO and American troops played an important ''stabilizing role'' in Europe.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush meeting at the White House yesterday with President Vaclav Havel of Czechoslovakia. (The New York Times/Jose R. Lopez)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (93%); EASTERN EUROPE (88%); POLAND (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (73%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

CITY: PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (73%); 

COMPANY: EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF KOREA (70%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); PEACE CORPS (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CZECHOSLOVAKIA

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (89%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (76%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); WRITERS (71%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (70%); EXPORT IMPORT BANKING (69%); BURN INJURIES (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (55%); VOLUNTEERS (53%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); HAVEL, VACLAV (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (93%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (58%); 



577 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: Smoking's Cost to Society Is $52 Billion a Year, Federal Study Says

BYLINE: By PHILIP J. HILTS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 20

 BODY:
Federal officials estimated today that that cigarette smoking costs the nation $52 billion in health expenses or time lost from work, about $221 per person, each year.
The estimate, which was announced by the Secretary of Health and Human Services, Dr. Louis W. Sullivan, is the highest official figure yet given by the Government. It was disclosed in a new report, ''Smoking and Health: a National Status Report.'' It is the second such report given by the Bush Administration to Congress, but it is the first time the economic costs of smoking have been calculated by the Health and Human Services Department. 
While giving the new figures at a hearing of the Senate Labor and Human Resources Committee, Dr. Sullivan attacked cigarette makers as immoral and irresponsible. ''Cigarettes are the only legal product that when used as intended cause death,'' he said, adding that the companies were ''trading death for corporate profits.''
 
Anti-Smoking Campaign
Dr. Sullivan said he would begin a campaign to stop cigarette smoking in all Federal buildings and in all hospitals. The health secretary said he would write letters to hospital administrators asking that the hospitals be declared smoke-free zones. Dr. Sullivan directed the head of the Health Care Financing Administration, which oversees Medicare, to ask all hospitals receiving Medicare financing to ban smoking.
He said he would also write to all those who receive grants from the Department of Health and Human Services, asking them to ban smoking where they work.
Officials said the new estimate accounts for health care and insurance costs of diseases directly linked to smoking, as well as time lost from work.
Brennan Dawson, an official of the Tobacco Institute, a trade association for the tobacco industry, said today that the Federal estimates were flawed in two important ways. ''There are no data to back up claims that smokers overutilize the health-care system,'' she said. ''Secondly, people's productivity and life style are personal matters and do not result in a cost to society. Smokers pay their own way.''
But Dr. John Banzhaf, head of Action on Smoking and Health, a nonprofit anti-smoking group, disagreed, saying the Federal figures underestimated the health risks. Saying that the true figure was closer to $100 billion, Dr. Banzhaf asserted that the Government did not take into account diseases of nonsmokers that could be attributed to smoking by others. He said such ''passive smoking'' was responsible for thousands of cancer deaths each year and numerous deaths of infants whose mothers smoke.
Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, the chairman of the committee, said today that 1,000 Americans died each day from diseases caused by smoking, and that the tobacco industry spent $6.9 million a day in advertising to replenish the supply of smokers who quit or were killed by cigarettes.
Mr. Kennedy has introduced legislation that would raise the current Office on Smoking and Health at the national Centers for Disease Control two levels to become a separate center that would give grants for advertisements to discourage smoking. The legislation would give the center power to regulate cigarette content similar to that exercised by the Food and Drug Administration over other products.
 
Benzene in Cigarettes
The bill would also require cigarette labels to list dangerous additives, Mr. Kennedy said. ''Perrier water was pulled from the shelves recently in response to an E.P.A. and F.D.A. action when it was discovered that it had 16 to 26 parts per billion of benzene,'' he said, adding, ''The 1986 Surgeon General's report noted that the benzene content in a range of cigarettes studied, varied from 11,000 to 43,000 parts per billion, or almost 2,000 times the content of the Perrier water.''
Mr. Kennedy also accused tobacco companies of targeting women, teen-agers and minority groups for their new products and advertising. Two new products, ''Superslims'' and ''Newport Stripes,'' were designed for women, he said.
Four weeks ago, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company halted its plans to test market a cigarette called ''Uptown'', which was designed specifically for blacks, after Dr. Sullivan assailed the company publicly. The company said this week that it will market a new brand called ''Dakota,'' which critics say is aimed at encouraging smoking by young blue-collar women.

GRAPHIC: Photo: ''Cigarettes are the only legal product that when used as intended cause death,'' said Dr. Louis W. Sullivan, the Secretary of Health and Human Services. (The New York Times/Andrea Mohin)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: SMOKING&HEALTH (78%); CENTERS FOR MEDICARE & MEDICAID SERVICES (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES DEPARTMENT

SUBJECT: SMOKING SMOKING (95%); HOSPITALS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); SMOKING BANS (90%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TOBACCO MFG (89%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL ILLNESS (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); GRANTS & GIFTS (73%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (73%); SMOKING CESSATION (73%); INFANT MORTALITY (68%); CANCER (64%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (60%); 

PERSON: HILTS, PHILIP J; SULLIVAN, LOUIS W (SEC) TED KENNEDY (56%); 



578 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: Francis Keppel Dies at Age of 73; Was Commissioner of Education

BYLINE: By GLENN FOWLER

 BODY:
Francis Keppel, a former United States Commissioner of Education who was a strong proponent of programs to improve learning opportunities for poor children, died of cancer Monday at Harvard University's Stillman Infirmary in Cambridge, Mass. He was 73 years old and lived in Cambridge.
Mr. Keppel, a former sculptor who preferred the name Frank and who never bothered to acquire more than a bachelor's degree in a doctorate-conscious profession, was dean of the Harvard Graduate School of Education for 14 years before he was appointed to the country's highest educational post by President John F. Kennedy in 1962.
For the next four years, into the Administration of Lyndon B. Johnson, he pursued a policy of encouraging the myriad school districts throughout the country to introduce programs aimed at improving the education of children most in need. 
He led the drive for passage of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, which focused resources on classroom assistance for poor children. He was also closely involved in enforcement of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 as it dealt with equal access to education, and he created the National Assessment of Educational Progress.
 
Director of Aspen Institute
Mr. Keppel continued to shape educational policy until his death as the longtime director, since 1974, of the education policy program of the Aspen Institute and as an adviser to libraries, art centers, the World Bank and the governments of many developing countries around the world.
Mr. Keppel was born into the academic world on Manhattan's Morningside Heights in a house provided to his father, Frederick P. Keppel, who was then dean of Columbia College and later became president of the Carnegie Corporation. He grew up in Montrose, N.Y., where several Columbia faculty members had summer cottages that later became year-round residences.
He studied at Harvard, where he majored in English literature and was elected to Phi Beta Kappa upon his graduation in 1938. He interrupted his academic studies and enrolled at the American Academy in Rome, hoping to determine whether he could become an accomplished sculptor.
A year later, after deciding that he could never become a first-rate sculptor, he returned to Harvard as assistant dean of freshmen. In the early years of World War II he was secretary of the Joint Army and Navy Committee on Welfare and Recreation before enlisting in the Army and rising from private to first lieutenant.
 
Pioneer Influence at Harvard
In 1948, at the age of 32, Mr. Keppel was appointed dean of Harvard's Graduate School of Education, where he sponsored experimental programs in team teaching, programmed learning, the use of television in education and curriculum reform. He was also a leader in devising Harvard's Master of Arts in Teaching Program, which gave outstanding liberal arts graduates a year of study in education and an extended internship to improve the caliber of those who chose to become public school teachers.
After he left government service in 1966, Mr. Keppel became chairman of the General Learning Corporation, a joint venture of General Electric and Time Inc. He also participated in a number of educational review boards, including the Fleischmann and Rockefeller Coammissions dealing with education in New York State.
In 1967 Mr. Keppel was appointed vice chairman of New York City's Board of Higher Education, which supervises the City University. From 1967 to 1973 he was an Overseer of Harvard, and he remained a senior lecturer there until his death.
He leaves his wife, the former Edith Sawin; two daughters, Edith Drury of Waterbury Center, Vt., and Susan Keller of Winchester, Mass.; a brother, Charles, of Montrose, N.Y., and four grandchildren.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Francis Keppel (1976)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary

TICKER: CWE (ASX) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS213114 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR METAL MINING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CARNEGIE WAVE ENERGY LTD (53%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (91%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (91%); ASPEN INSTITUTE (73%); ASPEN INSTITUTE (73%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); DEATHS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); SCULPTURE (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (88%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); CURRICULA (78%); EDUCATION REFORM (78%); EDUCATION LAW (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); LEGISLATION (73%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (73%); STUDENT HONOR SOCIETIES (73%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (71%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (70%); ARMIES (69%); CIVIL RIGHTS (67%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (66%); LITERATURE (65%); WORLD WAR II (60%); 

PERSON: KEPPEL, FRANCIS; FOWLER, GLENN JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); 



579 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 24, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 566 words

HEADLINE: The West Has a Stake in Perestroika's Success

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''The Soviets' Terminal Crisis'' (Op-Ed, Jan. 4) caused consternation and controversy around the world. Written by an anonymous contributor calling himself ''Z,'' adapted from a longer article in the journal Daedalus, where it was titled ''To the Stalin Mausoleum,'' it predicted a pessimistic future for perestroika and the Soviet Union.
Z's point is that no matter whether President Mikhail S. Gorbachev is trying to make the socialist system more humane and reform it economically or whether his efforts will lead to its replacement by a market and Western-style democracy, there is no reason anyone should help him or even wish him success. The ''party-state'' system, as the author calls it, is a monster. This is why the West should leave Mr. Gorbachev to his fate, and allow his reforms to end in failure and East European socialism to die. 
Never has the position of perestroika's gravediggers been expressed in such a talented, solid and pseudo-scholarly form. Never has it been so formulated as to resemble an ideological manifesto. The article shows that influential forces still regard the Soviet Union as something diabolic.
Ideas formulated in ''To the Stalin Mausoleum'' have long been held by those high-ranking officials of the United States Administration who are referred to as hard-line skeptics. These people tried to prevent the team of President Bush and Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d from believing that Mr. Gorbachev was sincere in his intentions. Later they arrived at the conclusion that, irrespective of the ultimate fate of perestroika, it served Western interests well.
One of the article's critical features is its timing. Perestroika is going through its most severe crisis. During all of this President Gorbachev has shown flexibility and persistence, both indispensable. Kremlin officials have denied reports that he is going to leave the post of general secretary of the Communist Party Central Committee shortly and retain only the post of president. However, the Soviet leader and his cause are clearly in danger. ''What should we do?'', Western leaders are asking themselves worriedly. ''Nothing, please,'' say the friends of Z. Z's stand is a hybrid of far-right extremism and naivete. He would like to push our country into chaos, perhaps even wipe it from historical records. At the same time, he believes the West should retain the coolness of a pathologist waiting for another corpse to be delivered to the mortuary.
Meanwhile, equally conservative political scientists - Zbigniew Brzezinski, for one - realize only too well that a failure of perestroika would mean dramatic consequences for the West. A sick Soviet Union is an unpredictable Soviet Union.
Z does not realize that democracy is increasingly being viewed, in the West and the East, as a product of our civilization and a universal human value. One should not hoist state flags over it. Conservative people in the Soviet Union are terribly afraid of ''Western'' democracy, as if it were the biblical serpent tempting the Russian virgin.
For now, though Z wants it to be the opposite, the West's tendency is to consider that what coincides with the interests of perestroika coincides with the interests of the industrialized nations.
 
VLADIMIR SIMONOV
Moscow, Feb. 6, 1990
 The writer is a political analyst for Novosti, the Soviet press agency.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: REFORM AND REORGANIZATION LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WRITERS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); HISTORY (72%); CONSERVATISM (71%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (66%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (50%); 

PERSON: Z (PSEUDONYM); SIMONOV, VLADIMIR GEORGE W BUSH (55%); 



580 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 987 words

HEADLINE: Weary Of J.F.K.? This Field Hopes So

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WINDSOR LOCKS, Conn.

 BODY:
Bradley International Airport, New England's perpetual No. 2 airfield after Logan International in Boston, has never escaped the fact that for most travelers Connecticut is a place to be flown over and looked down upon on the way to somewhere else.
But as delays worsen at Logan and New York's airports, and the specter of maximum capacity comes within view - especially at Logan - state officials and some aviation experts are beginning to think that congestion-free Bradley could emerge as an alternative for travelers from the urban fringes.
Their hopes rest heavily on the belief that from Fairfield County, Conn., to southern Maine, millions of minds are poisoned against the big city airports, and that their ranks will grow as Logan and Kennedy International in Queens undertake huge, disruptive programs to rebuild old terminals and roadways.
 
Foreign Route Would Help
Every time someone is stuck in traffic to those airports, the theory goes, another convert is made to the idea that time can be saved by driving to Bradley, which is 90 minutes from Boston and two and a half hours from New York City. Travel agents say such a shift is under way. 
''There are more and more people who will say, 'Oh, don't route me out of Boston,' '' said David M. Boardman, president of Heritage Travel in South Woodstock, in Connecticut's northeast corner.
Officials here say the balance would shift even more dramatically if Bradley could win a regular European route, since all passenger and freight traffic to Europe now must go through Boston or New York. And industry experts say such a route has become much more likely in the last year with the easing of Federal regulations for foreign airlines.
With about 5 million passengers a year, compared with 23 million at Logan, Bradley has dominated the suburban and rural areas that extend from central Connecticut up through western Massachusetts. There are 360 flights a day on 16 airlines, with nonstop flights to most major cities in the eastern United States and Canada.
Through passenger surveys, officials estimate that perhaps 350,000 travelers a year who do not use Bradley might consider it an option if there were flights to Europe.
 
'Not Even on the Map'
Beyond the issues of money and jobs, there is status. Gov. William A. O'Neill, who has met with executives of K. L. M. Royal Dutch Airlines, which is considering a Bradley-to-Amsterdam route, has made a point of publicizing the European effort.
''It's everything,'' said Edward M. Archibald, a deputy commissioner in charge of aeronautics at the State Department of Transportation. ''Without international service, you're nowhere. You're not even on the map.'' Some hard economic realities still lie in the way, however. K.L.M., for example, is considering at least 10 other airports that might be eligible for European service.
And some of those other airports serve far more passengers, like Dulles International near Washington, or are hubs for domestic airlines that could supply enough travelers bound for Europe to make a route profitable immediately, analysts say.
Bradley, by contrast, relies heavily on business travelers who are fed into the hubs, meaning it handles few passengers transferring from one airline to another.
 
Some Dashed Expectations
''The immediate new service will go more to the hubs than the spokes,'' said Helane Becker, a senior vice president at Shearson, Lehman Hutton, the stock brokerage firm.
Ms. Becker, who follows the airline industry, said she thought the new Federal rules would ultimately make it ''easier and easier'' for airports like Bradley, but not immediately.
''Over the next five years or so, but not in the current round,'' she said.
Susan B. Jollie, a Washington lawyer who specializes in aviation, said: ''We will see a reasonable growth in services and that will happen because there is a shrinking globe. But those cities who think they're going to get service instantaneously may have those expectations dashed.''
The new rules, released by the Department of Transportation last month, allow airlines from some countries to apply for new routes without negotiations between the State Department and their government. If all the prerequisites in the rules are met, a new route could begin within 90 days, compared with months or years under the old system.
 
'On Our Wish List'
A spokeswoman for K.L.M., Odette Fodor-Gernaert, said ''Bradley is one of the airports on our wish list'' but no decisions have been made.
Travel agents also said that even Bradley's opportunities for capturing domestic travelers from Boston or New York are not without risk. Green Airport near Providence, R.I., for instance, has been aggressively seeking part of Logan's overflow, as have smaller regional airports.
Bradley's main hope rests on the belief that the world will be increasingly populated by people like Dave Valentine, who was recently waiting on stand-by for a flight to West Palm Beach, Fla., and Dolores A. Lemay, who often flies to Aruba from Bradley.
''If I could avoid Kennedy, at all costs I would,'' said Mr. Valentine, an engineer with Pratt & Whitney in East Hartford. ''Kennedy I consider to be a nightmare.''
Mrs. Lemay, of Watertown, Conn., said, ''I hate that ride,'' explaining why she abandoned use of New York's airports about five years ago.
The other main pillar of faith at Bradley is that with a $100 million expansion of the airport completed just three years ago, passenger volume could increase by 40 percent and still be below what would bring on serious flight congestion or traffic jams.
''We have no illusions that we're going to be a J.F.K. or a Logan,'' said Robert F. Juliano, Bradley's administrator. But he sees the airport's future every time another passenger comes to complain. ''They say, 'Why do we have to go to New York? Why do we have to go through that ordeal?' '' he said.

GRAPHIC: photo: Bradley International Airport in Windsor Locks, Conn., could emerge as an alternative to travelers who want a congestion-free airport. A $100 million expansion, completed three years ago, included additions like the building of Terminal A, above, to increase passenger volume. (The New York Times/Steve Miller); map of Hartford, Conn. (pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AF (PAR) (51%); AF (AMS) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (51%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (90%); NETHERLANDS (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (78%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); MAINE, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (51%); 

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS; BRADLEY INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT (WINDSOR LOCKS, CONN); LOGAN INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT (BOSTON); KENNEDY INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT; DELAYS (TRANSPORTATION); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; NYTRAVEL AIRPORTS (98%); AIRLINES (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); AIR SERVICE (74%); TRAVEL AGENTS (73%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (70%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, KIRK MICHAEL MCMAHON (80%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (80%); 



581 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 8, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: EDUCATION;
Capitalism Course May Be Canceled

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BUFFALO, Feb. 20

 BODY:
An American graduate degree program that teaches Western-style capitalism to students in China is in peril. But it is unclear whether the threat comes from Federal budget cutters or a White House sensitive to hard-liners in China.
Officials at the State University of Buffalo, which offers a master's degree in business administration in a program financed by the Chinese and American Governments, were notified on Feb. 5 that $400,000 in United States Commerce Department money for the program was in jeopardy and would probably be canceled April 1. The Chinese Government provides the remaining $200,000. 
Instead, university officials were told, the money would be diverted to Eastern European countries.
But The Buffalo News, quoting an unnamed diplomatic source, reported Sunday that the White House had ordered the program terminated because its free-enterprise curriculum had been increasingly criticized by hard-liners in the Chinese Government.
The diplomat said the Chinese Government had singled out the business course as ''highly subversive'' and a ''Western-oriented operation incompatible with the aims of the present Chinese leadership.''
 
Not Yet Canceled
A senior Bush Administration official said today that the program had not yet been officially canceled, but that the Administration was considering switching it to the more politically compatible ground of Eastern Europe.
''Given the atmosphere in China, with the Chinese reform movement not proceeding well,'' he said, ''and given the fact that there is a great need for similar programs in Eastern Europe, and given the fact that the Commerce Department is stuck holding the bill for this program, it might be better suited to change it to Eastern Europe.''
University officials have mounted a letter-writing campaign to the Commerce Department to protest the cuts and received support from some corporations represented on the degree program's board, including the Xerox Corporation, the General Electric Company and the Union Carbide Corporation.
''One could conjure up a scenario that the Chinese want to terminate the program but do not want to say so,'' said Dr. Joseph Alutto, head of the university's School of Management. ''It's not any information we have received. Our continuing contacts with the Chinese Government say that is not the case.
''All the information we have says there are two issues involved. One is the budget problem in the Department of Commerce and the desire to respond to initiatives in the Eastern bloc. The second is a sense, perhaps, in the Department of Commerce that China may no longer be a primary area of interest.''
 
Temporary Halt in Classes
Dr. Alutto said Chinese Government officials have been questioning him about how soon the degree program would be back in full operation. The university had temporarily halted classes following Beijing's crackdown on students in Tiananmen Square last June. Students have recently returned to classes, but are expected to lose about a year of course work altogether.
The program, the only one at college level financed by both Governments, has awarded 131 M.B.A. degrees to Chinese students since 1984.
Currently 89 students are enrolled in the program, offered at the National Center for Industrial Science and Technology Management Development in Dalian, a seaport community in Lyaoning province. The classes, which originally were taught by both American and Chinese professors, are now taught by Chinese faculty, many of whom have done postdoctoral work at the Buffalo University.
 
Breach in Protocol, Some Say
University officials said a cut in financing by the United States would represent a breach of the protocol signed by the two Governments when the program was established in 1984. It stipulates that if a country withdraws from the agreement, it must pay to complete the educations of those students currently enrolled.
''I feel it would be unfortunate for all parties concerned to precipitously cancel the program,'' said Dr. Steven B. Sample, the university president. ''Educationally, it would be a grave mistake.''
Dr. Alutto said: ''My only hope is that the long-term issue is kept in mind here. If the United States is at all serious about the modernization of China, it has to continue supporting programs like that. Essentially our graduates are providing the future economic leaders of China.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: EDUCATION PAGE (NYT)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (64%); GEC (LSE) (64%); GE (SWX) (64%); GE (NYSE) (64%); XRX (NYSE) (64%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS333244 PRINTING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (64%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); EASTERN EUROPE (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); 

CITY: BUFFALO, NY, USA (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%); 

COMPANY: UNION CARBIDE CORP (64%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (64%); XEROX CORP (64%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE UNIVERSITY AT BUFFALO (SUNY); COMMERCE DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CURRICULA (78%); 

PERSON: JOSEPH ALUTTO (65%); 



582 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 9, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: EDUCATION;
Nominee for M.I.T. Presidency Backs Out of Post

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN

 BODY:
A highly regarded biologist nominated last week to be president of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology backed out of the job yesterday, saying he could not bear to give up his research.
Phillip A. Sharp, the chairman of university's Center for Cancer Research, said that after the announcement of his nomination last Wednesday he balked when it came time for him to separate himself from his scholarship and his students.
''I came reluctantly to the realization that I could not fill that void in my life with anything else,'' Dr. Sharp said in a statement released by the university.
 
A Series of Setbacks
Dr. Sharp's decision was the latest in a series of setbacks to efforts by M.I.T., perhaps the nation's premiere institution of scientific learning, to find a strong new leader. 
An early front-runner for the job withdrew amid controversy over his ties to military and business interests, while a second top candidate, a close friend of Dr. Sharp's took the presidency of another university where he would not be expected to abandon his research.
Dr. Sharp declined to answer any questions about his decision. But friends, scientific colleagues and students said they had no doubt that the 46-year-old scholar had simply been overcome by his love for science.
''There is no hidden agenda,'' said Dr. Robert M. Solow, a Nobel laureate in economics who headed the faculty search committee that nominated Dr. Sharp. ''As far as I can tell, it was simply a matter of a guy who has devoted his life to biology finding that he was absolutely haunted at the notion that he was giving it up.''
A colleague who spoke to Dr. Sharp yesterday said the professor began to rethink his decision to accept the presidency of the Cambridge, Mass., university after telling his graduate students last Wednesday that he would be leaving.
 
A Surprise Nominee
''In their eyes, he was abandoning them and abandoning science,'' the colleague said, ''and he couldn't bring himself to do it.''
Dr. Sharp had been a surprise choice to lead the university of nearly 10,000 students, nearly half of them graduate students, for several reasons, especially his record as a pure scientist with relatively little background in administration or academic politics.
Widely considered to be a candidate for the Nobel Prize in biology, Dr. Sharp has won several major scientific awards for his contributions to the understanding of how genetic material comes together and works inside cells.
In the 1970's, Dr. Sharp helped discover how ribonucleic acid, RNA, is spliced into a genetic message used to build proteins, including enzymes, which are necessary to the activities and growth of cells.
 
Originally Trained as Chemist
Originally trained as a chemist at Union College in his native Kentucky and at the University of Illinois, where he received his doctoral degree Dr. Sharp moved toward biology in post-doctoral studies at the California Institute of Technology.
Colleagues and scientists around the country said he is recognized as one of the foremost biologists in the world. He joined the faculty of M.I.T. in 1974 and is a resident of Newton, Mass.
Dr. Solow, who said he had not previously known Dr. Sharp well, initially made him vice chairman of the faculty search committee when it convened late last spring. Dr. Solow subsequently asked his deputy to step down and be considered for the presidency himself.
During interviews, Dr. Sharp explicitly told the faculty search committee that he was prepared to give up his research, said Kenneth D. Campbell, a spokesman for the university.
Dr. Sharp was widely described a forceful, outgoing man. In discussing his selection, several of his colleagues linked his personality to university's interest in reasserting the importance of science in the national politics.
The early front-runner for M.I.T.'s presidency, chemist John Deutch, withdrew as a candidate after strong criticism from some students and faculty members of his close ties to the military and private businesses.
Dr. Sharp is a co-founder, member of the board and chairman of the scientific board of Biogen Inc., a biotechnology research concern based in Cambridge. A 1988 registry researchers listed his holdings in the company as 322,000 shares of stock, which was valued then at $2.6 million. The company employs more than 300 people.
Mr. Campbell, the M.I.T. spokesman, said that Dr. Sharp could have remained a member of both bodies and would not have been compelled to divest his stock holdings in the company.
Dr. David Baltimore, a close colleague of Dr. Sharp's who also spoke with him yesterday, said that his friend ''clearly jumped before he completely thought through the implications in terms of his own long-term satisfaction.
''As he began to unravel his scientific involvement, he realized that meant more to him, and he couldn't see leaving that behind,'' Dr. Baltimore said. ''It came as much a surprise to me as anybody.''
Dr. Baltimore, who directs the Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research at M.I.T., had also been a top candidate for the institution's presidency. But he was chosen to become president of Rockefeller University in New York City this summer, where he will be allowed to continue his research.
Dr. Solow said the search committee had idea yet what candidate might substitute for Dr. Sharp, who was expected to be confirmed by the the university's governing board on March 2. The university's president, Paul E. Gray, was expected to retire in June.

GRAPHIC: photo: Phillip A. Sharp, a renowned biologist nominated last week to be president of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, backed out of the job yesterday. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: EDUCATION PAGE (NYT)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (91%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (89%); BIOLOGY (89%); NOBEL PRIZES (89%); CHEMISTRY (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (77%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (73%); CANCER (72%); ONCOLOGY (72%); AWARDS & PRIZES (69%); AMINO ACIDS PEPTIDES & PROTEINS (68%); ENZYMES (60%); 

PERSON: SHARP, PHILLIP A (DR); GOLDEN, TIM PHILLIP A SHARP (97%); 



583 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 7, Column 1; Living Desk

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: Food Notes

BYLINE: By FLORENCE FABRICANT

 BODY:
Knowing Nutrition A Gallup survey on diet and health has found that most Americans have a good idea about sensible eating. Ninety-five percent said balance, moderation and variety were the keys to healthy eating, and 77 percent were familiar with the four basic food groups.
Despite these findings, Nancy S. Wellman, the president of the American Dietetic Association, a professional organization of nutritionists, concluded that Americans still opt for fads and quick fixes. She based this conclusion on the fact that more than half - 52 percent - said they were increasing consumption of oat bran, and 48 percent said they were using more dietary supplements; she pointed out that only 8 percent said they were eating more vegetables. 
The survey did not ask specifically about vegetables, but did ask about oat bran and dietary supplements. The 8 percent figure represented a voluntary response to the question, ''Is there anything else you're increasing?''
The survey was commissioned by the association and the International Food Information Council, a nonprofit organization financed by food and beverage companies. It was based on 772 telephone interviews between Dec. 11 and 18 of people age 18 or older; it had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus four percentage points.
Thomas E. Stenzel, the executive director of the food information council, said the survey showed that Americans were confused when it came to eating fat. They are ''needlessly eliminating certain foods from their diets,'' he said, since 45 percent said they were eliminating red meat and 36 percent said they were cutting out dairy foods. ''These are important sources of iron, calcium, vitamin B12 and zinc,'' he said.
The survey found that women were better informed about nutrition than men, but seemed to be doing more to modify their diets. For instance, 53 percent of the women said they were eliminating red meat, compared with 36 percent of the men. Women were also more likely than men to say they felt guilty about eating the foods they liked (44 percent to 28.) 544 Pages of Food Terms At 544 pages, ''The Food Lover's Companion,'' by Sharon Tyler Herbst, is as thick and satisfying as a well-stuffed sandwich. Published this year by Barron's at $10.95, it is a glossary of more than 3,000 culinary and wine terms, providing simple definitions and, where necessary, concise technical or historic background.
 
Student Food in Hartford
The Connecticut Culinary Institute, established two years ago in Farmington, a suburb of Hartford, has opened a restaurant in downtown Hartford. The restaurant, Cafe on the Park, is in the Ramada Inn-Capitol Hill, at 440 Asylum Street, overlooking Bushnell Park. The institute owns and manages the food and beverage operations, including catering and room service, for the inn.
The restaurant is a teaching center for the school and is staffed by teachers and students. The Cafe on the Park will also offer courses for amateur cooks. It is open for breakfast, lunch and dinner every day; the telephone number is 203-524-8274.
 
Soup on the West Side
Just as West 46th Street is known as Restaurant Row, West 55th Street between Broadway and Eighth Avenue is becoming Soup Row. A new storefront soup stand, Kate's Kettle, opened last week at No. 255, a few doors from the Soup Kitchen International, at No. 259-A.
Kate's Kettle is owned by Geoff Lissauer, who also owns Jose Sent Me and Possible 20, two restaurants on the block. It offers four or five soups daily, at $2.75 to $5.75 for portions of 8 to 12 ounces. The vegetarian chili, often on the menu, was well seasoned and thick with ingredients, but the yellow split pea was bland and the New England clam chowder tasted more like a creamy vegetable soup with some clams in it. The soups come with a piece of Eli's Sourdough Bread and a packet of croutons.
The stand, which is open from 7 A.M. to 6 P.M. Monday through Friday, also sells sandwiches and will be adding breakfast items.
Soup Kitchen International is known for its savory, chunky and inventive soups, but also for its long lines, strict rules and the occasional irascibility of Al Yeganeh, the owner. Mr. Yeganeh is starting a subscribers' club, offering 32 portions of soup (eight large and eight small of seafood, eight large and eight small of non-seafood) for $191, about the price of 33 portions. Subscribers get a card that is punched with each purchase.
Membership might be a hedge against inflation, since the prices at Soup Kitchen International have crept up steadily over the years and now start at $4.25. It will save time, and Mr. Yeganeh also regards it as a guarantee of good service.
 
Shad (Rhymes With Glad)
PREDICTIONS of an early spring, based on a shadowless Groundhog Day, are being confirmed in the marketplace. Shad, a traditional harbinger, are already available in some fish stores. So far the shad are from the Carolinas, and the early prices are high, ranging from $7.95 to $12.95 a pound for fillets. As the shad move up the East Coast, prices should drop.
Because shad have such a complex network of bones, they are usually sold filleted. The rich pale salmon-colored flesh is delicious baked or broiled. A sauce seasoned with tart sorrel puree is a classic complement. Markets that sell shad also carry shad roe. The roe, sold in pairs, are best lightly sauteed.

GRAPHIC: Drawings

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: SOUP KITCHEN INTERNATIONAL (83%); AMERICAN DIETETIC ASSOCIATION (57%); AMERICAN DIETETIC ASSOCIATION (57%); INTERNATIONAL FOOD INFORMATION COUNCIL (55%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD NUTRITION (95%); DIETITIANS & NUTRITIONISTS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); WOMEN (78%); MEN (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); CULINARY SCHOOLS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (72%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (64%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 



584 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 17, Column 4; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 863 words

HEADLINE: Book Notes

BYLINE: By Edwin McDowell

 BODY:
Weidenfeld Galaxy Losses and disappointing sales led Ann Getty and George Weidenfeld to merge Weidenfeld & Nicolson and Grove Press into a single house last year, and rumors still crop up that the merged house - Grove Weidenfeld - will be shut down. But those rumors now surface much less often, and in the meantime the house has been signing important authors and selling reprint rights for respectable money.
Among its recently signed authors are these:
* Milan Kundera, whose new novel, ''Immortality,'' is expected to be published here early next year. The book, recently published in France, is already a best seller there. 
* Harold Pinter, the playwright, who in the 1950's wrote a novel, ''The Dwarfs,'' that was not published and that he forgot about after his success on the stage. Mr. Pinter recently discovered ''The Dwarfs'' in a drawer, and did a bit of rewriting. Grove Weidenfeld will publish it in the fall; it will also be published in Britain by Faber & Faber.
* Alfred Kazin, the literary critic, whose book subject the company will not disclose, except to say that the work will be nonfiction and will be be published in 1991.
Meanwhile, a number of Grove Weidenfeld books have received good reviews, have been sold to book clubs and have been bought for paperback reprint. ''The Last World,'' a forthcoming first novel by Christoph Ransmayr, has a $200,000 floor (i.e., minimum guarantee) for paperback rights, and there is a $100,000 floor for ''Lakota Woman,'' by Mary Crow Dog, with Richard Erdoes. The latter is an account of the author's impoverished childhood on the Rosebud reservation in South Dakota and her life of delinquency in various Indian ghettos in big cities.
Aaron Asher, Grove's publisher, acknowledged that some literary agents had been frightened away by the house's uncertain past, and that some were still skittish about submitting books. But he noted that several important agents had brought in books recently, including Lynn Nesbit, who represented the Kazin book.
 
Mandela Speeches
The authorized biography of Nelson Mandela is scheduled for publication this spring, but part of the Mandela story is available now in ''Nelson Mandela: The Struggle Is My Life,'' published by Pathfinder Press.
The book - a collection of speeches, writings and historical documents - was first published in this country in 1986. After a first press run of 10,000, there are now almost 75,000 copies in print, including two printings just this year. Helen Meyers of Pathfinder said the house specialized in the writings of such figures as Che Guevara, Fidel Castro and Malcolm X. Lincoln in Polish When some Polish teachers aligned with the Solidarity movement visited Albany last summer, they asked Gov. Mario M. Cuomo to recommend a book about democracy. He suggested the writings of Abraham Lincoln, and promised to have such a volume translated into Polish.
But when the Governor and his staff members did not find a volume they considered adequate, they decided to compile their own. They asked 45 Lincoln and Civil War scholars to suggest appropriate material, and arranged for introductions to the book's various sections by such figures as James McPherson, a professor of history at Princeton University; Richard Current, who wrote ''The Lincoln Nobody Knows''; Hans Trefousse, whose books include ''The Radical Republicans: Lincoln's Vanguard for Racial Justice,'' and Mark E. Neely Jr., author of ''The Abraham Lincoln Encyclopedia.''
The result is ''Lincoln on Democracy,'' edited by Governor Cuomo and Harold Holzer, to be published in the fall by Cornelia and Michael Bessie/Harper & Row.
The book is being translated into Polish, but because of changes in Poland in the interim, publication plans there are uncertain, said Mr. Holzer, who is a special counselor to the New York State director of economic development as well as the author of ''The Lincoln Image.'' Therefore, the translation may be published by an emigre press in London or by a Polish-language press in the United States, Mr. Holzer said. ''But one way or another,'' he added, ''the book will be available in Poland.''
 
A New Kennedy Byline
Caroline Kennedy, the daughter of the late President, will co-write a book commemorating the 200th anniversary of the adoption of the first 10 Amendments to the Constitution. The book, with Ellen Alderman, is to be entitled ''The Bill of Rights,'' and is to be published next January by William Morrow & Company. Both authors are graduates of the Columbia University Law School, and will explain each amendment by focusing on one or two major cases.
 
Plunging Into Poetry
Chronicle Books of San Francisco, the publisher of well-regarded art books and full-color food books, branched out into fiction last summer and has now decided to publish poetry. Its first titles, to be published in April, are ''Who Will Know Us?'' by Gary Soto, who has published four previous books of poetry, and ''Body in Flames/Cuerpo en Llamas,'' an English-Spanish edition by Francisco Alarcon, translated by Francisco Aragon. Wheatlandd(Grove Weidenfeld)News Corporationd(Harper & Row)Hearstd(William Morrow)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: NELSON MANDELA: THE STRUGGLE IS MY LIFE (BOOK); LINCOLN ON DEMOCRACY (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (68%); FRANCE (57%); POLAND (50%); 

STATE: SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (68%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: PATHFINDER PRESS (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: WEIDENFELD & NICOLSON; PATHFINDER PRESS

GEOGRAPHIC: ;POLAND

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE WRITERS (91%); LITERATURE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); PUBLISHING (89%); DRAMA LITERATURE (76%); PAPERBACK PUBLISHING (76%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (76%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (76%); LITERARY AGENTS (76%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (75%); BIOGRAPHY PUBLISHING (75%); THEATER & DRAMA (74%); LITERARY CRITICISM (71%); SLUM DWELLINGS (63%); 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN; MANDELA, NELSON; CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); LINCOLN, ABRAHAM (1809-65) FIDEL CASTRO (50%); 



585 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 582 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

COMPANIES
 
Drexel Burnham Lambert paid bonuses totaling hundreds of millions of dollars to executives shortly before its parent filed for bankruptcy, Wall Street executives said. [Page A1.]
 
First Boston has arranged to get money from several affiliates by selling some bridge loans. Company executives said the move was intended to provide greater liquidity. [D2.] 
 
After four months of resistance, Great Northern Nekoosa accepted a sweetened offer from Georgia-Pacific in a $3.8 billion deal that will create the nation's largest paper company. [D1.]
 
Zenith said it was locked in a ''major dispute'' with Groupe Bull of France over the final price for Zenith's computer operations. Groupe Bull made less of the disagreement. [D4.]
 
Chevron said it would trim up to 1,000 jobs, or 12 percent of the payroll of its domestic exploration and production unit. It said it would sell more than $700 million worth of its domestic properties in the next two years. [D3.]
 
Minorco agreed to buy Freeport-McMoran Gold for $705 million. [D3.]
 
THE ECONOMY
 
Alan Greenspan told Congress that the economy's ''weakest point may have passed'' and that the nation could expect ''moderate economic expansion'' this year. Market analysts said his comments, which suggested that interest rates would not drop, contributed to a slide in bond and stock prices. [A1.]
 
The coal miners union said its members had ratified an agreement to end the bitter strike against Pittston Coal. [A14.]
 
INTERNATIONAL
 
Japanese researchers are working on an ambitious program that demonstrates Japan's widening lead over the U.S. in certain crucial fields of electronics technology. [D1.] Advanced Micro Devices will sell a factory to Sony and receive advanced semiconductor manufacturing technology from the Japanese. [D1.]
 
After months of bickering, Mitsubishi and General Dynamics reached agreement on the transfers of critical technology from Japan to the U.S. during their joint construction of Japan's next-generation fighter aircraft. [D1.]
 
Britain broke ranks with other members of the European Community and ended its ban on new investments in South Africa. [A7.]
 
MARKETS
 
Interest rates soared as prices of short- and long-term Treasury securities plunged. [D1.] Yields were mostly unchanged on C.D.'s and money market accounts. [D12.]
 
Stocks fell across a broad front as traders worried about rising interest rates here, as well as in West Germany and Japan. The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 38.74, to 2,596.85. [D6.]
 
The dollar ended mostly lower in moderate trading, as the British pound reached a 10-month high against the dollar. [D14.] Platinum futures prices surged. [D14.]
 
TECHNOLOGY
 
Scientists are making rapid progress in broadening the uses for diamonds by simplifying the task of manufacturing them. [D5.]
 
Semiconductor designers are fashioning a generation of chips to handle the expanding sea of graphics information. [D5.]
 
TODAY'S COLUMNS
 
Chaotic airports and sloppy cabin service notwithstanding, the airlines are disciplined by competition. Peter Passell: Economic Scene. [D2.]
 
To judge by its stock, Global Marine has found life after bankruptcy. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D6.]
 
Avrett, Free & Ginsberg has joined Concord International, an international network. Randall Rothenberg: Advertising. [D17.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: BULL (PAR) (92%); AMD (NYSE) (53%); AMD (FRA) (53%); GD (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (92%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (92%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (57%); NAICS321219 RECONSTITUTED WOOD PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (57%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (57%); SIC2493 RECONSTITUTED WOOD PRODUCTS (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336992 MILITARY ARMORED VEHICLE, TANK & TANK COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (53%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (71%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BULL SAS (92%); GEORGIA-PACIFIC LLC (57%); FREEPORT-MCMORAN GOLD CO (55%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (53%); GENERAL DYNAMICS CORP (53%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); PAPER MFG (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); ELECTRONICS (79%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); BONDS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); FUTURES (72%); PAPER & PACKAGING (70%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); COAL INDUSTRY (69%); PLATINUM MARKETS (69%); MINES & MINING (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (66%); TREASURY SECURITIES (65%); COAL MINING (64%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (62%); ELECTRONICS DESIGN (62%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (60%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 



586 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1780 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Lead in Computer Research Grows

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ATSUGI, Japan

 BODY:
In a sprawling laboratory complex here, Japanese researchers are working on an ambitious program that demonstrates how - and how quickly - Japan is widening its lead over the United States in certain crucial fields of electronics technology. It also underlines the contrast in the way the two nations are pursuing a promising but costly frontier of industrial expertise.
Researchers at the Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Company are developing a new X-ray technology to make computer chips, starting in the mid-1990's, that scientists predict will be many times more powerful than those in use today. The technology, called X-ray lithography, employs ultra-fine X-ray beams instead of light to make chips far more densely packed with electronic circuits.
The race for X-ray technology, Japanese and American executives agree, will significantly affect industrial competitiveness in many fields that depend on semiconductors, or chips, which are the building blocks of computers. The typical personal computer now uses chips with a storage capacity one-thousandth that of those that may eventually be made through X-ray lithography. A Sharp Contrast in Programs The N.T.T. project at Atsugi is just one of more than a dozen programs, trying many different approaches, that Japan has already mounted in an effort to build the ultra-dense chips that will make up smaller computers and far smarter consumer electronic goods. 
By contrast, the United States has one major project, at an International Business Machines Corporation plant in upstate New York that is still under construction. ''Ours is a rifle shot,'' explained William Siegle, the director of I.B.M.'s project in East Fishkill, N.Y. To share the risk, I.B.M. recently added the Motorola Corporation as a partner.
The Japanese companies working on X-ray lithography, Mr. Siegle acknowledged, ''have a couple of different cracks at it,'' noting that they can afford the luxury of making mistakes. In addition to the I.B.M project, the United States can claim a series of small efforts financed by the Navy's research laboratories. Other American companies have dropped out, deciding they could not afford to develop this pioneering technology.
At a time that American chip makers are fearful that they are increasingly dependent on Japan for the tools of chip making, the comparatively small amount of work being done in the United States on X-ray lithography points to the pace at which the research gap between the United States and Japan is widening.
''The research gap is very, very big,'' Toyoki Kitayama, the senior researcher in charge of N.T.T.'s project, said the other day as he walked through the sprawling research center here. ''I am afraid that it is getting bigger.''
Its second-place status in the X-ray lithography race hardly counts the United States out in electronic competitiveness; it still leads Japan in some major semiconductor technologies, particularly microprocessors, the logic chips at the core of personal computers and more powerful desktop computers called work stations.
Yet both statistics and anecdotal evidence suggest that America's research efforts are slipping, even as Japan is accelerating its push into selected high-technology fields. A recent survey by the National Science Foundation showed that a wide variety of American companies, wary of a recession and worried about profitability, are leveling off their spending for research and development. At the same time Japan's biggest companies are pouring more money than ever into new technologies and production techniques.
 
Japanese Spending Is Greater
Last November, a report to President Bush by the National Advisory Committee on Semiconductors said that research spending by the five biggest Japanese chip makers was nearly double that spent by the five top American merchant suppliers, which excludes I.B.M.
''The United States is holding its technological position in only a few areas, and gaining position nowhere,'' the report concluded.
Moreover, Japan's push to develop technologically advanced products, ranging from luxury automobiles to new supercomputers, has made research and development budgets virtually sacrosanct, the last budget items to be cut. In a report two months ago, Japan's Science and Technology Agency said its recent survey of industry here showed that two-thirds of Japanese corporate managers now identify ''strengthening R.&D.'' as their No. 1 objective, up from a little over half of those surveyed three years ago.
Between 1982 and 1987, the Science and Technology Agency found, research and development spending by Japanese companies rose 60 percent, compared with a 20 percent rise at American companies in that period.
Accordingly, Japanese executives say they are mystified that the United States would permit the demise of chip consortiums like U.S. Memories, which was abandoned for lack of financing last month, or let efforts in areas like high-definition television falter in the midst of debates over industrial policy.
 
'The U.S. Is Still Debating'
''It is hard to believe that the United States is still debating whether it is wise to cooperate on research,'' a senior executive of Hitachi said. ''Almost no one can afford to do this kind of research alone now. That does not mean you cannot compete strongly in the marketplace later on. But you have to be foolish to do this research alone.''
Japan's core critique of American research is twofold: that American companies fail to foresee the long-term harm in giving up on specific products that are test vehicles for new technology, and that they remain far too reluctant to invest in projects that may not pay off for a decade, if ever.
In the Japanese view, America's problem is that when the country abandoned the memory chip market in the mid-1980's it did not realize that it was also abandoning an enormously complex manufacturing technology.
''Only if you are good and fruitful in a previous generation can you afford to go ahead in the next stage,'' Joichi Aoi, the president of the Toshiba Corporation and the largest maker of one-megabit chips, said recently. ''But as we proceed from generation to generation in electronics, the number of ventures that can afford to participate will decline. The number of companies making top-level products now is very limited, and it is not getting bigger.''
The major reason is the heavy cost of staying in chip making. A single semiconductor fabrication plant for state-of-the-art chips can cost $200 million to $400 million.
But Japan's experience with X-ray lithography illustrates that cash is only part of the equation. So far, Japanese companies investing in X-ray lithography have pursued two strategies simultaneously. With Government help, they have created a consortium that is testing new equipment and trying basic processes. With their own funds, most of the major companies are also building operations of their own to begin etching test circuits and develop a range of new production equipment. Thus, the Government is orchestrating the effort to create core technologies that all the Japanese companies can then use to move toward commercial development of X-ray lithorgraphy.
The joint project, called Sortec, has been financed by 13 of Japan's biggest electronics and semiconductor equipment makers and the Government. The project's financing is just $100 million over 10 years, but the participating companies are donating the scientists and much of the equipment. It is housed in a new building on the edge of Tsukuba Science City, an hour north of Tokyo.
The core of the Sortec consortium - and all X-ray lithography projects - is a giant synchrotron, a circular or oval ring of magnets that accelerate a flow of electrons and shoot the X-rays they produce into a series of pipes. The X-rays, in turn, will be pumped into clean rooms built in a circle around the synchrotron, where the rays will expose the image of a chip on silicon.
Until now, ordinary light has done that job. In chip fabrication labs from Japan to Silicon Valley to Germany, chips have been produced in ''optical steppers'' that work much like a photographic enlarger. Light passes through a ''mask'' that is analogous to a photographic negative, and is then exposed onto the surface of a silicon wafer. The process is repeated for up to 20 layers of circuitry.
But as the size of circuitry has shrunk - today the circuits are less than a micron, or a thousandth of a millimeter, wide - ordinary light has become increasingly unsuitable. While optical lithography will probably be used to fabricate 16-megabit chips - I.B.M. and several Japanese makers have already produced prototypes - most experts expect that excimer lasers will be required to pack enough circuits on a chip for 64 megabits. By the time 256-megabit chips come along, probably after 1996 or so, the circuits will be as small as a quarter of a micron wide.
''You can't do that with ordinary light, or even lasers,'' said Tsutomu Noguchi, director of the Sortec research lab.
The difficulties lie in the fact that X-rays are impossible to manipulate with ordinary lenses, meaning that all new equipment is needed. So are new clean rooms; by some estimates a single X-ray chip fabrication plant will cost upwards of $1 billion in the mid-1990's.
 
A Miniature Industry
Not surprisingly, X-ray lithography has produced a miniature industry in Japan, with a network of suppliers rushing to build entirely new types of equipment. Fujitsu, NEC and Hitachi have all invested heavily, and Nikon and Canon are experimenting with new models designed to use X-rays as a light source. So is Matsushita, the the world's largest consumer electronics producer.
Several months ago Sumitomo Heavy Industries, which made its name as a shipbuilder, introduced a ''compact ring'' synchrotron, called the Aurora. Most synchrotrons are at least 50 feet in diameter; Sumitomo's is about the size of an office conference table. But the Aurora's development has been delayed by technical problems and it is still untested for chip making. For its part, I.B.M. is buying its synchrotron from Oxford Instruments, a British supplier.
So far, the most progress has come from the laboratory of Mr. Kitayama, who is working with a giant, racetrack-shaped synchrotron that N.T.T. has sunk into the basement of his laboratory, surrounded by giant superconductive magnets that are chilled to extremely low temperatures.
''We've built a clean room and already have some test circuitry,'' said Mr. Kitayama, who has been working on these problems for 10 years. ''But we are still a long, long way off.''

GRAPHIC: photo: Toyoki Kitayama, senior researcher in charge of the X-ray lithography development project for Nippon Telegraph and Telephone, with a synchrotron radiation machine yesterday at the laboratory in Atsugi. (Agence France-Presse for The New York Times) (pg. D4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: X (NYSE) (92%); IBMC (BRU) (83%); IBM (NYSE) (83%); IBM (LSE) (83%); NTT (NYSE) (57%); NPN (LSE) (57%); 9432 (TSE) (57%); MSI (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (92%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (57%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (53%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED STATES STEEL CORP (92%); INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (83%); NIPPON TELEGRAPH & TELEPHONE CORP (57%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (53%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: SEMICONDUCTORS; RESEARCH; X-RAYS COMPUTER SCIENCE (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); ELECTRONICS (89%); COMPUTER CHIPS (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); TEST LABORATORIES (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (77%); MICROPROCESSORS (76%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (76%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (71%); SEMICONDUCTORS (68%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E



587 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 890 words

HEADLINE: Rates Soar To Highest Since May

BYLINE: By H. J. MAIDENBERG

 BODY:
Interest rates soared yesterday as prices of both short- and long-term Treasury securities plunged. Dealers largely blamed concern that rising interest rates overseas would further increase the cost of borrowing in the United States.
The sharp selloff caused the price of the Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond to drop more than $20 for each $1,000 of face value and its yield to rise to its highest level since last May. High-grade corporate bonds fell almost as much. But dealers said that high-yielding ''junk bonds,'' already deeply discounted, posted only minimal, if any, losses. 
The most immediate impact of the surge in interest rates was in the stock market, where prices slumped, with the Dow Jones industrial average falling 38.74 points, to 2,596.85. [Page D6.] If the level of current interest rates is sustained, upward pressure should soon be felt on credit costs generally.
 
Yield Is Up to 8.66%
The Treasury's bellwether long bonds, the 8 1/2 percent issue maturing in 2020, was being offered late yesterday at 98 9/32, down 2 5/32 since Friday, the biggest one-day decline in six months. The yield on the long bonds, which serve as a surrogate for the Treasury's long-term debt, soared to 8.66 percent from 8.46 percent.
In New York, the selling began with the start of trading as the market reacted to sharp drops in Treasury bond prices being quoted in Tokyo and later in Europe. At that time, news tickers were reporting that yields on Japanese and West German bonds were at their highest levels since mid-1982.
Japanese and West German bond prices were affected not so much by selling from investment portfolios, as was the case here, as by hedging by financial houses seeking insurance against rising interest rates and fears of inflation in those countries.
 
Futures Used as Hedge
To hedge, a portfolio manager normally sells equivalent amounts of securities in the futures market as insurance against a price drop. If prices do fall, the loss should be offset by gains on the futures contracts.
New York dealers said the traders overseas found buyers willing to take the risk, but at a price.
''Sentiment in the domestic bond market was not helped subsequently when Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan told a Congressional panel that inflation remained his primary concern,'' said William V. Sullivan Jr., senior vice president at Dean Witter Reynolds. ''That appeared to dash any lingering hopes the Fed would ease credit in the foreseeable future.''
Less unsettling, Mr. Sullivan said, was a Treasury announcement that it would need to raise borrowings by $6 billion, to $47.6 billion, during the current quarter. ''The market fully expects the Treasury to increase its weekly and monthly bill auctions as well as place cash management bills to help the strapped Resolution Trust Corporation try to bail out sinking thrift institutions,'' he said.
Expected or not, the news weighed heavily on a market still trying to absorb the debt securities being liquidated by Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc., the Wall Street firm whose parent filed for bankruptcy protection last week.
 
Currency Rate Is a Factor
Mr. Sullivan said the credit market must now focus even more on currency exchange rates as well as interest rates, especially those in Japan and West Germany. Rising yields on debt securities in those two countries are drawing an increased amount of foreign investment.
At yesterday's weekly bill auctions, the Treasury's borrowing cost continued to rise. The average discount rate on the 90-day bills soared to 7.80 percent, from 7.65 percent the week before, while that on the six-month bills climbed to 7.77 percent from 7.65 percent. The auctions, usually held on Mondays, were postponed a day because of the Washington's Birthday holiday.
The bill rates are still well below levels a year ago, when they were 8.51 and 8.50 percent, respectively. In all, the Treasury sold $15.2 billion of three- and six-month bills, and it announced yesterday that the total would rise to $16 billion next week.
Interest rates are also expected to rise sharply at today's auction of $10 billion of two-year notes, which traded on a when-issued basis to yield 8.49 percent, up from 8.32 percent last Friday. Tomorrow, the Treasury plans to auction $8 billion of five-year notes; the yield on them climbed yesterday to 8.55 percent from 8.34 percent.
The Treasury's 10-year notes, the 8 1/2's of the year 2000, dropped 31/32, to 99 6/32, as the yield climbed to 8.62 percent from 8.41 percent.
Following are the results of the Treasury's weekly bill auctions:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

$	 	 	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	 	Average Price	98.028	96.072	Discounted Rate	7.80%	7.77%	Coupon Yield	8.07%	8.20%	High Price	98.036	96.092	Discounted Rate	7.77%	7.73%	Coupon Yield	8.04%	8.16%	Low Price	98.028	96.062	Discounted Rate	7.80%	7.79%	Coupon Yield	8.07%	8.22%	Accepted at low price	77%	40%	Total applied for	$23,547,585	$19,953,400	Accepted	$7,613,085	$7,603,800	N.Y. applied for	$20,251,630	$16,925 435	N.Y. accepted	$6,540,580	$6,517,435	Noncompetitive	$1,408,735	$1,218,790	
 
Both these issues are dated Feb. 22, 1990. The three-month bills mature May 24, 1990 and the six-month bills, Aug. 23, 1990.

GRAPHIC: graph of 3-month treasury bills (Source: The Bond Buyer) (pg. D12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (56%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (68%); JAPAN (54%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (54%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (56%); DOW JONES & CO INC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CREDIT; INTEREST (MONEY); FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME INTEREST RATES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); BONDS (93%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); FUTURES (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); AUCTIONS (78%); PRICE CUTTING (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); 

PERSON: MAIDENBERG, H J ALAN GREENSPAN (59%); 



588 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Fiercer Rivals, Friendlier Skies

BYLINE: By Peter Passell

 BODY:
''THE idea,'' suggests one airline executive, ''was to throw eight pounds of paper at the guys who want to re-regulate.''
But you do not have to be a cynic to appreciate the eight-volume assessment of the domestic airline industry released last week by the Transportation Department. For in spite of the impression left by chaotic airports, sloppy cabin service and musical-chair corporate reorganizations, there is impressive evidence that the airlines are still disciplined by competition.
The one false note in this careful research effort is the analysis of what Transportation Secretary Samuel K. Skinner's task force delicately labels airline ''marketing practices.'' The Bush Administration, it appears, is not ready to challenge the mega-carriers' use of frequent-flier bonuses and computerized reservation systems to frighten away potential competitors. 
Anyone who has braved the crowds at O'Hare or La Guardia knows that more people than ever are flying. What may surprise, though, is that small towns as well as big ones are enjoying better service. Flight frequency to 382 rural communities is up 44 percent since 1978, and a dozen medium-sized cities - like Charlotte, N.C.; Dayton, Ohio, and Memphis - have reaped spectacular tenfold or twentyfold gains.
The report notes, moreover, that the percentage of passengers with a choice of carriers grew sharply in the early 1980's and then held steady through the wave of mergers and bankruptcies. The resulting competitive pressures have forced carriers to pass through most of the gains from higher productivity. Adjusted for inflation, average fares are down 15 percent since 1984 and 26 percent since 1981. One key to greater airline efficiency is the switch to hub-and-spoke route structures, which allow major carriers to provide one-stop service between thousands of pairs of cities but fewer nonstops between others. The new route systems choke big airports with peak-hour traffic and limit the choice of carriers for residents of a few cities dominated by single carriers - notably St. Louis, Minneapolis and Pittsburgh. But for a great majority of travelers the shift assured greater competition, even as the number of airlines fell.
In 1979, for example, the Albany-Minneapolis route was served only through Buffalo or Chicago. By 1988 it was practical to connect through Pittsburgh and Detroit as well, increasing the number of competitors on the route from two to four.
The report acknowledges that competition is ever more dependent on airline access to major airports. Not every big-league carrier needs a hub in, say, Atlanta. But every carrier with a national route system does need a few gates to link Atlanta with 50 other cities through Dallas or Denver or Detroit. And that alone would be sufficient reason to push ahead with expansion of airports and air traffic control systems. Oddly missing from the report, however, are any tough words about airline marketing strategies intended in large part to cool the heated competition.
Frequent-flier programs buy the loyalty of business travelers at the expense of their employers. And the United States Treasury: Nobody, after all, pays taxes on all those ''free'' trips to Paris and Hawaii. As significant, the bonuses make it more difficult for upstart airlines to invade new turf. What sane traveler, on the verge of earning two first-class tickets to Bali on Tyrannosaurus Air, is likely to be won over by mere promises of faster and cheaper service?
Subtler but arguably as serious threats to new entry are the computerized reservation systems controlled by the major carriers and used by travel agents. These marvels of technology, able to regurgitate instant information on everything from available aisle seats to requests for kosher meals, are potent sources of growth in productivity. But they can also serve as potent weapons for repelling competitors.
Government rules prohibit gross biases in the way the screens display flight information. If the Eastern flight is quicker and leaves at the preferred time, it must show up ahead of the competition on American's computer system.
But the Transportation Department acknowledges that the systems can still be used to grant favors to deep-pocket clients and to bribe travel agents by tying commissions to bookings on heavily contested routes. And the report carefully skirts the question of corporate divestiture, the one policy fix that could guarantee the benefits of computerization without the costs to competition.
As measured by the vital statistics, airline competition is alive and well. But deregulators never contended that wide-open competition was in the interest of the sellers. And as the Transportation Department suggests, few industries have worked so hard or so cleverly to tame it. If no one keeps tabs on the airlines' high jinks, they may yet succeed.

GRAPHIC: drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (92%); DAYTON, OH, USA (55%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (US)

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); RESEARCH AIRLINES (92%); DEREGULATION (91%); AIRPORTS (90%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (77%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (73%); COMPUTERIZED RESERVATION SYSTEMS (73%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (73%); CITY LIFE (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (64%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (52%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (74%); 



589 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 3, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: Chevron Cut May Total 1,000 Jobs

BYLINE: By THOMAS C. HAYES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DALLAS, Feb. 20

 BODY:
The Chevron Corporation said today that it would trim up to 1,000 jobs this year, or 12 percent of the payroll of its domestic exploration and production unit. The oil giant also said it would sell more than $700 million worth of its domestic properties in the next two years.
The changes will result in charges of $25 million to $30 million against first-quarter earnings, the company said. 
Chevron, the nation's fourth-largest oil company, said it would continue to expand its search for oil and natural gas overseas.
 
A Meeting With Analysts
The announcement came the day before Kenneth T. Derr, Chevron's chairman and chief executive, was scheduled to talk to industry analysts in New York.
Mr. Derr succeeded George Keller in the Chevron posts a year ago. Analysts have criticized Mr. Derr for moving too slowly in trimming excess operations that remain from Chevron's acquisition of the Gulf Oil Corporation six years ago.
''Chevron has been making a number of statements saying they were in the process of restructuring,'' said Simon Trimble, who follows international oil companies for Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. in New York. ''This is clearly one of the elements now in place.''
 
Shares Close Lower
After the announcement was made in the last hour of trading on the New York Stock Exchange, Chevron's shares climbed 62.5 cents, but that was not enough to recover earlier losses and the shares ended the day down 50 cents, at $69.375.
Some analysts had expected Chevron to take the bigger step of selling some refineries or service stations, and using the proceeds to repurchase stock. Putting more shares in the company's hands could help defend against a possible takeover.
In December, the Pennzoil Company announced it held 8 percent of Chevron's common shares. Chevron immediately took legal action, which has not been resolved, to block further purchases by Pennzoil. Pennzoil said it was a long-term investor and did not intend to acquire Chevron.
In its statement today, Chevron said the Government's refusal to expand oil-drilling rights to some offshore and coastal areas in the United States had been ''a critical factor'' in its decision to scale back its domestic exploration activities.
Last month, Chevron said it had written off $445 million of its huge investment in the Point Arguello field, off the California coast near Santa Barbara. Production at the site has been delayed by protests from environmentalists and regulatory actions.
 
Interests in Alaska
Chevron also has large lease rights it shares with British Petroleum in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in northeast Alaska, where Congress has banned drilling. A Chevron spokesman, Larry Shushan, said that even though the United States imported 54 percent of its oil needs in January, Chevron does not expect regulators to give permission to drill in the Alaska field soon.
In the changes announced today, Chevron is ending the practice of having three regional headquarters for all operations. Instead, production activities will be overseen by five regional offices, and the exploration business will be split between offices in Houston and New Orleans, with land sales and purchases managed in Houston.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CVX (NYSE) (95%); BP (NYSE) (57%); BP (LSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (95%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (95%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (95%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (95%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ARCTIC (79%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: CHEVRON CORP (95%); PENNZOIL CO (65%); BP PLC (57%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHEVRON CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; COMPANY REPORTS; LABOR; LAYOFFS (LABOR); UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (92%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION & EXTRACTION (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); OIL EXPLORATION (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); MINING & EXTRACTION RIGHTS & ROYALTIES (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); COMMON STOCK (76%); NATURAL GAS EXPLORATION (73%); WILDLIFE (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (71%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (70%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (70%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (65%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (61%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%); COASTAL AREAS (60%); EXECUTIVES (54%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (50%); 

PERSON: HAYES, THOMAS C KENNETH T DERR (71%); GEORGE MATTHEW KELLER (56%); 



590 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 3, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 225 words

HEADLINE: EXECUTIVES

 BODY:
* Coast Savings and Loan Association, Los Angeles, a subsidiary of Coast Savings Financial Inc., appointed Norman H. Raiden executive vice president in charge of its legal and subsidiaries groups.
* Farley Industries, Chicago, a diversified holding company, named Richard Cion senior executive vice president for corporate development. 
* Federal National Mortgage Association, Washington, commonly known as Fannie Mae, named Timothy Howard executive vice president and chief financial officer. He replaces Bruce C. McMillen, who resigned.
* Financial Services Corp., the economic development bank for New York City, promoted Julia Binkerd to senior vice president for client development.
* Helionetics Inc., Irvine, Calif., a high-technology company, named Vincent P. Williams chief executive. He replaces Charles W. Jobbins, who will remain chairman.
* National Lumber and Supply Inc., Fountain Valley, Calif., a home-improvement store chain, appointed Frank E. Stephan Jr. chief financial officer.
* Poseidon Pools of America Inc. named Joseph Cioni president and chief executive. He replaces George Tassons, who will remain chairman.
* Whirlpool Corp., Benton Harbor, Mich., the appliance manufacturer, named Jan Prising a corporate vice president, and named Ralph F. Hake, a vice president, to the post of corporate controller.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WHR (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (91%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (91%); NAICS335228 OTHER MAJOR HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS335224 HOUSEHOLD LAUNDRY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS335999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT & COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (71%); SIC3629 ELECTRICAL INDUSTRIAL APPARATUS, NEC (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (91%); WHIRLPOOL CORP (83%); HELIONETICS INC (71%); NATIONAL LUMBER & SUPPLY INC (70%); NORTH AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (57%); NORTH AMERICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (57%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES EXECUTIVES (95%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); HOME CENTERS (73%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (67%); 

PERSON: NORMAN H RAIDEN (59%); 



591 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 6, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 424 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Drop on Rate Fears; Dow Off 38.74

BYLINE: By ROBERT J. COLE

 BODY:
Stocks fell across a broad front yesterday as traders worried about rising interest rates here, as well as in West Germany and Japan.
Strong signs that interest rates may be moving up in both Japan and West Germany pushed up interest rates in the credit markets here yesterday, but traders voiced concern that to remain competitive they may have to be raised further.
And in remarks that many traders took to be a big hint that no interest-rate relief was on the way, Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, told Congress that the economy had probably passed the danger point. 
After falling 45 points in early afternoon, the Dow Jones industrial average ended the session off 38.74, or 1.5 percent, to 2,596.85. Trading was relatively light.
 
Nervous Analysts
Several market analysts have been advising clients to lighten up on stock positions, suggesting that Wall Street could be facing further declines.
A. Marshall Acuff Jr., an investment strategist for Smith Barney, Harris Upham & Company, told the Reuters news agency that he had advised clients yesterday to trim stock holdings slightly and to build up cash.
Gene Seagle, technical research director at Gruntal & Company, attributed the market slump to weakness in the bond market and ''fears that the Japanese and Germans will raise interest rates again.''
The Dow transportation index slid 11.38 points yesterday, or nearly 1.1 percent, to 1,067.92, largely because of a 3 5/8 decline in UAL, to 127 1/8. Analysts said UAL directors would convene tomorrow for a regularly scheduled meeting to review union proposals to buy the company.
Trading volume, which just a week ago reached a low for the year of 118.4 million shares, stood yesterday at 148.2 million, down from 166.8 million on Friday.
The most active issue on the Big Board was Great Northern Nekoosa, which rose 1 1/2, to 65 3/8, after Georgia-Pacific increased its offer for the paper company to $65.75 a share, from $63, and the two signed an agreement to merge. More than two million shares changed hands.
In the strongest decline among the active issues, United Telecom slid 1 3/8, to 31 7/8, largely in response to a Wall Street Journal article yesterday on an inquiry by the Federal Bureau of Investigation into reported spying by U S Sprint into rival phone bids. Sprint is part of United Telecom. Among the strongest gainers, McClatchy Newspapers rose 2 1/4, to 21 5/8, in heavy trading; in Sacramento, McClatchy told the New York Stock Exchange that it never commented on such matters.

GRAPHIC: favorite stocks chart

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (52%); NAICS321219 RECONSTITUTED WOOD PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (52%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (52%); SIC2493 RECONSTITUTED WOOD PRODUCTS (52%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (93%); GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SMITH BARNEY HARRIS UPHAM & CO INC (69%); GRUNTAL & CO LLC (68%); GRUNTAL & CO INC (68%); GEORGIA-PACIFIC LLC (52%); MCCLATCHY NEWSPAPERS INC (51%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (51%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE INTEREST RATES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (88%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); BOND MARKETS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); MERGERS (74%); PAPER MFG (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (70%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); 

PERSON: COLE, ROBERT J ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 



592 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 12, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 433 words

HEADLINE: C.D. Yields Are Unchanged

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:
Yields on certificates of deposit and money market accounts at commercial banks and savings institutions were mostly unchanged for the week ended yesterday.
At the Treasury's regular weekly bill auction held yesterday, the interest rates on three- and six-month bills were up sharply. The auction results are considered an influence on what many banks pay their depositors. 
The three-month bills were sold at an average discount rate of 7.80 percent, up from 7.65 percent a week ago and the highest rate in two weeks.
The six-month bills rose to 7.77 percent from 7.65 percent, the highest since the Oct. 2 auction, when it was 7.92 percent.
 
Bank Rates Called Stable
Robert J. Hutchinson, senior vice president and director of retail marketing at the Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company, noted that bank C.D. rates during the last two weeks have stabilized, especially those in the New York market.
Some bank analysts say the Federal Reserve Bank, by not easing credit, has allowed interest rates to rise. As a result, people with maturing C.D.'s are parking their money in liquid accounts instead of rolling the certificates over, hoping to catch a higher rate. ''Some of those people often make the mistake of parking too long,'' one banker said.
The weekly survey of New York area banks shows C.D. yields offered at commercial banks mixed, while those at savings institutions were unchanged to slightly lower.
Yields on commercial bank money market accounts declined by 3 basis points, to 6.43 percent, with the average yield for a three-month certificate unchanged at 7.82 percent. A six-month certificate increased 2 basis points, to 7.90 percent. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.
 
Slight Drop at Savings Units
At the savings institutions, yields on money market accounts were unchanged at 6.58 percent. Yields on three- and six-month ceriticates declined by a basis point, to 8.05 percent and 8.07 percent, respectively.
Among 20 large banks nationwide, yields on deposits remained mixed for the third straight week, with money market accounts unchanged at 6.31 percent and six-month certificates down 2 basis points, to 7.77 percent.
Yields at some large credit unions were mixed, with shorter-term rates up slightly and longer term certificates down. Money market accounts and one-year certificates gained a basis point, to 6.69 percent and 8.12 percent, respectively. While six-month certificates were unchanged, the two-and-a-half-year C.D. declined 4 basis points, to 8.22 percent, and the five-year slipped a basis point, to 8.23 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5023 HOME FURNISHINGS; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: MANUFACTURERS HANOVER CORP (56%); NEW YORK (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; INTEREST (MONEY); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT; SAVINGS ACCOUNTS AND CERTIFICATES INTEREST RATES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); CREDIT UNIONS (73%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (73%); EXECUTIVES (69%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT



593 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 14, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 293 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Off Against Pound; Gold Prices Are Higher

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar ended mostly lower yesterday in moderate trading, as the British pound took center stage, reaching a 10-month high against the dollar in the United States and abroad.
Gold prices rose. On the New York Commodity Exchange, gold for current delivery settled at $419.90 an ounce, $2.80 higher than Friday. The Republic National Bank in New York quoted a late bid for gold at $419.90 an ounce, up $2.65 from Friday.
Foreign-exchange dealers said concerns about higher interest rates abroad, particularly in Britain, West Germany and Japan, were largely responsible for the dollar's drop.
 
Remarks by Greenspan
They said comments from the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, Alan Greenspan, at a Congressional hearing yesterday, were shrugged off by traders even though the remarks seemed to be bullish for the dollar. Mr. Greenspan expressed guarded optimism that the country could avoid a recession, decreasing the prospects for lower interest rates.
Higher interest rates in Britain -around 15 percent for bank lending -helped support the pound.
In London, 1 cost $1.7040 late yesterday, up from $1.7030. Sterling fetched $1.7115 in New York, up from $1.6972 Friday. The pound is now at its highest level since the end of April, traders said.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Friday's quotes, included: 1.66835 West German marks, down from 1.6758; 1.4785 Swiss francs, down from 1.4910; 5.6670 French francs, down from 5.6950; 1,237.50 Italian lire, down from 1,243.25, and 1.20075 Canadian dollars, up from 1.1998.
In New York, the dollar closed at 145.155 yen, up from 144.13 Friday.
Silver prices gained. On New York's Comex, silver for current delivery closed at $5.332 an ounce, up from $5.328 Friday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (57%); HSB (PAR) (57%); HBC (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (71%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (58%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (57%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (57%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; GREAT BRITAIN

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; GOLD; PRICES GOLD MARKETS (93%); CURRENCIES (91%); BRITISH POUND (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); US DOLLAR (89%); METALS MARKETS (78%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); SILVER MARKETS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); GERMAN MARK (70%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (75%); 



594 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 21, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 14, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 386 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES/OPTIONS;
Platinum and Copper Rise On Concern About Supply

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Platinum futures prices surged yesterday on the New York Mercantile Exchange, reflecting strong demand for the metal amid uncertainty about inflation, stock prices and South Africa.
On other commodity markets, copper futures rose and energy futures were mixed.
Platinum futures settled $8.40 to $9 higher, with the contract for delivery in April up $9 at $534.40 an ounce, its highest daily finish since Nov. 27. 
 
Fears About South Africa
Analysts linked the platinum rally to a spurt in purchases of physical platinum in East Asia and to renewed investment demand for the metal. In the background are continuing fears of supply disruptions in South Africa, the world's leading platinum producer, stemming from the threat of violence by followers of Nelson Mandela and the African National Congress.
Platinum for April delivery has risen more than $20 an ounce since Mr. Mandela's release on Feb. 11.
''There are people in the world who, for one reason or another, fear supply disruptions in the future and keep buying platinum,'' said John Sak, first vice president in charge of precious metals futures with Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc.
Copper futures advanced for the fifth straight session on New York's Commodity Exchange amid continuing signs of dwindling supplies.
The London Metal Exchange on Monday reported that its warehouse stocks of copper declined last week by 5,425 tons, to 88,300 tons.
Yesterday, the Commodity Exchange said the level of copper stocks that are registered with it fell 609 tons on Friday, to 3,020 tons.
 
Oil Mostly Lower
Concerns about tightening supplies have helped increase the price for March delivery of copper by nearly 13 cents a pound in the last week.
Copper futures finished 0.2 cent to 1.7 cents higher, with March at $1.13 a pound.
Most petroleum futures retreated on the New York Mercantile Exchange, partly in reaction to analysts' projections for increased crude oil production by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries in the first half of 1990.
West Texas intermediate crude oil settled 11 cents to 23 cents lower, with March at $22.19 a barrel; heating oil futures ended 0.1 cent to 0.25 cent lower, with March at 57.38 cents a gallon; unleaded gasoline was 0.18 cent lower to 0.21 cent higher, with March at 60.20 cents a gallon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LEH (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: SOUTH AFRICA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); EASTERN ASIA (71%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (91%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (91%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (82%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (82%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (56%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE

SUBJECT: PLATINUM; FUTURES TRADING; PRICES FUTURES (96%); COMMODITIES TRADING (93%); PLATINUM MARKETS (93%); COPPER MARKETS (93%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (91%); METALS MARKETS (90%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (90%); COPPER INDUSTRY (90%); BASE METALS MARKETS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); ENERGY MARKETS (89%); GASOLINE (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); HEATING OIL (78%); HEATING OIL PRICES (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (64%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (62%); EXPORT TRADE (61%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (50%); 

PERSON: NELSON ROLIHLAHLA MANDELA (70%); 



595 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1214 words

HEADLINE: UPHEAVAL IN THE EAST;
Havel's 'Paradoxical' Plea: Help Soviets

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 21

 BODY:
President Vaclav Havel of Czechoslovakia told a joint meeting of Congress today that the best way the United States could aid his country and the rest of Eastern Europe in their quest for freedom was by helping the Soviet Union navigate the ''immensely complicated'' road to democracy.
Giving advice he acknowledged was a bit unusual coming from a longtime victim of Soviet domination, Czechoslovakia's playwright-turned-President told the Representatives, Senators and Cabinet members, ''I often hear the question: How can the United States of America help us today? My reply is as paradoxical as the whole of my life has been: You can help us most of all if you help the Soviet Union on its irreversible but immensely complicated road to democracy.''
The sooner and the more peacefully the Soviet Union begins to move toward genuine political pluralism and a market economy, Mr. Havel added, ''the better it will be not just for Czechs and Slovaks, but for the whole world.'' 
 
Reducing the Burden
''And the sooner you yourselves will be able to reduce the burden of the military budget borne by the American people,'' he said. ''To put it metaphorically: the millions you give to the East today will soon return to you in the form of billions in savings.'' [Excerpts, page A14.] Mr. Havel's hourlong speech, which he said he wrote himself in an afternoon, was greeted by five standing ovations and repeated shouts of ''Bravo!'' from the standing-room-only crowd, which included the Czechoslovak-born tennis star Martina Navratilova and the film director Milos Forman. He responded with shy nods and a single, stiff V-for-victory sign.
At one point he practically apologized to his audience of professional politicians, saying: ''I have not attended any schools for presidents. My only school was life itself.''
Mr. Havel's speech was essentially a personal reflection on how the cold war can be replaced by ''an era in which all of us - large and small - former slaves and former masters - will be able to create what your great President Lincoln called the family of man.''
 
Tears and Pride
Throughout, his audience sat in rapt attention, with Czechs in the visitors gallery occasionally wiping away tears and Mr. Havel's aides drinking in the scene with that mixture of pride and bemusement that has characterized their rapid journey from prison cell to presidential castle.
''When they arrested me on Oct. 27, I was living in a country ruled by the most conservative Communist Government in Europe, and our society slumbered beneath the pall of a totalitarian system,'' Mr. Havel began, speaking in his native Czech and having an interpreter translate each paragraph. ''Today, less than four months later, I am speaking to you as the representative of a country that has set out on the road to democracy. It is all very strange indeed.''
But the 53-year-old Mr. Havel, Czechoslovakia's first non-Communist President since 1948, quickly added that he had come to the halls of Congress to speak not about his life but rather about his times.
''The human face of the world is changing so rapidly that none of the familiar political speedometers are adequate,'' he said. ''We playwrights, who have to cram a whole human life or an entire historical era into a two-hour play, can scarcely understand this rapidity ourselves.''
He then sought to explain why the changes taking place in Eastern Europe should be of concern to people around the globe. With the Soviet Ambassador, Yuri V. Dubinin, sitting with other diplomats in the audience, Mr. Havel observed that in the last century, when the United States was making ''enormous strides,'' the Soviet Union was transforming ''the enormous sacrifices of its people under totalitarian rule into a strength that, after World War II, made it the second most powerful nation in the world.''
''It was a country that rightly gave people nightmares, because no one knew what would occur to its rulers next and what country they would decide to conquer and drag into their sphere of influence. All of this taught us to see the world in bipolar terms, as two enormous forces, one a defender of freedom, the other a source of nightmares.''
 
Europe's Search for Identity
But now, said Mr. Havel, this bipolar world is breaking down, with the ''first act in this remarkable drama'' opening with the changes initiated by President Mikhail S. Gorbachev of the Soviet Union.
In light of these changes, Mr. Havel said, Czechoslovakia is returning to Europe and Europe itself is beginning to seek its own identity again ''without being compelled to be a divided armory any longer.''
Mr. Havel said he understood that for logistical and political reasons Mr. Gorbachev could not pull his 75,000 troops out of Czechoslovakia overnight, but added, ''Nevertheless, we would like to have as many Soviet units as possible moved out of our country before the elections.'' These are scheduled for June.
As for the future of NATO and the Warsaw Pact, Mr. Havel insisted that he was not calling for their dissolution tomorrow, but simply arguing that Europe has to eventually assume responsibility for its own security and stability.
 
Responsibility Above All
The second half of Mr. Havel's address was more of a philosophical meditation on the role of intellectuals in shaping the new Europe.
''A person who cannot move and live a somewhat normal life because he is pinned under a boulder has more time to think about his hopes than someone who is not trapped this way,'' he said. ''What I'm trying to say is this: We must all learn many things from you, from how to educate our offspring, how to elect our representatives, all the way to how to organize our economic life so that it will lead to prosperity and not to poverty. We, too, can offer something to you, our experience and the knowledge that has come from it.''
The specific wisdom he was referring to, Mr. Havel said, is what he and his colleagues have learned from fighting totalitarianism: that ''the salvation of this human world lies nowhere else than in the human heart, in the human power to reflect, in human meekness and in human responsibility.''
''The only genuine backbone of all our actions - if they are to be moral -is responsibility. Responsibility to something higher than my family, my country, my firm, my success.''
 
Shouldering the Burden
This, he said, is ''why I ultimately decided - after resisting for a long time - to accept the burden of political responsibility.''
''If the hope of the world lies in human consciousness, then it is obvious that intellectuals cannot go on forever avoiding their share of responsibility. When Thomas Jefferson wrote that 'Governments are instituted among men deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed,' it was a simple and important act of the human spirit. What gave meaning to that act, however, was the fact that the author backed it up with his life. It was not just his words, it was his deeds as well.''
At the invitation of President Bush, Mr. Havel returned to the White House after his address to complete their talks on economic issues. On Tuesday, Mr. Bush promised Czechoslovakia freer trade arrangements and a range of new investment and economic incentives.

GRAPHIC: photo: President Vaclav Havel of Czechoslovakia, center in foreground, after addressing a joint meeting of Congress yesterday in Washington. (The New York Times/Paul Hosefros)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (94%); CZECH REPUBLIC (93%); SLOVAKIA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;CONGRESS (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CZECHOSLOVAKIA; EUROPE; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; CZECHOSLOVAKIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION US PRESIDENTS (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); POLITICS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); COLD WAR (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (76%); BUDGETS (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); WRITERS (71%); CONSERVATISM (68%); DEFENSE SPENDING (66%); TENNIS (63%); SPORTS (63%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); FILM DIRECTORS (50%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; HAVEL, VACLAV (PRES) THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); 



596 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1464 words

HEADLINE: High Court Decides Budget Office Exceeded Power in Blocking Rules

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 21

 BODY:
Dealing an unexpected setback to the deregulatory efforts of the Reagan and Bush administrations, the Supreme Court ruled today that the White House budget office lacked statutory authority to block certain regulations issued by other Federal agencies.
The Court held that the White House agency, the Office of Management and Budget, overstepped its authority two years ago when it disapproved parts of a Labor Department regulation requiring nearly all employers to warn their workers about the prospect of exposure to hazardous substances on the job.
The 7-to-2 decision applies to a broad category of regulations over which the budget office has asserted control, affecting areas like food ingredients, housing inspections and pensions.
The budget office refused in 1987 to permit the Labor Department regulation, known as the Hazard Communication Standard, to apply to the construction industry, and it did not take effect in construction. As its legal authority to limit the regulation, the budget office relied on the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980. 
The standard itself was the result of a long political struggle during Ronald Reagan's Administration. The Occupational Safety and Health Administration, a unit of the Labor Department, at first issued narrow disclosure rules, limited to manufacturing industries. A group of labor unions as well as a consumer group sued successfully in 1983 to force the agency to issue a broader standard. The regulations issued in 1987, before the budget office's disapproval, applied to work sites in all sectors of the economy.
The Paperwork Reduction Act, which the Supreme Court had never interpreted before today, requires Federal agencies to get the budget office's approval before issuing regulations that required the collection of information. Aimed at relieving the public of the growing burden of filling out Federal forms, the law was passed in the final months of Jimmy Carter's Administration.
During the Reagan Administration, the Office of Management and Budget relied strongly on the paperwork law as the basis for taking control of the Federal regulatory process, a role that was much disputed by critics of the office.
 
Brennan Writes Opinion
In an opinion by Justice William J. Brennan Jr., the Court today said that the budget office's authority under the Paperwork Reduction Act is considerably more limited than the office had supposed.
The paperwork law applies only to regulations that require information to be reported to the Government itself, Justice Brennan said. He said the law does not give the O.M.B. authority over the Hazard Communication Standard or similar regulations, which require private parties - in this case, employers - to disclose information, not to the Government, but to other private parties, their employees.
 
Bush Argument Dismissed
Justice Brennan said the Administration's argument that the statute gave the budget office broader authority was untenable under a careful reading of the Paperwork Reduction Act.
He said the purpose of the act was to limit the increasing burden of filling out Federal forms and providing information to the Government, as well as minimizing the cost to the Government of handling the information.
Justice Brennan said, ''Because Congress expressed concern only for the burden imposed by requirements to provide information to a Federal agency, and not for any burden imposed by requirements to provide information to a third party, O.M.B. review of disclosure rules would not further this Congressional aim.''
He said the paperwork law was so clear that ''we decline to defer to O.M.B.'s interpretation.''
Barbara Clay, a spokeswoman for the budget office, said today there would be no comment on the Supreme Court decision.
 
Labor Pleased With Decision
In Bal Harbour, Fla., where the leaders of the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations are holding their annual meeting, news of the court's decision was greeted happily.
Margaret Seminario, health and safety director for the federation, said the decision should speed up the process of issuing regulations, including some that have been blocked at the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and others that she said agencies had watered down to accommodate the budget office. She said one is an OSHA-prepared requirement that cancer warnings be put on containers of the chemical formaldehyde.
The Court's decision upheld a ruling by the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit in Philadelphia. The budget office's action had been challenged by a labor union, the United Steelworkers of America, and by Public Citizen Inc., an organization affiliated with Ralph Nader.
 
Administration Appealed Decision
In its 1988 decision, the appeals court said that the O.M.B. had attempted to exercise ''substantive lawmaking authority'' that Congress had not given it.
When the Bush Administration appealed the third circuit's ruling early last year, its brief warned that the decision would have a drastic result and if not overturned ''would effectively invalidate O.M.B. authority to review a wide range'' of agency regulations beyond the Hazard Communication Standard. The brief said the Hazard Communication Standard itself imposed ''one of the most significant paperwork requirements in regulatory history.''
According to the Government's brief, the budget office has recently been in the process of review a wide range of disclosure rules covering areas like food ingredients, housing inspections, pension benefits, hearing aids, funeral services and lead-based paint.
 
Rehnquist and White Dissent
Justice Brennan's opinion, Dole v. Steelworkers, No. 88-1434, was joined by Justices Thurgood Marshall, Harry A. Blackmun, John Paul Stevens, Sandra Day O'Connor, Antonin Scalia and Anthony M. Kennedy.
Justice Byron R. White wrote a dissenting opinion that Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist joined. They said the Court had failed to give proper deference to the budget office's interpretation of the paperwork law.
The Office of Management and Budget was established in the Executive Office of the President in 1970 under executive orders that authorize it to supervise and coordinate the preparation of the budget among other executive branch agencies.
 
O.M.B. Viewed as Intrustive
Congress - not the Executive Office - created the Occupational Safety and Health Administration as well as dozens of other Federal regulatory agencies. OSHA's mandate since its birth in 1970 has been to improve safety on the job through its power to issue regulations.
Agency heads have occasionally chafed at what they have viewed as intrusions by the O.M.B. beyond budget questions into areas of policy. The clashes have been particularly pointed when the agency heads believed the budget office was frustrating their efforts to carry out Congressional mandates. But Mr. Reagan and Mr. Bush both supported the budget office in its exercise of broad managerial powers over the other departments and agencies in the executive branch.
In its decision today limiting the budget office's authority under one statute, the Paperwork Reduction Act, the Supreme Court did not address broader questions about the budget office's role within the executive branch or its authority under various Presidential directives to oversee the work of other agencies.
The Court also issued this decision today: Rails to Trails The Court unanimously upheld the constitutionality of a 1983 law designed to facilitate the conversion of unused railroad tracks into scenic trails.
The law, an amendment to the National Trails System Act, permits the Interstate Commerce Commission, which regulates railroads, to transfer the rights of way of unused tracks to local governments or organizations for operation as trails. But in many instances, the railroads seeking to abandon their tracks do not actually own the property but have simply used it under easements granted in earlier years by the property owners.
A Vermont couple who owned several hundred feet along an abandoned branch line sued the commerce commission on the ground that the property's conversion into a bicycle path was an unconstitutional taking of their private property without compensation.
In an opinion by Justice Brennan, the Court said the law presented no constitutional problem because property owners could sue for damages in the United States Claims Court under a Federal law known as the Tucker Act. The opinion also said that the law was a valid exercise of the power of Congress to regulate interstate commerce.
The decision, Preseault v. I.C.C., No. 88-1076, upheld a ruling by the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, in New York.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: REAGAN ADMINISTRATION (74%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (84%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (84%); OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY & HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US)

SUBJECT: REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; INDUSTRIAL AND OCCUPATIONAL HAZARDS; DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; LABOR; DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES DECISIONS & RULINGS (93%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (92%); DEREGULATION (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (90%); BUDGETS (89%); VERDICTS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (78%); CONSUMER LAW (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (76%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (72%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (71%); FOOD INDUSTRY (69%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, LINDA; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); REAGAN, RONALD WILSON RONALD REAGAN (94%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); 



597 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1309 words

HEADLINE: CONSUMER PRICES ROSE IN JANUARY BY A SHARP 1.1%

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 21

 BODY:
Heavily affected by harsh early-winter weather, consumer prices soared 1.1 percent in January, the biggest monthly advance in more than seven years, the Labor Department reported today.
The increase in the Consumer Price Index was at the upper edge of the range of expectations, and analysts said it appeared to extinguish any remaining chance that the Federal Reserve Board would seek further cuts in interest rates anytime soon.
Until recently the widespread assumption among analysts was that the Federal Reserve was inclined to nudge rates down to counter weakness in the economy. But the latest economic reports suggest that the risk of recession has abated. Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve's chairman, told Congress on Tuesday that 1990 is likely to be a year of moderate expansion. 
 
Banks Feeling Rate Pressure
Pressure is even building in the banking system to reverse the half-point cut in the prime lending rate, to 10 percent, made in early January. Since then some rates that banks pay to attract short-term funds, like those on certificates of deposits, have climbed significantly. At the same time, however, the overnight loan rate, which is closely controlled by the Federal Reserve, has remained steady at about 8.25 percent.
Japan and West Germany are raising their interest rates to combat the threat of inflation, and these increases in turn tend to pull up rates here. Further easing of credit by the Federal Reserve, analysts agree, could cause an unwanted drop in the dollar if interest rates in the United States become relatively unattractive to investors.
 
Core Inflation Also Jumps
Without the categories of energy and food, which were influenced the most by supply shortages resulting from the record cold in late December, the January increase was six-tenths of 1 percent. This is the largest increase in this important gauge, which economists call the underlying, or core, inflation rate, since January 1984.
Yet the increase in the underlying rate also reflected special factors, involving automobile and tobacco prices, and analysts said they doubted that any worrisome surge in inflation is under way. ''We are starting to see it beginning to nose up a little bit, but it's not anything too disturbing,'' said John D. Paulus, chief economist at Morgan Stanley & Company. He said it was clear that the outlook for the core rate is not anything like the January level.
Traders said the price jump contributed to a decline in both stock and bond prices as the two markets opened. But the Dow Jones industrial average managed to regain some of its losses and finish the session off 13.29 points, to 2,583.56. And the Treasury's benchmark long bond, which had plummeted in price on Tuesday, managed a gain on the day.
At the White House, the Presidential spokesman, Marlin Fitzwater, called today's report ''disappointing news,'' but in accord with the views of most private-sector economists, he said inflation would probably not continue at such a rate.
''We are hopeful that this is a bulge that will be temporary in nature,'' he said. ''But inflation requires eternal vigilance.''
In his Congressional testimony on Tuesday, Mr. Greenspan said that he expected inflation to remain steady in 1990 at 4 to 4.5 percent but that an inflation rate in that neighborhood was too high and the Fed was determined to bring it down.
Prices for heating oil and other products that surged in January have already receded, analysts said.
Prices in the New York metropolitan area, one of five city tabulations made on a monthly basis, jumped 1.4 percent in January, with an increase in transit fares accounting for a bit more than 10 percent of the advance.
 
Prices in Urban Areas
Prices climbed 1.3 percent in Chicago, 1.1 percent in Los Angeles, 1 percent in Philadelphia and nine-tenths of 1 percent in San Francisco.
The rise of 1.1 percent in the overall Consumer Price Index - which covers all urban consumers, or about 80 percent of the population - was the biggest since June 1982 and followed a 1.8 percent jump reported earlier this month in January's Producer Price Index for Finished Goods.
The Labor Department said energy and food accounted for more than 60 percent of the increase as fuel oil soared 26.3 percent and fruits and vegetables jumped 10.2 percent, both records. Gasoline climbed 7.7 percent after falling in November and December. The price of tomatoes rocketed 75.6 percent, bringing the retail price to more than $1 each in some stores.
Many consumers no doubt refused to pay such a price and bought something else instead, but this is not captured by the price index because it measures a fixed market basket of goods and services. The Consumer Price Index makes no allowance for consumers shifting buying habits, such as switching from steak to hamburger.
 
Transportation Costs
Among the main statistical categories, transportation showed the biggest increase, 2.1 percent, with motor fuels accounting for nearly 75 percent of it. Public transportation rose 1.9 percent because of increases in airline fares and intracity charges, like the rise in New York City transit prices, which included increases in taxi and commuter railroad fares and a subway and bus fare jump from $1 to $1.15. The transportation category rose three-tenths of a percent in December.
Somewhat surprising to some analysts was another rise, six-tenths of 1 percent, in prices of new cars. Analysts had expected a drop, largely because auto makers had resumed incentive programs, but a Labor Department official explained that the 1990 models were introduced more slowly than usual and thus their higher prices are still being incorporated into the figures.
Food and beverage prices climbed 1.8 percent, with grocery-store foods up 2.9 percent, the biggest increase since a 7.1 percent surge in August 1973. About two-thirds of the advance was in fruits and vegetables, but dairy products were up 2.4 percent and the category that includes meats, poultry, fish and eggs were up 1.9 percent. Egg prices themselves leapt another 9.1 percent. In December, the food and beverage category rose four-tenths of a percent.
Housing, which accounts for 42 percent of the consumer price index, rose seven-tenths of 1 percent after three straight months with advances of four-tenths of 1 percent. Nearly half the rise reflected fuel and other utilities. Prices of hotel and motel rooms rose 2.9 percent.
 
Other Categories
Apparel prices were unchanged last month, compared with a decline of three-tenths of a percent in December, and medical care and other goods and services rose by the same amounts as in December, six-tenths and eight-tenths of 1 percent, respectively.
Other goods include tobacco, which posted a 1.3 percent increase that analysts had not expected in light of a big jump in December. An official said a tobacco price increase at the end of the year was partially reflected in the January figures because of the way data are collected and that state and local tax increases would take effect at the beginning of a year.
The entertainment category rose six-tenths of 1 percent in January with increases for reading materials, club memberships and tickets to cultural, sporting and entertainment events accounting for the bulk of the advance. This category rose four-tenths of a percent in December.
Before rounding, the consumer price index for all urban consumers rose 1.1084719 last month, to 127.4 percent of its 1982-1984 base. This means that a group of goods and services that then cost $10 now costs $12.74. Without seasonal adjustment, the index rose 1 percent last month.
A second index, which covers urban wage earners and clerical workers, or 32 percent of the population, also rose 1.1 percent when seasonally adjusted and 1 percent without such adjustment.

GRAPHIC: graph of consumer prices from 2/89 to 1/90 (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (pg. D2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (63%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (72%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (63%); MORGAN STANLEY (63%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER PRICE INDEX; CREDIT CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (92%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); INFLATION (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); BONDS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); RECESSION (77%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); PRIME RATES (76%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (64%); BOND MARKETS (64%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR ALAN GREENSPAN (56%); 



598 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1403 words

HEADLINE: Japan to Give Tax Benefits For Charitable Aid in U.S.

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Feb. 21

 BODY:
Worried about mounting hostility to Japan's huge investments in the United States, the Japanese Government will offer Japanese companies a large tax deduction if they give money to hospitals, schools or philanthropic activities in the United States, Government officials say.
Japan has made no formal announcement of the move, but it was discussed at length during a highly unusual meeting of 300 of the country's top business executives, who were summoned to the Foreign Ministry last Friday.
The tax break - effectively a Japanese Government subsidy to American organizations - is the latest and most significant move yet to try to defuse tension with the United States over Japan's growing presence there, which Japan now fears may be poisoning relations between the two countries.
 
Joining the Community
Moreover, the tax deduction for charitable donations seems to be part of a broader effort by the Government and industry to burnish the image of Japanese as solid citizens in the American communities where Japanese companies have built plants. Indeed, the tax breaks are merely one element in the drive to encourage Japanese expatriates working in the United States to become more involved in their communities. 
In recent days, for example, the Japanese Chamber of Commerce has begun distributing 5,000 copies of an 85-page handbook containing advice to Japan-based companies in America on supporting local charities and volunteering to work for local organizations.
Tsutomu Karino, an executive director, explained that the handbook had been issued because the American tradition of volunteerism was not much developed in Japan.
''Most Americans feel this is common sense,'' Mr. Karino said. ''Most Japanese feel this is not common sense, this is unusual.''
Published with Japanese and English text on facing pages, the book is entitled, ''Joining In! A Handbook for Better Corporate Citizenship in the United States.'' Among other suggestions, it urges Japanese executives to make sure they promote their community efforts. ''It is important in American society to take credit for good works accomplished,'' the handbook says. ''This is not bragging; it is a matter of getting deserved credit.''
Japanese officials gave few details about the tax deduction, which is expected to go into effect next year. But they said that until now, Japanese companies operating abroad received tax deductions only for contributions that helped explain Japanese culture, like exchange programs or museum exhibitions. In most cases, there were no deductions for contributions to the communities surrounding Japan's growing number of auto plants, electronics factories or real estate holdings in the United States.
''This is not an effort to buy opinions,'' said Masaki Okada, a Foreign Ministry official working on the tax plan. ''We think that it is important to pay for things other than building a Japanese garden.''
The Government's tax incentive was paired with a bluntly worded message that Japanese companies have themselves to blame for much of the tension with the United States. ''There are an increasing number of Americans who think 'the Japanese are faceless' or 'there is no knowing what they are thinking.' '' Taro Nakayama, Japan's Foreign Minister, told the executives in a statement read at the meeting.
Americans fear ''that it is impossible to guess where Japan's huge economic power is headed, and under what philosophy or principles,'' he said. ''It is worth noting that now people in the U.S. are feeling less threatened by the U.S.S.R., and some are expressing the view that the economic threat from Japan is more serious than the military threat from the Soviet Union.'' Mr. Nakayama's statement was read to the executives by a Foreign Ministry official.
Executives who attended the meeting said they thought the Government's wording, far harsher than ever before, was an effort to persuade Japanese companies to use their profits to defuse American fears that the Japanese presence is ominous.
 
Second Tax Incentive
The tax benefit for local donations is the second tax incentive the Japanese Government has used to try to ease trade tensions in the last three months. In late December, the Government said it would offer tax credits to companies that greatly increase their imports of foreign-made machinery, computers, autos and other manufactured goods.
The tax exemption for donations has already received the approval of the Japanese Finance Ministry, officials said, and the ruling Liberal Democratic Party, which was returned to power with a comfortable majority in the general election on Sunday. Accordingly, approval by the Parliament is virtually assured.
In contrast to the Japanese gesture, charitable contributions by American corporations to overseas institutions are generally not deductible from United States taxes, said Sheldon N. Weinberg, a senior manager at Deloitte & Touche. The only exception occurs when a donation can be claimed as an advertising expense or otherwise justified as a necessary cost of doing business, which is seldom easy, he said.
Although the meeting with the Foreign Ministry officials occurred two days before the election, some executives here speculated that the tax deduction was not announced earlier for fear it would appear to be a concession to the United States and would hurt the Liberal Democrats' chances, especially among farmers and others who are angry about increased imports of American goods by Japan.
''It's a somewhat desperate move,'' a senior executive who attended the meeting said. ''But Japan is in desperate trouble.''
 
Some Critics in Japan
Even in Japan, the tax move has come under some criticism as an attempt to solve the problem of United States-Japanese relations with money. ''What companies really need to do is give their employees more time to really become active in their communities,'' a senior executive of a major automobile manufacturer said today. ''But they are made to work like dogs, and with the time difference they spend their evenings getting instructions from Tokyo.''
The intervention of the Foreign Ministry in the activities of Japanese companies abroad was somewhat unusual, because that role is ordinarily filled by the Ministry of International Trade and Industry or the Ministry of Finance. But a recent poll commissioned by the Foreign Ministry about America vis-a-vis Japan convinced diplomats here that tensions between the two countries were threatening the stability of their postwar relationship.
 
Warning From Auto Executive
At times, the meeting on Friday took the form of a primer on how to behave in the United States, some participants said. One speaker, Shoichiro Toyoda, the president of the Toyota Motor Corporation, Japan's biggest car maker, warned executives that Japanese companies did far too little to contribute to the communities where they build factories and research labs.
''The extent and scope of the social contribution required of individuals and enterprises in the U.S. are much wider than and different from the case of Japan,'' Mr. Toyoda said. ''In the U.S., it is the individual who plays a key role in voluntary work or financial contributions. That stems from their different social and historical background. Japanese people are more likely to identify with their places of work, while Americans are more likely to identify with the communities they live in.''
Mr. Toyoda said that Japanese must ''contribute on the same level as Americans'' as long as they are ''enjoying the benefits of American society.''
Some executives questioned whether the tax deductions would be large enough to make a great change in American attitudes toward Japan. Moreover, they suspected that the contributions could be resisted by many in Japanese industry, who prefer to make flashy contributions in the United States - endowing chairs at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, underwriting research institutes that work in areas relating to Japan or sponsoring big sports events.
So far, their contributions to ordinary community causes signficantly trail those of American companies, officials here say. Because the companies are not required to report such contributions, exact figures are difficult to find. In Japan, companies often lump charity and political donations into one accounting line of their balance sheet.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (99%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: JAPANESE COS (80%); FOREIGN MINISTRY (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: PHILANTHROPY; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS IN US; PUBLIC OPINION; TAXATION; TAX DEDUCTIONS TAX DEDUCTIONS (92%); CHARITIES (92%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); PHILANTHROPY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); REAL ESTATE (74%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (73%); CHARITABLE GIVING (72%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (67%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (60%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E



599 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 507 words

HEADLINE: Role Playing and Oratory Limits at This U.N.

BYLINE: By PAUL LEWIS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BOSTON, Feb. 18

 BODY:
The mock crisis went this way: Shortly after 2 A.M. on Sunday, the Security Council's 15 members were roused from their beds here for an emergency session to review the worsening situation in Nicaragua.
President Daniel Ortega Saavedra had declared an emergency and canceled elections next week after several United Nations observers were killed. American forces in Panama were moving northward into Nicaragua. 
But by 9 A.M. an exhausted Council had accomplished little, with the United States blocking condemnation of its action and members unable to agree on a role for the United Nations.
''Frustrating but realistic,'' said Marc S. Sabartini, a Harvard biochemistry student playing the role of Secretary General at this 36th annual Harvard National Model United Nations, the largest in the country.
 
Uncanny Realism
For three days, about 1,800 students from more than 140 American, Canadian and Mexican universities transformed a hotel here into a mini-United Nations, organizing meetings of the Security Council, the General Assembly, the Economic and Social Council and the International Court of Justice, among other bodies.
Each university, fielding teams of about 18 students, pretended to be a country - the University of Western Ontario was the United States this year while Siena College in Loudonville, N. Y., played the Soviet Union - first studying its policies and interests and then promoting them in the United Nations forums.
The atmosphere was uncannily realistic, with student-delegates rushing in and out of meeting rooms.
The concluding General Assembly called for a compulsory public register of international arms sales, said assets of drug traffickers should finance the anti-drug war and asked the United Nations to also help internally displaced refugees.
Only occasionally did delegates stretch the bounds of political probability, as when Turkey (the State University of New York at New Paltz) resolved the Cyprus crisis by withdrawing its forces in a bargain with Greece (Kean College of New Jersey in Union) that allowed it to join the European Community.
''What talent for compromise, what grace they treat each other with,'' said Jonathan Moore, an American deputy representative at the real United Nations, and a guest at the meeting.
The Harvard Model United Nations is one of about 150 such meetings organized each year by high schools and universities around the world. Harvard takes credit for the idea, having organized the first Model League of Nations in the 1920's.
Teachers who brought their students to the Harvard meeting said the experience encourages debating skills besides teaching them a global approach to current problems and providing an insight into the complexity of international relations.
''It breaks down American parochialism,'' said Thomas Ilger of Pitzer College in Claremont Calif., whose students represented Britain.
But best lesson of all for the real United Nations was the speaking time allowed: a maximum of just two and half minutes per speaker.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); NICARAGUA (94%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); CYPRUS (79%); TURKEY (79%); NETHERLANDS (75%); GREECE (53%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (56%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); UNITED NATIONS ECONOMIC & SOCIAL COUNCIL (55%); UNITED NATIONS INTERNATIONAL COURT OF JUSTICE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN)

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (93%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); DISPLACED PERSONS (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (74%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (74%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (74%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (73%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (73%); REFUGEES (72%); DRUG POLICY (70%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (69%); HIGH SCHOOLS (69%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (64%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (64%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, PAUL



600 of 771 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 22, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1062 words

HEADLINE: UPHEAVAL IN THE EAST;
Excerpts From Czech Chief's Address to Congress

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 21

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from an address by President Vaclav Havel of Czechoslovakia today to a joint meeting of Congress, as translated by an interpreter and provided by Federal News Service, a transcription company.
 
The last time they arrested me, on Oct. 27 of last year, I didn't know whether it was for two days or for two years. Exactly one month later, when the rock musician Mikhail Koscak told me that I would be probably proposed as a presidential candidate, I thought it was one of his usual jokes. On the 10th of December, 1989, when my actor friend Jiri Bardoska, in the name of the Civic Forum, nominated me as a candidate for the office of President of the Republic, I thought it was out of the question that the Parliament we had inherited from the previous regime would elect me. 
Nineteen days later, when I was unanimously elected President of my country, I had no idea that in two months I would be speaking in front of this famous and powerful assembly, and that what I say would be heard by millions of people who have never heard of me. . . .
When they arrested me on Oct. 27, I was living in a country ruled by the most conservative Communist Government in Europe, and our society slumbered beneath the pall of a totalitarian system. Today, less than four months later, I am speaking to you as the representative of a country that has set out on the road to democracy, a country where there is complete freedom of speech, which is getting ready for free elections and which wants to create a prosperous market economy and its own foreign policy. It is all very extraordinary. ...
 
Century of Catastrophe
Twice in this century, the world has been threatened by catastrophe. Twice this catastrophe was born in Europe, and twice you Americans along with others were called upon to save Europe, the whole world and yourselves. The first rescue mission among other things provided significant help to us, Czechs and Slovaks. Thanks to the great support of your President Wilson, our first President, Thomas Garrigue Masaryk, could found our modern independent state. . . .
In the meantime, the United States made enormous strides. It became the most powerful nation on earth, and it understood the responsibility that flowed from this. Proof of this are the hundreds of thousands of your young citizens who gave their lives for the liberation of Europe and the graves of American airmen and soldiers on Czechoslovak soil. But, something else was happening as well. The Soviet Union appeared, grew, and transformed the enormous sacrifices of its people suffering under totalitarian rule into a strength that, after World War II, made it the second most powerful nation in the world. It was a country that rightly gave people nightmares because no one knew what would occur to its rulers next and what country they would decide to conquer. . . .
All of this taught us to see the world in bipolar terms as two enormous forces - one, a defender of freedom, the other, a source of nightmares. Europe became the point of friction between these two powers, and thus, it turned into a single enormous arsenal divided into two parts. In this process, one half of the arsenal became part of that nightmarish power, while the other, the free part, bordering on the ocean and having no wish to be driven into it, was compelled, together with you, to build a complicated security system to which we probably owe the fact that we still exist. ...
 
Breakdown of a System
And now, what is happening is happening. The totalitarian system in the Soviet Union, and in most of its satellites, is breaking down and our nations are looking for a way to democracy and independence. ...
This is, I am firmly convinced, an historically irreversible process, and as a result, Europe will begin again to seek its own identity without being compelled to be a divided armory any longer. Perhaps this will create the hope that sooner or later your voice will no longer have to stand on guard for freedom in Europe or come to our rescue because Europe will at last be able to stand guard over itself.
But that is still not the most important thing. The main thing is, it seems to me, that these revolutionary changes will enable us to escape from the rather antiquated straitjacket of this bipolar view of the world, and to enter at last into an era of multipolarity; that is, into an era in which all of us, large and small, former slaves and former masters, will be able to create what your great President Lincoln called the family of man. ...
 
Help From United States
I often hear the question, how can the United States of America help us today?
My reply is as paradoxical as the whole of my life has been. You can help us most of all if you help the Soviet Union on its irreversible but immensely complicated road to democracy. ...
Sooner or later, Europe must recover and come into its own and decide for itself how many or whose soldiers it needs so that its own security and all the wider implications of that security may radiate peace into the whole world. ...
Without a global revolution in the sphere of human consciousness, nothing will change for the better in the sphere of our being. . . . ...
We still don't know how to put morality ahead of politics, science and economy. We are still incapable of understanding that the only genuine backbone of all our actions, if they are to be moral, is responsibility -responsibility to something higher than my family, my country, my company, my success. ...
 
Political Responsibility
If I subordinate my political behavior to this imperative, mediated to me by my conscience, I can't go far wrong. If, on the contrary, I were not guided by this voice, not even 10 presidential schools with 2,000 of the best political scientists in the world could help me.
This is why I ultimately decided, after resisting for a long time, to accept the burden of political responsibility. I am not the first; nor will I be the last intellectual to do this. ...
When Thomas Jefferson wrote that governments are instituted among men deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed, it was a simple and important act of the human spirit. What gave meaning to that act, however, was the fact that the author backed it up with his life. It was not just his words; it was his deed as well.

GRAPHIC: photo: President Vaclav Havel of Czechoslovakia signing autographs for members of Congress after his address to a joint meeting. (The New York Times/Paul Hosefros)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); CZECH REPUBLIC (93%); SLOVAKIA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NEWS SERVICE GROUP INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CZECHOSLOVAKIA; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); EUROPE

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CZECHOSLOVAKIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); CONSERVATISM (65%); MILITARY WEAPONS (63%); FOREIGN POLICY (63%); WORLD WAR II (60%); POP & ROCK (56%); 

PERSON: HAVEL, VACLAV (PRES) VACLAV HAVEL (74%); 

 
