

1 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Mapmakers and Mythmakers; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1432 words

HEADLINE: Russian Disinformation Practices Obscure Even Today's Oil Fields 

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Nov. 30 

 BODY:
Bruce Morrow worked for three years on the shores of Lake Samotlor, a tiny dot of water in a maze of oil wells and roads covering more than a thousand square miles of icy tundra in Siberia. 
 From the maps the Russians gave Mr. Morrow, he could never really know where he was, a misery for him as an oil engineer at a joint venture between BP and Russian investors. The latitude and longitude had been blotted out from his maps and the grid diverged from true north.
''It was like a game,'' Mr. Morrow said of trying to make sense of the officially doctored maps, holdovers from the cold war era provided by secretive men who worked in a special department of his company. 
 Unofficially, anyone with Internet access can take a good look at the Samotlor field by zooming down through free satellite-imaging programs like Google Earth, to the coordinates 61 degrees 7 minutes north latitude and 76 degrees 45 minutes east longitude. 
 Mr. Morrow's plight illustrates how some practices that once governed large regions of the former Soviet Union may still lurk in the hallways where bureaucrats from the Communist past cling to power. Not only do they carry over a history of secrecy, but they also serve to continue a tradition of keeping foreigners at bay while employing plenty of people made dependent on Moscow. 
 The misleading maps also reflect the Kremlin's tightening grip on Russian oil, one of the world's critical supplies, and one that is to become even more important in the future with plans for direct shipments to the United States by 2010 from ports in the Far East and the Arctic. 
 The secrecy rule over maps is enforced by the Federal Security Service, or F.S.B., a successor to the old K.G.B. It was written at a time the Russians were suspicious of virtually all foreign businesses and fearful of a missile strike on their Siberian wells. 
 Those days are gone. But as the Russian government reasserts its control over strategic industries -- particularly oil -- it is not letting up on the rule. 
 The doctored maps belong to a deep-rooted Russian tradition of deceiving outsiders, going back to the days of Potemkin villages in the 18th century and perhaps earlier. During the cold war it was called maskirovka, Soviet military parlance for deception, disinformation and deceit.
 For decades, government bureaucrats created false statistics and misleading place names. For instance, Baikonur, the Russian space center, was named for a village hundreds of miles away. Accurate maps of old Moscow's warren of back alleys appeared only after the breakup of the Soviet Union.
 Even now, Mr. Morrow and his colleagues can use only Russian digital map files that encrypt and hide the coordinates of his location. Officially, only Russians with security clearances are permitted to see oil field maps with real coordinates at scales greater than 1:2,500.
 ''It was totally futile,'' Mr. Morrow said of the false coordinates on his F.S.B. maps, created through an encrypting system. ''None of us was particularly keen on pushing it. There were rumors if you do that, you end up in the slammer.''
 A spokeswoman for the F.S.B. confirmed that it controls maps around sites deemed important for national security, including oil fields. Asked whether the easy availability of accurate maps on the Internet made such continued secrecy obsolete, she said the agency was interested only in national security and would not elaborate on its practices.
 Foreign business executives, though, say there is a secret behind the secret maps, and it has little to do with national security. 
 The rules are not only a way to maintain control over a strategic industry, but also form a subtle trade barrier and are a convenient way to increase Russian employment. After all, TNK-BP, the 50-50 joint venture where Mr. Morrow works, pays scores of cartographers to encode and decode the maps, said Frank Rieber, a former engineer there. The rules cover all oil companies, but are particularly pressing for TNK-BP. 
 They provide a livelihood to hundreds of F.S.B.-licensed cartographers. Oil companies either outsource the work of stripping and restoring coordinates to independent institutes, or employ Russians with security clearances to do the work, as TNK-BP does.
 The map orientations are shifted from true north -- the top of the map could be pointing slightly east, for example -- and the grid does not correspond to larger maps. 
 ''It makes us pull our hair out,'' Mr. Rieber said.
 Yevgenia M. Albats, author of a 1994 book on the K.G.B., ''The State Within a State,'' said the spy agency's interest in oil field mapping is just anther way of asserting its influence on society and business here, though one increasingly made obsolete by the Internet. 
 ''The F.S.B. knows about Google Earth as well as anybody,'' she said. ''This doesn't have anything to do with national security. It's about control of the cash flow.''
 The agency is guarding the wells as much from foreign business executives as from foreign missiles these days, she said. The laws about oil field secrets are used to persuade TNK-BP to replace foreign managers with Russians, more susceptible to pressure from the authorities, Ms. Albats said. 
 ''Russians are easier to manipulate,'' she continued. ''They don't want to end up in Khodorkovsky's shoes,'' she said, referring to the former chief executive of the Yukos oil company, Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky, now in a Siberian penal colony serving an eight-year sentence. He was convicted of fraud and tax evasion after falling out with the Kremlin over taxes, oil-export routes and politics. 
 The F.S.B. has also pursued scientists who cooperate with foreign companies in other industries. Last winter it charged a physicist, Oskar A. Kaibyshev, with exporting dual-use metal alloy technology to a South Korean company. Mr. Kaibyshev objected in vain that the technology had already been discussed in foreign journals. The case is pending. 
 On Oct. 26, F.S.B. agents arrested three scientists at a Moscow aerospace company and accused them of passing secrets to the Chinese. Another physicist, Valentin V. Danilov, was convicted of selling technology for manned space flights to the same Chinese company last year, though he also protested that the information was available from published sources. 
 At the same time, the Kremlin is using oil to recapture status lost with the collapse of the Soviet Union, which explains the close attention paid to the industry by the security services. 
 Foreign Minister Sergey V. Lavrov told a Parliament committee in October that energy exports were Russia's most powerful diplomatic tool in relations with other nations, according to a report in the newspaper Nezavisimaya. 
 BP bought into the Tyumen oil company, or TNK, in 2003. Friction over the use of oil field maps existed from early on, geologists at the company said, but intensified this year. The issue has risen to high levels in the government, with a faction that embraces foreign investment protesting that the F.S.B. is hobbling the work of Western engineers who come to help this country drill for oil, providing technology and expertise in the process. 
 In October, Andrei V. Sharonov, a deputy economic and trade minister, said F.S.B. pressure on the oil venture over the classification of maps had disrupted production in western Siberia, an article in Vedomosti reported.
 It quoted Mr. Sharonov as saying that the agency was pressing TNK-BP to replace Western managers with Russians. A spokeswoman for Mr. Sharonov declined to comment. 
 An F.S.B. spokeswoman denied any ulterior motives in policing oil field maps. 
 Engineers call the practice a nuisance, but say it has not disrupted production. The licensed cartographers are skilled in accurately translating between real and false coordinates, and so far, they do not know of any major mistakes, they say. 
 In a telephone interview from his home in Santa Barbara, Calif., Mr. Morrow, who worked as an engineer for TNK-BP from 2002 until May, said he left partly because he became frustrated with the police controls. He guided a reporter to Lake Samotlor on Google Earth.
 The lake lies just north of Nizhnevartovsk, a city on the Ob River, as it loops in silvery ribbons through a background of dark green Siberian wilderness. In the middle of the lake is an island, like a bull's eye. 
 ''That was the folly of it,'' Mr. Morrow said. ''You could get this information anywhere. The bureaucracy got in the way of common sense. But that didn't make it any less illegal, or any less inconvenient.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Illustration by The New York Times)Chart/Map: ''Lay of the Land''The Samotlor oil field in Russia has a distinct shape and is easily discernible on a satellite image. It can be located quickly by searching the Web or using a mapping program. Regardless, the Soviet Union continues to produce and distribute maps that obscure the locations of landmarks.Map and satellite image of Russia shows and highlights the location of Samotlor Field.(Source by Digital Globe via KeyHole)(pg. C8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); COLD WAR (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (74%); INTERNET & WWW (69%); NAVIGATION SYSTEMS (68%); JOINT VENTURES (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); ARCTIC (78%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2005



2 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 574 words

HEADLINE: Concern Over Higher Rates Pushes Share Prices Lower

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks slumped for a third day yesterday as a report that the economy's expansion last quarter exceeded forecasts led to rekindled concerns about higher interest rates. 
 Financial companies including J. P. Morgan Chase were among the decliners.
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 82.29 points, or 0.8 percent, to 10,805.87. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 8 points, or 0.6 percent, to 1,249.48. The Nasdaq composite index was little changed, rising 0.11 point, to 2,232.82. 
 Reports on Chicago-area manufacturing and consumer spending, along with a regional survey from the Federal Reserve, supported the notion that the Fed would keep raising rates. 
 This week's slide trimmed the S.& P. 500's November gain to 3.5 percent, still its best performance since July. The Nasdaq rose 5.3 percent in November and the Dow average climbed 3.5 percent.
 ''We've had a nice run in stocks ahead of the fact that people thought the Fed was going to pause,'' said Peter McCorry, senior vice president for trading at Keefe Bruyette & Woods in New York. ''But this signals that the Fed is not at the end of the rate hikes.'' 
 A gain in technology shares including JDS Uniphase and Google helped support the Nasdaq. 
 The economy grew at an annual rate of 4.3 percent from July through September, the Commerce Department said, the quickest pace since the first quarter of last year. The revised figure for gross domestic product was more than the 4 percent forecast by economists. 
 The regional survey of businesses by the 12 Fed district banks, known as the beige book, reinforced the idea that the central bank might have to continue increasing rates. The survey indicated that the economy rebounded in October and November from Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, causing wages to rise. Higher fuel costs also pushed up prices for construction materials and transportation, the Fed said. 
 Oil for January delivery climbed 82 cents, to $57.32 a barrel, rebounding from an earlier loss to also weigh on stocks. A government report showed stockpiles fell last week. 
 Interest rates rose slightly, with the 10-year Treasury note rising to 4.48 percent, from 4.47 percent Tuesday. The price, which moves inversely to the yield, fell 2/32, to 1004/32.
 A measure of financial shares had the worst performance among 10 S.& P. 500 groups, retreating 1.4 percent. J. P. Morgan Chase slid 71 cents, to $38.25 a share. U.S. Bancorp declined 61 cents, to $30.28. 
 JDS Uniphase, a maker of parts for fiber optic networks, climbed 22 cents, to $2.57. Brantley Thompson, an analyst at the Goldman Sachs Group, said JDS Uniphase was ''making the right moves'' to lower costs as demand increases. 
 Google rose $1.37, to $404.91, rebounding from a day earlier, when it had its biggest decline in more than a year. 
 General Motors and Ford declined ahead of a report today that may show that their auto sales slid for a third straight month in November and that they lost market share to their Asian rivals. Ford fell 40 cents, to $8.13 a share, and G.M. slid $1.10, to $21.90. 
 Tiffany, which reported lower-than-expected revenue for the third quarter, fell $1.44, to $40.70 a share. 
 Research In Motion lost $3.79, to $61.13 a share. A judge refused to enforce a settlement that would have ended a lawsuit over patents for the company's BlackBerry e-mail pager and ordered a hearing on whether service on the device should be blocked in the United States.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (71%); CONSTRUCTION (70%); FIBER OPTICS (66%); HURRICANE KATRINA (50%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (84%); U S BANCORP (61%); KEEFE BRUYETTE & WOODS INC (55%); GOOGLE INC (54%); JDS UNIPHASE CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%); GS (NYSE) (84%); USB (NYSE) (61%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (54%); JDU (TSX) (54%); JDSU (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (61%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2005



3 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1123 words

HEADLINE: Britain, the Continent and the Issue of Foreign Ownership

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL and HEATHER TIMMONS

DATELINE: LONDON, Nov. 30 

 BODY:
It had been a sinew of empire, a shipping line that ferried soldiers and diplomats, even royalty, on the Victorian mail runs that tied Britain to its outposts far to the east and beyond.
But when the Peninsular and Oriental Steam Navigation Company, known as P, agreed on Tuesday to a $:3.3 billion ($5.7 billion) takeover offer from DP World, Dubai's port company, the 165-year-old company headed the way of so many other onetime jewels in the British economic crown -- into foreign hands.
 The deal invited perhaps a more philosophical question: What makes Britain so relaxed about selling companies to outsiders in a way that many nations in Continental Europe -- France, Italy and Germany in particular -- seem reluctant to emulate?
 It is a question that has much wider repercussions. As the European Union ponders its future, the same conflict between free markets and national protectionism has all but stalemated the European debate and even threatens world trade talks. 
 For some in Britain, the answer lies in a deep-rooted faith among the business and political elite in what is termed the Anglo-Saxon model, meaning the belief, common to Britain and the United States, that market forces will ultimately provide a more robust economy and greater prosperity.
 ''Capitalism has been here for a long time,'' said Robert Grindle, an analyst with the investment bank Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein in London, leading to a conviction that ''the best owner for an asset is the one who wants to pay the most for it.''
 ''It's not a Blair thing; it's a Thatcher thing,'' he added, citing Britain's lower unemployment, stronger growth and flexible capital markets as evidence that the system works.
 There is little doubt that the buy-sell ethic of the marketplace has taken root here since the privatizations of the 1980's, when the sale of public utilities like the state-run gas and telephone companies turned many Britons into stockholders overnight.
 Foreign ownership is extensive, from Harrods, the upscale department store owned by the Egyptian entrepreneur Mohamed al-Fayed, to the soccer team Chelsea, owned by the Russian billionaire Roman A. Abramovich. Rupert Murdoch, a naturalized American citizen born in Australia, owns some of the country's biggest newspapers, including The Times of London and The Sun. 
 True, there are crucial companies like BP and British Airways resolutely regarded as predominantly British entities. But consider a string of other companies -- the supermarket chain ASDA is owned by Wal-Mart Stores, and Telefonica of Spain is bidding for O2, the wireless offshoot of BT, the direct descendant of Britain's state-run phone company. 
 In early October the Boots pharmacy chain, founded in 1849 by the farmer John Boot as an herbal remedy shop and an emblem of the British Main Street, was sold to Alliance UniChem, a pan-European drug distributor. And in June, the H. J. Heinz Company snapped up HP Foods, the 170-year-old manufacturer of such curiously English condiments as HP Sauce and Lea & Perrins Worcestershire sauce. 
 ''It's the easiest place to do business,'' said a partner at one American private equity shop in London that has bought British brand names in recent years.
 Not only that, said Oliver Bretz, a specialist in European and competition law at the Clifford Chance global law firm, ''even within the defense and nuclear industries, Britain has a more forgiving regulatory framework'' than in much of Continental Europe. ''Nationality does not figure very highly'' as an obstacle to acquisitions.
 ''Britain has learned that there is no harm in selling your local champions to foreigners,'' said Holger Schmieding, an economist with Bank of America in London.
 In the auto industry, Ford Motor owns such illustrious British sports car nameplates as Jaguar and Aston Martin. Volkswagen of Germany owns Bentley. Indeed, the auto industry is where some of the differences between Britain and Continental European cultures seem particularly apparent.
 This year, when the doomed MG Rover company teetered, finally, on the brink of collapse, the British authorities toyed with intervening but abandoned the idea. A Chinese company ended up buying the company's leftovers, closing a final chapter of mass auto production in a country that had once built cars from Mini Coopers to Rolls-Royces, now both owned by BMW of Germany.
 In Germany, by contrast, when Volkswagen, which is shielded by German law from takeovers, seemed to be facing potential troubles in September, Porsche stepped in and took a 20 percent stake, keeping the carmaker in German hands in what seemed a display of the clubbiness of German business practices reinforced by political maneuvering.
 The British government's refusal to become involved in the collapse of MG Rover showed something of the way Britain's bare-knuckles culture has spread into the national psyche since the days of extensive state involvement in the economy, from coal mines to steel mills. 
 Britons ''don't expect the state to be the first to fix it,'' whatever the problem, said Katinka Barysch, economist at the Center for European Reform, which is based in London. ''They have less confidence in the state managing things.'' 
 Underlying the differences, many in Continental Europe see the takeover culture of Britain and the United States as, quite simply, a threat to jobs -- even though the statistics show that the traditional social model of France and Germany has not been able to generate work for millions of Europeans.
 ''The perception is that foreign investment is not good for jobs,'' Ms. Barysch said. 
 For instance, Nicolas Sobczak, a European economist at Goldman Sachs in Paris, said that corporate owners in France were seen as more likely to be concerned about the future of their employees' jobs than foreign managers coming in after a takeover would be.
 Indeed, the consensus is that French owners will respect the ''agreement that you will try to safeguard jobs first,'' a deal sustained by powerful labor unions.
 ''The French model was exceptionally good at the end of the Second World War,'' Mr. Sobczak said. ''You needed a very enlightened elite of technocrats to lead the Continent, with American money, of course. France has been very good at reconstructing and modernizing.'' But the system it created has become too costly, he added.
 Some Europeans argue that the distinction between British and Continental practices is narrowing. ''On the Continent you find varying shades of openness,'' said Daniel Gros, director of the Center for European Policy Studies, a research group in Brussels. ''There is a wide variety of views as to the extent one should allow raw capital to be allowed to do its work.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: P of Britain agreed this week to a takeover offer from DP World, Dubai's port company. (Photo by Francois Lo Presti/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (85%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (77%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (77%); TAKEOVERS (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); PRIVATIZATION (76%); DEPARTMENT STORES (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); PROTECTIONISM (75%); RETAILERS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (67%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (67%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (65%); ETHICS (62%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (60%); PHARMACIES (60%); SOCCER (50%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: COMMERZBANK HOLDINGS (UK) LTD (82%); PENINSULAR & ORIENTAL STEAM NAVIGATION CO (72%); ASDA GROUP PLC (61%); DP WORLD LTD (57%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (51%); WAL-MART STORES INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

TICKER: DPW (LSE) (57%); WMT (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (82%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (82%); SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (82%); NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (72%); NAICS493120 REFRIGERATED WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (72%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (72%); SIC4731 ARRANGEMENT OF TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT & CARGO (72%); SIC4499 WATER TRANSPORTATION SERVICES, NEC (72%); SIC4222 REFRIGERATED WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (72%); NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (57%); SIC4225 GENERAL WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (57%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (51%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (51%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (50%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (50%)

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (50%); ROMAN ABRAMOVICH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (90%) UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (90%); AUSTRALIA (79%); SPAIN (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2005



4 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: In Silicon Valley, Job Hopping Contributes to Innovation 

BYLINE: By Virginia Postrel. 
Virginia Postrel (dynamist.com) is the author of ''The Substance of Style: How the Rise of Aesthetic Value Is Remaking Commerce, Culture and Consciousness.''

 BODY:
FOR four decades, through booms, busts and bubbles, Silicon Valley has maintained an amazingly innovative business environment.
 Companies and technologies rise and fall. Hot start-ups morph into giant corporations. Cutting-edge products become mature commodities. Business models change. Through it all, the area remains creative and resilient -- and more successful than other technology centers, notably the Route 128 area around Boston.
What makes Silicon Valley special? Thanks to some new data, economists have finally been able to test statistically some popular explanations. 
 In her influential 1994 book ''Regional Advantage: Culture and Competition in Silicon Valley and Route 128'' (Harvard University Press), AnnaLee Saxenian, an economic development scholar at the University of California, Berkeley, argued that Silicon Valley's innovative edge comes from two unusual characteristics.
 First, talented employees move easily and often to new employers, far more so than people elsewhere. ''The joke is that you can change jobs and not change parking lots,'' one of her interview subjects said.
 Second, instead of vertically integrating, Silicon Valley computer makers rely on networks of suppliers. They also design open systems that can flexibly accommodate all sorts of new components.
 ''The system's decentralization encourages the pursuit of multiple technical opportunities through spontaneous regroupings of skill, technology and capital,'' she wrote.
 Many people, especially in Silicon Valley, found Professor Saxenian's argument convincing. But while her research was careful, it depended on interviews and had no large-scale statistical backing. Perhaps her subjects' impressions were unreliable.
 After all, the argument that Silicon Valley's job hopping fosters innovation contradicts economists' common assumptions. ''It didn't feel right to me,'' James B. Rebitzer, an economist at Case Western Reserve University, said in an interview.
 When employees jump from company to company, they take their knowledge with them. ''The innovation from one firm will tend to bleed over into other firms,'' Professor Rebitzer explained. For a given company, ''it's hard to capture the returns on your innovation,'' he went on. ''From an economics perspective, that should hamper innovation.''
 He found a possible answer to the puzzle in the work of two management scholars, Carliss Y. Baldwin and Kim B. Clark. In their book ''Design Rules: The Power of Modularity'' (MIT Press, 2000), they argued that when there is a lot of technological uncertainty, the fastest way to find the best solution is to permit lots of independent experiments. That requires modular designs rather than tightly integrated systems.
 ''By having a lot of modular experimenters, you can take the best, which will be a lot better than the average,'' Professor Rebitzer said. Employee mobility may encourage productive innovation, as people quickly move to whichever company comes up with the best new technology.
 But you would not expect to find people moving around all the time in every industry, only those where technical uncertainty justifies spending lots of resources on experiments -- including many that will not pan out. ''In most other settings,'' said Professor Rebitzer, ''it's going to be easier simply to design things with special purpose parts that fit in.''
 In a forthcoming article in The Review of Economics and Statistics, he and two economists at the Federal Reserve Board, Bruce C. Fallick and Charles A. Fleischman, empirically test the claim that Silicon Valley employees move more often than computer industry employees in other places. (The article, ''Job Hopping in Silicon Valley,'' is available at www. federalreserve.gov/research/staff/fallickbrucex.htm.)
 The two Fed economists, who are interested in the macroeconomic patterns created when people move from employer to employer, use data from the Current Population Survey. Until recently, economists almost entirely ignored such voluntary job hopping because they did not have good data to track it.
 Since 1994, however, the Current Population Survey has asked respondents whether they have changed jobs in the last month. This question was added simply to cut down on repetition. Respondents who are still at the same workplace do not fill out questions about their employer. But the change created the first large database that tracks job changes. Since the survey is geographically based, it is ideal for examining job changes within the same area.
 To Professor Rebitzer's surprise (though not his co-authors'), it turns out that Silicon Valley employees really do move around more often than other people. The researchers looked at job changes by male college graduates from 1994 to 2001. During that period, an average of 2.41 percent of respondents changed jobs in any given month.
 But, they write, ''living in Silicon Valley increases the rate of employer-to-employer job change by 0.8 percentage point.''
 ''This effect is both statistically and behaviorally significant -- suggesting employer-to-employer mobility rates are 40 percent higher than the sample average.''
 Computer industry employees in other California technology clusters also seem to switch jobs more often than those in other states. This result supports an argument made by Ronald J. Gilson, a law professor at Stanford and Columbia. In a 1999 article, he suggested that a 19th-century California law helped create Silicon Valley's hypermobility by prohibiting the enforcement of noncompete agreements. 
 In other states, businesses use these agreements to keep employees from easily hopping to other companies in the same industry. (That article is available at papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract--id=124508.)
 Finally, the economists test whether computer industry employees are more likely to move than employees in other industries, as the modularity hypothesis would predict. Again, statistical tests suggest that the theory is right.
 Looking at cities within California, they write: ''We find no evidence that outside the computer industry, job changes are more likely within Silicon Valley. Indeed, rates of job hopping appear to be lower in Los Angeles and San Diego than elsewhere in the nation.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRODUCT INNOVATION (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); CORPORATE CULTURE (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (67%); COMPUTER MAKERS (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (57%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (57%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2005



5 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 491 words

HEADLINE: Economy Shows Some Resilience in Quarter

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The economy grew at a 4.3 percent annual rate from July through September, the Commerce Department reported yesterday, the fastest since the first quarter of last year and evidence of resilience in the face of hurricanes and record energy costs. 
 The revised figure for third-quarter gross domestic product, the value of all goods and services produced in the United States, is higher than economists had forecast and higher than the 3.8 percent initially estimated by the government. Growth was 3.3 percent in the second quarter.
 ''The economy is booming,'' said Mike Englund, chief economist at Action Economics in Boulder, Colo. ''As much as people may have been concerned about gas prices, consumers took the hit and now gas prices are falling.''
 The report also showed that the index excluding food and energy, a measure closely watched by Fed policy makers, rose at a 1.2 percent annual rate -- the slowest pace since the second quarter of 2003. The government reported a second-quarter increase of 1.7 percent.
 In addition, the Federal Reserve said yesterday in its regional survey of businesses that retailers were optimistic about the holiday shopping season. At the same time, the report showed that consumer prices ''remained stable or experienced generally modest increases.''
 A strengthening economy caused wages to rise and made it harder for some companies to find workers, according to the report known as the beige book, a regional survey of businesses by the 12 Fed district banks. 
 The residential real estate market slowed in many areas, while higher energy costs pushed up prices for construction materials and transportation, the Fed said.
 According to another report, manufacturing in the Chicago area remained robust for a third consecutive month in November. A survey of executives by the National Association of Purchasing Management in Chicago fell to 61.7 from 62.9 in October. Readings higher than 50 signal growth and the November figure exceeded the 60.5 average for this year. A measure of order backlogs was the highest since July 1994. 
 According to the Commerce Department, the gross domestic product rose to $11.2 trillion when annualized and adjusted for inflation. Without adjustment, the economy grew at a 7.4 percent annual pace, to $12.6 trillion, for the quarter.
 The government's personal consumption expenditures price index, a measure of prices tied to consumer spending, rose 3.6 percent, compared with a 3.7 percent rise reported last month and a 3.3 percent second-quarter gain.
 Business inventories fell at a $13.4 billion annual rate, compared with the $16.6 billion downward pace previously reported.
 Consumer spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of the economy, expanded at a 4.2 percent annual pace, compared with the 3.9 percent estimated in October and the 3.4 percent pace for the second quarter. Economists had expected consumer spending to set a 3.9 percent annual pace.


GRAPHIC: Chart/Maps: ''Varied Growth in Most Regions''A roundup of regional economic conditions for the Federal Reserve's 12 districts, according to survey results released by the Fed yesterday. Data are mid-October through mid-November.MINNEAPOLISEconomic activity was robust, led by consumer spending, manufacturing, commercial real estate and agriculture.SAN FRANCISCOThe region's economic activity grew at a steady pace despite high energy costs.CHICAGOConsumer spending and business investments grew at a moderate pace. Most industries increased hiring.CLEVELANDEconomic activity picked up in the region. Retailers reported ''a generally positive economic environment.''BOSTONExpansion was mixed. Manufacturers reported year-over-year revenue growth, but concern about energy prices.NEW YORKEconomic activity grew, but ''with a fair degree of variation.'' Manufacturers experienced inflation pressures.PHILADELPHIAFactory orders and shipments expanded. After a slow October, auto sales increased in November. Home sales were weak.RICHMOND, VA.Businesses and the service industry reported steady growth. Auto and home sales weakened. Manufacturing was stable.ATLANTAEconomic activity accelerated as the region began to recover from the hurricanes.ST. LOUISRetail and auto sales declined compared with last year. Businesses reported mixed results.KANSAS CITY, MO.Businesses reported increased activity, bolstered by growth in consumer spending and manufacturing.DALLASThe energy industry experienced robust growth because of post-hurricane clean-up. Manufacturing bounced back.(Source by Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (89%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); PERSONAL CONSUMPTION EXPENDITURES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (77%); RETAILERS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); REAL ESTATE (73%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (72%); WEATHER (72%); CONSTRUCTION (69%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (64%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (65%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%) MISSOURI, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2005



6 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: THE NEWS MEDIA; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1583 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Is Said to Pay to Plant Articles in Iraq Papers

BYLINE: By JEFF GERTH and SCOTT SHANE; Eric Schmitt contributed reporting from Washington for this article, and Kirk Semple and Edward Wong from Baghdad.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 30 

 BODY:
Titled ''The Sands Are Blowing Toward a Democratic Iraq,'' an article written this week for publication in the Iraqi press was scornful of outsiders' pessimism about the country's future.
 ''Western press and frequently those self-styled 'objective' observers of Iraq are often critics of how we, the people of Iraq, are proceeding down the path in determining what is best for our nation,'' the article began. Quoting the Prophet Muhammad, it pleaded for unity and nonviolence.
But far from being the heartfelt opinion of an Iraqi writer, as its language implied, the article was prepared by the United States military as part of a multimillion-dollar covert campaign to plant paid propaganda in the Iraqi news media and pay friendly Iraqi journalists monthly stipends, military contractors and officials said. 
 The article was one of several in a storyboard, the military's term for a list of articles, that was delivered Tuesday to the Lincoln Group, a Washington-based public relations firm paid by the Pentagon, documents from the Pentagon show. The contractor's job is to translate the articles into Arabic and submit them to Iraqi newspapers or advertising agencies without revealing the Pentagon's role. Documents show that the intended target of the article on a democratic Iraq was Azzaman, a leading independent newspaper, but it is not known whether it was published there or anywhere else.
 Even as the State Department and the United States Agency for International Development pay contractors millions of dollars to help train journalists and promote a professional and independent Iraqi media, the Pentagon is paying millions more to the Lincoln Group for work that appears to violate fundamental principles of Western journalism. 
 In addition to paying newspapers to print government propaganda, Lincoln has paid about a dozen Iraqi journalists each several hundred dollars a month, a person who had been told of the transactions said. Those journalists were chosen because their past coverage had not been antagonistic to the United States, said the person, who is being granted anonymity because of fears for the safety of those involved. In addition, the military storyboards have in some cases copied verbatim text from copyrighted publications and passed it on to be printed in the Iraqi press without attribution, documents and interviews indicated.
 In many cases, the material prepared by the military was given to advertising agencies for placement, and at least some of the material ran with an advertising label. But the American authorship and financing were not revealed.
 Military spokesmen in Washington and Baghdad said Wednesday that they had no information on the contract. In an interview from Baghdad on Nov. 18, Lt. Col. Steven A. Boylan, a military spokesman, said the Pentagon's contract with the Lincoln Group was an attempt to ''try to get stories out to publications that normally don't have access to those kind of stories.'' The military's top commanders, including Gen. Peter Pace, the chairman of the joint chiefs of staff, did not know about the Lincoln Group contract until Wednesday, when it was first described by The Los Angeles Times, said a senior military official who was not authorized to speak publicly. 
 Pentagon officials said General Pace and other top officials were disturbed by the reported details of the propaganda campaign and demanded explanations from senior officers in Iraq, the official said.
 When asked about the article Wednesday night on the ABC News program ''Nightline,'' General Pace said, ''I would be concerned about anything that would be detrimental to the proper growth of democracy.'' 
 Others seemed to share the sentiment. ''I think it's absolutely wrong for the government to do this,'' said Patrick Butler, vice president of the International Center for Journalists in Washington, which conducts ethics training for journalists from countries without a history of independent news media. ''Ethically, it's indefensible.''
 Mr. Butler, who spoke from a conference in Wisconsin with Arab journalists, said the American government paid for many programs that taught foreign journalists not to accept payments from interested parties to write articles and not to print government propaganda disguised as news.
 ''You show the world you're not living by the principles you profess to believe in, and you lose all credibility,'' he said.
 The Government Accountability Office found this year that the Bush administration had violated the law by producing pseudo news reports that were later used on American television stations with no indication that they had been prepared by the government. But no law prohibits the use of such covert propaganda abroad.
 The Lincoln contract with the American-led coalition forces in Iraq has rankled some military and civilian officials and contractors. Some of them described the program to The New York Times in recent months and provided examples of the military's storyboards.
 The Lincoln Group, whose principals include some businessmen and former military officials, was hired last year after military officials concluded that the United States was failing to win over Muslim public opinion. In Iraq, the effort is seen by some American military commanders as a crucial step toward defeating the Sunni-led insurgency.
 Citing a ''fundamental problem of credibility'' and foreign opposition to American policies, a Pentagon advisory panel last year called for the government to reinvent and expand its information programs.
 ''Government alone cannot today communicate effectively and credibly,'' said the report by the task force on strategic communication of the Defense Science Board. The group recommended turning more often for help to the private sector, which it said had ''a built-in agility, credibility and even deniability.''
 The Pentagon's first public relations contract with Lincoln was awarded in 2004 for about $5 million with the stated purpose of accurately informing the Iraqi people of American goals and gaining their support. But while meant to provide reliable information, the effort was also intended to use deceptive techniques, like payments to sympathetic ''temporary spokespersons'' who would not necessarily be identified as working for the coalition, according to a contract document and a military official.
 In addition, the document called for the development of ''alternate or diverting messages which divert media and public attention'' to ''deal instantly with the bad news of the day.'' 
 Laurie Adler, a spokeswoman for the Lincoln Group, said the terms of the contract did not permit her to discuss it and referred a reporter to the Pentagon. But others defended the practice. 
 ''I'm not surprised this goes on,'' said Michael Rubin, who worked in Iraq for the Coalition Provisional Authority in 2003 and 2004. ''Informational operations are a part of any military campaign,'' he added. ''Especially in an atmosphere where terrorists and insurgents -- replete with oil boom cash -- do the same. We need an even playing field, but cannot fight with both hands tied behind our backs.''
 Two dozen recent storyboards prepared by the military for Lincoln and reviewed by The New York Times had a variety of good-news themes addressing the economy, security, the insurgency and Iraq's political future. Some were written to resemble news articles. Others took the form of opinion pieces or public service announcements. 
 One article about Iraq's oil industry opened with three paragraphs taken verbatim, and without attribution, from a recent report in Al Hayat, a London-based Arabic newspaper. But the military version took out a quotation from an oil ministry spokesman that was critical of American reconstruction efforts. It substituted a more positive message, also attributed to the spokesman, though not as a direct quotation.
 The editor of Al Sabah, a major Iraqi newspaper that has been the target of many of the military's articles, said Wednesday in an interview that he had no idea that the American military was supplying such material and did not know if his newspaper had printed any of it, whether labeled as advertising or not.
 The editor, Muhammad Abdul Jabbar, 57, said Al Sabah, which he said received financial support from the Iraqi government but was editorially independent, accepted advertisements from virtually any source if they were not inflammatory. He said any such material would be labeled as advertising but would not necessarily identify the sponsor. Sometimes, he said, the paper got the text from an advertising agency and did not know its origins.
 Asked what he thought of the Pentagon program's effectiveness in influencing Iraqi public opinion, Mr. Jabbar said, ''I would spend the money a better way.''
 The Lincoln Group, which was incorporated in 2004, has won another government information contract. Last June, the Special Operations Command in Tampa awarded Lincoln and two other companies a multimillion-dollar contract to support psychological operations. The planned products, contract documents show, include three- to five- minute news programs.
 Asked whether the information and news products would identify the American sponsorship, a media relations officer with the special operations command replied, in an e-mail message last summer, that ''the product may or may not carry 'made in the U.S.' signature'' but they would be identified as American in origin, ''if asked.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (88%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (74%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (72%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (69%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (52%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (88%) IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2005



7 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1266 words

HEADLINE: A Strategy to Restore Western Grasslands Meets With Local Resistance 

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

DATELINE: BOULDER, Utah 

 BODY:
No cows remain on the federal lands set aside for grazing here above the Escalante River. 
 At first glance, this would seem a boon to land and cow alike. The layered rockscape just west of this small town is immense, rolling from the river toward the sky. The grass is thin and dry. The soil, the same. How fat could a cow get?
 So, seven years ago an environmental group based in Arizona, the Grand Canyon Trust, began paying ranchers to give up their grazing rights when their herds, or bank accounts, had failed to thrive. By this fall, the trust had spent more than $1 million to end grazing on more than 400,000 acres. 
 The deals seemed to suit all concerned, until a group of local officials decided that they were bad for the local economy and a threat to the ancestral tradition of living off the land. The group set out to end this latest, uncharacteristically civil chapter in the fraught history of cattlemen, environmentalists and dueling visions of the West's future. 
 Michael E. Noel, a former Bureau of Land Management employee who now is a Republican state representative from southern Utah, led the charge to roll back agreements the trust had forged. Mr. Noel said the loss of the grazing allotments would hurt ranching, which would in turn deprive the area's young people of the character-building chance to work on the land.
 ''Yes, it's a free market to buy and sell,'' Mr. Noel said recently. ''But if you buy it, you use it.'' 
 By retiring the lands, he said, the trust is reneging on an implicit agreement, and ''if we allow that to occur, we go down the path of eliminating all grazing on public lands.'' 
 The Grand Canyon Trust's strategy had been to look amid Utah's ancient russet cathedrals for lands that needed a long rest from grazing. If the rancher with the grazing rights wanted to relinquish them to the Interior Department, the trust would pay him to do so. 
 One deal involved simply paying a rancher to relinquish his grazing rights and find new pastures or reduce his herd. The trust also started a round of musical chairs, paying three ranchers to yield their allotments, then consolidating cattle on one grazing area while leaving the riverbanks free of livestock.
 In tandem with the trust's efforts, the federal land bureau was conducting environmental reviews that tended to find that grazing should end on the acreage at issue. 
 Bill Hedden, the executive director of the Grand Canyon Trust, said he could not understand why his efforts, involving transactions between a willing buyer and willing sellers, seemed a threat to Mr. Noel. 
 Mr. Hedden said he had hoped to create a situation with no losers. Ranchers could consolidate their herds in more congenial settings. Federal officials could bar grazing during a drought without bankrupting ranchers. The trust, dedicated to preserving the Colorado plateau, could show its financial supporters results.
 Besides, he said, the land in question is marginal economically and at risk environmentally.
 Pointing to the soil's crust, a mat splotched with bacterial growths that replenish soil nitrogen, Mr. Hedden said grazing left both grass and crust in tatters.
 ''We don't know how long this land takes to heal,'' he said.
 But given the resistance of local officials, Mr. Hedden is shelving the strategies he used here. 
 The arc of his efforts to preserve the plateau says much about the evolution of the environmental movement in the West, where the fight over grazing goes back years. Anger over the government's stewardship of public lands helped feed the Sagebrush Rebellion, which in turn fed the Republican revolution of the 1980's.
 In the years since, the canyons that lace the Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument near here drew cows and hikers. The cows sought forage on the banks of the Escalante River; the hikers sought spiritual forage in the same places. They did not mix well. 
 Throughout the 80's era of state rebellion against the Bureau of Land Management and the 90's period of criticism of grazing policies by environmentalists, the Interior Department was buffeted with lawsuits.
 Grazing, in the view of local ranchers and officials like Mr. Noel, ''can be one of the best tools to use to improve watersheds, to improve forage, to improve soil structure on public lands.'' Grass grows better when cut back, Mr. Noel said. Manure can improve the soil.
 Dave Hunsaker, the manager of the national monument, an area of 1.7 million acres, relies on the land bureau's experts to settle that issue.
 ''The idea of grazing decisions is to achieve rangeland health objectives, No. 1,'' Mr. Hunsaker said. ''No. 2, it is to provide stability to those ranching operations on the monument right now. 
 ''The Grand Canyon Trust,'' he said, ''can provide us flexibility for the future.''
 Brent Robinson sold the 25,000-acre Clark Bench grazing allotment to a trust subsidiary in 2000, though he retains a basic distrust of environmentalists. Mr. Robinson said his intention was ''to scale down a little bit'' his herd of 300 head, a sizable herd in these parts. 
 But Mr. Noel and members of the Kane County commission were concerned enough about the potential retirement of the Clark Bench acreage that they sought out ranchers to appeal the bureau's decision to let Mr. Hedden's group buy it and to seek the allotment for themselves.
 ''Most of the herds here are very small,'' Mr. Noel said. ''But because the income in this area is very low, those 25 to 30 cows are what make the difference between being able to really provide for family that extra little thing. They can buy a pickup truck or send a kid to college or on a Mormon mission.''
 Ranching is a small and declining part of the economy of Kane and its northern neighbor, Garfield County. In several recent years, the total ranching income was in negative numbers in one county or the other. But Kane officials, after some effort, found people to seek the retired grazing permits for themselves. 
 Trevor Stewart, one of the ranchers seeking the Clark Bench allotment, is Mr. Noel's son-in-law. Mr. Noel said he was able to get $50,000 from the state to support Kane County when it joined Mr. Stewart's suit. 
 The county's challenge before an administrative law judge in the Interior Department is pending. But even the remote prospect that the complex choreography of ending the grazing might have gone for naught has been enough to dissuade the Grand Canyon Trust from doing more in Utah, Mr. Hedden said. 
 The eight-year process, however, did result in some cross-pollination. As ranchers like Mr. Robinson have warily shed suspicions and made common cause with an environmental group, the trust itself is gingerly adopting ranching to achieve conservation goals.
 The purchase of the Kane and Two-Mile Ranches north of Grand Canyon National Park -- 1,000 acres of land and grazing allotments on an additional 830,000 acres -- was recently completed by the Grand Canyon Trust and the Conservation Fund, based in Arlington, Va. Instead of retiring the allotments, they will use them, though for fewer head of cattle. 
 By running cattle on some of the land, the groups may inoculate themselves against new lawsuits, even as they restore acreage damaged by grazing.
 Mr. Hedden, however, remains quietly angry at the circumstances that led him to abandon his campaign to use free-market tools to curb grazing.
 ''We've been out there dealing with this,'' he said. ''We solved the problems of the B.L.M., and we're hurting the Kane County economy by buying out guys who are going bankrupt? I don't get it.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Brent Robinson, with his sons Tyler and Quincy, recently relinquished his grazing rights on public lands.
 The edge of Escalante Canyon in Utah is shown in a composite of four images. Standing at the right is Bill Hedden, the leader of an effort to retire grazing rights in the hope of preserving the area's delicate ecosystem. (Photographs by Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ANIMAL FARMING & BREEDING (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (78%); RIVERS (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (71%); EXECUTIVES (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2005



8 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: The Age of Skepticism

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
War is a cultural event. World War I destroyed the old social order in Europe and disillusioned a generation of talented young Americans. World War II bred a feeling of American unity and self-confidence. Vietnam helped trigger a counterculture.
 The Iraq war is not going to have that kind of pervasive cultural impact, but it has already shifted the zeitgeist. There has been a sharp drop in Americans' faith in their institutions. Trust in government has fallen back to about half of where it was in 2001. More Americans believe that government is almost always wasteful and inefficient, according to surveys by the Pew Research Center. 
 There has been a sharp decline in support for the United Nations. There has been a sharp rise in the number of people who say the U.S. should mind its own business when it comes to world affairs. Isolationist sentiment is about where it was just after Vietnam. 
 Americans are increasingly cynical about politics and their parties. Only 24 percent of Americans say the Republicans represent their priorities, according to an NBC/Wall Street Journal poll, and only 26 percent say the Democrats do. 
 The hammer of disapproval has fallen hardest on the Republicans, of course, but the public is just as eager to think the worst of the Democrats. Seventy percent of Americans say Democratic criticism of the war is hurting troop morale, according to a poll by RT Strategies. Most Americans cynically believe that Democrats are leveling their attacks on the war to gain partisan advantage, while only 30 percent believe that they are genuinely trying to help U.S. efforts.
 Finally, a brackish tide of pessimism has descended upon the country. Roughly two-thirds of Americans say the country is headed in the wrong direction. Iraq is not the only issue that is driving this sour pessimism, but it is the main issue. (Katrina has had a surprisingly modest impact.)
 And Americans are in this awful mood despite rising consumer confidence and strong economic growth, 4.3 percent. Americans are not pessimistic about their own individual futures, but they are pessimistic about their leadership and their country's future. 
 In this atmosphere of general weariness, the political pendulum is no longer swinging on a left-to-right axis. As Christopher Caldwell noted recently in The Financial Times, the same phenomenon is striking country after country: the governing party is sinking, but the opposition party is not rising. Problems on the right do not lead to a resurgence on the left, or vice versa. In other words, the Democrats may win elections in 2006 or 2008, but that doesn't mean they will have the public's confidence or a mandate for change.
 In this atmosphere of exhaustion, the political pendulum swings from engagement to cynicism. When polarized voters lose faith in their own side, they don't switch to the other. They just withdraw.
 The chief cultural effect of the Iraq war is that we are now entering a period of skepticism. Many Americans are going to be skeptical that their government can know enough to accomplish large tasks or be competent enough to execute ambitious policies. More people are going to be skeptical of plans to mold reality according to our designs or to solve the deep problems that are rooted in history and culture. They are going to be skeptical of our ability to engage with or understand faraway societies in the Middle East or Africa or elsewhere.
 In theory, skepticism leads to prudence, not a bad trait. But when it is tinged with cynicism, as it is now, skepticism turns into passivity. In skeptical ages, people are quick to decide that longstanding problems, like poverty and despotism, are intractable and not really worth taking on. They find it easy to delay taking any action on the distant but overwhelming problems, like the deficits, that do not impose immediate pain. They find it easy to dawdle on foreign problems, like Iran's nuclear ambitions, rather than confronting them. 
 As the Harvard economist Benjamin Friedman has observed, Americans begin social reforms when they are feeling confident, not when they are weary and insecure.
 Already the resolve to rebuild New Orleans and seize the post-Katrina moment has dissipated. The bipartisan desire to do something ambitious about energy policy is going nowhere. Even the problem of Darfur evokes little more than sad sighs and shrugs. 
 What's at stake in Iraq is not only the future of that country, but the future of American self-confidence. We may have to endure a cycle of skepticism before we can enjoy another cycle of hope. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); WORLD WAR II (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); POLITICS (88%); WORLD WAR I (79%); IRAQ WAR (79%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (63%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (63%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (93%); EUROPE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2005



9 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 452 words

HEADLINE: Trade Leader for Europe Refuses to Cut Farm Tariffs

BYLINE: By JAMES KANTER; International Herald Tribune

DATELINE: PARIS, Nov. 30 

 BODY:
Peter Mandelson, the trade representative for the European Union, said Wednesday that talks to reach a new global trade deal were ''too big to fail,'' but refused further cuts to Europe's contested farm tariffs. 
 Speaking in Brussels, Mr. Mandelson called on member countries of the World Trade Organization to accept a ''tailored development package'' that would remove all tariffs and quotas on exports from the poorest countries.
Mr. Mandelson also sought to dispel critics' portrayal of the European Union as an enemy of farmers in poor parts of the world, saying he refused to make cuts that would eliminate the preferential access Europe offers to African and Caribbean countries.
 The voice of the poorer countries ''must not be absent from the debate,'' said Mr. Mandelson, who blamed major agricultural exporters like New Zealand, Australia, Brazil and Argentina for the slow progress toward a global trade agreement. 
 Mr. Mandelson also criticized the United States for making its offer on farm trade ''many months later than hoped for'' -- even though a European offer came even later. 
 Members of the W.T.O. will meet next month in Hong Kong to consider a new trade deal. 
 W.T.O. negotiators have sought to temper expectations for the meeting after preparatory negotiations bogged down last month over the issue of protections for agricultural goods.
 Since then, there has been a growing chorus of criticism over the way the rich world, and in particular Europe, protects its farmers from cheaper goods from abroad. Critics include organizations like Oxfam International, a nongovernmental advocacy group involved in world poverty issues, as well as leaders of agricultural exporting countries.
 ''I understand where Peter Mandelson is coming from,'' said Louis Belanger, a spokesman in Brussels for Oxfam. ''But for the E.U. to ask for a 75 percent cut on industrial tariffs from Brazil and in return propose a 38 percent cut on Europe's agricultural tariffs, well, that is simply disproportionate and unrealistic, especially in a development round.''
 Mr. Mandelson held firm on Wednesday, saying he had ''no plan to make a further offer in agriculture,'' and saying that the concessions already made by Europe were ''the most substantial offer'' ever made.
 Mr. Mandelson sought to align the E.U. position with the interests of poor developing countries that are fighting to preserve preferential access to markets in wealthy countries. 
 Caribbean countries producing goods like sugar have protested that sweeping trade-opening measures in agriculture will hit them hardest, and some countries are expected to use the Hong Kong meeting to preserve their trade preferences with the European Union.


GRAPHIC: Photo: John Tsang, left, Hong Kong's industry secretary, with Peter Mandelson, European trade commissioner
Madan Mulidhar Dulloo of Mauritius
 and Kamal Nath of India in Brussels yesterday. (Photo by Thierry Roge/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (73%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (73%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (58%)

PERSON: PETER MANDELSON (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (90%) EUROPE (98%); BELGIUM (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (92%); BRAZIL (92%); HONG KONG (90%); MAURITIUS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); AUSTRALIA (77%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2005



10 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Federal Judge's Decision Means Shutdown Of BlackBerry Devices Could Still Be Ordered
Research In Motion moved closer to a showdown with NTP, a patent holding company, after a court dismissed R.I.M.'s request to impose a failed settlement agreement between the two companies. The ruling by Judge James R. Spencer of United States District Court in Richmond, Va., means that R.I.M. will have to either renegotiate a settlement with NTP or face a shutdown of its BlackBerry wireless e-mail service in the United States, perhaps within the next month. [Page C1.] 


Lawmakers Seek Inquiry on Pension Enforcement
Two members of the House asked the research arm of Congress yesterday to investigate whether the federal agencies that enforce pensions law have failed to police a crucial part of the business -- the consultants and money managers who decide how money is invested. [C1.]

Awkward Spot for Time Warner and Lazard Director
A day after Carl C. Icahn teamed up with Bruce Wasserstein's Lazard to wage a shareholder war against Time Warner, a major figure in the fight may have already found himself caught in the crossfire. Robert C. Clark, a former dean of Harvard Law School, is a board member of Time Warner -- and, yes, of Lazard, too. [C1.]

California Stem Cell Case Will Go to Trial
A California judge has declined to dismiss two lawsuits that have blocked the state from issuing bonds to finance its $3 billion stem cell research program. The case will now go to trial, delaying the program's financing. [C9.]

Group Offers $12 Billion for Danish Telecom Firm
A consortium including the Blackstone Group and Kohlberg Kravis Roberts agreed to pay $12 billion for the Danish telecommunications company TDC. If completed, it will be the largest private equity deal in Europe. [C4.]

British Air Announces Cuts in Management Ranks
British Airways announced one of the most drastic white-collar layoffs in recent European corporate history, saying that it would eliminate half of its executives and almost one-third of its managers over all. [C6.]

Panel Supports Raising Retirement Age in Britain
A panel urged that Britain's retirement age be raised to 67 from 65, and possibly higher, as part of a major pension change that would include the introduction of individual investment accounts. [A5.]

British Nonchalance as Another Foreign Firm Moves In
When the Peninsular and Oriental Steam Navigation Company, known as P&O Lines, agreed on Tuesday to a $:3.3 billion ($5.7 billion) takeover offer from DP World, Dubai's port company, the 165-year-old company went the way of so many other onetime jewels in the British economic crown -- into foreign hands. The deal was another sign that Britain is relaxed about selling companies to outsiders in a way that many nations in Continental Europe seem reluctant to emulate. [C6.]

U.S. Changes Airline Passenger Screening Procedure
The Transportation Security Administration is making some of the most significant changes in the screening of airline passengers since procedures were revamped after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. [A28.]

Accounting Regulator Faults Required Audits
Audits of internal controls at American companies, as required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, have been too costly and not as good as they should be, the chief regulator of accounting firms said. [C4.]

Shares Decline on New Economic Data
Stocks slumped for a third day as a report that the economy expanded more than forecast last quarter rekindled concern about higher interest rates. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 82.29 points, to 10,805.87. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 8 points, to 1,249.48. The Nasdaq composite index rose 0.11 point to 2,232.82. [C9.]

Sun to Offer Free Version of Java Programs
Sun Microsystems said that it would offer a free version of its Java Enterprise System, a set of development programs that includes application server software. The company also said that it would no longer charge for use of its Sun N1 management software and other developer tools. [C4.]

Major Problems Found in Discount Drug Program
Congressional investigators said that they found widespread problems in a program that issued discount cards to 6.4 million Medicare beneficiaries as a precursor to the full-fledged drug benefit that takes effect next year. [A29.]

Grateful Dead to Reconsider Ban on Downloads
Faced with angry fans and divisions within the band itself, the Grateful Dead said it was reconsidering its decision to disallow downloads of the band's concert recordings from an Internet archive. [E1.]

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks Research In Motion's daily closes since September.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUDGES (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); LITIGATION (78%); TAKEOVERS (77%); RETIREMENT AGE (75%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (75%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (75%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (75%); LAWYERS (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (69%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (68%); BONDS (68%); PRIVATE EQUITY (68%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (90%); TDC AS (82%); PENINSULAR & ORIENTAL STEAM NAVIGATION CO (80%); KKR & CO LP (66%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (53%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (53%); DP WORLD LTD (51%)

TICKER: RIM (TSX) (90%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (90%); TDC (CPH) (82%); KKR (NYSE) (66%); BX (NYSE) (53%); DPW (LSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (90%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (82%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (82%); NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (80%); NAICS493120 REFRIGERATED WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (80%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (80%); SIC4731 ARRANGEMENT OF TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT & CARGO (80%); SIC4499 WATER TRANSPORTATION SERVICES, NEC (80%); SIC4222 REFRIGERATED WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (80%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (66%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (66%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (53%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (53%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (53%); NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (51%); SIC4225 GENERAL WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (51%)

PERSON: CARL ICAHN (70%); BRUCE WASSERSTEIN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (90%) VIRGINIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); DENMARK (87%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2005



11 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; News Summary; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 829 words

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-22

Bush Describes Iraq Plan, For Victory and Pullout
President Bush laid out what he called a strategy for victory in Iraq, vowing not to pull out on ''artificial timetables set by politicians'' but at the same time offering the first glimpse of his plan for extricating American forces. A1

An article written for publication in the Iraqi press was scornful of outsiders' pessimism about the country's future. 
But while its language implied the article was penned by an Iraqi author, military officials said it was prepared by the United States military as part of a covert campaign to plant propaganda in the Iraqi media. A1

The American military said that thousands of American and Iraqi troops had begun a sweep near the western town of Hit in the volatile Anbar Province, the heartland of the Sunni-led insurgency. A22

Leader Vows Stronger Germany
Angela Merkel made her first major speech as Germany's chancellor, condemning the kidnapping of a German citizen in Iraq and pledging to make the country, with its sluggish economy, ''one of the three top countries in Europe in 10 years.'' A19

Peres Joins Sharon's New Party
In a widely anticipated move, Shimon Peres announced that after more than four decades of membership he was leaving the Labor Party and would back Prime Minister Ariel Sharon's new centrist party in upcoming parliamentary elections. A8

Terror Arrests in Belgium
The Belgian police made 14 arrests in a series of dawn raids aimed at breaking a terrorist network that the authorities said was involved in attacks on American targets in Iraq, including a suicide bombing by a Belgian woman in Baghdad. A19

Britain Mulls Pension Change
An authoritative panel urged that Britain's retirement age be raised to 67 from 65, and possibly higher, as part of several major pension change. A5

NATIONAL A24-31

Court Nominee Devised Plan to Undo Roe v. Wade
As a lawyer in the Reagan Justice Department, the Supreme Court nominee Samuel A. Alito Jr. played a leading role in devising legal strategy to overturn the landmark abortion rights case Roe v. Wade, according to newly disclosed records. A1

Hearing arguments over a New Hampshire abortion case, the Supreme Court appeared to be in broad agreement on two propositions: that laws regulating teenagers' access to abortion must make allowances for medical emergencies and that a state law requiring notice to one parent and a 48-hour waiting period failed to do so. A1

A Shift for Schwarzenegger
In an abrupt political shift after a drubbing at the polls three weeks ago, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger named a former top Democratic official as his chief of staff. A24

Court Hinders Detainee Policy
A federal appeals court threw up an obstacle to the Bush administration's plan to transfer Jose Padilla from military custody to face terrorism charges in a civilian court. A30

Problems Plague Drug Cards
Congressional investigators said they had found widespread problems in a government program that issued drug discount cards to 6.4 million Medicare beneficiaries. A29

Levees in New Orleans Flawed
The levees of metropolitan New Orleans were a disaster waiting to happen because of a major design flaw by the Army Corps of Engineers, according to preliminary findings by investigators studying the flooding that followed Hurricane Katrina. A28

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Woman Given Face Transplant
Surgeons in France have for the first time performed a partial face transplant, one of the lead surgeons that performed the operation said. A1

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Growth Spurt in Manhattan Among Children Under 5
The number of children under 5 in Manhattan increased more than 26 percent from 2000 to 2004 after a decade of steady decline, census estimates show. The growth surpasses the 8 percent increase in small children citywide during the same period and vastly outstrips the slight overall growth in population in the borough and citywide. A1

Fifty-six percent of Long Islanders, motivated by the high cost of living and high taxes, are considering moving away within five years, a study has found. B5

Report on Pension Overhaul
A sweeping new report on New Jersey's troubled pension and health benefits system recommends several drastic changes that could save the state hundreds of millions of dollars a year, but are also likely to anger thousands of government workers and retirees. B1

SPORTSTHURSDAY D1-6

HOUSE & HOME F1-10

THURSDAY STYLES G1-14

OBITUARIES B9

Fanny McConnell Ellison
The wife of Ralph Ellison, who helped him edit his masterpiece, ''Invisible Man,'' and who was also involved in theater, politics and civil rights, she was 93. B9

ARTS E1-10

Art Auction Disappoints
Defying high anticipation, one of two portraits of George Washington by Gilbert Stuart that have been in the New York Public Library's collection for more than a century failed to sell at Sotheby's in an auction that had generated controversy. E1

Bridge E7
Crossword E8
TV Listings E10
Weather D5

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (88%); TERRORISM (87%); ABORTION (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (72%); WRITERS (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); ARMED FORCES (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); JUDGES (69%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (66%); SUPREME COURTS (66%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (64%); RETIREMENT AGE (63%); LAWYERS (63%); APPEALS COURTS (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: SHIMON PERES (58%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); SAMUEL ALITO (58%); ANGELA MERKEL (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (95%); GERMANY (93%); BELGIUM (87%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2005



12 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: Plan: We Win

 BODY:
We've seen it before: an embattled president so swathed in his inner circle that he completely loses touch with the public and wanders around among small knots of people who agree with him. There was Lyndon Johnson in the 1960's, Richard Nixon in the 1970's, and George H. W. Bush in the 1990's. Now it's his son's turn.
 It has been obvious for months that Americans don't believe the war is going just fine, and they needed to hear that President Bush gets that. They wanted to see that he had learned from his mistakes and adjusted his course, and that he had a measurable and realistic plan for making Iraq safe enough to withdraw United States troops. Americans didn't need to be convinced of Mr. Bush's commitment to his idealized version of the war. They needed to be reassured that he recognized the reality of the war. 
Instead, Mr. Bush traveled 32 miles from the White House to the Naval Academy and spoke to yet another of the well-behaved, uniformed audiences that have screened him from the rest of America lately. If you do not happen to be a midshipman, you'd have to have been watching cable news at midmorning on a weekday to catch him. 
 The address was accompanied by a voluminous handout entitled ''National Strategy for Victory in Iraq,'' which the White House grandly calls the newly declassified version of the plan that has been driving the war. If there was something secret about that plan, we can't figure out what it was. The document, and Mr. Bush's speech, were almost entirely a rehash of the same tired argument that everything's going just fine. Mr. Bush also offered the usual false choice between sticking to his policy and beating a hasty and cowardly retreat.
 On the critical question of the progress of the Iraqi military, the president was particularly optimistic, and misleading. He said, for instance, that Iraqi security forces control major areas, including the northern and southern provinces and cities like Najaf. That's true if you believe a nation can be built out of a change of clothing: these forces are based on party and sectarian militias that have controlled many of these same areas since the fall of Saddam Hussein but now wear Iraqi Army uniforms. In other regions, the most powerful Iraqi security forces are rogue militias that refuse to disarm and have on occasion turned their guns against American troops, like Moktada al-Sadr's Mahdi Army.
 Mr. Bush's vision of the next big step is equally troubling: training Iraqi forces well enough to free American forces for more of the bloody and ineffective search-and-destroy sweeps that accomplish little beyond alienating the populace. 
 What Americans wanted to hear was a genuine counterinsurgency plan, perhaps like one proposed by Andrew F. Krepinevich Jr., a leading writer on military strategy: find the most secure areas with capable Iraqi forces. Embed American trainers with those forces and make the region safe enough to spend money on reconstruction, thus making friends and draining the insurgency. Then slowly expand those zones and withdraw American forces.
 Americans have been clamoring for believable goals in Iraq, but Mr. Bush stuck to his notion of staying until ''total victory.'' His strategy document defines that as an Iraq that ''has defeated the terrorists and neutralized the insurgency''; is ''peaceful, united, stable, democratic and secure''; and is a partner in the war on terror, an integral part of the international community, and ''an engine for regional economic growth and proving the fruits of democratic governance to the region.''
 That may be the most grandiose set of ambitions for the region since the vision of Nebuchadnezzar's son Belshazzar, who saw the hand writing on the wall. Mr. Bush hates comparisons between Vietnam and Iraq. But after watching the president, we couldn't resist reading Richard Nixon's 1969 Vietnamization speech. Substitute the Iraqi constitutional process for the Paris peace talks, and Mr. Bush's ideas about the Iraqi Army are not much different from Nixon's plans -- except Nixon admitted the war was going very badly (which was easier for him to do because he didn't start it), and he was very clear about the risks and huge sacrifices ahead.
 A president who seems less in touch with reality than Richard Nixon needs to get out more.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ARMIES (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE H W BUSH (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); MOQTADA AL-SADR (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2005



13 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: STRATEGY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1606 words

HEADLINE: BUSH GIVES PLAN FOR IRAQ VICTORY AND WITHDRAWAL

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER; Steven R. Weisman and Carl Hulse contributed reporting from Washington for this article.

DATELINE: ANNAPOLIS, Md., Nov. 30 

 BODY:
Two and a half years after the American invasion of Iraq, President Bush laid out Wednesday what he called a strategy for victory, vowing not to pull out on ''artificial timetables set by politicians'' but at the same time offering the first glimpse of his plan for extricating American forces.
 In a speech here to cheering midshipmen at the United States Naval Academy, Mr. Bush described a military strategy for Iraq that loosely follows methods being adopted in Afghanistan: focusing American forces on terrorists who could reach beyond the country's borders and leaving the Iraqis to deal with insurgents and the remnants of Saddam Hussein's government.
''We will continue to shift from providing security and conducting operations against the enemy nationwide to conducting more specialized operations targeted at the most dangerous terrorists,'' he said. ''We will increasingly move out of Iraqi cities, reduce the number of bases from which we operate, and conduct fewer patrols and convoys.'' 
 He gave no timetables for that transition, counseling ''time and patience,'' and he repeatedly rejected the calls of many Democrats and whispered urgings of some Republicans for a deadline to begin a pullback.
 ''Many advocating an artificial timetable for withdrawing our troops are sincere, but I believe they're sincerely wrong,'' Mr. Bush said. ''Pulling our troops out before they've achieved their purpose is not a plan for victory.''
 After his speech, those calls were renewed by Democrats, who criticized the speech as selling a strategy that has not truly changed.
 A 35-page document that the White House released hours before the president spoke, titled ''National Strategy for Victory in Iraq,'' was more direct in its description of how long the struggle might take. ''It is not realistic to expect a fully functioning democracy, able to defeat its enemies and peacefully reconcile generational grievances, to be in place less than three years after Saddam was finally removed from power,'' it states. 
 Taken together, the strategy document and Mr. Bush's speech, the first of four that he plans to give before the Iraqi elections on Dec. 15, were clearly an effort to change a discussion in the capital that may be spinning beyond the administration's control. 
 When Mr. Bush was traveling in Asia 10 days ago, his daily responses on Iraq often seemed off the cuff, restating lines that he has often used as he has sought to explain America's progress and setbacks over the last two years. But Wednesday's speech was different, an effort to lay out a plan that is part military, part political and part economic. 
 But the strategy paper also referred euphemistically to some of the most severe setbacks, describing the Iraqi economy as still ''shackled'' while only briefly mentioning what it is chained to: huge subsidies providing free food and fuel, a remnant of Mr. Hussein's policies that have been retained to promote loyalty to the new government.
 It states that other nations in the Middle East have ''only recently mobilized to support the emergence of a democratic and stable Iraq,'' though some allies have complained that this assistance is halting at best. 
 Mr. Bush chose his venue carefully: the midshipmen at the Naval Academy cheered his arrival, a military band punctuated his arrival and departure, and the stage of a huge hall on the famous campus was adorned with a giant background emblazoned with the words, ''Plan for Victory.'' 
 It continued his recent trend of giving speeches on the war at military settings where public access is limited and protests are unheard of, including air bases in Alaska and South Korea and a National Guard installation in Pennsylvania.
 Democrats quickly declared the speech a triumph of spin over true strategic overhaul. Leading Congressional Democrats said Mr. Bush never directly addressed the statements by commanders that the large presence of American troops is itself helping to fuel the insurgency. They argued that the ''Plan for Victory'' sign was reminiscent of Mr. Bush's ''Mission Accomplished'' speech on an aircraft carrier in May 2003.
 ''I think the president's sincere,'' Senator John Kerry said after the speech. ''I don't question he's standing up and fighting, in his view, for what is best for our country. But we have differences of opinion about what the reality is on the ground and how we get there.''
 Democrats also said Mr. Bush could not continue to suggest on the one hand that significant progress was being made while still suggesting that an American military presence would be required for years.
 ''They want to have it both ways,'' said Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the House Democratic leader. ''One day they're saying, 'We have all of these troops that are trained.' Well, then bring our troops home.''
 In her comments on Wednesday, Ms. Pelosi shifted her publicly neutral stance on a proposal two weeks ago by Representative John P. Murtha for withdrawing troops ''at the earliest practicable date.'' She said she was supporting the call by Mr. Murtha, a Pennsylvania Democrat, Vietnam war veteran and early supporter of the Iraqi invasion, because he had ''superior knowledge of the subject.'' She added, ''I think many members will now follow his lead.''
 Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, one of a handful of current members of the Senate to have watched close up as previous administrations grappled with a strategy for extrication from Vietnam, said, ''The only thing artificial in this debate is the president's belief that we can achieve victory by staying the same failed course.''
 Mr. Bush came the closest to acknowledging mistakes in the war -- without calling them that -- since an interview in August 2004 in which he acknowledged a ''miscalculation'' in assessing how quickly an insurgency might develop. 
 He said that when American and allied forces arrived, ''we began the process of creating an Iraqi Army to defend the country from external threats,'' and creating civil defense forces for suppressing trouble within the country's borders.
 ''The civil defense forces did not have sufficient firepower or training,'' he said. ''They proved no match for an enemy armed with machine guns, rocket-propelled grenades and mortars. So the approach was adjusted.''
 But the acknowledgment of past error had its limits. When promised anonymity, some of Mr. Bush's senior aides now say that two of their biggest mistakes were the decision to ''de-Baathify'' the country and to dismantle the army -- measures they now concede fueled the insurgency. In the careful wording of the strategy document, ''Earlier efforts to correct past wrongs have sometimes alienated Sunnis who were not complicit with Saddam's crimes.'' 
 Mr. Bush spoke at length about the training Iraqis now receive. And he dismissed critics who have leaped on the assessment made in September by his top general in Iraq, Gen. George W. Casey, that only one Iraqi battalion was capable of action fully independent of American forces; Mr. Bush insisted that the practical fighting power of the Iraqis was much greater.
 Throughout his speech on Wednesday, he tried to balance a tone of steadfastness with hints of optimism that a troop drawdown could begin next year. ''We will never back down, we will never give in, and we will never accept anything less than complete victory,'' he said, seeming to echo Winston Churchill, whose bust he keeps in the Oval Office. 
 But at another point he said that while the strategy was intended to help Iraqis take the lead in the fight within their country, his hope was that they would do so without ''major'' foreign assistance. That suggested some form of continuing American presence.
 Mr. Bush did not say how long that might last, though some of his aides point to South Korea, the Balkans and other places where some American presence remains years after the conflict is over.
 While Mr. Bush used the word ''victory'' many times in his speech, the strategy report defines it in various stages. The first stage, which White House officials insist is nearly complete, includes ''meeting political milestones, building up democratic institutions, and standing up security forces.''
 Victory in the medium term, the document said, would be recognizable when ''Iraq is in the lead defeating terrorists and providing its own security, with a fully constitutional government in place.'' 
 ''That's where we might be next year,'' said a senior administration official who helped assemble the document, ''with some luck and a good tail wind.''
 Long-term victory, the document said, will come only when ''Iraq is peaceful, united, stable and secure,'' and ''a full partner in the global war on terrorism.'' 
 Mr. Bush did not discuss the issue that many in the White House say may well determine whether a pullout can begin next year: the stability and focus of the permanent Iraqi government to be elected on Dec. 15.
 In recent weeks, Mr. Bush's aides have expressed concern that once the election is over, the coalition government that is expected to emerge may spend crucial months jockeying for advantage and for top posts, delaying a transition to Iraqi control of security.
 It could also delay the lesson that Mr. Bush said he wanted the world to take from the Iraq conflict. ''Advancing the cause of freedom and democracy in the Middle East begins with ensuring the success of a free Iraq,'' he told the midshipmen. 
 ''Freedom's victory in that country will inspire democratic reformers from Damascus to Tehran,'' he said, ''and spread hope across a troubled region.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush yesterday just before his speech at the United States Naval Academy counseling ''time and patience'' in the war in Iraq. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. A1)
President Bush during his speech yesterday at the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, Md., laying out a strategy for victory in Iraq. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)
 Representative Nancy Pelosi, the House Democratic leader, at a news conference yesterday responding to President Bush's speech on Iraq. (Photo by Gerald Herbert/Associated Press)(pg. A20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (76%); TERRORISM (75%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); NAVIES (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES NAVAL ACADEMY (91%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); NANCY PELOSI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (90%) MARYLAND, USA (92%); MARYLAND USA (90%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (95%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2005



14 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Thursday Styles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1892 words

HEADLINE: Hooked On the Web: Help Is on the Way 

BYLINE: By SARAH KERSHAW

DATELINE: REDMOND, Wash. 

 BODY:
THE waiting room for Hilarie Cash's practice has the look and feel of many a therapist's office, with soothing classical music, paintings of gentle swans and colorful flowers and on the bookshelves stacks of brochures on how to get help.
 But along with her patients, Dr. Cash, who runs Internet/Computer Addiction Services here in the city that is home to Microsoft, is a pioneer in a growing niche in mental health care and addiction recovery.
The patients, including Mike, 34, are what Dr. Cash and other mental health professionals call onlineaholics. They even have a diagnosis: Internet addiction disorder.
 These specialists estimate that 6 percent to 10 percent of the approximately 189 million Internet users in this country have a dependency that can be as destructive as alcoholism and drug addiction, and they are rushing to treat it. Yet some in the field remain skeptical that heavy use of the Internet qualifies as a legitimate addiction, and one academic expert called it a fad illness. 
 Skeptics argue that even obsessive Internet use does not exact the same toll on health or family life as conventionally recognized addictions. But, mental health professionals who support the diagnosis of Internet addiction say, a majority of obsessive users are online to further addictions to gambling or pornography or have become much more dependent on those vices because of their prevalence on the Internet. 
 But other users have a broader dependency and spend hours online each day, surfing the Web, trading stocks, instant messaging or blogging, and a fast-rising number are becoming addicted to Internet video games.
 Dr. Cash and other professionals say that people who abuse the Internet are typically struggling with other problems, like depression and anxiety. But, they say, the Internet's omnipresent offer of escape from reality, affordability, accessibility and opportunity for anonymity can also lure otherwise healthy people into an addiction.
 Dr. Cash's patient Mike, who was granted anonymity to protect his privacy, was at high risk for an Internet addiction, having battled alcohol and drug abuse and depression. On a list of 15 symptoms of Internet addiction used for diagnosis by Internet/Computer Addiction Services, Mike, who is unemployed and living with his mother, checked off 13, including intense cravings for the computer, lying about how much time he spends online, withdrawing from hobbies and social interactions, back pain and weight gain.
 A growing number of therapists and inpatient rehabilitation centers are often treating Web addicts with the same approaches, including 12-step programs, used to treat chemical addictions.
 Because the condition is not recognized in psychiatry as a disorder, insurance companies do not reimburse for treatment. So patients either pay out of pocket, or therapists and treatment centers bill for other afflictions, including the nonspecific impulse control disorder.
 There is at least one inpatient program, at Proctor Hospital in Peoria, Ill., which admits patients to recover from obsessive computer use. Experts there said they see similar signs of withdrawal in those patients as in alcoholics or drug addicts, including profuse sweating, severe anxiety and paranoid symptoms. 
 And the prevalence of other technologies -- like BlackBerry wireless e-mail devices, sometimes called CrackBerries because they are considered so addictive; the Treo cellphone-organizer ; and text messaging -- has created a more generalized technology addiction, said Rick Zehr, the vice president of addiction and behavioral services at Proctor Hospital.
 The hospital's treatment program places all its clients together for group therapy and other recovery work, whether the addiction is to cocaine or the computer, Mr. Zehr said. 
 ''I can't imagine it's going to go away,'' he said of technology and Internet addiction. ''I can only imagine it's going to continue to become more and more prevalent.''
 There are family therapy programs for Internet addicts, and interventionists who specialize in confronting computer addicts. 
 Among the programs offered by the Center for Online Addiction in Bradford, Pa., founded in 1994 by Dr. Kimberly S. Young, a leading researcher in Internet addiction, are cyberwidow support groups for the spouses of those having online affairs, treatment for addiction to eBay and intense behavioral counseling -- in person, by telephone and online -- to help clients get Web sober. 
 Another leading expert in the field is Dr. Maressa Hecht Orzack, the director of the Computer Addiction Study Center at McLean Hospital in Belmont, Mass., and an assistant professor at Harvard Medical School. She opened a clinic for Internet addicts at the hospital in 1996, when, she said, ''everybody thought I was crazy.'' 
 Dr. Orzack said she got the idea after she discovered she had become addicted to computer solitaire, procrastinating and losing sleep and time with her family. 
 When she started the clinic, she saw two patients a week at most. Now she sees dozens and receives five or six calls daily from those seeking treatment elsewhere in the country. More and more of those calls, she said, are coming from people concerned about family members addicted to Internet video games like EverQuest, Doom 3 and World of Warcraft. 
 Still, there is little hard science available on Internet addiction. 
 ''I think using the Internet in certain ways can be quite absorbing, but I don't know that it's any different from an addiction to playing the violin and bowling,'' said Sara Kiesler, professor of computer science and human-computer interaction at Carnegie Mellon University. ''There is absolutely no evidence that spending time online, exchanging e-mail with family and friends, is the least bit harmful. We know that people who are depressed or anxious are likely to go online for escape and that doing so helps them.''
 It was Professor Kiesler who called Internet addiction a fad illness. In her view, she said, television addiction is worse. She added that she was completing a study of heavy Internet users, which showed the majority had sharply reduced their time on the computer over the course of a year, indicating that even problematic use was self-corrective.
 She said calling it an addiction ''demeans really serious illnesses, which are things like addiction to gambling, where you steal your family's money to pay for your gambling debts, drug addictions, cigarette addictions.'' She added, ''These are physiological addictions.''
 But Dr. Cash, who began treating Internet addicts 10 years ago, said that Internet addiction was a potentially serious illness. She said she had treated suicidal patients who had lost jobs and whose marriages had been destroyed because of their addictions. 
 She said she was seeing more patients like Mike, who acknowledges struggling with an addiction to online pornography but who also said he was obsessed with logging on to the Internet for other reasons. He said that he became obsessed with using the Internet during the 2000 presidential election and that now he feels anxious if he does not check several Web sites, mostly news and sports sites, daily. 
 ''I'm still wrestling with the idea that it's a problem because I like it so much,'' Mike said.
 Three hours straight on the Internet, he said, is a minor dose. The Internet seemed to satisfy ''whatever urge crosses my head.''
 Several counselors and other experts said time spent on the computer was not important in diagnosing an addiction to the Internet. The question, they say, is whether Internet use is causing serious problems, including the loss of a job, marital difficulties, depression, isolation and anxiety, and still the user cannot stop. 
 ''The line is drawn with Internet addiction,'' said Mr. Zehr of Proctor Hospital, ''when I'm no longer controlling my Internet use. It's controlling me.'' Dr. Cash and other therapists say they are seeing a growing number of teenagers and young adults as patients, who grew up spending hours on the computer, playing games and sending instant messages. These patients appear to have significant developmental problems, including attention deficit disorder and a lack of social skills. 
 A report released during the summer by the Pew Internet and American Life Project found that teenagers did spend an increasing amount of time online: 51 percent of teenage Internet users are online daily, up from 42 percent in 2000. But the report did not find a withering of social skills. Most teenagers ''maintain robust networks of friends,'' it noted. 
 Some therapists and Internet addiction treatment centers offer online counseling, including at least one 12-step program for video game addicts, which is controversial. Critics say that although it may be a way to catch the attention of someone who needs face-to-face treatment, it is akin to treating an alcoholic in a brewery, mostly because Internet addicts need to break the cycle of living in cyberspace.
 A crucial difference between treating alcoholics and drug addicts, however, is that total abstinence is usually recommended for recovery from substance abuse, whereas moderate and manageable use is the goal for behavioral addictions.
 Sierra Tucson in Arizona, a psychiatric hospital and behavioral health center, which treats substance and behavioral addictions, has begun admitting a rising number of Internet addicts, said Gina Ewing, its intake manager. Ms. Ewing said that when such a client left treatment, the center's counselors helped plan ways to reduce time on the computer or asked those who did not need to use the Web for work to step away from the computer entirely.
 Ms. Ewing said the Tucson center encouraged its Internet-addicted clients when they left treatment to attend open meetings of Alcoholics Anonymous or Narcotics Anonymous, which are not restricted to alcoholics and drug addicts, and simply to listen. Or perhaps, if they find others struggling with the same problem, and if those at the meeting are amenable, they might be able to participate. 
 ''It's breaking new ground,'' Ms. Ewing said. ''But an addiction is an addiction.''

Danger Signs for Too Much of a Good Thing
 FIFTEEN signs of an addiction to using the Internet and computers, according to Internet/Computer Addiction Services in Redmond, Wash., follow:

1. Inability to predict the amount of time spent on computer.
2. Failed attempts to control personal use for an extended period of time.
3. Having a sense of euphoria while on the computer.
4. Craving more computer time.
5. Neglecting family and friends.
6. Feeling restless, irritable and discontent when not on the computer.
7. Lying to employers and family about computer activity.
8. Problems with school or job performance as a result of time spent on the computer.
9. Feelings of guilt, shame, anxiety or depression as a result of time spent on the computer.
10. Changes in sleep patterns.
11. Health problems like carpal tunnel syndrome, eye strain, weight changes, backaches and chronic sleep deprivation.
12. Denying, rationalizing and minimizing adverse consequences stemming from computer use.
13. Withdrawal from real-life hobbies and social interactions.
14. Obsessing about sexual acting out through the use of the Internet.
15. Creation of enhanced personae to find cyberlove or cybersex.


GRAPHIC: Photo: OFFLINE -- At Internet/Computer Addiction Services in Redmond, Wash., the home of Microsoft, Hilarie Cash counsels a patient with Internet addiction disorder. Some patients, she said, have become suicidal or have lost jobs or marriages because of their addiction. (Photo by Peter Yates for The New York Times)(pg. G7)Drawing (Drawing by Bob Scott)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (90%); MENTAL HEALTH (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (89%); DEPRESSION (89%); FAMILY (78%); PSYCHIATRY (77%); MENTAL ILLNESS (77%); INSTANT MESSAGING (76%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); ONLINE TRADING (76%); INTERNET VIDEO (76%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (73%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (71%); PORNOGRAPHY (71%); BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (70%); INSURANCE (64%) 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Proctor Hospital (Peoria, Ill)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%)

PERSON: Sarah Kershaw; Sara (Prof) Kiesler

GEOGRAPHIC: PEORIA, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%); WASHINGTON, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2005



15 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 1, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 5; House & Home/Style Desk; DESIGN NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1465 words

HEADLINE: Heavy Metal Jacket, Luxe Lining

BYLINE: By ALASTAIR GORDON

 BODY:
THIS year for the first time, Art Basel Miami Beach, the four-year-old annual art fair, is being accompanied by a series of high-profile design events, including installations by Zaha Hadid, the architect, and Ron Arad, the furniture designer, and an exhibition of furnishings organized by Murray Moss, proprietor of Moss, the influential SoHo design store. 
 But when the fair opens today, design's boldface names may be upstaged by Adam Kalkin, an architect and artist who is unveiling his Push Button House, a shipping container with motorized walls that unfold like an elaborate Murphy bed to reveal an unexpectedly muted interior with the refined furnishings one might find in a Park Avenue apartment of patrician taste, complete with a couch from George Smith and a lacquer chandelier.
''It works like a flower -- you push a button and the thing transforms itself,'' Mr. Kalkin said last week as he puttered in the 8,000-square-foot factory he rents in Kenvil, N.J., while welders and electricians finished up the Push Button House before loading it onto a flatbed truck for the trip to Miami. ''All the finishes inside are milky and human and delicate,'' he added, ''all trapped inside this heavy mechanical box.'' 
 Houses fashioned from shipping containers are hardly new, as Mr. Kalkin readily admits. A wave of prototypes has been produced over the last few years by architects like Jennifer Siegal and design firms like LOT-EK. But Mr. Kalkin, 41, has continued to push the medium in new and sometimes idiosyncratic directions, often in an unlikely collaboration with Albert Hadley, the 85-year-old society decorator. 
 ''Most architects have a prerecorded message, but Adam's imagination is endless,'' said Mera Rubell, a Miami art collector who said that Mr. Kalkin is a candidate to design an addition to her family's private museum, the Rubell Family Collection. ''He's not held back by conventional necessities. If you want to conceptualize something out of the box, Adam will take you there.''
 Mr. Kalkin has used the container as a centerpiece in a broad spectrum of projects that include affordable housing, refugee shelters, performance pieces, movies and Web sites. ''I'm not into the container per se,'' Mr. Kalkin said. ''It's what I can do with it emotionally; transforming a commodity into poetry.'' 
 Mr. Kalkin's latest series of projects, which he refers to collectively as the Velvet Fist of Happiness, defies easy categorization. 
 ''Kalkin's work lies somewhere between performance art and architecture,'' said K. Michael Hays, a professor at the Graduate School of Design at Harvard. ''I love the way he flirts with the decorative, verging on the kitsch. That's part of his edginess.''
 Mr. Kalkin's self-published book, ''Architecture and Hygiene,'' contains childlike renderings of unrealized art projects with titles like the ''Sphincter of Loneliness'' and the ''Bicycle-Powered Electric Chair'' alongside ready-made plans for container houses.
 But for all his enigmatic posturing, Mr. Kalkin still grounds his work in the real world. He created his own house in Bernardsville, N.J., by encasing an 1880's farmhouse in a cavernous prefab aircraft hangar, a surreal juxtaposition of homey sentiment and industrial grit. 
 Mr. Kalkin has already received 10 orders for his Quik House, a three-bedroom prefab built from five containers that was exhibited last year at the Deitch Projects' Wooster Street gallery. The house, which costs between $150,000 and $175,000, plus shipping, depending on the options (the premium version includes a stainless steel kitchen and mahogany sliding doors) will go into production next month at Mr. Kalkin's factory in Kenvil. It can be trucked to a site and assembled within a week. 
 A pared-down version of the Quik House, called the A-Pod, will also go into production next year. Selling for $75,000, the A-Pod (''A'' stands for Adam) is made from a single 20-by-8-foot container furnished with spartan restraint. Mr. Kalkin describes it as a ''luxurious monk's cell.'' 
 ''You come up with a core idea and then there are all of these spin-offs,'' he said. ''It's like making a good bomb. You want it to fragment into five thousand pieces, not just split in half.''
 MR. KALKIN is also using containers for humanitarian purposes, most notably a series of recreation centers for underprivileged children in Russia. Mr. Kalkin created the design pro bono for Natalia Vodianova, a fashion model whose charity, the Naked Heart Foundation, has raised $500,000 to build the first one next year in Nizhny Novgorod, Ms. Vodianova's hometown and Russia's third largest city, which has agreed to provide a 20-acre plot near the city center.
 Mr. Kalkin has also developed a prototype for refugee housing with students at the Pingry School in Martinsville, N.J. The idea was to create a safe, defensible space in the event of war or disaster while also providing a teaching tool. Each dwelling unit, capable of housing up to 40 people, is made up of eight containers stacked on two levels and positioned around a communal courtyard covered by a roof made with parachute fabric. Students are helping to build a prototype on campus. 
 Oddly enough, the Velvet Fist of Happiness has also included Wall Street speculation. Last February, Mr. Kalkin borrowed $1 million from a bank and used it to trade stock online. He carefully recorded his transactions, which will be published in a book to be called ''Adam Kalkin, Day Trader.'' 
 Within eight weeks he made $65,000, much of which will be used to cover the $50,000 fabrication costs of the Push Button House. Mr. Kalkin is also donating $10,000 to a Tanzanian orphanage and leaving $1,000 cash in a paper bag on a public bus.
 ''Since I made the money as a performance, I wanted to spend it as a performance,'' Mr. Kalkin said. ''I'm treating it like art currency.''
 But he sees all of his transactions, both cultural and financial, as part of the same operation. ''There is a deep humanity in our economic exchanges,'' he said. ''They tend to be rational, but occasionally magic enters into the highly regulated system.''
 Even as Mr. Kalkin plays the inscrutable artist, he also produces relatively conventional architecture, as he did for Anne and Matthew Adriance of Oldwick, N.J., who commissioned him to design a 4,000-square-foot summer retreat on a rocky peninsula in Brooklin, Me. Mr. Kalkin stacked 12 orange shipping containers in a T-shape formation on either side of a central living space that was covered by a prefabricated metal roof. The cost was about $125 a square foot.
 ''It's the opposite of cold and steely,'' Ms. Adriance said. ''There's nothing cozier than waking up on a cold winter morning in your own little container.''
 To brighten the interior and diminish the spam-in-the-can effect, Mr. Kalkin replaced some of the steel panels with broad windows overlooking Blue Hill Bay. Two fireplaces and radiant heating in the concrete floors also help. The hard industrial edges were further softened by Mr. Hadley, the interior designer, who provided deep soft couches and billowing drapes made from pine-green microfiber. 
 The Push Button House, on the other hand, is not meant for habitation, though its furnishings, bolted in place, are haunting remnants from a certain kind of entitled lifestyle. 
 ''I was looking for a kind of traditional elegance, something that screams good taste in a super quiet, understated way,'' Mr. Kalkin said. The house itself weighs about 10,000 pounds while the four hydraulic walls each weigh a ton. 
 ''It's not about play,'' he said. ''This could crush you. The mechanisms wouldn't even register the fact that they were crushing you.'' 
 While the Push Button House may not be intended for mass consumption, Mr. Kalkin is thinking of using hydraulic walls in some of his more commercial projects. 
 ''He takes everyday life and accelerates the gnarly parts,'' Mr. Hays said. ''His houses allow you to restructure the hierarchies of everyday life so that it's not about living in the 19th century.''
 Earlier this week, as Mr. Kalkin oversaw the Push Button House's final assembly in Collins Park in Miami Beach, he anticipated its unveiling. Ever the performer, he orchestrated the event so that the hydraulic walls would open to reveal his father, Eugene Kalkin, a 76-year-old businessman, sitting on the couch reading.
 ''My father is inside the seed,'' he said. ''He's my progeny, in a way.''

Instant House
 ADAM KALKIN'S Push Button House will be exhibited today through Sunday at Collins Park, between 21st and 22nd Streets in Miami Beach, as part of Deitch Projects at Art Basel Miami Beach. Hours: Noon to 8 P.M., free to the public. Information on other projects by Adam Kalkin is at architectureandhygiene.com.


GRAPHIC: Photos: BOXED SET -- Adam Kalkin, an architect, top, in his Push Button House, a shipping container with walls that unfold, top right. He arranged 12 containers under one roof for a retreat in Maine, above, with a sitting area inside one container. (Photo by Peter Aaron/Esto
top, Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. F1)
POP TOP -- Three views of a T-shaped retreat in Brooklin, Me., fashioned by Adam Kalkin out of a dozen containers under a single roof, clockwise from top left: a cross section revealed by a glass wall
an open kitchen
and living space, with furnishings by Albert Hadley, the society decorator.
TO RUSSIA -- Adam Kalkin and Natalia Vodianova, a fashion model, with a plan for a recreation center that Ms. Vodianova plans to build throughout her native Russia, starting with her hometown (top left, a rendering). Refugee housing, far left, with parachute-fabric roofs, inset, was designed by students at the Pingry School working with Mr. Kalkin. (Photographs above and top by Peter Aaron/Esto
 bottom right, Michael Falco for The New York Times)(pg. F6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (89%); ART COLLECTING (89%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); EXHIBITIONS (77%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%) 

PERSON: ZAHA HADID (73%) Adam Kalkin; Alastair Gordon

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (90%) FLORIDA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2005



16 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 613 words

HEADLINE: Pension Truths: A Scare For Investors?

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
THE 90's were a decade in which bad accounting obscured unpleasant reality and made investors happy, at least for a time. This decade may be remembered as a time when better accounting changed reality in ways that were not always pleasant.
 There are two areas where that will be clear. The first is in stock options; the second in pensions. Better accounting is likely to mean fewer options and fewer pensions. 
Those who opposed good accounting for options warned of all kinds of negative results for the American economy and stock market. Investors who could see the cost of options would no longer invest in companies that issued them, thus damaging America's competitive position and halting the flow of innovation. Stock prices would crumble.
 That has not happened, of course. What has happened is that companies have become more stingy in handing out options and are actively searching for ways to minimize the reported expense.
 But it is in pensions that the most far-reaching effects will be felt, in part because they reach so many more people. The unfortunate fact is that companies have made promises they have not paid for, particularly in health benefits for retirees but also in pensions. 
 Now accounting rule makers want to fix that. The first change, which could hit balance sheets at the end of 2006, would simply put the value of pension obligations and post-employee health care obligations on the balance sheet as a liability, offset by the value of pension fund assets.
 That will cut shareholder equity at more than a few companies. Jack T. Ciesielski, writing in The Analyst's Accounting Observer, estimates that companies in the S.&P. 500 index had combined unfunded pension and post-retirement health benefit obligations of $473 billion at the end of last year. Only a part of that shows up on balance sheets now.
 If that happens, expect more companies to cut back on pensions if they can and to reduce promises of retiree health care. 
 The second part of the accounting change will not hit until late in the decade. Now companies get to include in earnings what they expect pension fund assets to earn, whether or not they actually do that well. That encourages companies to have lots of stock in pension funds, since no one can prove that stocks won't go up. 
 A new rule would probably force companies to report actual results in profits. That would mean more reported earnings volatility, something managements hate.
 David Zion, the accounting analyst at Credit Suisse First Boston, suggests that might mean big asset shifts in pension funds, as they sell stocks and buy bonds, which are less volatile even if they show lower returns over long periods of time.
 It is hard to evade the conclusion that a lot of this could be negative for the stock market. 
 First, if pension funds want to own less stock, that could hurt valuations. Second, more truth-in-accounting is likely to accelerate the trend away from defined-benefit pensions. 
 That would mean increased uncertainty for future retirees, and perhaps a decision to consume less before retirement. That might provide more money for investment, a positive, but it also could hurt corporate profits, a negative for share prices.
 Better accounting is clearly good for investors, since truth is to be preferred over fiction. But those who got in while the accounting fictions of the 1990's were allowing companies to manipulate earnings -- and got out before the truth was realized -- did well. Perhaps something similar will happen now, as good pension accounting changes assumptions -- of investors and consumers -- that seemed reasonable before the stark facts were displayed for all to see.


GRAPHIC: Graph: Net underfunding by companies in the S. & P. 500, in 2004Pensions: $154.9 billionOther post-retirement benefits: $318.1 billion(Source by Analyst's Accounting Observer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACCOUNTING (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); RETIREE HEALTH PLANS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (87%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BONDS (78%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (78%); STOCK OPTIONS (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (51%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (51%); CS (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2005



17 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS DIGEST; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 807 words

 BODY:

Retail Sales in November Confirm Consumers' Preference for Discounters
November retail sales confirmed a buying pattern that first emerged over the holiday weekend: consumers, who are paying more for gas this year and preparing to spend more on home heating as temperatures drop, are flocking to discount chains like Wal-Mart and Target, purchasing more online, but skipping many full-priced shops at the mall. Wal-Mart said sales rose 4.3 percent. [Page C1.] 


Millennium Partners Agrees to Settle Fund Case
Millennium Partners, one of the most successful hedge fund managers, agreed to a $180 million settlement over an elaborate scheme to trade in and out of mutual funds [C1.]

Merrill Pension Unit Receives Subpoena
Merrill Lynch acknowledged that its pension consulting unit in Florida, which advises nearly 100 funds in the state, had received a subpoena from the Securities and Exchange Commission as part of an investigation into conflicts of interest among advisers to pension funds. [C1.]

Longtime Exchange Rivals Employ New Strategies
Both the New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq, traditional rivals, are employing vastly different strategies as they undergo huge changes to compete. [C1.]

Pfizer Fires Executive Who Criticized the Company
Pfizer said that it had fired Peter Rost, who had been a vice president for corporate marketing but had engaged in a very public campaign against Pfizer over drug prices for the last year. [C3.]

Sony BMG Said to Be Making Management Changes
Sony BMG Music Entertainment is shaking up another segment of its executive ranks, rearranging the management at the labels once owned by Sony, company executives say. The reorganization relies partly on an unusual swap of executives from the two main labels, Columbia and Epic. [C3.]

Central Bank in Europe Raises Interest Rates
The European Central Bank nudged up its benchmark interest rate by a quarter-point -- the first time it had raised rates in five years. [C3.]

Saturn Plant, Once a Sign of Hope, Now in Decline
General Motors' Saturn plant in Spring Hill, Tenn., was a rare opportunity for the company and its workers to leave the industry's old ways behind and embrace some of the lessons that Japan was teaching, with an American twist. Now, with the company planning to shut one of two assembly lines at Spring Hill, Saturn is in danger of falling victim to the fate that this plant was intended to avoid. [A1.]

Auto sales in November declined for a fourth consecutive month as American makers once again felt the effects of this summer's price wars, when consumers bought cars in record numbers. [C4.]

Dow Average Posts Largest Gain in a Month
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 106.70 points, its biggest increase in a month, to 10,912.57. The Nasdaq gained 34.35 points, to 2,267.17, and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 15.19 points, to 1,264.67. [C6.]

Black Pleads Not Guilty to Fraud Charges
The media baron Conrad M. Black pleaded not guilty to charges that he and three former colleagues stole $83.8 million from Hollinger International, the international newspaper publisher he helped create. [C13.]

China's Immense Challenges in Bird Flu Fight
Mass vaccinations of birds in China illustrate the high priority that the country has placed on preventing avian flu from leaping from birds to humans and the immense challenges involved, including the possibility that the rural health workers themselves might spread the virus. [A1.]

Can 'The Apprentice' Shed Its New York Accent?
NBC announced this week that ''The Apprentice,'' the reality show with Donald Trump, will be based in Los Angeles for the late 2006 season -- the first time it will be filmed outside the New York area. Now NBC may be forced to answer the question: can the Wall Street-focused, big-shouldered Trump brand translate to a Los Angeles locale? Mark Burnett, the creator of ''The Apprentice,'' said moving the show to Los Angeles was intended to be a fresh move for the show and a nod to Donald Trump's interest in the area. [C5.]

NBC announced several schedule changes in an effort to rebuild its Thursday night comedy lineup. Displaced is ''The Apprentice,'' which forced NBC to move away from comedy on Thursdays two years ago after it became one of television's biggest hits. [C5.]

Cablevision Chairman Supports a la Carte Pricing
Breaking ranks with his compatriots in the cable industry, Charles F. Dolan, the chairman of the Cablevision Systems Corporation, said that he supports giving consumers the option of paying only for the channels they want, not just the large bundles of channels that are typically offered. [C3.]

A Resurgence of Venture Capital Firms in New York
Venture capital funds are starting to grow again in New York after a long dry spell, helped by a resurgence of the Internet and the growth of advertising-supported Web sites. Street Scene. [C7.]

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph shows Wal-Mart stock closes since September, 2005.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL SALES (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); INTEREST RATES (88%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (85%); SALES FIGURES (79%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); PRICE CUTTING (78%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (78%); PENSION FUNDS (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (75%); MUTUAL FUNDS (75%); SUBPOENAS (74%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (73%); HEDGE FUNDS (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); CENTRAL BANKS (68%); DRUG PRICES (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (83%); SONY BMG MUSIC ENTERTAINMENT (82%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (65%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%); WAL-MART STORES INC (02%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (83%); PFEB (BRU) (83%); PFE (NYSE) (83%); GM (NYSE) (52%); WMT (NYSE) (02%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (83%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (83%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (83%); NAICS334614 SOFTWARE & OTHER PRERECORDED COMPACT DISC, TAPE & RECORD REPRODUCING (82%); SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (82%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (02%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (02%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%) EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2005



18 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; THE LISTINGS DEC. 2--DEC. 8; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 15555 words

 BODY:
Selective listings by critics of The New York Times of new and noteworthy cultural events in the New York metropolitan region this week. * denotes a highly recommended film, concert, show or exhibition.

Theater
Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current shows, additional listings, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/theater. 


Previews and Openings

'APPARITION' Opens Sunday. Anne Washburn's creepy new mystery-drama features five ghost stories with hints of murder, demons and other things that go bump in the night (1:20). Connelly Theater, 220 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 352-3101.

'ROPE' Opens Sunday. The Drama Dept. and the Zipper Theater present a revival of Patrick Hamilton's drama inspired by the Leopold and Loeb murder case. David Warren directs (2:05). Zipper Theater, 336 West 37th Street, (212) 239-6200.

'THE TRIP TO BOUNTIFUL' Opens Sunday. A revival of Horton Foote's drama about a woman longing to return to her childhood home. Directed by the veteran actor Harris Yulin (2:15). Signature Theater, 555 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 244-7529.

'CELEBRATION' and 'THE ROOM' Opens Monday. Two short plays from opposite ends of Harold Pinter's distinguished career (1:45). Atlantic Theater, 336 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (212) 239-6200.

'KLONSKY & SCHWARTZ' Opens Monday. A new play by Romulus Linney about the final years in the life of the mercurial New York poet Delmore Schwartz (1:30). Ensemble Studio Theater, 549 West 52nd Street, Clinton, (212) 352-3101.

'TIGHT EMBRACE' Opens Tuesday. Two kidnapped women struggle to survive in this new play about political violence by Jorge Ignacio Cortinas (2:00). Intar Theater at the Kirk on Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200.

'A TOUCH OF THE POET' Opens Thursday. Gabriel Byrne, last on Broadway in ''A Moon for the Misbegotten,'' stars as an Irish tavern owner whose daughter falls in love with a wealthy American in one of Eugene O'Neill's last plays. Doug Hughes directs (2:30). Studio 54, 254 West 54th Street, Manhattan, (212) 719-1300.

'CHITA RIVERA: THE DANCER'S LIFE' Opens Dec. 11. The star of ''Chicago'' and ''West Side Story'' relives many of her (and Broadway's) greatest moments, with the help of a book by Terrence McNally (2:00). Schoenfeld Theater, 236 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200.

'DOG SEES GOD: CONFESSIONS OF A TEENAGE BLOCKHEAD' Opens Dec. 15. The ''Peanuts'' gang finally grows up in this parody of Charles M. Schulz's comic strip. Eddie Kaye Thomas (''American Pie'') plays the hapless Charlie Brown (1:30). Century Center for the Performing Arts, 111 East 15th Street, Flatiron district, (212) 239-6200.

'HAYMARKET' Previews start Thursday. Opens Dec. 12. Using research from newspaper accounts and trial transcripts, Zayd Dohrn's play tells the story of the leaders of Chicago's Haymarket Square riots of 1886 (2:05). Beckett Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200.

'THE OTHER SIDE' Opens Dec. 13. A new work by Ariel Dorfman (''Death and the Maiden'') about a couple living in a war-torn country waiting for their 15-year-old son to return home. Rosemary Harris and John Cullum star (2:00). Manhattan Theater Club, City Center Stage I, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212.

Broadway

'CHITTY CHITTY BANG BANG' The playthings are the thing in this lavish windup music box of a show: windmills, Rube Goldbergesque machines and the show's title character, a flying car. It's like spending two and a half hours in the Times Square branch of Toys ''R'' Us (2:30). Hilton Theater, 213 West 42nd Street, (212) 307-4100. (Ben Brantley)

'DIRTY ROTTEN SCOUNDRELS' On paper this musical tale of two mismatched scam artists has an awful lot in common with ''The Producers.'' But if you are going to court comparison with giants, you had better be prepared to stand tall. ''Dirty Rotten Scoundrels,'' starring John Lithgow and Norbert Leo Butz, never straightens out of a slouch (2:35). Imperial Theater, 249 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

* 'DOUBT, A PARABLE' (Pulitzer Prize, Best Play 2005, and Tony Award, Best Play 2005) Set in the Bronx in 1964, this play by John Patrick Shanley is structured as a clash of wills and generations between Sister Aloysius (Cherry Jones), the head of a parochial school, and Father Flynn (Brian F. O'Byrne), the young priest who may or may not be too fond of the boys in his charge. The play's elements bring to mind those tidy topical melodramas that were once so popular. But Mr. Shanley makes subversive use of musty conventions (1:30). Walter Kerr Theater, 219 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'IN MY LIFE' Joseph Brooks's whimsical musical about heaven and earth works grotesquely hard to disguise its conventional heart. Mostly, it's like drowning in a singing sea of syrup (1:45). Music Box Theater, 239 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'JERSEY BOYS' From grit to glamour with the Four Seasons, directed by the pop repackager Des McAnuff (''The Who's Tommy''). The real thrill of this shrink-wrapped biomusical, for those who want something more than recycled chart toppers and a story line poured from a can, is watching the wonderful John Lloyd Young (as Frankie Valli) cross the line from exact impersonation into something far more compelling (2:30). August Wilson Theater, 245 West 52nd Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'LATINOLOGUES' Created and written by Rick Najera and directed by Cheech Marin, long since de-Chonged, this is a series of loosely linked monologues delivered in character by Mr. Najera and three other talented Latino performers. Mr. Najera and his compadres can be skillful slingers of one-liners, but the characters cooked up to transmit them are neither fresh nor fully realized. In contrast to the colorfully individualized portraits in John Leguizamo's solo shows, the men and women of ''Latinologues'' are composites of worn, easy stereotypes (1:30). Helen Hayes Theater, 240 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Charles Isherwood)

'THE LIGHT IN THE PIAZZA' Love is a many-flavored thing, from sugary to sour, in Adam Guettel and Craig Lucas's encouragingly ambitious and discouragingly unfulfilled new musical. The show soars only in the sweetly bitter songs performed by the wonderful Victoria Clark, as an American abroad (2:15). Beaumont Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE ODD COUPLE' Odd is not the word for this couple. How could an adjective suggesting strangeness or surprise apply to a production so calculatedly devoted to the known, the cozy, the conventional? As the title characters in Neil Simon's 1965 comedy, directed as if to a metronome by Joe Mantello, Nathan Lane and Matthew Broderick reprise their star performances from ''The Producers,'' and it's not a natural fit. Don't even consider killing yourself because the show is already sold out (2:10). Brooks Atkinson Theater, 256 West 47th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'SEASCAPE' While George Grizzard sounds affecting depths in this audience-friendly revival of Edward Albee's 1975 Pulitzer Prize winner, Mark Lamos's production is most notable for being likable and forgettable, traits seldom associated with Albee plays. The ever-vital Frances Sternhagen plays life-affirming wife to Mr. Grizzard's curmudgeonly husband, while Frederick Weller and the wonderful Elizabeth Marvel are the sea creatures who confront the old couple one afternoon at the beach (1:45). Lincoln Center Theater, at the Booth Theater, 222 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200.(Brantley)

'SPAMALOT' (Tony Award, Best Musical 2005) This staged re-creation of the mock-medieval movie ''Monty Python and the Holy Grail'' is basically a singing scrapbook for Python fans. Such a good time is being had by so many people that this fitful, eager celebration of inanity and irreverence has found a large and lucrative audience (2:20). Shubert Theater, 225 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

* 'SWEENEY TODD' Sweet dreams, New York. This thrilling new revival of Stephen Sondheim and Hugh Wheeler's musical, with Michael Cerveris and Patti LuPone leading a cast of 10 who double as their own musicians, burrows into your thoughts like a campfire storyteller who knows what really scares you. The inventive director John Doyle aims his pared-down interpretation at the squirming child in everyone, who wants to have his worst fears both confirmed and dispelled (2:30). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'SWEET CHARITY' This revival of the 1966 musical never achieves more than a low-grade fever when what's wanted is that old steam heat. In the title role of the hopeful dance-hall hostess, the appealing but underequipped Christina Applegate is less a shopworn angel than a merry cherub (2:30). Al Hirschfeld Theater, 302 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'SOUVENIR' Stephen Temperley's sweet, long love letter of a play celebrates the unlikely career of Florence Foster Jenkins, a notoriously tone-deaf soprano socialite. It's a show that could easily have been pure camp, and at over two hours it still wears thin. But with Vivian Matalon directing the redoubtable Judy Kaye as Mrs. Jenkins, and Donald Corren as her accompanist, the play's investigative empathy turns the first act into unexpectedly gentle, affecting comedy (2:15). Lyceum Theater, 149 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

* 'THE 25TH ANNUAL PUTNAM COUNTY SPELLING BEE' The happy news for this happy-making little musical is that the move to larger quarters has dissipated none of its quirky charm. William Finn's score sounds plumper and more rewarding than it did Off Broadway, providing a sprinkling of sugar to complement the sass in Rachel Sheinkin's zinger-filled book. The performances are flawless. Gold stars all around (1:45). Circle in the Square, 1633 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

'THE WOMAN IN WHITE' Bravely flouting centuries of accepted scientific theory, the creators of this adaptation of Wilkie Collins's spine tingler have set out to prove that the world is flat, after all. This latest offering from Andrew Lloyd Webber, directed by Trevor Nunn, seems to exist entirely in two dimensions, from its computer-generated backdrops to its decorative chess-piece-like characters (2:50). Marquis Theater, 211 West 45th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

Off Broadway

'ALMOST HEAVEN: SONGS OF JOHN DENVER' Almost 30 of John Denver's songs are ''rediscovered and reinvented,'' as the show's publicity material says, but not generally improved upon. But Nicholas Rodriguez hits the high notes of ''Calypso'' spectacularly (2:00). Promenade Theater, 2162 Broadway, at 76th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Neil Genzlinger)

* 'ALTAR BOYZ' This sweetly satirical show about a Christian pop group made up of five potential Teen People cover boys is an enjoyable, silly diversion (1:30). Dodger Stages, Stage 4, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200.(Isherwood)

'BACH AT LEIPZIG' Itamar Moses's comedy is an ardent but hollow literary homage to Tom Stoppard stuffed with arcana about religious and musical squabbles in 18th-century Germany and knowingly feeble jokes. Despite the nimble gifts of a first-rate cast, the play never works up the farcical energy to lift us over the puddles of book-learning (2:15). New York Theater Workshop, 79 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

'BINGO' Play bingo, munch on popcorn and watch accomplished actors freshen up a stale musical about game night (1:20). St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Jason Zinoman)

'BROKEN JOURNEY' A gripping production of a modern-day rendering of ''Rashomon'' by a British poet and playwright who employs clever wordplay to define the characters and delve into their psyche. A solid cast manages to hold the tension taut for most of the 110 minutes. Theater Three, 311 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 352-3101. (Wilborn Hampton)

'DRUMSTRUCK' This noisy novelty is a mixed blessing. Providing a two-foot drum on every seat, it offers an opportunity to exorcise aggressions by delivering a good beating, and, on a slightly more elevated level, it presents a superficial introduction to African culture, lessons in drumming and 90 minutes of nonstop music, song and dancing by a good-natured cast (1:30). Dodger Stages, Stage 2, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Lawrence Van Gelder)

'FIVE COURSE LOVE' This musical is pleasantly fluffy, but Heather Ayers may make a star vehicle out of it, thanks to an energetic, versatile performance in five roles. She, John Bolton and Jeff Gurner search for love in five restaurants, with a too-generous portion of bad accents and phallic jokes along the way, but lots of laughs (1:30). Minetta Lane Theater, 18 Minetta Lane, Greenwich Village, (212) 307-4100.(Genzlinger)

* 'FORBIDDEN BROADWAY: SPECIAL VICTIMS UNIT' This production features the expected caricatures of ego-driven singing stars. But even more than usual, the show offers an acute list of grievances about the sickly state of the Broadway musical, where, as the lyrics have it, ''everything old is old again'' (1:45). 47th Street Theater, 304 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

* 'THE GENTLEMAN DANCING-MASTER' The Pearl Theater Company is having way more fun than a company specializing in classics ought to have with this 17th-century comedy by William Wycherley. Marsha Stephanie Blake is terrific as a young woman betrothed to her cousin but hot for someone else; the loons who surround her are great, too (2:50). Pearl Theater, 80 St. Marks Place, East Village, (212) 598-9802. (Genzlinger)

'HAMLET' Michael Cumpsty gives a forceful, intelligent reading of the title role in the Classic Stage Company's likably intimate production of Shakespeare's tale of doom-struck Danes. Brian Kulick's production is heavy on the directorial gimmickry (smell the spray paint! watch the set be shredded!), leaving psychology and philosophy to fend for themselves (2:30). Classic Stage Company, 136 East 13th Street, East Village, (212) 279-4200. (Isherwood)

'HILDA' Marie Ndiaye's play is a psychodrama from which most of the psychology seems to have mysteriously evaporated, taking a lot of the drama with it. Ellen Karas stars as a bourgeois housewife whose obsession with her maid eventually unhinges her (1:20). Part of the Act French Festival. 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200. (Isherwood)

'INFERTILITY' A harmless, insubstantial and highly amplified musical about the struggles of five people hoping to become parents (1:20). Dillon's, 245 West 54th Street, Manhattan, (212) 868-4444. (Zinoman)

'MISS WITHERSPOON' This poignant, funny mess of a comedy by Christopher Durang, set in an antechamber of the afterlife, cheerfully suggests that there are worse fates than death for sensitive souls in this self-destructive world. The play meanders but has the good fortune to star the priceless Kristine Nielsen as a dead woman who intends to stay that way (1:20). Playwrights Horizons, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200. (Brantley)

'MR. MARMALADE' A zany comedy by Noah Haidle about emotionally disturbed children. Yes, you read that right. Michael C. Hall of ''Six Feet Under'' plays the now-cuddly, now-abusive imaginary friend of a neglected 4-year-old. Unfortunately, Mr. Haidle never truly capitalizes on his provocative conceit, choosing instead to draw us a scary but ultimately hollow cartoon (1:50). Roundabout Theater Company, Laura Pels Theater, at the Harold and Miriam Steinberg Center for Theater, 111 West 46th Street, (212) 719-1300. (Isherwood)

'ONE-MAN STAR WARS TRILOGY' With a storm trooper roaming the aisles and a woman in an Obi-Wan Kenobi get-up telling theatergoers to turn off their cellphones or they will be turned into ''cosmic dust,'' Charles Ross's sprint through Episodes IV through VI strives for the atmosphere of a ''Star Wars'' convention but ends up achieving something like a religious revival (which is sort of the same thing). True believers will love how Mr. Ross, a self-confessed geek who plays every major role in under an hour, simulates R2D2, but all others will scratch their heads (1:00). Lamb's Theater, 130 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Zinoman)

'ON SECOND AVENUE' This genial show by the Folksbiene Yiddish Theater, celebrating Second Avenue's theatrical heyday, somehow manages to be both a perfect ensemble production and a star vehicle for Mike Burstyn. The production, first seen last March and April, is in its second go-round (2:00). J.C.C. in Manhattan, 334 Amsterdam Avenue, at 76th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Genzlinger)

'Radio City Christmas Spectacular' It remains prime entertainment (1:30). Radio City Music Hall, 50th Street and Avenue of the Americas, Manhattan, (212) 307-1000. (Van Gelder)

'RFK' This solo show written and starring Jack Holmes is a reasonably accurate historical portrait, but the performance, unfortunately, lacks the charisma and charm that made the real Bobby Kennedy a star (1:35). Culture Project, 45 Bleecker Street, at Lafayette Street, East Village, (212) 253-9983. (Jonathan Kalb)

'THIRD' Heidi is having hot flashes. In this thoughtful, seriously imbalanced comedy, Wendy Wasserstein takes her archetypal heroine (most famously embodied in 1988 in ''The Heidi Chronicles'') into the fog of menopausal, existential uncertainty. The wonderful but miscast Dianne Weist plays a feminist college professor forced to reconsider everything she stands for. Though Daniel Sullivan's staging is too easygoing to build tension, the play exhales a poignant air of autumnal rue (2:00). Mitzi E. Newhouse Theater, 150 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

Off Off Broadway

'BIG APPLE CIRCUS -- GRANDMA GOES TO HOLLYWOOD' Long on sweetness, rich in color and highly tuneful, but short on eye-popping, cheer-igniting wows (2:10). Damrosch Park at Lincoln Center, Broadway and 63rd Street, (212) 307-4100. (Van Gelder)

'DONA ROSITA LA SOLTERA (DONA ROSITA THE SPINSTER)' Watching Repertorio Espanol's ''Dona Rosita the Spinster'' is a bit like finding a dried flower pressed in a book: charming, archaic and just a bit musty, even though the lead is played by Denise Quinones -- Miss Universe, 2001. Federico Garcia Lorca's poetic play has a predictable premise: a beautiful young woman waits in vain for the handsome cousin to whom she is engaged. Luckily, the tragicomedy has some laughs (2:00). In Spanish with live simultaneous translation via headsets. Repertorio Espanol, at the Gramercy Arts Theater, 138 East 27th Street, (212) 225-9920. (Phoebe Hoban)

Long-Running Shows

'AVENUE Q' R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:10). Golden, 252 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'BEAUTY AND THE BEAST' Cartoon made flesh, sort of (2:30). Lunt-Fontanne Theater, 205 West 46th Street, (212) 307-4747. (Brantley)

'CHICAGO' Irrefutable proof that crime pays (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200.(Brantley)

'FIDDLER ON THE ROOF' The Shtetl Land pavilion in the theme park called Broadway. With Rosie O'Donnell and Harvey Fierstein (2:55). Minskoff Theater, 200 West 45th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'HAIRSPRAY' Fizzy pop, cute kids, large man in a housedress (2:30). Neil Simon Theater, 250 West 52nd Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'THE LION KING' Disney on safari, where the big bucks roam (2:45). New Amsterdam Theater, 214 West 42nd Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'MAMMA MIA!' The jukebox that devoured Broadway (2:20). Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'MOVIN' OUT' The miracle dance musical that makes Billy Joel cool (2:00). Richard Rodgers Theater, 226 West 46th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA' Who was that masked man, anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE PRODUCERS' The ne plus ultra of showbiz scams (2:45). St. James Theater, 246 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'RENT' East Village angst and love songs to die for (2:45). Nederlander Theater, 208 West 41st Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'THOM PAIN (BASED ON NOTHING)' Is there such a thing as stand-up existentialism? If not, Will Eno has just invented it. Stand-up-style comic riffs and deadpan hipster banter keep interrupting the corrosively bleak narrative. Mr. Eno is a Samuel Beckett for the Jon Stewart generation (1:10). DR2 Theater, 103 East 15th Street, Flatiron district, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

'WICKED' Oz revisited, with political corrections (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street, Manhattan, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

Last Chance

'ABSURD PERSON SINGULAR' An uninspired revival of Alan Ayckbourn's classic farce of marital misery and Christmas cheerlessness, directed by John Tillinger. The largely merely serviceable cast includes Paxton Whitehead, Mireille Enos and the wonderful Deborah Rush, who sidesteps the usual cliches of playing drunk in splendid comic style (2:30). Biltmore Theater, 261 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200, closing Sunday. (Brantley).

'JUNIE B. JONES' A spirited entertainment (1:30). Theaterworks/NYC, at the Lucille Lortel Theater, 121 Christopher Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 279-4200, closing tomorrow. (Van Gelder)

'A NAKED GIRL ON THE APPIAN WAY' Could it be that the exhaustingly prolific Richard Greenberg has been even busier than anyone suspected? This clunky farce about the limits of liberalism, directed by Doug Hughes and starring a miscast Richard Thomas and Jill Clayburgh, suggests that Mr. Greenberg has been moonlighting as a gag writer for sitcoms and is now recycling his discarded one-liners (1:45). American Airlines Theater, 227 West 42nd Street, (212) 719-1300, closing Sunday. (Brantley)

'THE RUBY SUNRISE' Rinne Groff's period drama explores the country's growing pains during the early years of television. Directed by the new Public Theater chief, Oskar Eustis, the play casts glancing looks at a large subject, namely the country's failure to harness advances in technology to socially progressive ends. But it is essentially a deftly structured but heavy-treading drama about the dashed dreams and tarnished ideals of two generations of spirited Midwestern women (2:15). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 239-6200, closing Sunday. (Isherwood)

'SEE WHAT I WANNA SEE' A hot-and-cold chamber musical by Michael John LaChiusa, based on stories by Ryuonsuke Akutagawa, that considers the nature of truth and belief. The show's film-noir-style first half is more chilly than chilling. But its second act, set in the shadow of 9/11, throbs affectingly with a hunger for faith. With Idina Menzel and Marc Kudisch (2:00). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 239-6200, closing Sunday. (Brantley)

Movies

Ratings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/movies.

* 'BEE SEASON' (PG-13, 104 minutes) A genuinely felt, finely made adaptation of the Myla Goldberg novel about an 11-year-old girl with an ineffable gift for summoning up perfectly strung-together words. With Richard Gere, Juliette Binoche, Max Minghella and the wonderful newcomer Flora Cross as the family nearly undone by that gift. (Manohla Dargis)

* 'BREAKFAST ON PLUTO' (R, 129 minutes) ''Candide'' meets ''Tom Jones'' in drag heaven might describe Neil Jordan's picaresque fairy tale about a foundling who becomes a transvestite in 1970's and 80's London, against the backdrop of the Irish troubles. (Stephen Holden)

* 'CAPOTE' (R, 114 minutes) Philip Seymour Hoffman's portrayal of Truman Capote is a tour de force of psychological insight. Following the novelist as he works on the magazine assignment that will become ''In Cold Blood,'' the film raises intriguing questions about the ethics of writing. (A. O. Scott)

'DERAILED' (R, 110 minutes) A glossy and often risible bit of trash about an adulterous affair gone bad, bad, bad, starring the invaluable Clive Owen and an uncomfortable-looking Jennifer Aniston. (Dargis)

* 'DOWN TO THE BONE' (No rating, 105 minutes) ''Down to the Bone,'' which won the Special Jury Prize at last year's Sundance Festival, is the kind of movie most independent films strive in vain to be: a small, beautifully faceted gem. Vera Farmiga gives a pitch-perfect performance as Irene, a mother of two whose life is precariously built around a cocaine addiction. (Dana Stevens)

* 'THE DYING GAUL' (R, 105 minutes) Craig Lucas's screen adaptation of his bitter Off Broadway revenge tragedy, is a sublimely acted film and a high point in the careers of its three stars, Campbell Scott, Patricia Clarkson and Peter Sarsgaard, who play a bisexual Hollywood studio executive, his wife and a young screenwriter. (Holden)

'GET RICH OR DIE TRYIN' ' (R, 134 minutes) This lumbering vehicle for the rap star 50 Cent blends gangster intrigue with follow-your-dream striving. The story is a mess, and the star is no actor, but a fine supporting cast and Jim Sheridan's warm-hearted direction make it watchable. (Scott)

* 'HARRY POTTER AND THE GOBLET OF FIRE' (PG-13, 150 minutes) Childhood ends for the young wizard with the zigzag scar in the latest addition to the Potter saga, even as the director Mike Newell keeps its British eccentricity, fatalism and steady-on pluck irresistibly intact. (Dargis)

'IN THE MIX' (PG-13, 97 minutes) This predictable, one-dimensional romantic comedy is all about its star, Usher, who plays a New York D.J. beloved by one and all. Beautiful women lust after him, but when a Mafia princess (Emmanuelle Chriqui) joins their number, her mobster father (Chazz Palminteri) disapproves. Even though Darrell (Usher) once took a bullet for him. (Anita Gates)

'JARHEAD' (R, 123 minutes) Sam Mendes's film about marines waiting for action in the 1991 Persian Gulf war is often vivid and profane, like the Anthony Swofford memoir on which it is based, and some of the performances crackle with energy. But the film as a whole feels strangely detached and -- even more strangely, given its topical resonance -- irrelevant. (Scott)

'JUST FRIENDS' (PG-13, 96 minutes) In this crude, clobbering comedy, a former geek who has reinvented himself as a Hollywood smoothie (Ryan Reynolds) returns to his New Jersey hometown to win his high school dream girl (Amy Smart). (Holden)

'MRS. PALFREY AT THE CLAREMONT' (No rating, 108 minutes) This weepie about the tender friendship between a 70-something British widow (Joan Plowright) and a struggling young writer (Rupert Friend) is as anachronistic as the notion of a Terence Rattigan play set in the present. (Holden)

* 'PARADISE NOW' (PG-13, 90 minutes, in Arabic and Hebrew) This melodrama about two Palestinians, best friends from childhood, chosen to carry out a suicide bombing in Tel Aviv is a superior thriller whose shrewdly inserted plot twists and emotional wrinkles are calculated to put your heart in your throat and keep it there. (Holden)

* 'PRIDE & PREJUDICE' (PG, 128 minutes) In this sumptuous, extravagantly romantic adaptation of Jane Austen's 1813 novel, Keira Knightley's Elizabeth Bennet exudes a radiance that suffuses the movie. This is a banquet of high-end comfort food perfectly cooked and seasoned to Anglophilic tastes. (Holden)

'PRIME' (PG-13, 105 minutes) Actually, pretty mediocre. A thin romantic comedy that nonetheless has its charms, most of them provided by Uma Thurman as a divorced 37-year-old who falls for a 23-year-old who happens to be her therapist's son. (Scott)

'RENT' (PG-13, 135 minutes) Jonathan Larson's beloved musical is as loud, earnest and sentimental as ever. But somehow, as it has made the transition to the screen almost a decade after its theatrical debut (with much of the original stage cast), the show has dated less than the objections to it. Yes, the East Village was never really like this, but in Chris Columbus's hands, the hectic updating of ''La Boheme'' to the age of AIDS and gentrification feels surprisingly sweet and fresh. (Scott)

'SEAMLESS' (No rating, 75 minutes) Four upstart fashion designers toil with fabrics and finances as they compete for a career-making award in this genial documentary from Douglas Keeve, the maker of ''Unzipped.'' (Nathan Lee)

* 'SHOPGIRL' (R, 107 minutes) This delicate, deceptively simple film, taken from Steve Martin's novella, spins perfect romance out of loneliness, compromise and the possibility of heartbreak. As a young retail clerk adrift in Los Angeles, Claire Danes gives a flawless performance, and Mr. Martin and Jason Schwartzman, as the very different men competing for her affection, bring gallantry, farce and sweetness to this funny, sad, insightful movie. (Scott)

* 'SYRIANA' (R, 122 minutes) Ambitious, angry and complicated, Stephen Gaghan's second film tackles terrorism, American foreign policy, global trade and the oil business through four interwoven stories. There are at least a half-dozen first-rate performances, and Mr. Gaghan, who wrote and directed, reinvents the political thriller as a vehicle for serious engagement with the state of the world. (Scott)

'39 POUNDS OF LOVE' (No rating, 74 minutes, in English and Hebrew) Afflicted by a rare disease that keeps his weight at 39 pounds and allows him to move only one finger, the 34-year-old animator Ami Ankilewitz still dreams of riding a Harley-Davidson. In this lighthearted yet forthright documentary, the director Dani Menkin presents a bracingly honest portrait of a man refusing to be defined by the limitations of his body. (Jeannette Catsoulis)

'USHPIZIN' (PG-13, 91 minutes, in Hebrew) In this groundbreaking collaboration between secular and Orthodox Israelis, two roustabouts barge into the home of a Hasid and his wife and make comic trouble. (Holden)

'WALK THE LINE' (PG-13, 138 minutes) Johnny Cash gets the musical biopic treatment in this moderately entertaining, never quite convincing chronicle of his early years. Joaquin Phoenix, sweaty, inarticulate and intense as Cash, is upstaged by Reese Witherspoon, who tears into the role of June Carter (Cash's creative partner long before she became his second wife) with her usual charm, pluck and intelligence. (Scott)

* 'WALLACE & GROMIT: THE CURSE OF THE WERE-RABBIT' (G, 85 minutes) The stop-motion pooch and his cheese-loving master, back again at feature length. Silly and sublime. (Scott)

'YOURS, MINE AND OURS' (PG, 90 minutes) Dennis Quaid and Rene Russo inhabit roles originated by Henry Fonda and Lucille Ball in this snug, airtight remake of the 1968 comedy about the combining of two antagonistic families with 18 children between them. Cutesy unreality prevails. (Holden)

'ZATHURA: A SPACE ADVENTURE' (PG, 113 minutes) In this extraterrestrial fantasy, adapted from a Chris Van Allsburg story, a magical board game sends two squabbling young brothers into space to fend off invaders and learn the meaning of brotherhood. The movie is sweeter, gentler and more family-friendly than ''Jumanji,'' to which it is the unofficial sequel. (Holden)

Film Series

BRIGHT STARS, BIG CITY: CHINESE CINEMA'S FIRST GOLDEN ERA, 1922-1937 (Through Dec. 22). The Museum of Modern Art begins its celebration of Chinese film and Shanghai's movie stars tonight. This weekend's silent classics include Sun Yu's ''Daybreak'' (1933), starring Li Lili as a village girl forced into prostitution; Hou Yao's ''Dream of the West Chamber'' (1927), based on a romantic opera; and Zhang Shichuan's ''Labourer's Love'' (1922), a slapstick comedy about a fruit peddler in love with a doctor's daughter. Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters, 11 West 53rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 708-9400; $10. (Gates)

FOREVER GARBO: A RETROSPECTIVE (Through Dec. 17) The American-Scandinavian Foundation's program honoring Greta Garbo's centennial continues tomorrow with ''Mata Hari'' (1931), in which Garbo plays the World War I spy, and on Wednesday with ''Anna Karenina'' (1935), in which she stars as Tolstoy's doomed adulterer opposite Fredric March as Vronsky. Scandinavia House, 58 Park Avenue, between 37th and 38th Streets, (212) 879-9779; $8. (Gates)

HIROSHI SUGIMOTO: THE MOVING IMAGE OF MODERN ART (Through Dec. 11) Japan Society continues its series of films selected by Mr. Sugimoto, the visual artist, for their emphasis on artifice and their influence on Japanese modernism. Tonight Mr. Sugimoto narrates ''The Water Magician,'' Kenji Mizoguchi's 1933 silent masterpiece about a carnival performer with dreams. 333 East 47th Street, Manhattan, (212) 752-3015; $10. (Gates)

RECENT FILMS OF LAURA MORANTE (Through Dec. 10). The Museum of Modern Art opens an exhibition of four films starring the Italian actress Laura Morante on Thursday. On opening night, Ms. Morante will discuss Michele Placido's ''Journey Called Love'' (2002), in which she plays the Italian novelist Sibila Aleramo, after the screening. The evening's other feature is Nanni Moretti's family tragedy ''The Son's Room'' (2001). Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters, 11 West 53rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 708-9400; $10. (Gates)

MAYSLES FILMS: FIVE DECADES (Through Dec. 31) The Museum of Modern Art is presenting a monthlong retrospective of films by the documentarians Albert and David Maysles. This weekend's features include ''Gimme Shelter'' (1970), about the Rolling Stones and Hell's Angels at the tragic Altamont concert; ''Showman'' (1963), about the Hollywood producer Joseph E. Levine; and ''Umbrellas'' (1995), one of five Maysles films about the installations of the artists Christo and Jeanne-Claude. Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters, 11 West 53rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 708-9400; $10. (Gates)

A POPULAR CINEMA: NELSON PEREIRA DOS SANTOS (Through Dec. 20) BAMcinematek presents a series of six films by Mr. Dos Santos, often called the father of Cinema Novo in Brazil. The program begins Monday with ''Rio 40 Graus'' (1955), a political comic drama about poor street children in Rio de Janeiro. Tuesday's feature is ''Rio Zona Norte'' (1957), a sequel of sorts, about a dying samba musician. 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 636-4100; $10. (Gates)

Pop

Full reviews of recent concerts: nytimes.com/music.

* AGAINST ME (Tonight) These folk-punkers from Gainesville, Fla., up the ante by including left-wing politics in their energized mix. 6, Webster Hall, 125 East 11th Street, East Village, (212) 353-1600; $15. (Laura Sinagra)

BETTY (Thursday) With increased notoriety thanks to Showtime's ''L Word,'' the anything-goes activist cabaret pop band Betty plays holiday fare, joined by J. D. Samson of Le Tigre and Emily Saliers of the Indigo Girls. 9:30 p.m., Joe's Pub, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 539-8778; $20. (Sinagra)

BLOOD ON THE WALL (Tonight) This shaggy Brooklyn trio fronted by the guitarist and vocalist Brad Shanks and his sister, the bassist and vocalist Courtney Shanks, make hip-shaking rock with a touch of Midwestern-gothic twang. Psychic Ills opens. 9:30, Maxwell's, 1039 Washington Street, Hoboken, N.J., (201) 653-1703; $8. (Sinagra)

DEAD MEADOW, WITCH (Thursday) Dead Meadow plays hard rock that evokes rolling expanse the way that the blues-metal this group loves once evoked misty Gothic castles. Witch is the folk-metal project of the Dinosaur Jr. guitarist J Mascis. 8 p.m., Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111; $14 in advance, $15 at the door. (Sinagra)

KARL DENSON'S TINY UNIVERSE (Tonight) Karl Denson, who played saxophone in Lenny Kravitz's band, is eager to push jazz back onto the dance floor. He has his heart in 1950's hard-bop and 1970's funk: music that takes liberties but never lets go of the beat. 8, B. B. King's Blues Club and Grill, 243 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 997-4144; $25. (Jon Pareles)

DEPECHE MODE, THE BRAVERY (Wednesday and Thursday) In the 1980's and 90's, Depeche Mode's danceable synthesizer darkness, fetish melodies and mall-ready maladjustment made the group the industrial electro-pop band to beat. After some solo-project detours, the band is back, in this goth-friendly time, to its reliable formula. A less downcast version of neo-new-wave, the Bravery is tougher than its contemporaries like the Killers, if not always as much fun. 8 p.m., Madison Square Garden, (212) 465-6741; $40 to $85. (Sinagra)

DINOSAUR JR. (Tonight and tomorrow night) Dinosaur Jr., the seminal band that melded the apathetic cool of American punk with the guitar blare of classic rock, reunites its contentious original lineup. Love As Laughter opens. 8, Irving Plaza, 17 Irving Place, East Village, (212) 777-6800; $30. (Sinagra)

DONOVAN (Wednesday) The singer-songwriter responsible for both ''Season of the Witch'' and the best scene in the Bob Dylan documentary ''Don't Look Back'' continues his hurdy-gurdy grooviness. 8 p.m., Society for Ethical Culture, 2 West 64th Street, Manhattan, www.concertstonight.com, (212) 307-7171; $40 and $45. (Sinagra)

GOLDFRAPP (Monday) Allison Goldfrapp and his partner, Will Gregory, make electronic music that harkens back to the glam side of disco. 9 p.m., Nokia Theater, 1515 Broadway, at 44th Street, ticketmaster.com or (212) 307-7171; $28 (sold out). (Sinagra)

JULIANNA HATFIELD (Wednesday) Ms. Hatfield's voice, that of a weary but urgent ingenue, added sharp charm to the music of the Blake Babies in the 1980's and her solo projects in the 90's. This singer-songwriter continues to release albums with a low-key, confessional spark. 9 p.m., Maxwell's, 1039 Washington Street, Hoboken, N.J., (201) 798-0406; $14. (Sinagra)

* IRON & WINE AND CALEXICO (Sunday, Monday and Tuesday) The modern rustic Sam Beam takes a whispery, almost Chet Baker-like approach to folk vocals. Sung atop delicately plucked guitar, his lyrics speak to the sensitive male's concerns about intimacy and mortality. Calexico plays desert rock bathed in pedal-steel mystery and orchestral ambience. Their collaboration hauls the quiescent Mr. Beam out on a colorful road trip. This show is billed as a mix and match affair, with guests, patterned on Dylan's Rolling Thunder Revue. 7 p.m., Webster Hall, 125 East 11th Street, East Village, (212) 353-1600; $25. (Sinagra)

* BETTYE LAVETTE (Sunday) Bettye LaVette of Detroit released her first recording when she was 16, and soldiered on through a career that carried her through 15 labels, minor rhythm-and-blues hits like ''He Made a Woman Out of Me'' and years in Europe. But her tough, knowing voice and sense of drama could rival Tina Turner's, and she recently released a hand-tooled set of songs by women -- ''I've Got My Own Hell to Raise'' (Anti) -- that's the soul album of the year. 8 p.m., Knitting Factory Main Space, 74 Leonard Street, TriBeCa, (212) 219-3006; $20. (Pareles)

TED LEO & THE PHARMICISTS (Tomorrow) The Irish-American indie rocker Ted Leo plays soulful punk, nearly popping a neck vein for political justice. But his melodic sensibility and falsetto also recall the 70's arena rock of bands like Thin Lizzy. Also on the bill are the Exit and the Black Hollies. 6 p.m., Webster Hall, 125 E 11th Street, East Village, (212) 353-1600; $17. (Sinagra)

YASMIN LEVY (Tomorrow) This Israeli singer draws on the Sephardic musical traditions of 15th-century Andalusia, Morocco and Turkey. She'll be accompanied by musicians on oud, qanun (zither), ney (reed flute) and percussion. 8:30 p.m., Zankel Hall at Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800; $30 to $42. (Sinagra)

THE LOSERS LOUNGE TRIBUTE TO ROXY MUSIC AND BRIAN ENO (Tonight and tomorrow night) The long-running ad-hoc homage rock troupe reprises its tribute to the glam-rock (and other sonic pursuits) of Brian Eno and Bryan Ferry, with the help of a rotating stable of vocalists. 7 and 9, Joe's Pub, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 539-8778 or (212) 239-6200; $25. (Sinagra)

MENDOZA LINE (Tonight) The local band Mendoza Line writes lilting songs with cutting lyrics about betrayal, jealousy and disappointment. Its best choruses turn on phrases like ''We're all in this alone.'' The band plays here with Meredith Bragg & The Terminals, who favor distractedly emotive pop reminiscent of the Shins. 10:30, Knitting Factory Tap Bar, 74 Leonard Street, TriBeCa, (212) 219-3006; $10. (Sinagra)

* NELLIE McKAY (Monday and Tuesday) A couple of years ago, this young cabaret-pop wiseacre had critics grinning at her perky piano bar confessionals and cutesy Eminem-style rap screeds. She's a commanding talent, if often overbearing, and she's got new songs that should keep her marketing people confused. Monday at 7 p.m., Makor, Steinhardt Building, 35 West 67th Street, Manhattan, (212) 601-1000; $18 in advance, $20 at the door. Tuesday at 6 p.m., Mercury Lounge, 217 East Houston Street, at Ludlow Street, Lower East Side, (212) 260-4700; $18 in advance, $20 at the door (sold out). (Sinagra)

BOB MOULD (Tomorrow) The barky baritone who provided the punk dissonance in Husker Du and went on to alt pop success with the muscularly melodic Sugar has spent the last decade experimenting with more intimate forms of expression. 9 p.m., Northsix, 66 North Sixth Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 599-5103; $18 in advance, $20 at the door. (Sinagra)

MYSTIC VOICE OF CROATIA (Tonight) Croatia's Dalmatian coast is home to the polyphonic vocal tradition known as klapa, an all-male style influenced by Italian harmonics. The group Klapa Sinj performs a cappella and with accompanists. 8, Society for Ethical Culture, 2 West 64th Street, Manhattan, (212) 545-7536; $25. (Sinagra)

LEONA NAESS (Thursday) This English-born singer-songwriter has a voice that can slide from sharp to smoky during songs parsing both love's loll and its sting. She has cast about for a reliable style, opting most recently for an elemental approach. 9 p.m., The Living Room, 154 Ludlow Street, Lower East Side, (212) 533-7235; $10. (Sinagra)

BRAD PAISLEY (Wednesday) Taking another lap through town after the recent Country Music Awards, this regular-guy superstar singer-guitarist brings his well-modulated lovin', drinkin' and fishin' songs back to the big city. Sara Evans opens. 7:30 p.m., Nokia Theater, 1515 Broadway, at 44th Street, ticketmaster.com or (212) 307-7171;$39.50 (sold out). (Sinagra)

PRETTY GIRLS MAKE GRAVES, THE DOUBLE (Monday and Tuesday) The Seattle group Pretty Girls Make Graves recalls that mid-90's moment when punk holler met modern rock sheen, and lots of bands with girl singers got airtime. The Double uses all the tools at its lo-fi disposal in service of arty pop undercut with burbles, dark surges and twinges. Tangiers opens. Monday at 8 p.m., Knitting Factory, 74 Leonard Street, TriBeCa, (212) 219-3006; $12. Tuesday at 9 p.m., Warsaw, 261 Driggs Avenue, Greenpoint, Brooklyn, (718) 387-0505; $13. (Sinagra)

ROGUE WAVE (Tonight) Yet another meditative band to be rolled in with the Shins, Rogue Wave plays that kind of wishing-well rock that, when done right, washes over you while adding gravitas to your flakiest concerns. Mazarin and Shelby open. 8:30, Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111; $15. (Sinagra)

JENNY SCHEINMAN (Tuesday) The violinist and composer Jenny Scheinman has made a name as a sidewoman for the likes of Norah Jones, but has cultivated a fan base with her own energetic improvisational show. 7 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177; $8. (Sinagra)

* SONGS OF THE SPIRIT, FEATURING ODETTA (Tuesday) This festival features performances by the culture-blending vocalist Sussan Deyhim; the trombonist Craig Harris, who recasts ''God's Trombones'' in the style of brass ''shout'' bands; the Klezmatics, playing here with the gospel singer Joshua Nelson; DJ Spooky; the Harlem-born poet Sekou Sundiata; the multiphonic Tibetan monks of the Drepung Loseling Monastery; Meshell Ndegeocello, and the folk icon Odetta. 7:30 p.m., The Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine, 1047 Amsterdam Avenue, at 112th Street, Morningside Heights; $16, $30 and $45 (reserved seats); www.ticketweb.com, (866) 468-7619 or (212) 545-7536 (Sinagra)

SWAYZAK (Wednesday) The duo of James and Broon have incorporated into their chilly version of house music some flecks of pop, while still excelling at the moody stuff. 11 p.m., Canal Room, 285 West Broadway, at Canal Street, Chinatown, (212) 941-8100; $15. (Sinagra)

TOSCA (Wednesday) Richard Dorfmeister, of the late 90's electronic music duo Kruder & Dorfmeister, here teams up with the pianist and composer Rupert Huber for a still-mellow, but funk-informed pastiche , sometimes involving vocalists. 8 p.m., Irving Plaza,17 Irving Place, at 15th Street, Manhattan, (212) 777-1224; $30 in advance, $35 at the door. (Sinagra)

YOUNG JEEZY AND T. I. (Tonight) Two of the hottest current exponents of Atlanta's hip-hop sound unite for the Georgia Power Tour. ''Snowman'' Young Jeezy raps ''I'm a product of my environment/ so I move products of my environment'' with a pushy swagger that distinguishes his brand of Southern style from Houston's slow-mo. He joins here with T. I., whose ''Bring Em Out,'' turned a chorus-line piano vamp into a beatdown threat. 8, Nassau Coliseum, 1255 Hempstead Turnpike, Uniondale, N.Y., (631) 888-9000; $19.75 to $37.50. (Sinagra)

DAN ZANES & FRIENDS (Tomorrow and Sunday) Once he made music for college kids in the indie band the Del Fuegos. Now Dane Zanes makes music for tykes. Tomorrow at 11 a.m. and 2 p.m., Sunday at 2 p.m. and 4:30 p.m., Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street, (212) 864-5400,; $20 adults, $12 children. (Sinagra)

Cabaret

Full reviews of recent cabaret shows: nytimes.com/music.

BARBARA CARROLL (Sunday) Even when swinging out, this Lady of a Thousand Songs remains an impressionist with special affinities for Thelonious Monk and bossa nova. 2 p.m., Oak Room, Algonquin Hotel, 59 West 44th Street, Manhattan, (212) 419-9331; $55, including brunch at noon. (Stephen Holden)

* ANDREA MARCOVICCI (Tonight, tomorrow night and Tuesday through Thursday nights) In her spellbinding retrospective ''I'll Be Seeing You Love Songs of World War II,'' Ms. Marcovicci balances nostalgia for songs associated with ''the good war'' with acknowledgment of the real pain and sacrifice that inspired so many of them, providing a dusting of reality. 9 and 11:30, Oak Room, Algonquin Hotel, 59 West 44th Street, Manhattan, (212) 419-9331; $65 cover, $60 on Tuesday through Thursday, with a $50 prix fixe dinner at the early shows and a $20 minimum at the late shows. (Holden)

ANNIE ROSS (Wednesday) Cool, funny, swinging and indestructible, this 75-year-old singer and sometime actress exemplifies old-time hip in its most generous incarnation. 9:15 p.m., Danny's Skylight Room, 346 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 265-8133; $25, with a $12 minimum. (Holden)

'SINGING ASTAIRE' (Tomorrow and Sunday) This smart, airy revue, which pays tribute to Fred Astaire, has returned, featuring Eric Comstock, Hilary Kole and Christopher Gines. 5:30 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080; $30, with a $10 minimum. (Holden)

STEVE TYRELL (Tonight, tomorrow night, and Tuesday through Thursday nights) Mr. Tyrell has one of those where-have-I-heard-it-before growls that sounds great on a movie soundtrack but loses its charm in a club, as he rolls standards off the assembly line as if they were all the same song. 8:45, with additional shows at 10:45 tonight, tomorrow night and Thursday night, Cafe Carlyle, Carlyle Hotel, 35 East 76th Street, Manhattan, (212) 744-1600; $100 tonight and tomorrow; $90 Tuesday through Thursday. (Holden)

Jazz

Full reviews of recent jazz concerts: nytimes.com/music.

OMER AVITAL GROUP (Tonight and tomorrow) The bassist Omer Avital, a staple of the West Village club Smalls during its premillennial first run, recently returned after a spell in his native Israel; performing at a sister site, Fat Cat, he employs such kindred spirits as the tenor saxophonist Joel Frahm and the drummer Marlon Browden. 10:30 p.m. and 12:30 a.m., Fat Cat, 75 Christopher Street, at Seventh Avenue, West Village, (212) 675-7369; cover, $15. (Nate Chinen)

CHRIS BOTTI (Tuesday through Dec. 11) The smooth-jazz circuit has a small handful of consistently winsome stylists; among them is Mr. Botti, a trumpeter whose understated melodic instinct has landed him steady work with Paul Simon and Sting, as well as a durable solo career. 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, West Village, (212) 475-8592; cover, $45 at tables, $30 at the bar, with a $5 minimum. (Chinen)

JAMES CARTER, CYRUS CHESTNUT, REGINALD VEAL, ALI JACKSON (Through Sunday) Pavement, the 1990's indie-rock band, gets a jazz makeover from the saxophonist James Carter, the pianist Cyrus Chestnut, the bassist Reginald Veal and the drummer Ali Jackson; the band comes touting ''Gold Sounds'' (Brown Brothers), a puckish new album. 8 and 10 p.m., with an 11:30 set tonight and tomorrow night, Iridium, 1650 Broadway, at 51st Street, (212) 582-2121; cover, $30, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

BILL CHARLAP AND BILL MAYS (Tonight and tomorrow night) This pair of fine pianists have more than a first name in common; harmonic savvy and an articulate sense of swing are also traits they share. 9 and 11, Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080; cover, $30, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

ANDREW CYRILLE'S HAITIAN FASCINATION (Wednesday) For this jazz exploration of the music of Haiti, the prominent free-jazz drummer Andrew Cyrille enlists some well-qualified talent: the guitarist Alix Pascal, the bassist Lisle Atkinson and the percussionist Frisner Augustin. 8 and 10 p.m., Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, near Delancey Street, Lower East Side, (212) 358-7501; cover, $12, plus a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)

JOHN ELLIS GROUP (Tonight and tomorrow night) The saxophonist and bass clarinetist John Ellis favors a catchy, loose-limbed kind of funk; his band includes Aaron Goldberg on piano, Mike Moreno on guitar, Roland Guerin on bass and Jason Marsalis on drums. 9 and 10:30, Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village, (212) 242-1063; cover, $15. (Chinen)

SONNY FORTUNE AND RASHIED ALI (Thursday) Mr. Fortune, a tenor and soprano saxophonist, and Mr. Ali, a drummer, share a connection to the explosive late-period music of John Coltrane; this duo performance should bear at least a small resemblance to ''Interstellar Space'' (Impulse!), the 1967 album on which Mr. Coltrane and Mr. Ali went head-to-head. 8 and 10 p.m., Sweet Rhythm, 88 Seventh Avenue South, at Bleecker Street, West Village, (212) 255-3626; cover, $15, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

DONAL FOX'S MONK AND BACH PROJECT (Tuesday through Dec. 11) Mr. Fox, a Boston-bred pianist well versed in both jazz and classical music, pays tribute to a couple of musical heroes, with considerable help from the bassist George Mraz and the drummer Lewis Nash. 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., with an 11:30 set Friday and Saturday, Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, 60th Street and Broadway, Jazz at Lincoln Center, (212) 258-9595; cover: $30, with a minimum of $10 at tables, $5 at the bar. (Chinen)

* JIM HALL TRIO (Through Sunday) Mr. Hall's economical style and deep harmonic command have made him a subtly powerful hero of jazz guitar; he leads a trio with the bassist Steve LaSpina and the drummer Terry Clarke. 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212) 255-4037; cover, $20 to $25, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

CHRIS LIGHTCAP GROUP (Tomorrow) This sleek ensemble employs compositional forms as a springboard for open exploration; Mr. Lightcap, a bassist, has powerfully creative partners in the tenor saxophonists Mark Turner and Tony Malaby, the pianist Jacob Sacks and the drummer Gerald Cleaver. 9 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village, (212) 989-9319; cover, $10, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)

MAKIGAMI KOICHI FESTIVAL (Sunday through Dec. 11) Mr. Koichi, a texture-minded vocalist on the experimental scene, performs every night for almost two weeks -- sometimes self-accompanied (on laptop or jaw harp) and sometimes joined by fellow adventurers like the guitarist Marc Ribot. 8 and 10 p.m., the Stone, Avenue C and Second Street, East Village, www.thestonenyc.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)

WAYNE KRANTZ TRIO (Thursday) With roots in both jazz and rock, Mr. Krantz manages a genre splice leaner and more rugged than most fusions; he is aided here by Tim Lefebvre, his electric bassist of choice, and Anton Fig, longtime drummer with the CBS Orchestra on ''Late Show With David Letterman.'' 10 p.m., 55 Bar, 55 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 929-9883; cover, $15, includes two drinks. (Chinen)

LEE KONITZ AND GEORGE COLLIGAN (Wednesday) Mr. Konitz, the perpetually modern alto saxophonist, has never shied away from unadorned duo settings; here he has a dialogue with George Colligan, a rhythmically advanced pianist. 6:30 and 9 p.m., Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village, (212) 242-1063; cover, $15. (Chinen)

JOE LOVANO'S EXPANDED ENSEMBLE OF 11 (Tuesday through Dec. 11) Mr. Lovano, a tenor saxophonist with deep experience in large ensembles, has led an excellent bop-flavored nonet intermittently for a number of years; next week he brings that group to its natural home, augmented by a pair of extra players. 9 and 11 p.m., Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212) 255-4037; cover, $20 to $25, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

MASTERS OF GROOVE (Tonight and tomorrow night) The Hammond B-3 organist Reuben Wilson, the guitarist Grant Green Jr. and the drummer Bernard Purdie bring considerable pedigree to this gritty soul-jazz enterprise. 8 and 10, Sweet Rhythm, 88 Seventh Avenue South, at Bleecker Street, West Village, (212) 255-3626; cover, $20, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

RUDRESH MAHANTHAPPA QUARTET (Tonight) Mr. Mahanthappa is an alto saxophonist with quick reflexes and a razor-sharp tone; his ensemble, which features the pianist Vijay Iyer, borrows some rhythmic ideas from South Indian classical music but never abandons jazz-based group interplay. 7, Jamaica Center for Arts and Learning, 161-04 Jamaica Avenue, Queens, (718) 658-7400; $10 for adults, $7 for 65+ and $5 for students with ID. (Chinen)

DAVID (FATHEAD) NEWMAN (Through Sunday) Mr. Newman's tenor saxophone often provided a bluesy counterpoint to the vocals of Ray Charles; in this small-group tribute, vocal duties fall to the singer Cynthia Scott. 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., with an 11:30 set tonight and tomorrow, Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, 60th Street and Broadway, Jazz at Lincoln Center, (212) 258-9595; cover, $30, with a minimum of $10 at tables, $5 at the bar. (Chinen)

MILES OKAZAKI GROUP (Wednesday) Mr. Okazaki, a guitarist most often heard in the employ of the singer Jane Monheit, leads his own group here, exploring a smart and often rhythmically adventurous sort of contemporary jazz. 7 p.m., TriBeCa Performing Arts Center, 199 Chambers Street, (212) 220-1460; $10 general admission. (Chinen)

EIVIND OPSVIK'S OVERSEAS (Sunday) On his recent album, ''Overseas II'' (Fresh Sound New Talent), the Norwegian bassist Eivind Opsvik plumbs a strikingly modern (and yes, vaguely Nordic) brand of fusion; his partners here are the tenor saxophonist Tony Malaby, the keyboardist Jacob Sacks and the drummer Kenny Wollesen. 9:30 p.m., 55 Bar, 55 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 929-9883; cover, $8. (Chinen)

JEREMY PELT QUARTET (Tonight and tomorrow) The clarion tone and preternatural poise of Mr. Pelt's trumpet playing have earmarked him as a rising star in the jazz mainstream, as has ''Identity,'' his second album on the MaxJazz label. 9 and 11 p.m., and 12:30 a.m., Smoke, 2751 Broadway, at 106th Street, (212) 864-6662; cover, $25. (Chinen)

* JOHN PIZZARELLI QUARTET (Tuesday through Dec. 11) Mr. Pizzarelli maintains the same breezy and likable persona as a guitarist and as a singer; for this engagement, he'll be joined not only by his younger brother, Martin, on bass, but also by his father, the legendary Bucky Pizzarelli, on guitar. 9 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080; cover, $40, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

ARTURO SANDOVAL (Through Sunday) Mr. Sandoval is a trumpeter best known for stratospheric bravado, although he occasionally reaches for a subtler aesthetic; his Latin-jazz sextet features Ed Calle on saxophone. 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, West Village, (212) 475-8592; cover, $30 at tables, $20 at the bar, with a $5 minimum. (Chinen)

JENNY SCHEINMAN TRIO (Tuesday) Ms. Scheinman is that rare jazz violinist who embraces her instrument's folksier side without making concessions to genre; her fine working trio features the bassist Todd Sickafoose and the drummer Mark Ferber. 7 p.m., Barbes, 376 Ninth Street, at Sixth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-9177; cover, $8. (Chinen)

STEVE SMITH AND VITAL INFORMATION (Wednesday through Dec. 11) Mr. Smith, the former drummer for the rock band Journey, has led this energetic fusion outfit for more than 20 years; as on the recent album, ''Come on In'' (Tone Center), the band's roster includes Tom Coster on keyboards, Baron Brown on bass and Frank Gambale on guitar. 8 and 10 p.m., with an 11:30 set Friday and Saturday, Iridium, 1650 Broadway at 51st Street, (212) 582-2121; cover, $27.50 to $32.50, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

* TANGO MEETS JAZZ FESTIVAL (Through Sunday) The overlap between American jazz and Argentinean tango provides a premise for this engagement featuring the pianist Pablo Ziegler, a protege of the peerless tango composer Astor Piazzolla; Mr. Ziegler's evocative quartet (piano, bandoneon, bass and guitar) will be joined by the saxophone improvisations of Harry Allen (tonight) and Kenny Garrett (tomorrow and Sunday). 8 and 10 p.m., with an 11:45 set tonight and tomorrow, Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232; cover, $25 to $30. (Chinen)

JOHN ZORN IMPROV (Tonight and tomorrow night) Noise is the currency at a John Zorn improv party, which can feature any number of open-minded members of the downtown scene; each set will benefit the Stone, an alternative performance space that Mr. Zorn opened this year. 8 and 10, the Stone, Avenue C and Second Street, East Village, www.thestonenyc.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)

Classical

Full reviews of recent music performances: nytimes.com/music.

Opera
'LA BOHEME' (Tomorrow and Tuesday) The Metropolitan Opera keeps shuffling the cast to keep this Puccini favorite going. This week, the dependable Hei-Kyung Hong returns as Mimi, along with the sturdy tenor Roberto Aronica as Rodolfo. Alexandra Deshorties is Musetta; Vladimir Chernov is Marcello. Philippe Auguin conducts. 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000; $26 to $320. (Jeremy Eichler)

'CARMEN' (Tomorrow and Wednesday) ''Carmen'' will sell tickets, no matter who is in it. Nancy Fabiola Herrera, who got to open the run at the Metropolitan Opera this season, is singing it tomorrow, with the young soprano Ana Maria Martinez, in her debut season, as Micaela; on Wednesday, Denyce Graves resumes one of her signature roles opposite the Micaela of Ruth Ann Swenson. Don Jose on both nights is the tenor Marcello Giordani, who should excel in this role; Erwin Schrott is Escamillo; and Philippe Jordan remains the crisp and able conductor. Tomorrow at 1:30 p.m., Wednesday at 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000; remaining tickets, $120 to $320 tomorrow, $26 to $320 on Wednesday. (Anne Midgette)

'JEFFERSON & POE: AN OPERA' (Tonight and tomorrow night) What if Edgar Allan Poe had fallen in love with Thomas Jefferson's slave daughter? There are a lot of possible what-if's in the world, but this one has become the stuff of an opera billed as a romantic comedy, with music by Damon Ferrante and the poet and biographer Daniel Mark Epstein, which opened in Baltimore in November and now arrives in New York for a two-day run. 8, Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street, (212) 864-5400; $26; $16 for students and 65+. (Midgette)

Classical Music

JOHN ADAMS (Tomorrow) All-Adams programs are plentiful these days, but this is durable music, and Alan Pierson's ensemble, Alarm Will Sound, is likely to approach it with a fresh view. The program for this Composer Portrait includes the Chamber Symphony, ''Gnarly Buttons,'' ''Short Ride in a Fast Machine'' and ''Scratchband,'' and excerpts from ''I Was Looking at the Ceiling and Then I Saw the Sky.'' 8 p.m., Miller Theater at Columbia University, Broadway at 116th Street, Morningside Heights, (212) 854-7799; $20. (Allan Kozinn)

EMANUEL AX (Sunday) Mr. Ax has Liszt and Chopin's ubiquitous Four Ballades on his Carnegie Hall program, but there is music by Chen Yi and Kaija Saariaho to give more adventurous listeners a nudge. 2 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800; $26 to $90. (Bernard Holland)

BARGEMUSIC (Tonight through Sunday and Thursday) Three duos are performing at this floating concert hall this week, and offering a broad range of music. Tonight, Martti Rousi, a cellist, and Laura Mikkola, a pianist, play Russian and Finnish music, works by Rachmaninoff, Sibelius, Esa-Pekka Salonen and Einojuhani Rautavaara. Dmitry Kouzov, cellist, and Dmitry Shteinberg, pianist, take over tomorrow and Sunday, when they perform Beethoven's five cello sonatas. And on Thursday, Daniel Shindarov, a violinist, and Sergey Silvansky, a pianist, play works of Beethoven, Spohr, Wieniawski, Gliere and Igor Frolov. Tonight, tomorrow night and Thursday night at 7:30; Sunday at 4 p.m.; Bargemusic, Fulton Ferry Landing next to the Brooklyn Bridge, Brooklyn, (718) 624-2083; $35; $25 for students; $30 for 65+ (Thursday only). (Kozinn)

CHAMBER MUSIC SOCIETY OF LINCOLN CENTER (Sunday and Tuesday) Melinda Wagner's ''Four Settings'' (poetry by Denise Levertov, Emily Dickinson and Robert Desnos) receives its New York premiere, along with works by Durufle and Mozart. Sunday at 5 p.m., Tuesday at 7:30 p.m., Alice Tully Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 875-5788; $28 to $49; student rush, $10. (Eichler)

CONTINUUM (Tuesday) Is a 40-year-old group still ''new?'' Well, yes, in a field that still thinks of music a century old as contemporary. Continuum has kept up its commitment to recent music for four decades and is celebrating the fact this week with a concert of music written for the ensemble by composers ranging from Arvo Part and Milton Babbit to Paul Chihara, who wrote the most recent piece on the program. 8 p.m., Merkin Concert Hall, 129 West 67th Street, Manhattan, (212) 501-3330; free (tickets can be reserved in advance). (Midgette)

COUNTER)INDUCTION (Tuesday) In a program called ''Talk Dirty To Me,'' this new-music band explores the interaction of musical and verbal language. One work that looks particularly promising, Kyle Bartlett's ''Discipline,'' looks at how translations of translations of translations can yield an incomprehensible text. Included as well are Miroslav Pudlak's Sextet, Vinko Globakar's ''Dos a Dos'' and Douglas Boyce's ''Palimpsest: A Composition of Maps.'' 8 p.m., Rose Rehearsal Studio, the Rose Building, 165 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500; suggested donation, $12. (Kozinn)

LORENZO DA PONTE: A BRIDGE FROM ITALY TO NEW YORK (Wednesday) This series is a loosely applied tribute to Da Ponte's many years in New York, here with James Schaffner, tenor. 8 p.m., Casa Italiana, Columbia University, Broadway at 116th Street, Morningside Heights, (212) 854-1623 ; $12; students and 65+, $5. (Holland)

DRYDEN STRING QUARTET (Sunday) This young impassioned quartet, led by the concertmaster of the National Symphony, performs works by Haydn, Janacek and Dvorak. 2 p.m., Tishman Auditorium, The New School, 66 West 12th Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 243-9937; $15; students, $5. (Eichler)

RICHARD GOODE (Tonight) The eminent American pianist Richard Goode continues his ''Perspectives'' series at Carnegie Hall with a program of five Beethoven sonatas. Mr. Goode's Nonesuch recordings of the sonatas are prized by music-lovers. With his superb technique, stylistic understanding, freshness and vitality, Mr. Goode is an ideal Beethoven interpreter. His program ranges from the early Sonata No. 6 in F, one of Beethoven's most humorous works, to the final Sonata No. 32 in C minor, a visionary, volatile and, finally, serenely mystical work. 8, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800; $25 to $87. (Anthony Tommasini)

GUARNERI STRING QUARTET (tomorrow) The Guarneri soldiers through another season as the de facto quartet in residence at the Metropolitan Museum. Each of the group's six concerts features a Mozart quartet, along with other works. This time around, it's Mozart's Horn Quintet (with Julie Landsman joining), as well as Kodaly's Quartet No. 2 and Sibelius's quartet ''Voces Intimae.'' 8 p.m., Grace Rainey Rogers Auditorium, Metropolitan Museum of Art, (212) 570-3949; $50. (Eichler)

JUPITER SYMPHONY CHAMBER PLAYERS (Monday) The centerpiece of this inventive ensemble's program is Erwin Stein's chamber version of the Mahler Fourth Symphony -- an arrangement that works better than you might think. Christine Goerke is the soprano soloist, and will also be heard in a group of Spohr songs and an aria from Mozart's ''Clemenza di Tito.'' 2 and 7:30 p.m., Good Shepherd Presbyterian Church, 152 West 66th Street, Manhattan, (212) 799-1259; $10 to $25. (Kozinn)

'KEYS TO THE FUTURE' (Tuesday and Thursday) A mini-festival of new piano music performed on Tuesday by Lisa Moore, and on Thursday by Molly Morkowski, Tatjana Rankovich and Joseph Rubenstein. Works by John Halle, Frederic Rzewski, Paul Lansky, Gyorgy Ligeti, Louis Andriessen, David Lang and others. 8 p.m., Greenwich House-Music School, 46 Barrow Street, West Village, (212) 242-4770; $15; students and 65+, $10. (Eichler)

JOEL KROSNICK AND GILBERT KALISH (Tonight) The cellist Joel Krosnick and the pianist Gilbert Kalish have long been hailed for their duo performances, especially in contemporary music. The list of works written for, and given premieres by, these two adventurous artists is varied and sizeable. They have also played much of the standard repertory, always compellingly. Tonight they present the second of two programs at the Juilliard School devoted to three cello sonatas by Beethoven, including the Sonatas No. 4 and 5, mercurial late works published together as Op. 102. 8, Paul Hall, Juilliard School, 60 Lincoln Center Plaza, (212) 769-7406; free, though tickets are required. (Tommasini)

ISABEL LEONARD AND TAMARA SANIKIDZE (Sunday) The Marilyn Horne Foundation, which encourages young singers to champion the song repertory, presents a valuable recital series for award recipients in New York, called On Wings of Song. On Sunday afternoon the Juilliard-trained mezzo-soprano Isabel Leonard, a Manhattan native, performs a program of songs by Beethoven, Faure, Falla, Jerome Kern and others, with the pianist Tamara Sanikidze. In the holiday spirit, an open reception, complete with a sing-along of holiday carols, will follow the recital. 3 p.m., St. Bartholomew's Church, Park Avenue at 51st Street, (212) 378-0248; $20; 65+, $15; free for students. (Tommasini)

NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC (Tomorrow) With Ivan Fischer on the podium, the superb violinist Leonidas Kavakos joins the orchestra to play Henri Dutilleux's ''Arbre des Songes,'' a concerto written for Isaac Stern in 1985. Mr. Fischer also leads Bartok's Romanian Folk Dances and Rachmaninoff's Symphony No. 2. 8 p.m., Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500; $28 to $94. (Kozinn)

ORPHEUS CHAMBER ORCHESTRA and BACH CHOIR OF NEW YORK (Tomorrow) What better complement to a conductorless orchestra than a conductorless chorus? The Bach Choir of New York, new this season, was founded partly as a companion to Orpheus, which is putting a new focus on Bach this year; together, the two groups offer the ''Magnificat'' this weekend, while Orpheus also plays Respighi's ''Trittico Botticelliano'' and Hindemith's Christmas-themed ''Tuttifantchen'' Suite. 8 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800; $30 to $88. (Midgette)

STEVEN OSBORNE (Thursday) This young Scottish-born pianist makes his Carnegie Hall debut with a recital that offers a cross-section of some of his strengths: a French focus with Debussy preludes and Poulenc; a nod to 20th-century Britain, with Michael Tippett's second piano sonata; and Beethoven's ''Waldstein'' Sonata, for good measure. 7:30 p.m., Zankel Hall at Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800; $35 and $40. (Midgette)

PEPE ROMERO (Tomorrow) One of the world's finest classical guitarists, Mr. Romero has assembled a program of Spanish favorites, including works by Albeniz, Turina, Torroba, Falla, Tarrega and Castellon Campos, as well as a work of his own, ''Atardecer en Grana,'' and a selection of dances and a fantasia by his father, Celedonio Romero. 7 p.m., 92nd Street Y, 1395 Lexington Avenue, (212) 415-5500; $40. (Kozinn)

GEORGE PERLE (Monday) The venerable George Perle is the subject of Zankel Hall's latest ''Making Music'' series, with a Perle program that includes a New York premiere. 7:30 p.m., Zankel Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800; $20. (Holland)

PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA (Tuesday) The Philadelphia and its new music director, Christoph Eschenbach, make another of their periodic visits to Carnegie Hall and feature a New York premiere by the composer Jennifer Higdon, as well as Beethoven. 8 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800; $25 to $99. (Holland)

ST. LAWRENCE STRING QUARTET (Monday) As part of a series of chamber concerts inaugurating the new Baryshnikov Arts Center, this high-energy ensemble plays works by Mozart and Ravel. 7 p.m., Baryshnikov Arts Center, 450 West 37th Street, Manhattan, (212) 218-7540; free, but reservations are required. (Kozinn)

Dance

Full reviews of recent performances: nytimes.com/dance.

ABAKUA AFRO-LATIN DANCE THEATER SHOWCASE (Tonight and tomorrow) Frankie Martinez, the inimitable salsa and mambo star dancer, has choreographed a show including ''After Hour Funk'' and ''Raices,'' which mix Latin and modern dance. Tonight at 9; tomorrow at 7 and 9 p.m. The 14th Street Y, 344 East 14th Street, East Village, (212) 645-2441 or www.14streety.org; $25.(Jennifer Dunning)

* ALVIN AILEY AMERICAN DANCE THEATER (Tonight through Sunday, and Tuesday through Thursday) In the shifting repertory of the company's annual City Center season (through Jan. 1), there is the usual mix of staples and revivals and premieres. The most popular offerings of the week will fall on Tuesday and Thursday nights, with two all-Ailey programs. Both include ''Hidden Rites'' and his signature, ''Revelations,'' but Tuesday has ''Memoria,'' and Thursday offers ''Night Creatures'' and ''Cry.'' Tonight, tomorrow night and Wednesday and Thursday nights at 8; tomorrow at 2 p.m.; Sunday at 3 and 7:30 p.m.; and Tuesday at 7 p.m. City Center, 131 West 55th Street, Manhattan, (212) 581-1212 or www.alvinailey.org or www.nycitycenter.org; $25 to $75. (John Rockwell)

ARMITAGE GONE! DANCE (Tonight through Sunday, and Wednesday and Thursday) Back in New York City after a European career, Karole Armitage presents her new ''In this dream that dogs me,'' which draws from sources as various as calligraphy and the South Central Los Angeles street dance known as krumping. (Through Dec. 18.) Tonight, Wednesday and Thursday at 8; tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sunday at 2 p.m.; the Duke, 229 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 239-6200 or www.telecharge.com; $35. (Dunning)

'AVANT/APRES LE DELUGE' (Tonight through Sunday) Sarah Edgar of the New York Baroque Dance company is curator for an evening she describes as 18th-century and postmodern Baroque dances, by eight choreographers. 8 p.m., Center for Remembering and Sharing, 123 Fourth Avenue, between 12th and 13th Streets, East Village, (212) 352-3101; $12.(Dunning)

BAKTRUPPEN (Tomorrow and Sunday) Performance Space 122's lively-looking Norway in New York festival offers this veteran dance company in a piece called ''Un-Do-Three.'' It consists, according to a news release, of a ''clever, humorous movement performance'' by seven ''middle-aged men in tights.'' 8 p.m., P.S. 122, 150 First Avenue, at Ninth Street., East Village, (212) 477-5288 or www.ps122.org; free. (Rockwell)

BALLET HISPANICO (Tonight through Sunday, and Tuesday through Thursday) This 35th-anniversary season, which runs through Dec. 11, includes an all-Catalan program of new and recent works by Maria Rovira and Ramon Oller (tonight, tomorrow afternoon and Wednesday); Alexandre Magno's new ''Orfeu in the Carnaval of Souls'' (tomorrow night, both performances Sunday and on Thursday); and a tribute to Pedro Ruiz, a 20-year dancer with the company (Tuesday). Tonight and Tuesday through Thursday at 8, tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m., Sunday at 2 and 7:30 p.m., Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 242-0800 or www.joyce.org; $40. (Dunning)

* BALLET MESTIZO (Tonight through Sunday) The company performs Colombian folk dance and music. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8, Sunday at 4 p.m. (weekends through Dec. 11), Thalia Spanish Theater, 41-17 Greenpoint Avenue, Sunnyside, Queens, (718) 729-3880 or www.thaliatheatre.org; $25 (tonight); $30 (other nights); students and 65+, $27. (Dunning)

MONICA BILL BARNES (Thursday) Ms. Barnes likes to burrow into pop culture in her sometimes comical dances. Her new ''Hollywood Endings'' is performed, she says, by small dancers with large personas. (Through Dec. 17.) 8 p.m., Dixon Place, 258 Bowery, between Houston and Prince Streets, SoHo, (212) 219-0736, ext. 110 or www.dixonplace.org; $10 to $15 (T.D.F. accepted Thursdays). (Dunning)

MIGUEL GUTIERREZ AND THE POWERFUL PEOPLE (Tonight and tomorrow night) This irrepressible, inquisitive modern-dance performer, choreographer and program curator will present two new pieces inspired by performers' psyches and how they got that way. 7:30, Dance Theater Workshop, 219 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 924-0077 or www.dtworg; $20; $12 for artists and students.(Dunning)

ANIRUDDHA KNIGHT (Tonight) The grandson of T. Balasaraswati, Mr. Knight is a ninth-generation performer from one of India's dynastic dance and music families. His mother taught him how to perform one of south India's best known dance forms, bharata natyam, which he showcases tonight in ''Bharata Natyam -- Dance and Music in the Family Style of T. Balasaraswati.'' 8, the Asia Society and Museum, 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street, (212) 288-6400 or www.asiasociety.org; $15; $10 for members and students with ID. (Erika Kinetz)

MOVEMENT RESEARCH IMPROV FESTIVAL (Tonight through Sunday night) Performances, workshops, studio visits and discussions will explore this tool in postmodernist choreography, with performers chosen by curators who include DD Dorvillier and koosil-ja hwang. 8:30, Danspace Project, St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th Street, East Village, (212) 674-8194 or www.danspaceproject.org; $15. (Dunning)

JODY OBERFELDER (Wednesday and Thursday) Ms. Oberfelder's high-energy, sly new ''LineAge'' looks at all kinds of lines, including wrinkles. (Through Dec. 11.) 7:30 p.m., Dixon Place at the Clark Studio, Rose Building, 65th Street and Broadway, Lincoln Center, (212) 219-0736, Ext. 111, or www.dixonplace.org; $150 (opening-night gala performance and reception); $20; $12 for students and 65+. (Dunning)

* 'THE NUTCRACKER' (Tonight through Thursday) The New York City Ballet in George Balanchine's perennial holiday favorite (through Dec. 30). The ever-shifting casts will offer Jennie Somogyi as the Sugar Plum Fairy late Sunday afternoon, in her first major role since her return in June from a serious injury. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8; tomorrow at 2 p.m.; Sunday at 1 and 5 p.m.; Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday at 6 p.m.; New York State Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 870-5570 or www.nycballet.com; $20 to $99. (Rockwell)

PASCAL RAMBERT (Wednesday through Dec. 10) The French choreographer presents her version of Dante's Paradise in ''PARADIS (unfolding time),'' performed by 11 actors who gradually undress. 7:30 p.m., Dance Theater Workshop, 219 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 924-0077 or www.dtw.org; $12 to $20. (Kinetz)

SASHA SOREFF DANCE THEATER (Tonight through Sunday) More than 25 dancers and actors explore the notions of damage and free movement, the latter in sneakers. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8, Sunday at 7 p.m., Citigroup Theater, Ailey Studios, 405 West 55th Street, Clinton, (212) 501-2425 or www.sashasoreffdance.com; $20; $15 for students and those with fixed incomes. (Dunning)

TRIP DANCE THEATER (Tonight and tomorrow night) This Los Angeles-based group presents ''Breath & Bone,'' an evening of dances that blend African and Indonesian dance, accompanied by live singers and video. 8, Joyce SoHo, 155 Mercer Street, between Houston and Prince Streets, (212) 431-9233 or www.joyce.org/soho.html; $20. (Kinetz)

URBAN BALLET THEATER (Tonight and tomorrow night) Daniel Catanach's ''Nutcracker in the Lower'' is inspired by the landscapes and denizens of the Lower East Side, including housing projects and hip-hop rats and toy soldiers. Tonight at 7, tomorrow at 3 p.m., Abrons Arts Center, Henry Street Settlement, 466 Grand Street, Lower East Side; (212) 352-3101 or www.henrystreet.org/abronsartscenter; $15; $10 for students with ID and 65+. (Dunning)

VALENTINA KOZLOVA'S DANCE CONSERVATORY COMPANY (Tonight and tomorrow night) The choreographer Margo Sappington has staged the first act of this novelty ''Nutcracker'' and will appear as ''Aunt Drosselmeier,'' with a second act staged by Ms. Kozlova after Petipa and Vainonen. 8, Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street, (212) 864-5400; $25; student rush, $15. (Dunning)

* SASHA WALTZ (Through Dec. 10) The most noted of the German choreographers of the generation after Pina Bausch, Ms. Waltz returns to the Brooklyn Academy of Music from her home base in Berlin with ''Impromptus,'' set to Schubert and replete with what the Next Wave Festival brochure calls ''strong formal elements.'' Tuesday, and Thursday through Dec. 10 at 7:30 p.m., Howard Gilman Opera House, Brooklyn Academy of Music, 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 636-4100 or www.bam.org; $20 to $55. (Rockwell)

Art

Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art.

Museums

ASIA SOCIETY: 'VIETNAM: DESTINATION FOR THE NEW MILLENNIUM -- THE ART OF DINH Q. LE,' through Jan. 15. Born in Vietnam, Mr. Le moved to the United States at 11 and received a Master of Fine Arts degree from the School of Visual Arts in New York. This small exhibition presents high-concept photographic and sculptural works about the Vietnam War and its effects, as well as a pair of sculptures representing communications satellites that satirize Vietnam's plans to enter the Space Age. 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street, (212) 288-6400.(Ken Johnson)

BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'EDWARD BURTYNSKY: MANUFACTURED LANDSCAPES,' through Jan. 15. Large, expertly made color images by a Canadian photographer show industrial subjects like marble quarries in India, a tire dump in California and modern development in China. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, Brooklyn, (718) 638-5000. (Johnson)

* THE FRICK COLLECTION: 'MEMLING'S PORTRAITS,' through Dec. 31. Just over 30 portrait paintings by Hans Memling survive from the 15th century. Of those, about 20 are on view at the Frick Collection. That's a whale of a lot of paintings by any major early Northern European artist to be in any one place at one time, and there is little question that this show will figure on any shortlist of outstanding events of the year. 1 East 70th Street, (212) 288-0700. (Holland Cotter)

GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'RUSSIA!,' through Jan. 11. This survey of nine centuries of Russian art ranges from 13th-century religious icons to a smattering of 21st-century works, achieving its astounding effect without resorting to a single egg, or anything else, by Faberge. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3600. (Roberta Smith)

* JAPAN SOCIETY: 'HIROSHI SUGIMOTO: HISTORY OF HISTORY,' through Feb. 19. A personal, whimsical exhibition by this well-known Japanese photographer, who incorporates into his work artifacts that he has collected, particularly from East Asia and Japan. Mr. Sugimoto's reach is long and his range is broad, from fossils to textiles to undersea dioramas to Japanese calligraphy to the Trylon and Perisphere (a minisculpture) that symbolized the 1939 New York World's Fair. 333 East 47th Street, (212) 832-1155. (Grace Glueck)

* METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'FRA ANGELICO,' through Jan. 29. An exhibition as rare as it is sublime brings the divine Angelico down to earth, showing how he had the best of both worlds, using the innovations of the Renaissance to parlay the radiant colors, gilded surfaces and doll-like figures of Gothic art into a final flowering. Fifth Avenue and 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710. (Smith)

* MET: 'THE PERFECT MEDIUM: PHOTOGRAPHY AND THE OCCULT,' through Dec. 31. Hands down, the most hilarious, not to mention the most charming, exhibition the Met has done in years: an assemblage of 19th-century and early-20th-century spirit photographs, seance reportage and other examples of transparent tomfoolery. Like all examples of great humor, it is, at heart, also a sneakily serious affair. (See above.)(Michael Kimmelman)

* MET: 'VINCENT VAN GOGH: THE DRAWINGS,' through Dec. 31. Think again before deciding you've got a case of van Gogh fatigue and skipping this exhibition -- not just because the focus is on drawings, which on the whole are less well-known than the paintings and were so important to the early spread of his reputation, but also because in the flesh, great art, no matter how often it has been dully reproduced or mistaken for a price tag or overrun by crowds, retains its dignity and originality and utter strangeness. Frankly, the whole show, even including the bad drawings, is unforgettable. (See above.) (Kimmelman)

* MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: BEYOND THE VISIBLE: 'THE ART OF ODILON REDON,' through Jan. 23. The timing was off for the big Odilon Redon retrospective in Chicago in 1994. The art world's mind was on identity politics and neo-conceptualism. Fin-de-siecle drawings of moony monsters and lamp-bright flowers existed on some other planet. Now there's another Redon survey, smaller, very beautiful, culminating in his lush, pixilated late paintings. And the timing for it is just right. 11 West 53rd Street, (212) 708-9400. (Cotter)

* MUSEUM OF MODERN ART : 'ELIZABETH MURRAY,' through Jan. 9. Here is the complete range of shape-shifting, dizzily colored pictures that Elizabeth Murray has produced over four decades. The colors are noisy, the harmonies pungent, the scale big and bold. While art-world fashion has drifted here and there, Ms. Murray has stuck to her craft, with all its difficulties and at the occasional cost of failure and neglect. Her show is a meaty, openhearted, eye-popping event. (See above.) (Kimmelman)

* THE MUSEUM FOR AFRICAN ART: 'LASTING FOUNDATIONS: THE ART OF ARCHITECTURE IN AFRICA,' through Jan. 9. Like most architectural shows, this one uses lots of photographs and texts, and more than many, it also incorporates objects: Dogon door locks from Mali; carved Igbo doors from Nigeria; Swahili window frames, rich with Indian and Islamic motifs, from Kenya. An evocative film of the annual replastering of the great Mosque of Djenne, the largest adobe building in the world, is an inspired bonus: a vision of an architectural monument as love object. World Financial Center Courtyard Gallery, 220 Vesey Street, Lower Manhattan, (718) 784-7700. (Cotter)

* NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY: 'THE SPLENDOR OF THE WORD: MEDIEVAL AND RENAISSANCE ILLUMINATED MANUSCRIPTS,' through Feb. 12. Few objects encapsulate their times like the exquisite full-service concentrations of text, image and decoration that are illuminated manuscripts, and few institutions in North America have as many great ones as New York City's favorite library. Fifth Avenue, at 42nd Street, (212) 869-8069. (Smith)

* P.S. 1: 'THE PAINTED WORLD,' through Jan. 30. Though this 23-artist exhibition of mostly contemporary abstractionists lacks bite as a whole, every individual painter in it is worthy of attention. In addition to ancestral figures like Myron Stout and Moira Dryer, the show includes Philip Taaffe, Mary Heilmann and Chris Martin. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Street, Long Island City, (718) 784-2084. (Johnson)

* RUBIN MUSEUM OF ART : 'WHAT IS HIMALAYAN ART?,' This museum, which recently celebrated its first anniversary, is a oasis of calm in the city; you can feel your tension dissolve the minute you walk in the door. At the same time, the place jumps with activities, including lectures, films and exhibitions, many devoted to aspects of Himalayan culture. And for a basic guide to the art of Tibet and Nepal, you will do no better than to take a slow walk through this new show, which, using an array of gorgeous objects, distills knotty visual and spiritual systems to a soothing but stimulating entry-level form. 150 West 17th Street, Chelsea, (212) 620-5000. (Cotter)

* STUDIO MUSEUM IN HARLEM: 'FREQUENCY,' through March 12. Despite some marked unevenness, this display of new and recently emerged talent confirms the current vitality of black art, contemporary art and mid-size New York museums. Names to look out for include Kalup Linzy, Leslie Hewitt, Jeff Sonhouse, Shinique Amie Smith, Demetrius Oliver, Michael Paul Britto, Nick Cave, Mickalene Thomas and Michael Queenland, but don't stop there. 144 West 125th Street, (212) 864-4500. (Smith)

* WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'THE ART OF RICHARD TUTTLE,' through Feb. 5. For 40 years Richard Tuttle has murmured the ecstasies of paying close attention to the world's infinitude of tender incidents, making oddball assemblages of prosaic ephemera, which, at first glance, belie their intense deliberation and rather monumental ambition. Out of cord, tin, Styrofoam, florist's wire and bubble wrap he has devised objects whose status is not quite sculpture or drawing or painting but some combination of the three, and whose exquisiteness is akin to that of jewelry. 945 Madison Avenue, at 75th Street, (800) 944-8639. (Kimmelman)

Galleries: 57th Street

GLENN KAINO An installation by this West Coast conceptualist features a big chessboard made of wooden squares taken from gun ammunition boxes and bronze playing pieces made from casts of the artist's hand signaling friendly and unfriendly intentions. On the walls hang grisaille portraits of famous chess players, each painted in one hour. Projectile, 37 West 57th Street, (212) 688-1585, through Dec. 22. (Johnson)

TOM WESSELMANN: 'WORKS ON PAPER, RETROSPECTIVE' Typed as a Pop artist early on for his portrayals of commercial foodstuffs as well as of stylized women's bodies (or parts thereof) that mingled classic odalisque and sexy pinup, Tom Wesselmann (1931-2004) had other strings to his bow, among them an interest in landscape and, later in his career, large abstract cutouts in metal. His provocative nude icons are here in abundance, but also evident is his interest in Matisse, Picasso and Mondrian. Maxwell Davidson Gallery, 724 Fifth Avenue, (212) 759-7555, through Dec. 23. (Glueck)

* 'THE WOMEN OF GIACOMETTI' This museum-quality show of paintings and sculptures focuses on Alberto Giacometti's curiously asexual representations of his mother, sister, wife and other women in his life. PaceWildenstein, 32 East 57th Street, (212) 421-3292, through Dec. 17. (Johnson)

Galleries: Chelsea

POLLY APFELBAUM: 'CARTOON GARDEN' Give Ms. Apfelbaum credit for trying one of her signature fabric floors without color. Still, though the wide rectangular plot of cartoon blossoms drawn with black dye on pieces of white velvet is graphically lively, the aesthetic payoff as a whole is not worth the sacrifice of color. D'Amelio Terras, 525 West 22nd Street, (212) 352-9460, through Dec. 23.(Johnson)

* JEREMY COMINS While neither especially original nor current, Mr. Comins's small carved wood sculptures evoke the history of the medium with assured sophistication, impeccable craft and that unmarketable commodity called integrity. Denise Bibro, 529 West 20th Street, (212) 647-7030, through Dec. 10. (Smith)

* 'DANUDO: RECENT SCULPTURES OF EL ANATSUI' In this truly stunning two-gallery show of recent work by an artist who lives and works in Nigera, each sculpture is made from thousands of crushed aluminum liquor-bottle caps and seals, stitched together with copper wire. The results are supple, fabriclike hangings that look like a cross between Kente cloth, abstract paintings and magic carpets. At Skoto Gallery in Chelsea, the work glows like gold on plain white walls; at Contemporary African Art on the Upper West Side, which is open only on Saturdays from noon to 6 p.m., it generates its heat with a more intimate kind of magic in an apartmentlike space. Skoto Gallery, 529 West 20th Street, fifth floor, (212) 352-8058, through Jan. 21, and Contemporary African Art Gallery, 330 West 108th Street, (212) 749-8848, through April 30. (Cotter)

MONA HATOUM: 'MOBILE HOME' The playful side of this often politically motivated sculptor prevails. The centerpiece, ''Mobile Home,'' is an arrangement of domestic objects strung on fine cables between metal traffic barriers; it takes a moment to realize that the toys, chairs, suitcases and other items are slowly rolling back and forth on tiny wheels. Alexander and Bonin, 132 10th Avenue, between 18th and 19th Streets, (212) 367-7474, through Dec. 22. (Johnson) Julie Langsam: 'From Here to Modernity' and Gary Petersen: 'Colossal Youth' In Ms. Langsam's landscape paintings -- which mourn the demise of Modernism -- Breuer's Whitney Museum and Wright's Guggenheim and other monuments of 20th-century architecture are isolated far away on empty plains under gloomy, toxically colored skies. On the other hand, while Mr. Petersen's jauntily suave, geometric paintings are hardly revolutionary, they still exude an infectious optimism about the aesthetic and spiritual delights that Modernism still makes possible. Michael Steinberg, 526 West 26th Street, (212) 924-5770, through Dec. 23. (Johnson)

* 'MFENGU' The power of female creativity courses through this exquisite show of South African garments at Axis Gallery. All but one of the skirts and capes was made for, and by, women of the Mfengu cultural group. In every case, the surfaces are ornamented with lines of beadwork, as fine and taut as compass needles. Agnes Martin would have adored the elegant probity of this work, and its message of strength in restraint. Axis Gallery, 453 West 17th Street, fourth floor, (212) 741-2582, through Dec. 22. (Cotter)

Other Galleries

ELSA MORA: 'BIRTH' A Cuban-born New Yorker, Ms. Mora creates paintings, drawings, collages and sculptures of lyrical and seemingly antique surrealism. One series consists of 50 small bottles, each containing a photographic transparency and sporting a colorful sculptured bird head and a pair of baby-doll legs. Phyllis Kind, 136 Greene Street, SoHo, (212) 925-1200, through December. (Johnson)

RICHARD TUTTLE: 'CONSTRUCTED RELIEF PAINTINGS' Among the most appealing works in Mr. Tuttle's current retrospective at the Whitney are the eccentrically shaped, single-color paintings from the 1960's. This show presents more of those playfully Minimalist pieces, which, with their wavering outlines and thick sides, look as if they were cut from slabs of colored rubber. Peter Freeman, 560 Broadway, at Prince Street, SoHo, (212) 966-5154, through Jan. 28.(Johnson)

Last Chance

* JEREMY BLAKE: 'SODIUM FOX' The best animated video of this innovative artist's career is a dense, briskly based fusion of formalism and underbelly, both indubitably American, propelled by the words and voice of the poet David Berman. Feigen Contemporary, 535 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (212) 929-0500, closing tomorrow. (Smith)

* OPEN WALLS In the main gallery, six emerging artists each make impressive and quite different use of one wall for displays of painting, photography, video or installation; the exemplary ancillary shows and debuts include ''The Early Show,'' a survey of childhood and teenage efforts by 40 contemporary artists. The total confirms White Columns as the liveliest of Manhattan's revitalized veteran alternative spaces. White Columns, 320 West 13th Street (entrance on Horatio Street) ,West Village (212) 924-4212, closing tomorrow. (Smith).

* NANCY SPERO: 'CRI DU COEUR' Mixing paint and silkscreened images on paper, a low-lying friezelike work follows a procession of female mourners borrowed from an Egyptian tomb into inky obscurity, suggesting a world declining into violence, chaos and bottomless grief. Galerie Lelong, 528 West 26th Street, Chelsea, (212) 315-0470, closing tomorrow. (Smith).

* JOHN WESLEY: 'DON'T EAT MY EAGLE' A beautiful show of comical and erotic paintings from the 1960's by an American Surrealist who has been mistaken for a Pop artist. Fredericks & Freiser, 536 West 24th Street, Chelsea, (212) 633-6555, closing tomorrow. (Johnson)

GRAPHIC: Photos: ART -- Left, a fabriclike hanging of wire-stitched aluminum by the Nigerian-based artist El Anatsui is part of a two-gallery show of his work, Page 29.
MOVIES -- Above, Chris Columbus's ''Rent,'' a film adaptation of Jonathan Larson's musical, made with much of the original stage cast, Page 27.
POP -- Right, Bettye LaVette brings her tough, knowing voice and an album of hand-tooled songs by women to the Knitting Factory in TriBeCa, page 27. (Photo by Howard Denner/Retna UK)
(Photo by Phil Bray/Columbia Pictures)
 (Photo by Phil Bray/Columbia Pictures)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (89%); WRITERS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); CELEBRITIES (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); FILM DIRECTORS (77%); MURDER (75%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (70%); THEATER (58%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (58%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2005



19 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1060 words

HEADLINE: Go Your Own Way

BYLINE: By Martin Indyk. 
Martin Indyk is the director of the Saban Center for Middle East Policy at the Brookings Institution.

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
LIFE'S Good.'' That's the message proclaimed on huge billboards in the Gaza Strip these days -- albeit by an importer of European refrigerators. It was also a message conveyed by last weekend's pictures of Palestinians crossing from Gaza into Egypt, no longer scrutinized by Israeli soldiers. 
 Life seems good in Israel, too. Terrorist incidents are down to one every three months, tourism is booming again and high-tech investors are back in droves. The election of a union chief, Amir Peretz, to head the Labor Party brings fresh leadership to one of Israel's major parties and a new emphasis on the needs of those long neglected in Israeli society. And the departure of Prime Minister Ariel Sharon from Likud, the other major party, holds out the hope that elections in March could produce a centrist coalition under his leadership that would finally lead Israel to peace with the Palestinians. 
But beneath this surface lurks another, far less pleasant reality. Gaza today is ruled not by the Palestinian Authority but by competing warlords, armed gangs, security chiefs and terrorist organizations. There is no independent judiciary or rule of law. Educational and social institutions have collapsed. Unemployment is as high as 50 percent. Three months after Israel's withdrawal, there are few signs of renewed economic activity: no new housing projects and no new efforts to rebuild roads and basic services devastated by four years of intifada. 
 In this environment, it is little wonder that the militant Islamic group Hamas, with its combination of terrorist derring-do and efficient social services, is gaining in popularity in Gaza. If elections to the Palestinian Legislative Council are held in January as scheduled, Hamas is widely expected to take half the seats in Gaza, putting it in a position to dominate politics there. 
 Four years of intifada terrorism have inured Israelis to this reality. For them, the appeal of the Gaza disengagement was its unilateral separatism, which in one move allowed Israelis to rid themselves of responsibility for 1.3 million Palestinians. If Hamas comes to rule over a failed, terrorist state in Gaza, Israelis will simply close the border crossings, which even now barely function, and rely on the border fence and military deterrence to protect themselves. The same logic underlies Mr. Sharon's break with Likud. He knows Israelis want to separate from West Bank Palestinians, too, but that the Likud apparatus will oppose that move even more vehemently than it opposed the Gaza disengagement. 
 Mr. Sharon swears allegiance to the Middle East ''road map,'' the plan promoted by the quartet of the United States, the European Union, the United Nations and Russia for an eventual peace agreement between Israel and Palestine. But the vision he holds out to his people is not one of a negotiated peace, but rather of an Israel with a robust Jewish majority and an undivided Jerusalem in its hands. 
 And the prime minister is already actively turning that vision into reality by building a security barrier around Jerusalem and the major West Bank settlement blocs. When it is completed, a re-elected Sharon is then likely to respond to growing Israeli public pressure for another unilateral step by withdrawing settlements from the Palestinian heartland and leaving Palestinians in control of some 70 percent of the West Bank, while retaining Israeli control of Jerusalem and the Jordan Valley.
 This Israeli urge for separation has a counterpart in Gaza, where some residents now argue for placing Gaza's interests ahead of those of the West Bank. Increasingly, Gazans resent the weak, crony-infested leadership in Ramallah, which they fear will constrain their independence so as not to be left alone in Israel's grip. Arguing that Gaza has always been the crucible for critical developments in the Palestinian national movement (the first intifada began there in 1987), some Gazans suggest that the time has come to create their own independent state in the part of Palestine that has now been liberated. 
 American diplomacy has not yet taken account of these rising separatisms. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and Jim Wolfensohn, the Middle East envoy for the quartet, remain focused on turning the Gaza disengagement into a springboard for Israeli-Palestinian negotiations. But their admirable efforts are hobbled by the weakness of the Palestinian Authority and the lack of interest from Israelis looking out for their security first. Fostering negotiations will grow only more challenging when January elections bring Hamas into the Palestinian political mainstream with its terrorist abilities intact. 
 American interests might be better served by mustering international support for the establishment of a Palestinian state in Gaza first. Egypt is already quietly adopting the role of custodian in Gaza, putting Egyptian colonels in control of Palestinian border brigades, training the security services and leaning on terrorist organizations to cease their activities. With Egypt in the lead, the international community could help rebuild the institutions of governance in Gaza and reconstruct its economy. At the same time, Mr. Wolfensohn could focus his considerable energies on helping Gazans reorient their trade through Egyptian ports, across a border that is no longer controlled by Israel, and on generating foreign investment in Gaza. 
 Meanwhile, the Bush administration could prepare to negotiate with the next Israeli government over the extent of its withdrawal from the West Bank and the Arab suburbs of East Jerusalem. American negotiators should pay close attention to how a West Bank withdrawal will affect the contiguity of Palestinian territory and its connection to East Jerusalem. 
 This process is not a substitute for hammering out a final Israeli-Palestinian peace agreement, which could be facilitated once a Palestinian state in Gaza extends its writ to the newly liberated areas of the West Bank. Rather, such steps would constitute a recognition that practical separation -- between Israel and the Palestinians, and between Gaza and the West Bank -- may serve as a precursor to peace. Only when Egyptians and Jordanians put their own separate interests first was peace forged between those countries and Israel. Perhaps the time has come for Gazans to do the same. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); HAMAS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); BORDER CONTROL (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); POLITICS (75%); ARMED FORCES (71%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (71%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (66%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (66%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (64%); RELIGION (64%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (63%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) ISRAEL (98%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (97%); EGYPT (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2005



20 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: Store Attacks Set Off Strife Within Islam

BYLINE: By CAROLYN MARSHALL

DATELINE: OAKLAND, Calif., Dec. 1 

 BODY:
The authorities charged two men on Thursday with felony hate crimes, vandalism and false imprisonment in connection with attacks last week on two liquor stores owned by Muslims of Arab descent.
 One of the men, Yusuf Bey IV, 19, is the son of a prominent black Muslim leader who founded Your Black Muslim Bakery Inc., a company that operates a bakery and several other Oakland businesses.
Mr. Bey's father, Yusuf Bey, who died two years ago, established an Islamic sect similar to but not affiliated with the Nation of Islam, the organization led by Louis Farrakhan. 
 The other man charged on Thursday was Eugene Cunningham, 73, an associate of the elder Mr. Bey. 
 Both men turned themselves in on Tuesday. Oakland Deputy Police Chief Howard Jordan said arrents warrants were issued for four other men believed to have been involved in the incidents, but the police and the district attorney's office would not provide details about the case or the charges against Mr. Bey and Mr. Cunningham.
 The charges stem from attacks on Nov. 23 at San Pablo Market and Liquor and the New York Market near the city's gritty west end, where liquor stores have been a recurring flash point between longtime residents and new immigrants. 
 The incident at the San Pablo store, caught by a video surveillance camera, involved a dozen or so black men who smashed bottles, toppled food racks and broke glass displays, the police said. The men wore dark suits and bow ties, the traditional attire of black Muslims in Oakland, and confronted the merchants about the sale of alcohol and pork, which are forbidden in Islam.
 ''They said, 'Are you Muslim?' '' said Abdul Saleh, 44, who is from Yemen and has owned the San Pablo market since 1996. '' 'Why are you selling alcohol to our community?' And then they started trashing everything.''
 Fifteen minutes later and just blocks away, the New York Market was the target of a similar attack, the police said. Again the owners were questioned about the goods they offered for sale. The market was later set on fire and its owner kidnapped. The owner was found about 12 hours later locked in the trunk of a vehicle in the nearby town of El Cerrito, unharmed but shaken.
 The police said they were investigating whether the arson and the kidnapping were related to the vandalism at the two stores. The charges filed Thursday against Mr. Bey and Mr. Cunningham did not involve the arson or the kidnapping, the district attorney's office said.
 The crimes have set the neighborhood on edge and have raised questions about Your Black Muslim Bakery, a franchise established in 1968 that also includes a school and other enterprises. The organization has often been a source of controversy. 
 The local branch of the Nation of Islam condemned the attacks at a news conference and said its members were not involved. 
 The owners of the liquor stores and many patrons suggested that the incidents had been motivated by economic hardship and race, not religion.
 ''These guys are frustrated about something,'' said Mikael Artle, 21, a food server who lives one block from the San Pablo market. ''Just look at the neighborhood. It's depressing to be out there while the rich get richer and the poor get poorer.''
 John Wyrick, 53, a stocky African-American who sells tires and once lived in the neighborhood, hugged Mr. Saleh, the owner of the San Pablo market, as he entered the store. Mr. Wyrick said that he had been worried about his friend of 20 years since the attack. 
 ''I know the people who did it, and I don't understand,'' Mr. Wyrick said. ''The pot can't talk about the skillet. They drink just as much as anyone. Being Muslim has nothing to do with it.''
 Mr. Saleh characterized the attacks as ''a hate crime,'' but he too doubted that religion played a role.
 ''They think we come from the Middle East and we're taking over the small businesses,'' he said. ''We're just trying to make a living.''
 Local scholars who have studied racial and economic tensions in Oakland said liquor stores had often been a source of conflict.
 ''There has always been tension in the inner city between African-Americans and the new immigrants,'' said Prof. Hatem Bazian, who teaches Near Eastern studies at the University of California, Berkeley, and is affiliated with the Center for the Study of Muslim Communities in the West, a project of the university. ''And often, the primary entry to the local economy is the liquor store.''
 Professor Bazian said most of Oakland's liquor stores were now owned by Arab-Americans, who are among the city's newest immigrants. Buying an established liquor store is often an ideal way to get an economic footing in the city, he said, because it requires limited language skills and minor investment and typically brings with it a captive clientele.
 Professor Bazian condemned the attacks, saying those involved had overstepped the bounds of their religion and civil society.
 ''This is not acceptable within normal basic Islam,'' he said. ''It is not an issue of Islamic thought. It's an issue of whether to take the law into your own hands.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The New York Market, one of two Oakland stores vandalized last week by men protesting liquor sales, was later set on fire and its owner kidnapped. The first store attacked was San Pablo Market and Liquor, where Mohammad Ahmed manned the counter the other day. (Photographs by Paul Sakuma/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (94%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (93%); MUSLIM AMERICANS (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (90%); VANDALISM (89%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); ARSON (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); FALSE IMPRISONMENT (89%); FELONIES (89%); MEN (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); RETAILERS (78%); BANK ROBBERY (74%); PORK (67%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NATION OF ISLAM (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OAKLAND, CA, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); JORDAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2005



21 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 951 words

HEADLINE: Bangladesh Blast Kills One and Hurts 30

BYLINE: By DAVID MONTERO and SOMINI SENGUPTA; David Montero reported from Dhaka for this article, and Somini Sengupta from Colombo, Sri Lanka.

DATELINE: DHAKA, Bangladesh, Dec. 1 

 BODY:
A suicide bomber took aim at this country's rattled judiciary on Thursday for the third time this week, killing one person and wounding 30.
 The three suicide bombings, which killed a total of 11 people, including 2 bombers, and wounded more than 100 people, indicate an expansion of a three-month-old campaign against the judiciary in this mostly Muslim nation of 44 million people by militants seeking to replace the secular legal system with Islamic law.
 Two apparently synchronized bombings on Tuesday were aimed at a courthouse and a law office. The target on Thursday was a government office where lawyers were to meet. 
 Violence has risen steadily in Bangladesh in recent months, some of it attributed to political rivals, some to Islamic militants. But the attacks this week were the country's first successful suicide strikes. 
 The two suspects in the attacks on Tuesday died; the suspect in the attack on Thursday survived and was arrested, the police said. 
 The blast on Thursday occurred in Gazipur, 20 miles north of Dhaka, the capital. In one of the attacks on Tuesday, the bomber blew himself up in the bar association building in Gazipur. Earlier on Tuesday, a bomber struck at a police checkpoint at the entrance to a courthouse in Chittagong, the major port. 
 The police said they suspected all three attacks had been conducted by Jamaat ul-Mujahedeen Bangladesh, or the Bangladesh Assembly of Holy Warriors, an outlawed Islamist faction seeking to impose Muslim law.
 In leaflets found at the bomb sites this week and in earlier attacks, the group has called for the eradication of the judiciary and its replacement by Islamic law. 
 The attack on Thursday occurred during a strike called by the country's Supreme Court Bar Association to protest attacks apparently aimed at the judiciary. The strike brought Dhaka to a near standstill, with most shops closed and light traffic on the normally busy streets. Police officers in full riot gear blocked several major streets. ''Violence is not new in Bangladesh, but this is a dramatic and major change in the tactic of the militancy,'' said Ali Riaz, a former professor at Dhaka University who teaches at Illinois State University and wrote ''God Willing,'' a book about the rise of Islamic militancy in Bangladesh.
 The police said they had arrested 50 people suspected of being Islamic militants in connection with the attacks on Tuesday, including the father and brother of one of the bombing suspects. The police said they had begun a nationwide search for others.
 The attacks sharpen the challenge for the government of Prime Minister Khaleda Zia to restore some semblance of security in an increasingly volatile situation. Her governing Bangladesh Nationalist Party has come under fire in the past for alliances with right-wing politicians from the religious Jamaat-e-Islami Bangladesh party. 
 In November, a member of Parliament from the governing party was ousted for criticizing the party's alliance with Islamist forces. The religious parties have insisted they have no connections to the militants. 
 Bangladesh was violently carved from what was Pakistan in 1971. Although it began as a secular democracy, a tide of religious militancy has been growing. 
 It has been fueled in part by the lure of Islamist movements elsewhere, by crushing poverty and unemployment, and by infighting among political parties that has led to a breakdown in the ability to govern. 
 On Aug. 17, more than 450 homemade bombs were set off across the country. Two people were killed. The police blamed the Assembly of Holy Warriors for those attacks as well. 
 The violence this week began at a Chittagong courthouse on Tuesday morning, when police officers at the door stopped a man from entering. 
 The man, later identified as Abul Bashar, set off a bomb strapped to his body, blowing off his legs and hands and killing one of the officers and a civilian. Mr. Bashar later died. His father and brother have been detained, the police said.
 An hour after the explosion, a second suicide bomber, disguised in a black lawyer's robe, blew himself up in the Gazipur Bar Association office, where some 50 lawyers and their clients had assembled. The powerful bomb reduced the room to ashes and blew out the windows, killing seven people, including the bomber. 
 The police later discovered wires wrapped around the legs and torso of the bomber's mutilated body.
 On Thursday, at the gate of the chief government administrator's office in Gazipur, where lawyers had planned to meet later in the day, the third bomber detonated explosives hidden in a tea flask, said Muhammad al-Amin, a government worker who had been posted at the gate. The blast killed a bystander, and wounded 30 people, including Mr. Amin. 
 The attacks on the judiciary have been going on for about three months. In early October, people suspected of being militants bombed courtrooms in Chittagong and two other southeastern districts. Later that month, a judge in Sylhet was wounded in a bomb attack on his vehicle.
 In the last three months, a report by the Asian Center for Human Rights said, 2 judges have been killed, 3 have been wounded and 13 have received death threats. 
 The police said last month that people suspected of being militants had told them under interrogation that the Holy Warriors have 2,000 people prepared to carry out suicide bombings. 
 The attacks this week, security analysts say, were a step up in the tactics of the Islamic militants and underscore their strength and organization.
 ''Definitely the explosive was more powerful,'' than those used in previous blasts, said Sakhawat Hussain, a retired brigadier general and now a security analyst.


CORRECTION-DATE: December 3, 2005

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article yesterday about suicide bombings directed at the judicial system in Bangladesh misstated the country's population. It is 144 million, not 44 million. In some editions, the article also misstated the number of people wounded in the suicide bombing on Thursday. It was 30 people, not 100, which was the total number wounded in three suicide bombings this week.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A man wounded yesterday in a bombing in Gazipur, Bangladesh, was comforted by his wife while awaiting treatment at a hospital in Dhaka. (Photo by Abir Abdullah/European Pressphoto Agency)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUICIDE BOMBINGS (92%); BOMBINGS (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); RELIGION (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (74%); POLITICS (74%); RIOTS (74%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); SUICIDE (73%); ARRESTS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: DHAKA, BANGLADESH (92%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%) BANGLADESH (99%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2005



22 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: Bullet Points Over Baghdad

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN; Thomas L. Friedman is on vacation.

 BODY:
The overthrow of Saddam Hussein was supposed to provide the world with a demonstration of American power. It didn't work out that way. But the Bush administration has come up with the next best thing: a demonstration of American PowerPoint. Bullets haven't subdued the insurgents in Iraq, but the administration hopes that bullet points will subdue the critics at home.
 The National Security Council document released this week under the grandiose title ''National Strategy for Victory in Iraq'' is neither an analytical report nor a policy statement. It's simply the same old talking points -- ''victory in Iraq is a vital U.S. interest''; ''failure is not an option'' -- repackaged in the style of a slide presentation for a business meeting. 
It's an embarrassing piece of work. Yet it's also an important test for the news media. The Bush administration has lost none of its confidence that it can get away with fuzzy math and fuzzy facts -- that it won't be called to account for obvious efforts to mislead the public. It's up to journalists to prove that confidence wrong.
 Here's an example of how the White House attempts to mislead: the new document assures us that Iraq's economy is doing really well. ''Oil production increased from an average of 1.58 million barrels per day in 2003, to an average of 2.25 million barrels per day in 2004.'' The document goes on to concede a ''slight decrease'' in production since then.
 We're not expected to realize that the daily average for 2003 includes the months just before, during and just after the invasion of Iraq, when its oil industry was basically shut down. As a result, we're not supposed to understand that the real story of Iraq's oil industry is one of unexpected failure: instead of achieving the surge predicted by some of the war's advocates, Iraqi production has rarely matched its prewar level, and has been on a downward trend for the past year.
 What about the security situation? During much of 2004, the document tells us: ''Fallujah, Najaf, and Samara were under enemy control. Today, these cities are under Iraqi government control.''
 Najaf was never controlled by the ''enemy,'' if that means the people we're currently fighting. It was briefly controlled by Moktada al-Sadr's Mahdi Army. The United States once vowed to destroy that militia, but these days it's as strong as ever. And according to The New York Times, Mr. Sadr has now become a ''kingmaker in Iraqi politics.'' So what sort of victory did we win, exactly, in Najaf?
 Moreover, in what sense is Najaf now under government control? According to The Christian Science Monitor, ''Sadr supporters and many Najaf residents say an armed Badr Brigade'' -- the militia of a Shiite group that opposes Mr. Sadr and his supporters -- ''still exists as the Najaf police force.''
 Meanwhile, this is the third time that coalition forces have driven the insurgents out of Samara. On the two previous occasions, the insurgents came back after the Americans left. And there, too, it's stretching things to say that the city is under Iraqi government control: according to The Associated Press, only 100 of the city's 700 policemen show up for work on most days.
 There's a lot more like that in the document. Refuting some of the upbeat assertions about Iraq requires specialized knowledge, but many of them can be quickly debunked by anyone with an Internet connection.
 The point isn't just that the administration is trying, yet again, to deceive the public. It's the fact that this attempt at deception shows such contempt -- contempt for the public, and especially contempt for the news media. And why not? The truth is that the level of misrepresentation in this new document is no worse than that in a typical speech by President Bush or Vice President Dick Cheney. Yet for much of the past five years, many major news organizations failed to provide the public with effective fact-checking. 
 So Mr. Bush's new public relations offensive on Iraq is a test. Are the news media still too cowed, too addicted to articles that contain little more than dueling quotes to tell the public when the administration is saying things that aren't true? Or has the worm finally turned?
 There have been encouraging signs, notably a thorough front-page fact-checking article -- which even included charts showing the stagnation of oil production and electricity generation! -- in USA Today. But the next few days will tell. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); ARMIES (77%); TRENDS (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); JOURNALISM (75%); OIL EXTRACTION (69%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (69%); WRITERS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (57%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); MOQTADA AL-SADR (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2005



23 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 536 words

HEADLINE: Shares Move Higher as Reports Indicate Low Inflation

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
Economic reports showing few signs of inflation pushed shares higher yesterday, ending a three-day string of declines amid a five-week rally. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 106.70 points, its biggest increase in a month, to 10,912.57, recovering most of the 125-point decline of the previous three days and flirting with the 11,000, a level not reached since June 2001. 
Investors responded to signs that inflation was kept in check as consumer prices increased just 0.1 percent in October, an improvement over the 0.9 percent rise the month before, according to the Commerce Department. That could lead the Federal Reserve Board to stop raising interest rates.
 Interest rates rose slightly yesterday with the 10-year Treasury bond rising to 4.51 percent from 4.48 percent late Wednesday and the price, which moves inversely to the yield, falling 8/32, to 99 28/32. 
 The Commerce Department also reported that personal incomes increased 0.4 percent and spending increased 0.2 percent. Coupled with recently falling gas prices, the increased income could lead to higher holiday spending. 
 ''The streak that started going into and after Thanksgiving is a trend that will continue into the end of the year,'' said Jake Dollarhide, chief executive of Longbow Asset Management in Tulsa, Okla. ''We are poised for an end-of-year rally, mainly because of strong confidence and rising income and what I believe will be a strong holiday season.''
 The nation's retailers reported yesterday that November sales were up 3.7 percent over the same period last year, according to Retail Metrics, a market research firm, but department stores and warehouse club chains fell short of expectations.
 Wal-Mart's stock fell 53 cents, to $48.03 a share, after it reported a 4.3 percent increase in November sales, which was within its forecast range.
 The Nasdaq also rose sharply as Intel and Apple rallied. Intel rose 50 cents, to $27.18 a share, and Apple rose $3.78, or 6 percent, to $71.60.
 The Nasdaq gained 34.35 points, or 1.5 percent, to 2,267.17, and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 15.19 points, or 1.2 percent, to 1,264.67.
 The manufacturing sector also displayed signs of strength. The Institute for Supply Management said its index for November rose for a 30th consecutive month in November. While manufacturing grew at a slightly slower pace than in October, the institute's price index fell as a result of lower energy prices and restored capacity at oil refineries along the Gulf Coast.
 The price of crude oil rose $1.15, to $58.47 a barrel, yesterday and gold rose $11.50, to $504 an ounce.
 Exxon Mobil rose $1.32, to $59.35 a share, and ConocoPhillips rose $2.46, to $62.97 a share, in response to the gain in oil prices.
 The Boeing Company, which won a contract to sell 16 airliners to Cathay Pacific Airways, rose $1.48, or 2 percent, to $69.67 a share.
 The supply institute also reported an increase in manufacturing employment and analysts said that might result in encouraging job numbers in a report scheduled to be released today by the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
 Markets overseas also rallied yesterday with the major indexes in Japan and Britain each gaining more than 1 percent.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)Graph: ''Freddie Mac Yields'' tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since September, 2005. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source by Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BONDS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (79%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (79%); TRENDS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (76%); MARKET RESEARCH (75%); ENERGY MARKETS (75%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (75%); TREASURY SECURITIES (75%); GASOLINE PRICES (75%); INTEREST RATES (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (72%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (71%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (70%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (70%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (70%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (69%); THANKSGIVING (66%); EXECUTIVES (65%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (63%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (60%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Finances; Interest Rates; Credit; Government Bonds

COMPANY: CONOCOPHILLIPS (82%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (62%); WAL-MART STORES INC (53%); INTEL CORP (52%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%)

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (82%); WMT (NYSE) (53%); INTC (NASDAQ) (52%); XOM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (82%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (82%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (82%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (82%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (82%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (82%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (82%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (82%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (82%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (53%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (53%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: Eric Dash

GEOGRAPHIC: TULSA, OK, USA (54%) OKLAHOMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2005



24 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; V.C. NATION; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: Money Begins Flowing to New York Start-Ups Again

BYLINE: By Saul Hansell

 BODY:
VENTURE capital funds are starting to grow again in New York after a long dry spell.
 The environment in New York was never as hospitable for technology start-ups as the fertile grounds of Silicon Valley and, to a lesser extent, Boston. Those areas have highly developed technology ecosystems where graduates of university engineering programs and escapees from larger technology companies can find deep reservoirs of venture capital to nourish their entrepreneurial visions.
New York's finance- and media-saturated soil tends to spawn different offspring. Hedge funds and advertising agencies and magazines take root here much more easily than venture-backed software firms. 
 Still, New York registered a rise in venture capital firms during the Internet bubble. The region, which had only 155 active venture firms in 1995, had 477 firms investing in 2000, as measured by the quarterly MoneyTree survey conducted by PricewaterhouseCoopers, Thomson Financial and the National Venture Capital Association. But most of those firms did not prosper. This year, only 227 firms have made new venture investments. 
 Now, however, there are signs that the venture business in New York is rebounding, after the resurgence of the Internet and the growth of advertising-supported Web sites. A number of the firms founded during the last boom are raising new funds after lying low for several years. And some prominent venture capitalists whose firms closed or restructured have set up new venture shops.
 Fred Wilson, formerly of Flatiron Partners, has already raised $125 million for a new firm called Union Square Ventures. Bob Greene, his former partner, is out trying to raise $150 million for his new firm, Oncore Capital. Silicon Alley Seed Investors, renamed SAS Investors, is trying to raise $100 million to follow its $40 million fund set up in 2001. Another New York fund, Hudson Ventures, is starting to look for another $200 million. And there are more.
 The money isn't pouring in, but these financiers all say they have been able to make the case that New York is an appropriate place for venture capital, with good investment opportunities. 
 ''There are a ton of V.C.'s in Boston,'' Mr. Green said, ''but when you get south of I-495, down to Washington, you see a lot of interesting deals flow with less competition pursuing it. We love that.''
 Flatiron Partners was never the biggest New York venture fund, but it became the symbol of the new sort of fund that invested, in the manner of Silicon Valley, in small technology companies, and it caught the Internet wave early. Financed entirely by Softbank of Japan and Chase Manhattan starting in 1996, it had early successes like Geocities, which was sold to Yahoo, and Multex, which Reuters bought. 
 Like the rest of the Internet industry, Flatiron grew rapidly, ultimately investing $570 million. By 2000, it was making bigger investments in grander concepts, with most of them turning into spectacular flops. One such failure was Kozmo.com, notable for bike messengers who delivered DVD's and Haagen-Dazs. Flatiron was ultimately acquired and dissolved by J. P. Morgan Chase. 
 ''In 1996, it was all about how can we get a big pool of capital and start making investments in this Internet thing because it was going to be really big,'' Mr. Wilson recalled. ''We all got a little big for our britches and put too much money to work in 1999 and 2000. By 2002, a lot of us were licking our wounds.''
 Union Square, he said, would learn the lessons from that period, and would make smaller investments, focusing on companies involved in media, marketing and finance. 
 SAS, by contrast, is hoping its new fund will allow it to increase the size of its investment from about $3 million a company to as much as $8 million. SAS worked through the post-bubble years trying to build relationships with scientists who were let go by corporate labs at companies like I.B.M., AT&T and Lucent. And it has built a portfolio that includes technology companies developing products like fuel cells and network storage devices. The larger investment size will allow it to earn more of a return on the companies it helps found.
 ''We were leaving money on the table,'' said Josh Grotstein, an SAS partner. He added that the start-ups in the New York area are getting better, too.
 ''There is an evolution of the entrepreneur base to be much more sophisticated like they have always had in the Valley,'' Mr. Grotstein said. ''There are now seasoned serial entrepreneurs who know how the game is played.'' 
 This argument is getting a hearing from the major institutional investors who are becoming the limited partners of most venture funds. They are looking for new opportunities in new regions in part because venture firms in Silicon Valley and the Boston area are scaling back their new funds just as investors are looking to increase their venture capital investments. 
 But several fund managers say they appear to be competing for the same East Coast slot in the investors' portfolios.
 ''There are a bunch of New York venture funds looking for money now,'' said Jay Goldberg, a partner in Hudson Ventures. ''It makes competition for us, but it verifies that there is a market there for us.''


GRAPHIC: Graph shows venture capital firms in the New York area making at least one investment. (Source and survey by PWC/Thomson Venture Economical NVCA)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VENTURE CAPITAL (97%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL APPLICANTS & RECIPIENTS (79%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (79%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (75%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (74%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); ENGINEERING (73%); HEDGE FUNDS (73%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (70%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (69%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (69%) Computers and the Internet; Venture Capital ; Advertising and Marketing; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: SAS INVESTORS (91%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (69%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Union Square Ventures (Co); Oncore Capital (Co) ; SAS Investors

INDUSTRY: NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (91%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (91%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (56%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: Saul Hansell; Fred Wilson; Bob Green

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2005



25 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 305 words

HEADLINE: Spending And Incomes Show Increase

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 1 

 BODY:
Personal spending rose 0.2 percent in October and personal incomes were up 0.4 percent after two months in which they were skewed by the impact of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, the Commerce Department said Thursday. 
 In other economic news, the Commerce Department said that construction spending rose a solid 0.7 percent in October, to a record of $1.05 trillion at a seasonally adjusted annual rate.
 The better-than-expected gain came after a more modest 0.2 percent September increase. It was propelled by a 0.6 percent rise in residential construction and a 1.9 percent jump in public construction, with both hitting records. Building activity is expected to slow in coming months, though, as rising mortgage rates slow the housing market.
 The Labor Department, meanwhile, said the number of hurricane-related job losses totaled just 9,600 last week, down from the 21,000 the previous week. The new claims pushed the number of Americans who have lost their jobs because of the three hurricanes -- Katrina, Rita and Wilma -- to 592,000.
 The 9,600 storm claims came out of an overall total of 320,000 new claims for unemployment benefits filed last week, a figure that was down by 17,000 from the previous week.
 With consumer spending accounting for two-thirds of the total economy, those numbers are closely watched by economists. The small 0.2 percent gain for October got the fourth quarter off to a modest start after brisk growth in the overall economy of 4.3 percent in the July-September quarter, according to a revised estimate of the gross domestic product released on Wednesday.
 An inflation gauge tied to the consumer spending report showed that prices excluding food and energy rose by just 1.8 percent in the 12 months ended in October, the slowest pace since a 1.6 percent year-over-year rise in February 2004.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Personal Income''Total personal income before taxes, at a seasonally adjusted annual pace.Graph shows figures for Personal Income and Spending:IncomeOCT.: $10.40CHANGE FROM SEPT.: +0.4%ConsumptionOCT.: 8.90CHANGE FROM SEPT.: +0.2%(Source by Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (91%); HURRICANES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); WEATHER (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (78%); HURRICANE KATRINA (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); LAYOFFS (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (74%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (74%); MORTGAGE RATES (71%); INTEREST RATES (71%); DISMISSALS (68%); MORTGAGE LOANS (54%) United States Economy; Consumer Behavior; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Rita (Storm); Katrina (Storm); Wilma (Storm); Labor; Unemployment; Unemployment Insurance; United States Economy; Building (Construction)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%) Commerce Department; Labor Department (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2005



26 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 132 words

HEADLINE: Upbeat Economic Picture 

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 1 

 BODY:
The Bush administration on Thursday issued a slightly more optimistic estimate of economic growth this year. 
 The White House is predicting that the gross domestic product will grow by 3.5 percent as measured from the fourth quarter of last year through the fourth quarter of this year, the White House spokesman, Scott McClellan, said. That compares with the administration's summer estimate of 3.4 percent. 
 The White House left its forecast for growth in 2006 unchanged at 3.4 percent.
 On the jobs front, the administration predicted employment would rise by 2.1 million this year to an annual average of 133.6 million, the same as its previous forecast. 
 The administration predicted 1.9 million new jobs would be generated next year, raising the annual average employment to 135.5 million. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (88%); JOB CREATION (88%) United States Economy; Labor; Unemployment; Gross Domestic Product; Hiring and Promotion

PERSON: George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2005



27 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 856 words

PERSON: ROBIN B. HALL 

HEADLINE: The Balloon Master, Always Looking Up

BYLINE: By ROBIN FINN

 BODY:
A PLASTER cast of Chicken Little, with SpongeBob SquarePants and the now-vilified M&M's balloon a second-year member of the airborne division of Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade, dangles like an oversized, anthropomorphized, bespectacled capon in an office jammed with stuffed animals and other child-friendly ephemera. 
 Even Barney the dinosaur is welcome here; he's got parade seniority. The atmosphere inside the special events department at Macy's flagship store on Herald Square is Disneyland-ish by design, and the tall guy in charge fairly twinkles. 
So it comes as no surprise that Robin B. Hall, the animated yet -- as a result of last week's accident involving the M&M's balloon -- addled executive producer of the Macy's parade, refuses to entertain the possibility that his treasured balloons pose a danger to their fans. He doesn't want to see them grounded or diminished.
 ''Balloons are benign,'' sputters Mr. Hall, 58, nervously plucking at the white cuffs beneath his Hugo Boss suit and working up a mist -- he had theatrical aspirations before going into retail advertising -- behind his hyper-stylish Alain Mikli bifocals.
 ''Balloons are part of the DNA of Macy's,'' he adds. ''For almost 80 years, balloons have defined this parade, and their retention is a key signature; balloons of this size, and balloons this fantastic, you can only see in the Macy's parade, and without them, it would not have the same level of fame and renown and tradition.'' 
 In Mr. Hall's charmed orbit, Inflation Day has nothing to do with the economy: It happens on the eve of the parade, when the balloons are inflated with helium. Thanksgiving Day dawns for him at 5 a.m. and ends at noon when he delivers Santa Claus to Herald Square. Thanksgiving dinner is celebrated on Friday, a catered affair for a couple of hundred co-workers; turkey, trimmings, and a videotape of the parade are served.
 A charming tradition when all goes according to the script. Last week it did not. First, Barney's leg sustained a scrape from a West 77th Street tree branch. The show went on. Then came the accident in Times Square. 
 MR. HALL pronounces himself stumped, completely stumped, by the havoc wrought by the otherwise cooperative M&M's balloon. As it trundled along Broadway toward 43rd Street, it was apparently sent AWOL by winds that caught its 60 human handlers off guard; it snagged and gashed itself on a light fixture, which then dropped onto two sibling spectators from Albany, Mary and Sarah Chamberlain, causing minor cuts and bruises that sent both to the hospital. The deflated balloon went to Macy's Design Studio in Hoboken, N.J., where it has been quarantined for testing. 
 ''Everybody in the Macy's family was devastated by this accident,'' Mr. Hall says. ''We always are when anything goes haywire. But I'm not in a position to blame it on anything or anyone at this juncture.''
 Mr. Hall is gratified that the Chamberlain family seems to have similar feelings on the issue of accountability. After a more serious balloon accident in 1997, in which a fallen light fixture -- the Cat in the Hat balloon was the culprit -- injured four, Macy's settled a $395 million suit filed by a woman who suffered permanent brain damage. The Chamberlains, however, seem disinclined to sue. Or even to complain.
 A miracle in this jaded, litigious age!
 Indeed, says Mr. Hall, the injured sisters are adamant about returning to the parade next year. And they will, in a V.I.P. capacity. And unless a mayoral panel convened to investigate the accident deems otherwise, the M&M's balloon will be back, too: it has a three-year contract.
 ''Having this thing happen, and having it happen the way it did, has had a profound effect on me,'' Mr. Hall says. ''I'd like to think that most of the people who love this parade are like the Chamberlains. There's a charm and a purity to it that really doesn't exist anywhere else; evidently it's a very important tradition to a lot of people, and my responsibility is to keep on bringing it to them.'' With balloons.
 Mr. Hall grew up in Denver, where his father was a printer, his mother was a dental hygienist, and Thanksgiving meant being shooed in front of the television set to watch the parade while the grown-ups cooked. He played the sousaphone in his high school band, so marching comes naturally; as a frustrated actor (he did regional theater, but an inability to dance held him back), having a live audience of 2.5 million is an annual thrill. ''I've never had a drop of rain on any of my parades,'' boasts Mr. Hall, who has played ringmaster, complete with a foppish top hat, since 2001.
 Mr. Hall and his wife, Betsy Jablow, live on the Upper West Side. Besides the parade, he is in charge of Macy's spring flower show, the Fourth of July Fireworks, and SantaLand, which he refers to as ''a memory factory'' for 200,000 visitors each year and is his favorite assignment.
 ''I've got 90 elves and Santa on my payroll: that's pretty impressive,'' he says. 
 ''My son is 20 and majoring in political science at U.C.L.A. I still tell him I won't pay his tuition unless he believes in Santa Claus.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: ROBIN B. HALL (Photo by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARADES & MARCHES (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); THANKSGIVING (89%); CONTUSIONS (69%) 

COMPANY: MACY'S INC (95%)

ORGANIZATION: Macy's

TICKER: M (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (95%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (95%)

Robin Finn; Robin B Hall

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (79%) New York City

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2005



28 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: Verdict in L.I. Rezoning Case Tests Towns' Authority 

BYLINE: By JULIA C. MEAD

 BODY:
Towns in Suffolk County routinely use their zoning powers to curtail development on a broad scale. But a recent jury verdict involving a rezoning case in Brookhaven Town is raising questions about how far towns can go without compensating landowners who see their rezoned properties decline in value.
 The case involved two parcels of land whose owner hoped to turn into strip malls along Route 25, a busy commercial corridor. The town blocked the plan by rezoning both parcels in 1989 to residential use from commercial use. The owner, Parvis Noghrey, said the rezoning significantly reduced the parcels' value. He sued, arguing that the town's action amounted to an unconstitutional taking of his property without compensation under federal law. 
Two weeks ago, a six-member jury in State Supreme Court in Riverhead agreed and awarded Mr. Noghrey $1.647 million in damages, which was roughly equal to what he paid for the land in 1985 and had invested in his failed plans. The jury also awarded Mr. Noghrey his legal fees and the interest that would have accrued over 16 years, which could double the award.
 Legal experts said Mr. Noghrey was the first person in New York to win a jury verdict arguing that a rezoning amounted to a taking of his property.
 ''That verdict was a wonderful event,'' said William W. Esseks, a Riverhead lawyer who specializes in zoning and land use and represents several property owners suing East Hampton Town over a recent rezoning. ''It sends a nice message to government that it cannot be grossly arbitrary in its administrative and legislative acts.'' 
 Should the jury verdict withstand an appeal by Brookhaven, said Ronald H. Silverman, a Hofstra University School of Law professor, it could pave the way for other litigants to assert their federal rights against a ''regulatory taking'' through rezoning, provided they can show that their land was significantly devalued. 
 ''A case like this one, that's made to order for a regulatory taking, is highly unusual,'' said Mr. Silverman, noting that it could pave the way for more of the lawsuits to succeed. 
 But one of the lawyers defending the town, Paul F. Millus, cautioned against inflating the verdict's importance. Saying he was confident the town would win on appeal, Mr. Millus interpreted the jury award to mean the rezoning had reduced the value of Mr. Noghrey's land by just half, which he said was insufficient under case law to constitute a taking. The jury award was significantly less than the $4 million that Mr. Noghrey had sought, he said.
 Lawyers on all sides agreed that town boards have broad discretion whether to consider the economic impact when changing a zoning designation. ''I suspect it's not anything approaching a preoccupation, and is probably given short shrift,'' Mr. Silverman said. But he added that town lawyers should begin advising their clients to carefully weigh the economic impact of zoning decisions.
 One of Mr. Noghrey's lawyers, Stephan B. Gleich of Great Neck, contended that Brookhaven's town board failed to consider it at all in 1989.
 ''They weren't saying that this land was suitable for residential development, because it clearly wasn't,'' Mr. Gleich said. ''They just didn't want any more strip malls, so they did away with that designation without giving any consideration to the suitability of residential rezoning.''
 He said that towns find themselves on more firm legal ground when they reduce the impact on property owners, for example, by allowing for the transfer of development rights. ''In my opinion, what Brookhaven did in my client's case was extreme,'' Mr. Gleich said. 
 Lee Koppelman, the Long Island Regional Planning Board chairman since 1965, said a rezoning must be bolstered by a comprehensive plan, which typically looks at land use townwide. But, he said, while the environmental impact is studied in depth, economic impact is often ignored.
 Mr. Millus said that property owners, not towns, are responsible for finding profitable ways to develop their land. Though he acknowledged the town did not consider the economic impact on Mr. Noghrey, he said that Mr. Noghrey had failed to explore all his options. He said residential zoning would have allowed construction of a school or church or, with a special permit, a day care center.
 ''The real issue here is that towns have a presumptive right to rezone, and property owners have an obligation to do more than sue and say they were damaged,'' he said.
 Mr. Noghrey's legal case benefited when the judge presiding at the trial, Justice Thomas F. Whelan, ruled that he had to prove his case only by a preponderance of the evidence, rather than the tougher standard of beyond a reasonable doubt.
 But Mr. Esseks said: ''It was pretty clear in both cases that the town rezoned the land to make it cheaper to preserve, or to just put it on ice. So the jury verdict goes to the town's motive. We need some balance, some relationship between what the town wants to accomplish and what's right. Rezoning commercial land for residential use is not right.''
 When asked about the town's motive, Mr. Millus bristled. ''The motive was based on the town's hard work and enormous effort on its 1987 land-use plan,'' he said. ''The motive was to prevent the western part of the town from looking like Hempstead Turnpike, with strip zoning up and down and major traffic nightmares.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Two parcels of land in Suffolk County along Route 25 in Brookhaven Town. The parcels, at Currans Road, top, and at Wading River Hollow Road, were central to a recent legal rezoning challenge on Long Island. (Photographs by Phil Marino for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ZONING (95%); JURY TRIALS (92%); VERDICTS (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); PROPERTY LAW (89%); LAWYERS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); DAMAGES (75%); COSTS & ATTORNEY FEES (75%); SUPREME COURTS (74%); APPEALS (74%); LAW SCHOOLS (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); LITIGATION (73%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); RETAILERS (56%) 

PERSON: Julia C Mead; Parvis Noghrey

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Brookhaven (NY); Brookhaven (NY)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2005



29 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 2, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 445 words

HEADLINE: 2 Companies Plan to Expand And Add Jobs In Hunts Point

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU

 BODY:
Two companies, Baldor Specialty Foods and Anheuser-Busch of New York, will expand their New York City operations as part of the city's redevelopment plans for a wholesale food distribution center in the South Bronx. 
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg announced yesterday that the companies would move to city-owned sites on the Hunts Point peninsula. He said the businesses together would create more than 900 jobs over the next three years, and generate millions of dollars in economic activity.
''Their decisions to expand operations here in Hunts Point are really another great indication of the confidence that businesses have in the future of this community and all of the South Bronx,'' Mr. Bloomberg said at a news conference in Hunts Point. 
 He also seemed to think that the expansion would help the city in its effort to find a new home for about two dozen wholesale produce and ethnic foods merchants being displaced by the redevelopment of the city-owned Bronx Terminal Market into a mall. The Bloomberg administration has repeatedly faced criticism over the project for offering the developers so many incentives and for displacing the merchants.
 Mr. Bloomberg said yesterday that Baldor had agreed to make its current headquarters in Hunts Point available to the merchants at an affordable rent.
 ''This represents an incredible chance for those tenants to move into a safer, cleaner, more attractive environment and accelerate the renovation of the Bronx Terminal Market,'' Mr. Bloomberg said. ''We look forward to working with them to capitalize on this opportunity.''
 But Stanley Mayer, president of the Bronx Terminal Market Preservation Association, said that the merchants had already reviewed the Baldor site along with more than a dozen others. He said that the Baldor site was too small to fit all the merchants, and that the layout--low ceilings, all refrigerated spaces -- was not suited to their businesses. ''It's a beautiful facility, but not for us,'' Mr. Mayer said.
 Baldor, one of the largest importers and distributors of fresh produce in the Northeast, will move next spring into a 185,000-square-foot refrigerated warehouse and distribution building. It will add 450 jobs in the next three years.
 Anheuser-Busch, which currently operates in Long Island City, Queens, will begin construction of a 167,000-square-foot warehouse and distribution center next summer. The company will add 100 jobs and provide temporary construction work for hundreds more.
 Anheuser-Busch will invest $1 million in community projects, including the development of the South Bronx Greenway, a system of recreational trails that will connect parks across the borough.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD INDUSTRY (92%); WHOLESALERS (90%); FOOD WHOLESALERS (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); REFRIGERATED WAREHOUSING (86%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); FRESH FRUIT & VEGETABLE WHOLESALERS (72%) 

COMPANY: ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Baldor Specialty Foods; Anheuser-Busch Companies Inc; Bronx Terminal Market

INDUSTRY: NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (58%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (58%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%) Winnie Hu; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2005



30 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 517 words

HEADLINE: Remorseful or Not, Buyers Start to Return to Japanese Real Estate

BYLINE: By Floyd Norris

 BODY:
IN the United States, there is talk about real estate bubbles. In Japan, there is knowledge, and plenty of it, about what happens after one pops.
 Figures on housing starts released this week in Tokyo provided evidence that the market finally has gotten over the long and painful decline, and that the Japanese are more willing to buy new homes after avoiding them as prices fell for many years. In the 12 months through October, construction began on 1.22 million homes, nearly 8 percent more than at the low point reached in early 2003. 
At the same time, there were limited signs that the growth in the housing market in the United States was leveling off, if not starting to fall. Sales of existing homes came in lower than expected, although new-home sales continue to set records. The number of housing starts in October was a little below the level of a year earlier, and mortgage applications were down. 
 The ingrained beliefs in consumers in the two countries could not be more different. In the United States, houses have been an excellent investment for years, with property values rising rapidly in many markets. The conventional wisdom was that anyone who waited to buy was foolish.
 In Japan, on the other hand, the greatest real estate boom ever seen had, by the late 1980's, led to calculations that the grounds of the Imperial Palace in Tokyo were worth more than the state of California.
 ''That was followed by 15 years of falling prices,'' said Richard Jerram, an analyst for Macquarie Research who is based in Tokyo. In Central Tokyo, he said, apartment prices probably fell 70 percent to 80 percent from top to bottom. Even with rock-bottom interest rates, many thought it foolish to buy a home that was virtually certain to lose value.
 Even now, the prices would not seem cheap to many Americans. Mr. Jerram said a typical Tokyo apartment of 70 square meters, or about 750 square feet, now costs about 40 million yen, or around $330,000. That is affordable to many, given that fixed-rate mortgages are available at 2 percent interest rates.
 But those who bought in the past came to regret the decision. ''You could have paid $1.5 million a few years ago,'' Mr. Jerram said.
 It appears that home prices hit bottom about two years ago, and since then housing starts have gradually revived.
 Over all, Japanese housing starts remain below the levels of 1996, when a planned change in tax law made it seem wise to invest in housing before the law changed. But in the crucial area of housing starts intended for purchase by residents, the number has climbed above 1996 levels.
 Among such housing units, there is also a trend toward what the Japanese call collective housing, the equivalent of condominiums in the United States. During the bubble, many who worked in Tokyo were willing to endure two-hour rail commutes by rail to find affordable housing. Now, with prices down, some of those people appear to be buying new apartments in the city.
 Japan and the United States are half a world apart, geographically. In terms of long-term housing cycles, they may be even more distant.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''As U.S. Boom Slows, Is One Starting in Japan?''In contrast with the United States, the annual rate of total housing starts in Japan has not recovered since the real estate bubble there burst in 1990 . . .. . . but more nonrental housing is being built in Japan, and the number of units is likely to rise above 1996 levels this year.Graph shows the nonrental housing units built in Japan for houses and apartments.Graph shows change in housing starts since 1989 for the U.S. and Japan.(Sources by Haver Analytics, Macquarie Research)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (93%); NEW HOME SALES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); HOUSING STARTS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (89%); HOUSING BUBBLE (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); INTEREST RATES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); PROPERTY TAX (77%); EXISTING HOME SALES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); MARKET SIZE (75%); MORTGAGE LOANS (73%); TRENDS (72%); TAX LAW (60%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2005



31 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; THEATER REVIEW; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 383 words

HEADLINE: Time for Hope, Not Tears, in Upended Lives

 BODY:
The Primary Stages production of ''In the Continuum'' reopened this week at the Perry Street Theater (21 Perry Street, West Village; (212) 868-4444), where it runs through Jan. 14. Following are excerpts from Charles Isherwood's review, which appeared in The New York Times on Oct. 10 after the production's opening at the 59E59 Theaters in Manhattan. The full text is online at nytimes.com/theater. 
 A pair of fiercely talented young women, Danai Gurira and Nikkole Salter, are both the authors and performers of the new play ''In the Continuum,'' a kaleidoscopic portrait of two black women -- one a middle-class wife and mother in Zimbabwe, the other a 19-year-old at loose ends in Los Angeles -- whose lives are suddenly upended by H.I.V. diagnoses.
Moving, spirited and surprisingly funny, the play is anything but bleak, as its subject matter might seem to imply.
 Much has been written about the alarming susceptibility of black women to H.I.V. infection, and its rampaging progress in Africa. But Ms. Gurira and Ms. Salter write the story in flesh and blood -- in the medium of life, which is realized most immediately onstage.
 And life, hard as it has suddenly become for the central characters in ''In the Continuum,'' is never just something to shed tears over.
 The stories of Abigail (Ms. Gurira), a news reader at the government broadcast service in Zimbabwe, and Nia (Ms. Salter), a Nordstrom employee fired for taking a five-finger discount one time too many, proceed along separate tracks that run parallel at telling moments, and intersect, at least on a dramatic plane, at others.
 Ms. Gurira and Ms. Salter underscore the ways in which these women living in disparate cultures, with vastly different economic and social climates, struggle with the same essential quandary: how to move ahead in a world in which everything has changed and yet nothing has changed.
 Their problems have multiplied, but their opportunities are still largely tied to the chance of getting -- or hanging on to -- a male provider, in both cases the man who infected them. 
 Adroitly directed by Robert O'Hara, ''In the Continuum'' humanizes the painful stories it has to tell with such emotional vibrancy that the play leaves behind a warm afterglow, of human struggles explored, illumined and embraced.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Nikkole Salter, left, and Danai Gurira in their play ''In the Continuum.'' (Photo by James Leynse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review; Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); WOMEN (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); WRITERS (75%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (92%); ZIMBABWE (91%); AFRICA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2005



32 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 295 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Football Revival at West Point
After bottoming out in football, Army is trying to revive its athletic programs. Cadets waited to watch the team practice at West Point for today's game against Navy in Philadelphia. PAGE D1

Wide Torture Found in China 

A high-level United Nations investigator condemned the ''widespread'' use of torture in Chinese law enforcement and said Beijing must overhaul its criminal laws, grant more power to judges and abolish labor camps before it can end such abuses, according to a summary of the study's findings. PAGE A3

Texas Redistricting Dispute
The Justice Department acknowledged that top officials had overruled a 2003 determination by its civil rights staff that a Congressional redistricting plan for Texas would violate the voting rights law. PAGE A14

November Job Figure Rises
The government said the nation's employers added 215,000 jobs last month as the economy rebounded from the effect of Hurricane Katrina. BUSINESS DAY, PAGE C1

Hip-Hop Executives Cleared
The brothers Irv and Christopher Gotti were found not guilty of laundering drug money through the hip-hop label Murder Inc. PAGE B1

Partnership for Carnegie Hall
Carnegie Hall and City Center, Midtown neighbors, have announced plans for financial and artistic collaboration. THE ARTS, PAGE B7

THIS WEEKEND

T: Holiday
The New York Times Style Magazine offers a torrent of gift suggestions, both tiny and tall: trinkets, truffles, topiaries, even tractors.

A Dip in the Champagne?
A California spa offers wine in the bath and all manner of grape treatments. The commonplace, wine by the glass, is also an option. TRAVEL

A Coach Who Goes Deep
By pushing the limits of space and time on the gridiron, Mike Leach of Texas Tech is taking the game to some far-out places. MAGAZINE

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo by Suzy Allman for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); VERDICTS (76%); ACQUITTAL (76%); CIVIL RIGHTS (75%); REDISTRICTING (75%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); HIP HOP CULTURE (72%); CRIMINAL LAW (71%); MONEY LAUNDERING (71%); HURRICANE KATRINA (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (88%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2005



33 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-13

10 Marines Die in Iraqi City Taken From Rebels in 2004
Ten Marines were killed by a bomb in Falluja, the worst insurgent attack on American troops since the Marines led an American assault force in recapturing the city in 2004. A1

The thousands of Iraqi police officers and soldiers in Najaf have, by many measures, done well. 
But the city, which President Bush cited Wednesday as evidence of progress toward turning over security to Iraqis, still faces hurdles beyond insurgents. A1

Latin America's Abortion Fight
Women's rights groups across Latin America, which has the developing world's highest rate of abortions despite stringent anti-abortion laws, are mounting challenges in courts to liberalize laws that in some countries ban abortion under any circumstances. A1

Torture in China Condemned
A United Nations investigator condemned the use of torture in Chinese law enforcement and said Beijing must overhaul its criminal laws before it can end such abuses, according to a summary of his findings. A3

Russia and Iran Reach Arms Deal
Russia has agreed to sell antiaircraft missiles to Iran as part of a $1 billion arms deal, Russian news media reported. A10

Bosnia and Terrorist Fears
A recent police raid on an apartment near Sarajevo's airport found evidence of an imminent suicide bombing, raising the fears of Western security services that Bosnia is becoming a haven for Islamic militants. A6

NATIONAL A14-17, 20

Storm's Victims in Limbo, As FEMA Aid Trickles In
Three months after Hurricane Katrina, political figures in New Orleans talk often of the progress that has been made, but hidden behind these sometimes rosy declarations are thousands of people still waiting for FEMA assistance. A1

Louisiana's top election official recommended that New Orleans postpone its February municipal elections for as long as eight months because of the impediments created by Hurricane Katrina. A15

Screening Plan Angers Some
Rejecting criticism from some flight attendants, air marshals and victims of the September 11th attacks, the Transportation Security Administration moved ahead with plans to lift the ban on carrying some scissors and tools aboard airplanes. A16

Judge Defends Abortion Stance
The Supreme Court nominee Samuel A. Alito Jr. told the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee that his ''personal views on a woman's right to choose'' would not affect his judicial decisions. A16

1,000th Execution in U.S.
A North Carolina man became the 1,000th person executed in the United States since the death penalty was reinstated in 1976. A17

Democrats Aim at G.O.P. Turf
Ohio, a Republican-dominated state, has become a Congressional target for Democrats as next year's mid-term elections approach. A1

Beliefs A17

NEW YORK/REGION B1-5

Record Producers Cleared In Money-Laundering Trial
After two days of deliberations by a federal jury, the rap mogul Irv Gotti and his brother Christopher were found not guilty of using the Murder Inc. record label to launder money for a violent drug dealer. B1

Bag Searches Ruled Lawful
A federal judge in Manhattan ruled that random police searches of passengers' bags and backpacks were constitutional as a deterrent to terrorism, rejecting a challenge by the New York Civil Liberties Union. B1

Philanthropist Search Ends
After 18 hours, the Coast Guard called off the search for a twin-engine plane, flown by the philanthropist George F. Baker III, that was reported missing off the coast of Nantucket under cloud-shrouded skies and a light rain on Thursday. B3

Neediest Cases B4

SPORTSSATURDAY D1-8

ARTS B7-16

OBITUARIES C14

Peter D. Eimas
A Brown University scientist who found that babies can distinguish different sounds of speech as early as their first month and published his findings in a groundbreaking study, he was 70. C14

BUSINESS DAY C1-13

Jobs Rebound in November
The nation's employers added 215,000 jobs last month, the government reported, as the economy rebounded from the devastating impact of Hurricane Katrina. C1

President Bush expressed optimism about the nation's economy as the White House and its allies in Congress began a coordinated effort to focus more attention on positive economic developments. C4

The solid employment data failed to extend Wall Street's rally as renewed interest rate concerns spurred profit-taking. C6

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A18-19

Editorials: Judge Alito and abortion; Iraq fixer, no exp. necessary, $1B-up; imported brains; success in city schools.

Columns: Maureen Dowd, John Tierney.

Bridge B15
Crossword B14
TV Listings B16
Weather D10

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (92%); NEWS BRIEFS (91%); ARMS TRADE (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); ABORTION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (89%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (89%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (88%); HURRICANE KATRINA (86%); POLITICAL PARTIES (86%); HURRICANES (86%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); AVIATION SECURITY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); CRIMINAL LAW (76%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (76%); AIRPORTS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS (75%); WOMEN (75%); JUDGES (74%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (73%); CITIES (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (73%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); DISASTER RELIEF (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); MONEY LAUNDERING (67%); TROPICAL STORMS (64%); RELIGION (64%); POLICE FORCES (58%); ANTIAIRCRAFT WEAPONS (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); SAMUEL ALITO (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (71%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); CHINA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2005



34 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: Britain Urges End to Europe's Farm Subsidies

BYLINE: By TOM WRIGHT

 BODY:
Gordon Brown, the chancellor of the British Exchequer, urged yesterday that Europe completely phase out subsidies, price supports and export refunds to its farmers to help unlock stalled global trade talks.
 Speaking at a meeting of the Group of 7 finance ministers and central bankers in London, Mr. Brown proposed that the European Union overhaul what is known as the common agricultural policy, which sets subsidies and tariffs for its 25 member nations.
Representatives from the World Trade Organization countries will meet Dec. 13 in Hong Kong to advance the so-called Doha round of global trade talks. But the talks appear to be foundering as the developing nations insist that the United States and Europe reduce their farm supports, while the industrialized nations demand that the developing countries open their markets to manufactured goods and services. 
 In October, the United States proposed reductions in its farm subsidies that are widely regarded as more ambitious than those offered by Europe. An improved offer from Europe, Mr. Brown said yesterday, is crucial to getting developing nations to agree to open their markets.
 ''Securing a world trade deal is one of the most important tasks, and it is urgent that all countries come together to make that possible,'' Reuters reported him as saying. ''I believe there is a chance for progress if countries worried about services and market access can make some concessions and America and Europe can look again at agricultural protectionism.''
 In reply to Mr. Brown's remarks, Europe's agriculture commissioner, Marian Fischer Boel, said in a statement: ''This is not the right moment. We see this paper as the basis for longer-term deliberations.''
 France, where farmers receive some of the largest subsidies under the policy, had no immediate comment, but Britain's proposal is likely to provoke an uproar. President Jacques Chirac has said that he is not willing to make any cuts in tariffs and subsidies beyond those agreed to by the European nations in 2003.
 But many developing nations regard those cuts as insufficient. A spokesman for the French mission to the European Union in Brussels, Nicolas de la Grandville, yesterday repeated Mr. Chirac's position, saying France remained committed only to the reductions in farm aid already contemplated. 
 Mr. Brown's comments came amid growing divisions within the European Union over economic policy. By making his proposals at a meeting of Group of 7 officials, including United States Treasury Secretary John W. Snow, Mr. Brown took a largely internal European debate to the international stage. The European Union has been unable to agree on a $120 billion budget for 2007-13, and the main obstacle has been a dispute on the support paid to European farmers, which accounts for slightly less than half the budget.
 Though Britain has long favored eliminating European farm aid, from which it derives relatively little benefit, it was the first time it had tied that position to breaking the logjam in trade talks. Britain, which holds the European Union's six-month rotating presidency until the end of the year, has refused to give up its $5 billion annual rebate -- largely related to its meager benefits from farm subsidies -- without a major reworking of the common agricultural policy. 
 Prime Minister Tony Blair, however, is facing pressure to give up part of the rebate as he tries to forge a budget agreement by the end of the year.
 The United States reacted positively to Mr. Brown's proposal. Under W.T.O. rules, ''the E.U. can use up to three and a half times the trade-distorting domestic support that the U.S. can,'' Christin T. Baker, a spokeswoman for the United States trade representative's office, said in a phone conversation in Geneva. ''So calls to further reduce European agriculture subsidies are welcomed.'' 
 Finance ministers and central bankers, who met last night in London and will continue their talks over the weekend, plan to discuss the proposal on the agricultural policy, Mr. Brown added.
 But it remained unclear whether the move by Britain would help kick-start trade discussions, which continued yesterday at a meeting of trade ministers in Geneva. Mr. Mandelson said the Group of 7 interest in trade was welcome.
 He urged the ministers to focus on putting together an aid package to help the world's poorest countries, which stand to lose out from further opening of markets.
 ''If we increase global trading opportunities, as Europe wants,'' Mr. Mandelson said, ''we must do a lot more to help developing countries take advantage of these opportunities.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Preparations were under way on Thursday for a meeting of the General Council of the World Trade Organization in Geneva. Officials hoped to narrow some differences before trade talks this month in Hong Kong. (Photo by Laurent Gillieron/European Pressphoto Agency)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (93%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (92%); TALKS & MEETINGS (92%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); AGRICULTURE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); EXPORT PROMOTION (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (58%)

PERSON: GORDON BROWN (90%); JACQUES CHIRAC (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (78%) EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); FRANCE (93%); HONG KONG (92%); BELGIUM (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2005



35 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 651 words

HEADLINE: Greenspan Points to Danger Of Rising Budget Deficits

BYLINE: By HEATHER TIMMONS

DATELINE: LONDON, Dec. 2 

 BODY:
Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, warned of the dangers of rising budget and trade deficits in two speeches on Friday.
 Speaking at a meeting here of the Group of 7 finance ministers, he said the growing American trade deficit could be ''quite painful'' for the world economy if it was not arrested. He urged the United States and other countries with trade deficits to stop the ''pernicious drift toward fiscal instability.''
If that instability ''is not arrested and is compounded by a protectionist reversal of globalization,'' he went on, ''the adjustment process could be quite painful for the world economy.'' 
 In a separate videotaped speech to the Philadelphia Federal Reserve Bank's policy forum, he said the nation had weathered hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma well and noted that the economy was expanding at a good pace. But he cautioned that the United States budget position ''will substantially worsen in the coming years unless major deficit-reducing actions are taken.''
 Mr. Greenspan, 79, who is leaving his post at the end of January, has been touching on similar themes in recent months. He seems to want to end his career with a firm call for fiscal discipline.
 In the videotaped speech, he said that policy makers needed to restore ''procedural restraints on the budget making process'' that had been ''violated with increasing frequency'' since the end of the 1990's and were allowed to expire in 2002. 
 The nation's budget problems will not be solved just by enacting new rules, Mr. Greenspan added. ''The fundamental fiscal issue is the need to make difficult choices among budget priorities,'' he said, and ''this need is becoming ever more pressing in light of the unprecedented number of individuals approaching retirement age.'' 
 Baby boomers will start retiring in 2008, Mr. Greenspan noted, putting stress on Social Security. In addition, the ''soaring cost of medical care'' for the aging population will place ''enormous demands on our nation's resources.'' 
 He said he did not believe that major increases in taxes were the solution.
 ''Tax increases of sufficient dimension to deal with our looming fiscal problems arguably pose significant risks to economic growth and the revenue base,'' he said, adding that the government should seek to ''close the fiscal gap primarily, if not wholly, from the outlay side.'' 
 Mr. Greenspan also seemed to suggest a later retirement age. ''I fear that we may have already committed more physical resources to the baby boom generation in its retirement years than our economy has the capacity to deliver,'' he said.
 He urged that changes be made ''sooner rather than later'' to the system. ''We owe future retirees as much time as possible to adjust their plans for work, saving and retirement spending,'' he said. 
 Similar discussions are under way in other countries. Earlier this week, Britain's pension commission recommended raising the retirement age to 67 from 65, and possibly higher, to make sure there is enough money in public coffers. 
 In discussing trade deficits in his speech in London, Mr. Greenspan admitted that ''we do not as yet have a firm grasp of the implications of cross-border financial imbalances.'' But, he said, deficits that ''cumulate to ever-increasing net external debt, with its attendant rise in serving costs, cannot persist indefinitely.'' 
 The London meeting was in part a salute to Mr. Greenspan. Sir Alan, as he is known in Britain (he was knighted in 2002 for his contributions to the world's economic security), was given several gifts by Britain's finance minister, Gordon Brown, including a handwritten copy of the Stamp Act, which helped spur the American Revolution, and a handwritten record of the dividend paid to George and Martha Washington by the Bank of England from a bond that raised money to pay the cost of keeping British troops in the United States.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Mervyn A. King, left, governor of the Bank of England, gave Alan Greenspan a traditional British dispatch box yesterday at the Group of 7 finance ministers meeting in London. (Photo by Toby Melville/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); RETIREMENT AGE (88%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (88%); AGING (85%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); SOCIAL SECURITY (67%); BABY BOOMERS (67%); TAX INCREASES (64%); AGING TRENDS (62%); TAX LAW (60%); HURRICANE KATRINA (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (70%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (70%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2005



36 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 328 words

 BODY:

HAPPY TIMES -- The economy's strong performance continues to surprise just about everybody. This week, the news came out that consumer confidence surged in November; that the economy grew at a revised 4.3 percent annual rate in the third quarter, the fastest pace in a year and a half; that retail sales were robust and the housing market remained reasonably healthy despite a lot of gloomy talk. On Tuesday, we can revisit some of those trends with the release of a major store-sales index, a retail-sales index, October factory orders and the ABC-Washington Post consumer-confidence index. 


SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY SEMINAR -- Chip companies will announce breakthroughs and sages will impart wisdom at the three-day International Electron Devices Meeting that opens Monday in Washington. At the conference, sponsored by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Neil Gershenfeld, director of the Center for Bits and Atoms at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, will give a keynote speech on the relationship of digital bits and atoms.

SIGNUPNOW.EU -- The European Union's ''.eu'' regional domain name opens Wednesday for registration by businesses and government agencies, and a spokesman for the E.U. said several hundred thousand applications were expected to be filed in the first few days. For those that make the switch, the .eu affix will replace national domans like .es for spain, or the international .com. Registration for the general public begins on April 7. Separately, Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain, above, says he hopes to reach an agreement with the other E.U. members this week on cutting the bloc's 2007-13 budget, including reductions in agricultural subsidies.

NOBEL CEREMONIES -- The 2005 Nobel prizes will be distributed in Oslo and Stockholm on Saturday. The economics award went to two game-theory experts, Robert J. Aumann, 75, of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem and Thomas C. Schelling, 84, of the University of Maryland.

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (92%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (88%); NOBEL PRIZES (86%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); TRENDS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); ELECTRONICS (76%); COMPUTER CHIPS (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); BUDGETS (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); DOMAIN NAMES (71%); FACTORY ORDERS (70%); SPONSORSHIP (68%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (66%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (64%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (50%); AGRICULTURE (50%) United States Economy; Consumer Confidence (Economic Indicator); Retail Stores and Trade; Sales; Computers and the Internet; Computer Chips; Conventions and Conferences; Nobel Prizes

COMPANY: INSTITUTE OF ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONICS ENGINEERS INC (69%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (82%); INSTITUTE OF ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONICS ENGINEERS (56%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (56%) European Union

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (50%) Mark Stein

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) EUROPE (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); SPAIN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (54%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2005



37 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1395 words

HEADLINE: Buying Used Just Could Turn Out to Be the Next New Thing 

BYLINE: By DAMON DARLIN

 BODY:
The idea of buying used goods, especially when advanced around the holidays, sounds rather pathetic, as if one is living a real-life version of a Charlie Brown Christmas. Who would want something used?
 The answer is anyone who wants to save money. In a host of categories, from books to compact discs to cars, it doesn't make sense to buy new anymore. Now, there are robust marketplaces for used products, which are just as good and significantly cheaper. New technologies make it easier for shoppers to compare prices from a large number of sellers. 
Certainly we can thank eBay for helping us to redistribute the contents of our attics and garages and make money doing it. But the movement of used products, once sold through a daily newspaper's classified ads, to the Web allows the buyer to obtain better prices because the choices are more extensive. Think how Alibris.com or Amazon.com have radically changed the buying and selling of used books. While there are some categories you never want to buy used -- pillows or toothbrushes -- there are enough these days that you won't feel pathetic doing so.

BOOKS -- It was not so long ago that if you wanted to buy used books that didn't smell like grandma's house, you had to plan a trip to the Strand in Manhattan. It specializes in reselling new copies sent to reviewers. (It is always amazing to see how many copies are never even opened.) The Internet has created a marketplace for any title, popular or obscure. Amazon has jumped into the business in the belief that an active market for used books can stimulate the sale of new books. Services like Alibris.com allow you to search for the unusual book and link you with a buyer or seller.

CD's -- Before downloading music from the Internet became the norm, the best way to buy music CD's was in the used CD's bin. You will probably never even play any of the CD's you buy these days. You take them home, rip (copy) the contents onto your PC, and then take them back to the store to get most of your money back. And someone else can buy it and rip it and still pay less than they would downloading the songs from iTunes at 99 cents a pop.
 Watch this happen to DVD movies. Since the discs take a considerable amount of abuse, grabbing used DVD's that sell for less than half the price of new movies makes a lot of sense. ''The Incredibles'' costs $19.49 new on Amazon, but less than $12 used, also through Amazon. If you type in the phrase ''used DVD'' on Google, you'll get scores of online merchants specializing in used goods.
 As a rule of thumb, whenever there is a vibrant rental market, as there is with DVD's, you are probably going to find a strong market for used goods. If you can rent a tuxedo or a rototiller, you can find a ready market for used versions. That's certainly true of video games. The price of newly released video game discs is now pushing $60. Thanks to the short attention span of many gamers, stores like EB Games will quickly stock preplayed versions of the latest games. You may have to wait a week to get the hottest game, but you'll have $20 more in your pocket.

ELECTRONICS -- The bargains aren't just in content. You can also save money buying used electronics. As with cars, there is a high risk of getting a lemon. With a car you can always pay a mechanic. But you can't really hire an electronic engineer to check the quality of the cellphone or digital voice recorder.
 But the fear of an electronic device breaking down is largely misplaced. Think about the last time you tossed away an electronic product. Was it because it didn't work or because the technology was superseded by something faster or better? With product cycles of less than a year, more often than not, it is the latter. 
 If the thought of carrying around anything less than an iPod Nano is just too unsettling, there is another category of used goods to consider -- the refurbished. Manufacturers discount these products because they have been returned by an unsatisfied customer and they can't sell an unsealed box as new. (That usually means the customer found the product cheaper someplace else and got his money back, not that it didn't work.) 
 You'll find deals on refurbished products on almost every manufacturer's Web site. For example, this week, Apple was selling a 40-gigabyte iPod for $269 compared with the original price of $499. Sorry, no iPod Nanos were being offered. 

EXERCISE EQUIPMENT -- You know that Lifecycle in the bedroom? The one you use as a clothes hanger? Think how many people are doing the same thing. Used exercise equipment is typically lightly used. The problem is that because machines are heavy and bulky, they aren't something one sells on eBay with the greatest of ease. Prices for used equipment can vary widely so if you are shopping through classified ads, or an online version like Craigslist, it pays to study the market until you get a sense of the average price.

USING EBAY -- The online auction house, of course, is an obvious way to buy used electronics, or anything used for that matter, including cars. Here are a few things to think about. Shady dealers do use eBay, so pay close attention to their ratings. You ought to be wary of anyone, particularly a high-volume ''power seller,'' with a rating of less than 99 percent. You should certainly be leery of anyone with less than 95 percent.
 Another problem for an eBay buyer is the time it takes to learn what is a good price for a given product. You could very well watch auctions for several days or weeks before you get a sound idea. EBay has a solution in a new product called Market Research, which harvests the site's immense database of transactions. EBay designed the product for sellers, who can use it to figure out the best time to offer a product and whether putting a listing in bold type increases the average price enough to justify the added cost. 
 Buyers can use Market Research, too. It costs $25 a month, but the company offers a ''fast pass'' two-day subscription for $3 and a 30-day pass for $10. (You can find it at www.ebay.com/marketplace-research.) You type in the name of the product and it will show you the average selling price over time as well as the number of products being sold. You can massage the data various ways (there's a tutorial on the site if you get confused) to tell you what the average price is, whether the price is moving up or down, and whether the price improves on certain days. If your time is valuable or the price of the product you want justifies the added cost, it could be worth using. 

CARS. Technology has radically changed the way we buy a car. If you walk into a dealership without first downloading the invoice price information on a new car from a site like Consumer Reports, you are acting foolishly. The availability of information about how much a dealer is paying for a car has made the experience more enjoyable.
 That's not going to be the case when buying a used car. It's still perilous. Almost everyone has heard that a new car loses an average of 12 percent of its value the moment it is driven off the dealer's lot. Economists tell us this happens not because the new car is losing a premium, but rather that the used car carries a ''risk discount.'' That's because it is hard for a buyer of a used car to trust a seller, who could very well be passing off a lemon he just bought new. So used cars are more heavily discounted for the risk.
 Getting a good price boils down to whether you have better information than the seller. One way to even the odds is to check a service like Carfax to trace a car's history. A number of consumer groups have issued warnings about used cars that were damaged byHurricane Katrina entering the market. Although several of the leading insurance companies have said they are destroying the damaged cars to prevent this, there are a number of ways that unscrupulous sellers can ''wash'' a car's history. The solution? Find someone you can trust. Buy ''certified'' used cars and work with a dealer who also sells new cars. He may have more of a reputation to protect. 
 Also consider that a used luxury car may actually be a better bet than a used economy car. Drivers of luxury cars tend to be a bit more fashion conscious so they will unload a car for the next new thing long before the car has hit that critical point of things starting to go wrong.


GRAPHIC: Photos: New books versus used books: they tell the same story, but why might a previous owner want to highlight every line of every page? (Photo by Matthew Staver for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 Buying used has been with us for years, but the used CD market has a more questionable side: buy the CD, copy it and then return it for a refund. (Photo by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)(Photo by Matthew Staver for The New York Times)(pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET AUCTIONS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); MUSIC (85%); INTERNET AUDIO (78%); AUCTIONS (78%); CHRISTMAS (78%); INTERNET RETAILING (75%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (74%); LITERATURE (72%); MOVIE REVIEWS (71%) Retail Stores and Trade; Computers and the Internet; Books and Literature; Music; Recordings (Audio); Compact Discs; Electronics; Exercise; Machinery and Equipment; Auctions; Retail Stores and Trade; Used Cars

COMPANY: AMAZON.COM INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Ebay.com

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (56%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2005



38 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; WHAT'S ONLINE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 654 words

HEADLINE: Eyeballs Are Back, or Maybe Not 

BYLINE: By DAN MITCHELL

 BODY:
THE blog pioneer Jason Calacanis, who sold his Weblogs Inc. to America Online in October, took exception this week to an article in Business 2.0 by Om Malik, a technology journalist and blogger. 
 The title of Mr. Malik's article, ''The Return of Monetized Eyeballs,'' could send shivers down the spine of anyone who suffered through the Internet bubble's half-decade of buzzwords. Mr. Malik proposes that the recent acquisitions of small Web outfits by big companies is a sign that counting ''eyeballs'' -- the Web term for human beings -- is once again becoming a legitimate measure for assessing the value of Web properties.
At the height of the bubble, when revenues were paltry and profits nonexistent, eyeballs were counted because there was nothing else to count -- money, for example. Things have changed, according to Mr. Malik, who writes on his blog (gigaom.com): ''This time, the buyout metrics are slightly different'' thanks to ''new variables like cost of customer acquisition and stickiness.'' 
 Well, maybe. But during the bubble when a marketer said the word eyeballs, you just knew the next word out of his or her mouth would be stickiness. 
 Mr. Calacanis, who spoke with Mr. Malik for his article, was having none of it. ''Om, you know I love you, but this is absurd,'' he writes on his blog (calacanis.com). ''No one in the marketplace is buying things based on eyeballs -- no one. It's all based on revenue.''

'INFOMERCIALTAINMENT' -- Tivo and other makers of digital video recorders face a quandary: one selling point of the machines is that they allow users to skip commercials, but that makes programmers and advertisers unhappy.
 Tivo proposed a partial solution this week: let viewers search for ads they want to see. In a partnership with the cable giant Comcast and several big ad buyers (Interpublic and Omnicom among them), Tivo says that by next spring, users will be able to set up profiles or enter keywords to watch ads they want to see.
 Todd Chanko, an analyst with Jupiter Research (jupiterresearch.com), is skeptical that Tivo users ''are going to use their time-shifting, ad-mutating (if not entirely ad-destroying) device to watch more ads.'' For someone seeking information on a product, ''surely watching a TiVo-targeted ad is not the best option.''
 But maybe it is, according to Mr. Chanko's colleague at Jupiter, David Card. He points out that Americans spend $3 billion to $4 billion every year on infomercials. The conversion rates, or percentage of viewers who actually buy, are ''famously high,'' Mr. Card writes. ''What do you think the Food Network is, anyway? And the Travel Channel. Branded entertainment? Infomercialtainment? Whatever.'' 
 With more and more people using technology to block ads, it is ''definitely time to start thinking creatively.''

CHINA AND STEEL -- Thanks to China's growth, steel makers have won a respite from their downward spiral. But don't expect that to last, says The Economist magazine's online Global Agenda (economist.com). And China itself is the reason. ''Burgeoning Chinese steel production threatens to flood the market and test whether sheer size will offer any protection to the world's steel giants.''

SWEET CENSORSHIP -- Mars Inc. came up with a cute idea for its M&M's Candies Web site (shop2.mms.com) -- allowing users to order their candy with customized messages printed on them. But there are a few restrictions: ''No business names, product names, celebrity names, specific sports teams, major events, landmarks, names of schools or institutions,'' the site warns. Also, no obscenities, and no religious or political phrases. The rules pose a real challenge, but Mars helpfully provides a list of examples of how to abide by them: Instead of ''Mount St. Helens'' customers could use ''Thar She Blows!'' And rather than ''Johns Hopkins,'' how about ''Marry a Doctor''? On second thought, how about a Hershey bar? DAN MITCHELL


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Alex Eben Meyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (91%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); CD & DVD DRIVES (89%); DIGITAL RECORDERS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (86%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); WRITERS (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (76%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (76%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (68%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (68%); CONFECTIONERY MFG (68%); CABLE TELEVISION (68%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (67%); INFOMERCIALS (67%); DIRECT RESPONSE TELEVISION (58%) Computers and the Internet; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Television; Advertising and Marketing; Digital Video Recorders; Blogs and Blogging (Internet); Computers and the Internet; Steel and Iron; Production; Candy; International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: AOL INC (58%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (53%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Tivo (Co); Comcast Corp; Jupiter Research; Economist (Magazine); Mars Inc

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (58%); OMC (NYSE) (53%); IPG (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (58%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (58%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (53%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (53%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: Jason Mccabe Calacanis; todd chanko; Dan Mitchell

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%) China

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2005



39 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 950 words

HEADLINE: Jobs Surged Last Month In Rebound From Storm 

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
The nation's employers added 215,000 jobs last month, the government reported yesterday, as the economy rebounded from the devastating impact of Hurricane Katrina. 
 The strong November number, the biggest monthly increase since July, suggested that employers are scrambling for workers in response to a strongly growing economy. But on the fourth anniversary of the recovery from the 2001 recession, job growth is still below the levels achieved in previous recoveries, and the unemployment rate has been stuck at 5 percent nearly every month since June.
''We're back on track after the ill effects of the hurricanes,'' said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Economy.com, referring to Wilma, which hit southern Florida in late October, as well as Katrina in late August. ''But it is also fair to conclude that global competition and corporate layoffs are weighing on job growth.'' 
 In releasing the employment data for November, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported that at least 900,000 people age 16 or older -- one-third of them black -- evacuated in August because of Hurricane Katrina and that half had returned by last month. Most apparently came back to jobs.
 The unemployment rate among the returnees was 12.5 percent, while 27.8 percent of those still living elsewhere were unemployed. Hundreds of thousands of other evacuees simply dropped out of the labor force, not even seeking a job, which is necessary to be listed as unemployed. 
 The November surge in hiring was widespread, covering nearly two-thirds of the nation's industries, the best showing since May of last year. It came after two months in which only 61,000 new jobs were created, because of the hurricanes, and it dispelled concerns that hiring would continue to lag despite robust economic growth.
 The White House reacted quickly. ''The economy is in good shape,'' President Bush said in a Rose Garden appearance shortly after the bureau released the November numbers. He declared that the future of the economy is ''as bright as it's been in a long time.'' [Page C4.] 
 Stock and bond prices barely moved yesterday. That was mainly because ''this was one of those rare occasions when forecasters accurately anticipated the numbers,'' said Stuart G. Hoffman, chief economist at the PNC Bank Corporation, including himself among the accurate forecasters.
 The latest employment numbers seemed to track the overall economy. The gross domestic product grew at a 4.3 percent annual rate in the third quarter, the government said on Tuesday. Much of that strength was in construction and in business spending on computers and electronics, and that is where hiring was strong in November.
 ''This is very much the type of job report you would expect coming off a strong quarter,'' said Jared Bernstein, a senior labor economist at the Economic Policy Institute, a research organization.
 Construction jobs grew by 37,000, on top of 35,000 in October, much of it related to housing, but also to the rebuilding of roads and utilities after Hurricane Katrina, Kathleen P. Utgoff, commissioner of the Bureau of Labor Statistics, said. 
 Manufacturers added 11,000 jobs in November, on top of 15,000 in October, the first back-to-back monthly gain in more than a year for a sector that has lost 1.6 million jobs since the start of the recovery in November 2001. 
 The big manufacturing gains last month were in the production of wood products, in computers and electronic equipment, and in food processing, reflecting perhaps a rebound in a sector hurt by Hurricane Katrina.
 The stepped-up business investment was evident in job growth in the service sector, in a category called professional and business services, which added 29,000 white-collar jobs, including 5,000 in computer design as well as 6,000 in architectural services.
 The biggest gain, however -- 39,000 jobs -- was in food services, mainly restaurants and bars, which ''got whacked by the hurricane and its impact on tourism,'' as Nigel Gault, chief domestic economist at Global Insight, put it. 
 ''We are now at the point where Hurricane Katrina's effects are adding to job creation rather than detracting from it,'' Mr. Gault said. 
 Some economists attributed the hiring rebound to the recent decline in energy prices, particularly the price of gasoline, which they said freed money for spending and improved the confidence of both consumers and corporate executives.
 Whatever the reasons, job creation is still off the pace of earlier recoveries going back to the 1960's. Four years into the current one, employment has grown 2.6 percent. That compares with 7.6 percent for the first four years of the early 1990's recovery, the second weakest, Mr. Bernstein reported. 
 The increased hiring was reflected in the average hourly wage of production workers, who constitute 80 percent of the work force. It rose by 3 cents, to $16.32, on top of a 10-cent rise in October. The latest increase brought the year-over-year wage gain to 3.2 percent.
 That is less than the inflation rate of 4.3 percent, as measured by the Consumer Price Index through October, but it ''suggests that workers are taking advantage of a tighter labor market to secure wage gains,'' said Dean Baker, co-director of the Center for Economic and Policy Research. 
 The worst news in the November report concerned blacks. Their unemployment rate jumped to 10.6 percent from 9.1 percent in October. That might reverse itself in December. But on top of the national setback, unemployment surged among blacks who evacuated the New Orleans area to escape Hurricane Katrina and have not yet returned. 
 That rate was 47 percent in November compared with 13 percent for whites who have not gone back.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Checking out the job classified ads at a resource center in Manhattan. The economy added 215,000 jobs in November, the most since July. (Photo by Michael Nagle for the New York Times)(pg. C4)Chart: ''The Labor Picture in November''Graph shows Unemployment rate (5.0 percent) since '05.BY DEMOGRAPHICSWhiteNOV.: 4.31-MONTH CHANGE: -0.11-YEAR CHANGE: -0.3BlackNOV.: 10.61-MONTH CHANGE: +1.51-YEAR CHANGE: -0.2Hispanic*NOV.: 61-MONTH CHANGE: +0.21-YEAR CHANGE: -0.7Asian +NOV.: 3.61-MONTH CHANGE: +0.51-YEAR CHANGE: -0.6Teenagers (16-19)NOV.: 17.21-MONTH CHANGE: +1.31-YEAR CHANGE: +0.7DURATION OF UNEMPLOYMENTIn weeksAverageNOV.: 17.71-MONTH CHANGE: -2.21-YEAR CHANGE: -10.6MedianNOV.: 8.51-MONTH CHANGE: -1.21-YEAR CHANGE: -13.3SHARE OF POPULATIONEmployedNOV.: 62.81-MONTH CHANGE: -0.11-YEAR CHANGE: +0.3Labor force (workers and unemployed)NOV.: 66.11-MONTH CHANGE: Unch.1-YEAR CHANGE: Unch.'HIDDEN' UNEMPLOYMENT (In millions)Working part time, but want full-time workNOV.: 4.21-MONTH CHANGE: -1.9%1-YEAR CHANGE: -6.0%People who currently want a job<7>NOV.: 4.5+1-MONTH CHANGE: -6.91-YEAR CHANGE: +0.9UNEMPLOYED BY EDUCATION LEVELLess than high schoolNOV.: 7.4%1-MONTH CHANGE: +0.31-YEAR CHANGE: -0.6High schoolNOV.: 4.81-MONTH CHANGE: Unch.1-YEAR CHANGE: -0.1Some collegeNOV.: 3.81-MONTH CHANGE: Unch.1-YEAR CHANGE: -0.5Bachelor's or higherNOV.: 2.31-MONTH CHANGE: Unch.1-YEAR CHANGE: -0.2BY TYPE OF WORK (In millions)NonfarmNOV.: 134.31-MONTH CHANGE: +0.2%1-YEAR CHANGE: +1.5%GoodsNOV.: 22.31-MONTH CHANGE: +0.2%1-YEAR CHANGE: +1.2%ServicesNOV.: 112.01-MONTH CHANGE: +0.1%1-YEAR CHANGE: +1.6%AgricultureNOV.: 2.21-MONTH CHANGE: +1.6%1-YEAR CHANGE: -2.5Graph shows Nonfarm payroll, 12-month change and Employment for this year.AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGSRank-and-file workersNOV.: $549.981-MONTH CHANGE: -0.1%1-YEAR CHANGE: +3.2%Note: figures are seasonally adjusted, except where noted.*Hispanics can be of any race.+Not seasonally adjusted.<7>People not working who say they would like to. Includes discouraged workers or those who cannot work for reasons including ill health.(Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (91%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); WEATHER (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); STATISTICS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); RECESSION (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); LAYOFFS (71%); BONDS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); BOND MARKETS (50%) Labor; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Wilma (Storm); Unemployment; Labor

COMPANY: PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (62%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (83%) Labor Department (US)

TICKER: PNC (NYSE) (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (62%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (62%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JARED BERNSTEIN (58%) Louis Uchitelle

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) Gulf of Mexico; Louisiana; Florida; New Orleans (La); Mississippi

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2005



40 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; FIVE DAYS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 953 words

HEADLINE: Just When Consumers Feel ConfidentWham

BYLINE: By Mark A. Stein

 BODY:
MURKY, often conflicting signals about the holiday shopping season and gyrating energy prices drained some of the fun out of good news about the economy and consumer confidence this week.
 A week after General Motors announced its reorganization plan, another corporate giant -- Merck -- took significant steps to right itself. But as with G.M., analysts and investors were initially disappointed that the changes at Merck were not more sweeping and radical.

BARGAIN HUNTING -- Images of wild-eyed shoppers racing into stores before dawn on the day after Thanksgiving gave many people hope for a robust holiday shopping season, and many retailers did indeed say that business was good that day. But as time passed, the picture grew cloudier.
Electronics sales were brisk, particularly for iPod music players and Xbox 360 video game consoles, but otherwise shoppers were holding out for deep discounts. That helped lift sales at Wal-Mart and to a lesser extent at Target, but hurt high-end department stores. Sales at Nordstrom stores rose only 2.8 percent, well shy of the 4.6 percent that analysts had expected, and Federated Department Stores' flagship chains, Macy's and Bloomingdale's, reported that sales actually fell, by 3.4 percent. 
 Over all, the picture was just as mixed. The National Retail Federation estimated that spending rose 22 percent on the first weekend of the season, based on its survey of more than 4,000 consumers. But ShopperTrak RCT said its survey of actual sales at 45,000 retail outlets showed sales for the first Friday and Saturday slipped 0.5 percent from the period last year.
 Some salvation may come over the Internet. The number of people visiting the Web sites of Target, Wal-Mart and Circuit City doubled over Thanksgiving week, according to Nielsen/NetRatings, an Internet market research firm. Video games and other consumer electronics were by far the most popular items.

BITTER PILL -- Faced with a dwindling number of exclusive prescription drugs and uncertain potential legal liability for the health risks posed by its Vioxx painkiller, Merck said it would cut 7,000 jobs and close 5 of its 31 drug-making factories to reduce its costs and try to bolster its profits.
 Including severance pay and other items, the restructuring will cost $1.8 billion to $2.2 billion by the end of 2008, the company said, but would save $3.5 billion to $4 billion before taxes in the next five years. 
 Richard T. Clark, who promised big changes when he became chief executive in May, said Merck was also looking at changing how it develops and markets drugs, and would provide more details at the annual meeting with analysts on Dec. 15.

MOUNTAINS OF MONEY -- A team of five private-equity firms led by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company and the Blackstone Group, bought Denmark's largest telephone company, TDC, for $12 billion in cash.
 The deal was the largest in a recent string of takeovers by private-equity firms, which are prowling for businesses that generate a lot of cash but have relatively little debt. Analysts said more such deals are likely soon because several of these firms, which invest money for wealthy individuals and institutional investors like pension funds, have accumulated billions of dollars in capital.
 Blackstone, for example, is raising about $12.5 billion in what would be the world's biggest buyout fund. 
 Potential targets include other former telephone monopolies in Europe, among them Eircom in Ireland and KPN in the Netherlands.

FOOD FRAUD SETTLEMENT -- Royal Ahold, the Dutch company that owns Stop & Shop, Giant and other major supermarket chains in the United States, agreed to pay its shareholders $1.1 billion to settle class-action lawsuits over a $500 million accounting fraud at an American food-distribution subsidiary.
 The settlement will not end Ahold's worries, however. Four of its former officials still face criminal fraud charges in the Netherlands. Its former chief executive, Cees van der Hoeven, and chief financial officer, A. Michiel Meurs, are scheduled to go on trial next year. Both men have denied the charges. In addition, the United States Justice Department and Dutch regulators are still investigating the company itself. 
 Ahold's accounting firm at the time of the scandal, Deloitte & Touche, was not a party to the shareholders' settlement and could still be sued. Deloitte has denied any wrongdoing in the past, saying it was deceived by Ahold's executives. 

GOOD NEWS, FOR NOW -- Sliding energy prices last month helped to ignite a rally in consumer confidence just as the government was raising its estimate of how fast the economy is growing, to a vigorous annual rate of 4.3 percent.
 But worries about accelerating inflation may kill the party by pushing the Federal Reserve to continue raising interest rates well into 2006, economists said. That would hit manufacturers, discourage consumers and further rattle the already wobbly housing market, where sales of existing homes are slowing even as new-home sales still rise.
 If the housing market does slump, discouraging consumer spending, the effect on the broad economy may not be felt until the second half of next year because the federal government and insurance companies will be spending billions on hurricane rebuilding in the first half, economists said. 

MOST VIEWED -- Following are the most viewed articles from Nov. 26 to Dec. 2:
 1. Gimme an Rx! Cheerleaders Pep Up Drug Sales
 2. Pension Officers Putting Billions Into Hedge Funds
 3. Reading X-Rays in Asbestos Suits Enriched Doctor
 4. Writing the Fastest Code, by Hand, for Fun: A Human Computer Keeps Speeding Up Chips
 5. Mall Stores See Trouble in Sales Data 1.

Links are at nytimes.com/business.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Discount retailers like this Wal-Mart in Sebring, Fla., did robust business the day after Thanksgiving. (Photo by Kathy Waters/Highlands Today, via Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (92%); LAYOFFS (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (89%); THANKSGIVING (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); INTERNET & WWW (86%); NONSTEROIDAL ANTI-INFLAMMATORY DRUGS (85%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (78%); DIVESTITURES (77%); ELECTRONICS (77%); ETHICS (77%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (75%); LITIGATION (74%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (74%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); PRIVATE EQUITY (71%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (69%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (68%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (66%); ARTHRITIS (66%); SEVERANCE PAY (60%) Retail Stores and Trade; Sales; Thanksgiving Day; Vioxx (Drug); Arthritis and Rheumatism; Liability for Products; Heart; Stroke; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Retail Stores and Trade; Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Factories and Industrial Plants; Shutdowns (Institutional); Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Telephones and Telecommunications; Frauds and Swindling; Suits and Litigation; Retail Stores and Trade; Accounting and Accountants; United States Economy; Consumer Confidence (Economic Indicator); Housing; Consumer Behavior; Retail Stores and Trade; Ethics

COMPANY: MACY'S INC (92%); MERCK & CO INC (85%); KKR & CO LP (60%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RETAIL FEDERATION (54%) Merck & Co Inc; Tdc; Royal Ahold Nv; Apax Partners & Co; Blackstone Group; Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co; Permira; Providence Equity Partners

TICKER: M (NYSE) (92%); MRK (PAR) (85%); MRK (NYSE) (85%); KKR (NYSE) (60%); GM (NYSE) (58%); BX (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (92%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (92%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (85%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (60%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (60%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (50%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (50%)

PERSON: RICHARD T CLARK (57%) Mark A Stein

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Denmark

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2005



41 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1351 words

HEADLINE: A Carnival of Art, Money, Surf and Sand

BYLINE: By ROBERTA SMITH

DATELINE: MIAMI, Dec. 2 

 BODY:
Miami the first week in December is something like an opening of the Venice Biennale without the biennale, a decentralized sprawling mass of excitement and display, plus lots of disposable wealth. It is the art world's version of Mardi Gras, and not surprisingly, the word carnival is ubiquitous in conversation. 
 Everyone seems to understand that all art world eyes are briefly on Miami. The Guggenheim Museum held a party here last night to announce the shortlist of nominees for its Hugo Boss Prize. The Whitney Museum timed the announcement of its 2006 biennial artists to coincide with the events here, which raised a few eyebrows. Art Basel Miami Beach opened at the Miami Beach Convention Center on Wednesday afternoon. By noon on Thursday at least five smaller art fairs had followed suit -- NADA, Scope, Pulse, Aqua and Frisbee -- bringing the total of visiting art galleries camped out in varying degrees of comfort here to around 500. 
The museum delegations -- directors, curators and some 90 groups, according to Art Basel Miami Beach -- were also in motion, touring the fairs or heading for various local museums, foundations and private collections where fresh exhibitions and baked goods were at the ready. There is a beautiful exhibition of paintings by the German bad boy Albert Oehlen at the Museum of Contemporary Art and an imposing show of videos and drawings by William Kentridge at Miami Art Central, which the collector Ella Fontanals Cisneros founded two years ago. Another equally Cisneros space, the Cisneros Fontanals Art Foundation, opened for the first time on Thursday with an extensive exhibition of recent video and photography.
 By Thursday night, more exhibitions had opened in the Miami Design District, including big shows organized by Deitch Projects of Manhattan and Pierogi of Brooklyn, and at the Moore Space, the brainchild and ward of the collector Rosa de la Cruz -- all in commercial spaces made available by the collector and real estate entrepreneur Craig Robins.
 The Miami phenomenon is a dish with many chefs, not the least of whom are the city's private collectors, who seem to have DNA from both Charles Saatchi and Gertrude Vanderbilt Whitney. But the one who originally turned on the heat is Samuel Keller, director of the prestigious Art Basel fair in Switzerland.
 In 2000, Mr. Keller decided to start a fair in the United States and chose the least Swiss city he could find: a place with a decided Latin beat, where sun, surf and skin are the hedonistic norm, horizontality rules the geological terrain and real estate is still relatively cheap. Now in its fourth hugely successful incarnation, Art Basel Miami Beach is the only world class art fair with beach in its name, brought to you by a company from the planet's most efficient landlocked country.
 ''Sam Keller didn't just change art fairs; he changed the art world,'' said Thea Westreich, a New York art adviser, while waiting for her luggage at Miami International Airport on Tuesday night.
 Less than 48 hours, but miles of art later, Mr. Keller politely demurred. A trim man with a shaved head, he was standing near the entrance to the art-filled house of Rosa and Carlos de la Cruz overlooking Biscayne Bay. ''I didn't change anything, but I tried to stay very close to the changes,'' he said. ''We've learned from the people who criticize us, who didn't want to go. Fairs need to make economic sense, but they also need to make cultural sense.''
 It is clear that a lot of economic sense is being made. Although the sales tend to decrease as you move down the art-fair food chain, and dealers are almost uniformly sunny in their pronouncements to roving journalists, quite a bit of money has been changing hands. As the London (former New York) dealer Kenny Schachter said to The Art Newspaper, which goes from a monthly to daily publication during the Basel fairs, ''$25 million is the new million.''
 At Art Basel Miami Beach, which ends on Sunday, a somewhat disenchanted art collector said, ''People will buy anything with paint on it,'' while confessing that he had just bought a painting himself. But he added, alluding to the high prices and big spenders, ''For the not-rich guys like me, it's not so much fun anymore.''
 Yet some people appear to be having fun. At Art Basel Miami Beach, the colorful abstract paintings of Mary Heilmann are installed on walls whose bright colors Ms. Heilmann had selected herself. Up and down the aisles, the generations and styles fluctuate wildly. You may find a quiet eddy, as in a small room of early Dubuffets or a cluster of works by Max Ernst at Hopkins-Custot.
 On the fair's outer perimeter, the Art Nova section has the younger invited dealers, and things are less predictable. At Andrew Kreps, the performance artist Jamie Eisenstein is spending quite a bit of time in a soft-sided suitcase that she had laboriously turned inside out. According to her thinking, everything in the world was contained by the suitcase, except her. At Baudach, the romantic grisaille paintings of Thomas Zipp make an impression, especially once you notice that they are all tied compositionally into the large reproduction of a Jackson Pollock painting, also grisaille, behind them.
 An interesting sign of the times: at Art Basel Miami Beach, I found my first museum booth. It belongs to New York City's own Museo del Barrio, represented by Beatriz de la Mora, the museum's associate director, who is sharing the space with an art installation from its permanent collection by Charles Juhasz-Alvarado. Calling the fair ''a wonderful proposition for us,'' Ms. de la Mora said, ''The art fairs have a tremendous appeal to people who are afraid of museums'' and added that part of her mission was to ''take the fear out of 104th Street.''
 The scene is more consistently rough around the edges and younger at NADA (New Art Dealers Alliance), where the floor is concrete, not carpeted; the lights flickered repeatedly on opening night; and the best food of any of the fairs comes from a Cuban-food truck parked out back.
 At NADA, a question about unfamiliar work by an unknown artist can elicit the answer, ''She's going to be in the Whitney Biennial.'' That's how Francisco Rovira, a 26-year-old dealer from San Juan, P.R., identified Carolina Caycedo, the maker of a banner that said, aptly, ''Immigrants Change Home Cultures,'' and of a bright jukebox whose pulsating music turned out to be reggaeton. The jukebox holds the entire history of this 15-year genre, which blends reggae, dance music and hip-hop. And yes, there's a good chance you'll see, and hear it, at the Whitney.
 In many ways what is going on around the fairs is as interesting as what's in them. In opening their houses and warehouses to the public this week, collectors are essentially enthusiastically demonstrating art's private uses -- ''Try this at home!'' But there's also a significant conversation about time, installation and taste going on.
 The warehouse holding the collection of Don and Mera Rubell, transplanted New Yorkers, combines the pristine finish and the curatorial sharpness of a top-level museum. On view is an excellent show of Keith Haring's early work; a so-so but informative one of young Polish painters; and ''Seriality,'' which juxtaposes an installation by Cady Noland with works of newcomers like Kelley Walker, Wade Guyton and Nate Lowman, who are in her debt.
 A perfect antidote to such spareness (and hipness) is available a few blocks away at the much messier warehouse of the longtime Miami collector Martin Z. Margulies. Here, time slows considerably and the sediment of art worlds pastis visible, as in a corner holding the work of Frank Stella, the 1970's sculptor Donna Dennis and Jason Rhoades. But most affecting of all are Mr. Margulies's evidently vast holdings in photography, which wind among the objects and installations from Rodchenko through Walker Evans and Helen Leavitt to Alex Soth and beyond. The impassioned indifference to the distinctions between mediums is inspiring. A lingering thought: More museums should try this at home.


GRAPHIC: Photos: ''The Fabulous Floating Inflatable Villa'' by Luis Pons in Biscayne Bay. (Photo by Associated Press): A visitor at an Albert Oehlen exhibition at the Museum of Contemporary Art. (Photo by Barbara P. Fernandez for The New York Times)(pg. B7)
 Above, dancing to a jukebox that is part of Carolina Caycedo's installation with the banner ''Immigrants Influence Home Cultures.'' Left, a visitor to Cady Noland's installation of beer cans. (Photographs by Barbara P. Fernandez for The New York Times)(pg. B14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); BEACHES (89%); ART COLLECTING (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PAINTING (78%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); FILM (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (69%) Art; Art Basel Miami Beach (Art Show)

PERSON: CHARLES SAATCHI (57%) Roberta Smith; Samuel Kellor

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) FLORIDA, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (99%); SWITZERLAND (88%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%) Miami (Fla) 

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2005



42 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: Transit Workers' Union Leader Refuses to Rule Out Subway Strike

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
The president of the union that represents New York City's subway and bus workers refused yesterday to rule out a strike later this month as he rejected most of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority's contract demands. 
 Signaling that two weeks of tense negotiations lie ahead, Roger Toussaint, president of Local 100 of the Transport Workers Union, said in an interview that he would not accept the transit agency's calls to halve the number of sick days and to create a less- generous pension system for new workers. He also said the union would not accept the authority's proposals to have subway operators also perform the jobs of conductors.
But Mr. Toussaint indicated that his union might be open to some measures to increase productivity. 
 With the contract for nearly 34,000 transit workers set to expire at 12:01 a.m. on Dec. 16, Mr. Toussaint warned that a strike was possible even though state law prohibits work stoppages by transit workers.
 ''It is an option that we will not take off the table,'' Mr. Toussaint said. ''There's the law and then there's justice. We want justice.'' 
 Mr. Toussaint said that Philadelphia's transit workers got much of what they wanted after a one-week strike last month that affected 400,000 daily riders. Noting that the transit agency has a $1 billion surplus, Mr. Toussaint said his union wanted more than the 3-percent-a-year raise obtained by the 5,000 transit workers in Philadelphia.
 Mr. Toussaint said the city's transit workers were hungry for sizable raises because their current three-year contract included a one-year pay freeze, followed by 3 percent raises for two years. He said that pay package left his union's members trailing inflation.
 ''We hope to accomplish some recovery and catch up from the zero that we were obliged to settle for in the last contract,'' he said.
 He said that five negotiating sessions have yielded little progress. ''They're going painfully slow,'' he said.
 Gary J. Dellaverson, the transit agency's chief negotiator, asserted that the authority could not afford large raises, saying that this year's surplus would give way to an annual deficit of close to $1 billion in 2008 and subsequent years.
 Mr. Dellaverson said the authority had already committed itself to use nearly half the surplus to help the transit workers by paying unfunded pension liabilities. He said the authority faces competing demands on its surplus -- and its budget: for its workers, for its riders, and for improving security. 
 Mr. Toussaint said he would consider trading increased productivity for higher wages -- the formula pushed by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. But Mr. Toussaint asserted that transit workers' productivity has already soared, because ridership increased by 35 percent over the last decade while the number of transit workers has risen only slightly. 
 ''Our current work force is currently stretched very thin,'' Mr. Toussaint said. ''Bus drivers have such tight schedules that it makes it hard for them to relieve themselves.''
 Mr. Dellaverson questioned whether the union was measuring productivity fairly. He also asked whether the union would agree to lower wages if ridership were to fall.
 ''We understand that rules can be relaxed that have a benefit to the authority and that a portion of those savings would be used in a collective bargaining agreement,'' Mr. Dellaverson said.
 Mr. Toussaint ridiculed several of the transit agency's proposals.
 To help increase productivity and save money, the authority has proposed having subway operators also do conductors' jobs. ''There's no justification for it -- the functions are distinct and necessary,'' Mr. Toussaint said. ''Especially in the aftermath of Sept. 11, it's crazy to talk about removing conductors and merging functions of the conductor into the train operator. It doesn't make sense. It puts the riders at risk.''
 He also lambasted the authority's proposal to have station agents, who used to sell tokens, take on extra duties, like sweeping floors and emptying trash bins. 
 ''First, they put them in uniforms and blazers, and then they want to give them a broom,'' Mr. Toussaint said. ''They just want to demoralize the work force. The M.T.A. is out of control with these types of plans.''
 Nonetheless, Mr. Toussaint said he would consider management's proposals to consolidate or merge jobs -- a process often known as broadbanding.
 ''The M.T.A.'s ideas are poorly thought out,'' he said. ''Where a sensible argument is made, we will look at it. If we think that something is put on the table that we can live with and the impacted employees are properly compensated for it, then that would be an appropriate discussion.''
 To avoid a strike, the transit agency called for binding arbitration if no settlement is reached before the contract deadline. But Mr. Toussaint rejected that proposal, even though he recognized that might make his union look as if it was eager to strike 
 ''Binding arbitration removes our members from having a say on their contract, which is an important principle for us,'' he said.
 Local 100's bargaining efforts have been complicated because several factions within the union are challenging Mr. Toussaint. One faction is demanding raises of 10 percent a year, perhaps making him look inept if he obtains far less than that. Mr. Toussaint asserted that such a wage demand plays into the transit agency's hands. ''The M.T.A. wants to shift the focus to how greedy and strike-happy the transit workers are,'' he said.
 Mr. Toussaint and the transit agency have declined to publicly reveal their exact wage proposals. 
 He rejected the authority's call for lower pensions for new employees, saying that would weaken the union by fostering tension between new workers and veteran ones.. 
 In an era when many municipalities and corporations are pushing to trim health and retirement benefits, Mr. Toussaint is calling for a richer pension plan.
 ''We spent the 1980's and 1990's overhauling work rules and doing concessionary bargaining,'' he said. ''That overturned the principle that future generations should have a better quality of life and better work environment. Our starting point is the principle that future generations should be better off.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (91%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (91%); STRIKES (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); PRODUCTIVITY (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (76%); BUDGETS (69%); SICK LEAVE (56%) 

ORGANIZATION: Transport Workers Union; Metropolitan Transportation Authority

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%) Steven Greenhouse; Roger Toussaint

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2005



43 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 621 words

HEADLINE: Judge Clears Way for City To Sue Gun Companies

BYLINE: By WILLIAM K. RASHBAUM

 BODY:
A federal judge in Brooklyn ruled yesterday that New York City's lawsuit against gun manufacturers and distributors can go forward, despite new federal legislation devised to protect gun makers from such lawsuits.
 The ruling, by Judge Jack B. Weinstein of United States District Court, was a significant victory for the city, which has argued that some gun makers and sellers know about the flood of handguns into the underground market, and have the power to minimize it by relatively simple means, but refuse to do so.
In his ruling, Judge Weinstein postponed a trial so the gun manufacturers could appeal. 
 Gun makers named in the suit include Beretta U.S.A., Browning Arms, Colt Manufacturing, Glock and Smith & Wesson.
 The judge ruled that the new law, the Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act, does not apply to the city's lawsuit because it falls under a narrow exception that allows lawsuits against the gun makers if their sales or marketing practices violate state or federal statutes.
 The ruling contained one victory for the gunmakers: the judge rejected the city's argument that the new law was unconstitutional.
 The city argues that the firearms makers and distributors, by failing to monitor retail dealers closely enough, allow guns to end up in the hands of criminals. As result, the gun makers, under the city's argument, have created ''a condition that negatively affects the public health or safety,'' and thus have violated the state's nuisance law.
 The city also argues that the manufacturers sell excess guns in states other than New York with laws that are more lax, thus allowing them to be more easily bought and smuggled to New York City.
 John Renzulli, a lawyer for Glock, Browning and several gun distributors, contended that it was clear that under the legislation that the lawsuit should be dismissed.''There is just no 'there' there,'' he said.
 Lawrence G. Keane, a lawyer for National Shooting Sports Foundation and a spokesman for the firearms industry, dismissed the city's arguments and called the ruling ''yet another example of Judge Weinstein's blatant bias,'' a claim the group has repeated since 1995, citing his rulings in earlier cases. ''He couldn't be more incorrect if he tried.''
 Mr. Keane said the New York case was exactly the type of lawsuit the new law was devised to stop. In fact, he said, the case was referred to Congress by the sponsors of the new legislation during debate on the law.
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg yesterday praised the ruling, saying in a statement that the killing of Police Officer Dillon Stewart, who was shot on Monday with a gun bought legally and later stolen in Florida, was ''deadly evidence that the scourge of guns in New York City is ever present.'' 
 He said the lawsuit was devised to stop the flow of illegal guns because the firearms industry is ''completely unwilling'' to take steps to control their own dealers. He called the new legislation ''shameful,'' and said it should be called ''Protection of Lethal Commerce in Arms Act.'' 
 Before the legislation was passed by Congress and signed by President Bush in October, the case had been scheduled for trial before Judge Weinstein on Nov. 28.
 Now, any possible trial will be delayed for at least six months, a city lawyer said.
 Michael S. Elkin, who is serving as the city's chief trial counsel, said the gun industry had believed that the case would be derailed by the new law. But he said that city lawyers had believed all along that it would not be affected.
 ''Probably the most sweeping lawsuit against the gun industry is now poised to go to trial,'' Mr. Elkin said, ''and if we're successful it will have wide-reaching effects on how guns are marketed and sold.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUDGES (95%); FIREARMS (94%); LITIGATION (91%); SMALL ARMS MFG (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); GUN CONTROL (90%); FIREARMS WHOLESALERS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); NUISANCE (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); SHOOTINGS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (72%); SPONSORSHIP (72%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (71%); SMUGGLING (69%) 

COMPANY: SMITH & WESSON CORP (56%); NATIONAL SHOOTING SPORTS (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS332994 SMALL ARMS, ORDNANCE & ORDNANCE ACCESSORIES MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3484 SMALL ARMS (56%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%) William K Rashbaum; Jack B (Judge) Weinstein

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City; United States

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2005



44 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: W.'s Head In the Sand

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

 BODY:
In the Christmas spirit, the time has come for the reality-based community to reach out to the White House.
 The Bush warriors are so deluded, they're even faking their fakery.
This week, the president presented a plan-like plan for ''victory'' in Iraq, which Scott McClellan rather pompously called the unclassified version of their supersecret master plan. But there would be no way to achieve victory from this plan even if it were a real plan. If this is what they're telling themselves in the Sit Room, we're in bigger trouble than we thought.
 Talk about your unknown unknowns, as Rummy would say. 
 The National Strategy for Victory must have come from the same P.R. genius who gave President Top Gun the ''Mission Accomplished'' banner about 48 hours before the first counterinsurgency war of the 21st century broke out in Iraq.
 It's not a military strategy -- classified or unclassified. It's political talking points -- and not even good ones. Are we really supposed to believe that anybody, even the most deeply delusional Bush sycophant, believes the phrase ''Our strategy is working''?
 The president talked about three neatly definable groups of insurrectionists. But as Dexter Filkins reported in yesterday's New York Times, there are dozens, perhaps as many as a hundred, groups fighting the U.S. Army in Iraq, and they have little, if anything, in common.
 Mr. Bush's presentation claimed that the U.S. was actually making progress in Iraq. But outside the Bush-Cheney-Rummy bubble, 10 more marines were killed by a roadside bomb outside Falluja, for a total of 2,125 U.S. military deaths so far.
 The administration must realize it needs a real exit strategy, because it's advertising for one. The U.S. Agency for International Development is offering more than $1 billion for anyone -- anyone at all -- who can come up with a plan to pacify and rebuild 10 Iraqi cities seen as vital in the war.
 Maybe the White House should apply -- Usaid's proffer says the ''invitation is open to any type of entity.''
 When Bush officials weren't telling us fairy tales about the big, bad W.M.D. in Iraq, they were assuring us that the unprovoked war would be a kindness for Iraq, giving it democracy. But they are not just failing to bring democracy to Iraq as they help Iranian-backed mullahs install an Islamic republic with Saddamist torture chambers. They are also degrading democracy in America.
 They've tarnished American moral leadership with illegal detentions, torture, secret C.I.A. prisons in countries only recently liberated from the Soviet gulag, and Soviet-style propaganda both at home and in Iraq.
 Guess the Bush administration didn't learn anything this fall when federal auditors said it had violated the law by buying favorable news coverage of its education polices. Bush officials got right back into the fake news business, paying to plant propaganda in the Iraqi press. They outsourced this disinformation campaign to something called the Lincoln Group -- have they no shame?
 You have to admire Scott McClellan, the president's spokesman. He kept a straight face when he called the U.S. ''a leader when it comes to promoting and advocating a free and independent media around the world.'' He added, ''We've made our views very clear when it comes to freedom of the press.''
 Exceedingly clear. The Bushies don't believe in it. They disdain the whole democratic system of checks and balances.
 At the Naval Academy, President Bush talked about how well the Iraqi security forces were fighting. He claimed that 40 Iraqi battalions were taking the lead in the fight against insurgents, and that in the battle of Tal Afar this year, ''the assault was primarily led by Iraqi security forces -- 11 Iraqi battalions backed by 5 coalition battalions providing support.''
 Anderson Cooper of CNN swiftly produced Time magazine's Baghdad bureau chief, Michael Ware, who was embedded with the U.S. military during the entire Tal Afar battle. ''With the greatest respect to the president, that's completely wrong,'' Mr. Ware said, adding: ''I was with Iraqi units right there on the front line as they were battling with Al Qaeda. They were not leading.''
 He also told Mr. Cooper: ''I have had a very senior officer here in Baghdad say to me that there's never going to be a point where these guys will be able to stand up against the insurgency on their own.''
 Mr. Ware recalled that in a battle two weeks ago, he saw an Iraqi security officer put down his weapon and curl up into a ball when he was under attack. ''I have seen that on -- on many, many occasions,'' he said.
 Curling up in a ball. Good National Strategy for Victory. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ARMIES (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); BOMBINGS (72%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (68%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (67%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (67%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (62%); RELIGION (60%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%) 

PERSON: Maureen Dowd; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2005



45 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 392 words

HEADLINE: Imported Brains

 BODY:
On one side, there's the risk: one of the plotters in the first World Trade Center bombing was on a student visa. On the other, there's the benefit: last year, 565,039 foreign students contributed about $13.3 billion to the United States economy. 
 For every 100 foreign students who got American Ph.D.'s in engineering or the physical sciences, according to one study, the United States got 62 patent applications. As for the students who returned home, many probably took with them warm feelings toward America, democracy and free enterprise. Do the math.
 International students play an enormously important role in American science and business. That's why it is disturbing that for the second year in a row, the Institute of International Education has reported a drop in the number of foreign students on American campuses. Clearly, the tightening of security and visa rules since 9/11 is part of the problem. Not surprising, the biggest drop in the number of foreign students has been from the Middle East. But difficulty in getting visas is not the whole story. 
 The fact is that the competition for foreign students has become far more intense. While American campuses are still by far the favorite destination, they have been steadily losing market share for years, especially to Canada, Australia and Europe. Now the European Union is considering offering citizenship to foreign students who complete their doctorates at European universities. That's a powerful incentive, even if it does smack of actively encouraging a brain drain from developing countries. But then, Rajiv Gandhi's famed formulation still holds: ''Better brain drain than brain in the drain.''
 Indeed, the competition for brains and ideas is where the battle for global influence should be waged. After so many years of America's near-hegemony in this field, it is good for the United States to be reminded that those people banging at the door have ever more other addresses to try if they are rebuffed. The State and Homeland Security Departments should accelerate their efforts to make their procedures less cumbersome and off-putting. Just as important, they must abandon the presumption that denying a visa is the default position. 
 Nobody denies the importance of barring entry to terrorists, but nobody should be oblivious to the danger of excluding another Einstein.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN STUDENTS (97%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (95%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STUDY ABROAD PROGRAMS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); TERRORISM (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (68%); EUROPEAN UNION (65%); PATENTS (56%); CITIZENSHIP (53%); MARKET SHARE (51%) 

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE OF INTERNATIONAL EDUCATION (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%) Institute of International Education; State Department; Homeland Security Department

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (93%); CANADA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%) Canada; Australia; Europe

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2005



46 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1009 words

HEADLINE: Bush Sticks to Rosy News On Economy, Not the War

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 2 

 BODY:
As he went before the cameras in the Rose Garden on Friday morning, President Bush was aware of bad news that had not yet been made public: that 10 marines had been killed by a bomb in Iraq. But he made no mention of the attack, sticking to the sunny White Houses message of the day that the economy is strong and the outlook ''as bright as it's been in a long time.''
 For an administration that has been beset by trouble, it was a classic effort to change the subject, and one that could be justified, up to a point, by the facts. 
The Labor Department report on Friday morning showing that employers added 215,000 jobs in November was good news, and it came one day after the government announced that the economy grew at a healthy 4.3 percent annual rate in the third quarter.
 ''We have every reason to be optimistic about our economic future,'' Mr. Bush said.
 Scott McClellan, the White House press secretary, said Mr. Bush did not allude to the marines' deaths because he defers to the Pentagon as to when such news should be released, out of concern for the families.
 But Mr. Bush's effort to shift public attention to what he characterized as the nation's strong economic foundation was also motivated by a political problem that has dogged him for some time, Republican strategists said. Even as the economy has chugged along nicely if unspectacularly for the last two years, Americans have fallen into a darker mood about the future and given the president little credit for the good news.
 An ABC News/Washington Post poll last month found that 52 percent of Americans believe that the economy is getting worse, compared with 18 percent who think it is getting better. Sixty-four percent of respondents said the economy was not good or poor. A Harris poll last month found that 68 percent of Americans believe that the country is on the wrong track. Mr. Bush's approval rating last month for his handling of the economy stood at 37 percent in an Associated Press/Ipsos poll.
 So on Friday, the White House and its Republican allies in Congress began a coordinated effort to focus more attention on the positive developments and to take credit for them.
 ''We're very pleased at what seems to be happening out in the economy,'' said Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the No. 2 Republican in the Senate, who accused the news media of overlooking the economic progress. ''We believe it is directly related to the policies, as I indicated, of the president and this Republican Congress. And we hope that this good news may somehow break through a sea of bad news.''
 Democrats quickly denounced the Republican offensive as too many words and not enough action. 
 ''This is not the time for self-congratulatory pats on the back,'' said Senator Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada, the minority leader. ''It's time to get to work on issues that American families struggle with every day, issues like rising energy prices, skyrocketing health care costs and middle-class tax relief.''
 To some degree, the White House strategy was a response to pressure from Congressional Republicans to do more to help them heading into the 2006 elections.
 At a luncheon session Thursday at a retreat attended by Republicans House and Senate leaders on the Eastern Shore of Maryland, Speaker J. Dennis Hastert pressed two administration officials, Andrew H. Card Jr., the White House chief of staff, and Dan Bartlett, Mr. Bush's counselor, to be more aggressive in talking about the economy, according to one attendee who asked not to be identified when talking about the private meeting.
 Senate Republican leaders did not waste any time doing their part, holding a news conference on Friday morning to kick off an economic offensive at almost the same time that Mr. Bush was addressing reporters, though not taking any questions, in the Rose Garden. 
 The administration also took the unusual step of having Allan B. Hubbard, the director of the National Economic Council, field questions from reporters at the daily White House briefing. And the Republican National Committee sent out a document listing 15 pieces of positive economic news, including two making the point that the American economy is healthier than Germany's.
 But the administration appeared to be approaching the politics of the economy in much the same way it was approaching the politics of the war: convinced that the problem is not primarily with the substance of its policy, but with skewed public perceptions of reality. 
 Asked to explain the difference between public views of Mr. Bush's performance on the economy and the macroeconomic statistics, Mr. Hubbard said that the sharp rise in energy prices ''makes people feel ill at ease'' and that many Americans had been concerned that Hurricane Katrina would hurt the economy more than it did. 
 Mr. Bush, he said, is ''more concerned about results than he is about polls, and what pleases him and pleases us in his administration is that, you know, the economy is doing well.''
 The intensity of the public relations effort was especially striking given the news that the White House was citing. The gain of 215,000 jobs in November was certainly healthy and signaled that the hurricanes had not dented the economy much, but would not typically be the kind of development that would lead to a Rose Garden appearance by Mr. Bush. During the eight years of the Clinton administration, the economy generated an average of 240,000 jobs a month.
 Moreover, Mr. Bush and his allies ignored or glossed over statistics suggesting that the economy, in the short run as well as the long run, faced big challenges. Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, used a speech on Friday to warn of the dangers from the budget deficit. And while job growth has picked up over the last two years, wages have continued to lag behind inflation, leaving many families struggling to keep up with the cost of living.
 ''It's not just the number of jobs, it's the quality of jobs,'' said Peter Morici, a professor of business at the University of Maryland.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); BOMBINGS (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (69%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; United States Economy

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%) George W (Pres) Bush; Scott Mcclellan; Richard W Stevenson

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2005



47 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 3, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1327 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Sense Chance In Ohio for '06 Elections 

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: UPPER ARLINGTON, Ohio., Dec. 1 

 BODY:
Democrats are hard to find in this upscale Columbus suburb, home to Representative Deborah Pryce, the highest-ranking Republican woman in the House. Yet Democrats now think they can do the unthinkable: unseat Ms. Pryce in 2006.
 She is not their only target. These are tough times for Republicans, and nowhere more so than in Ohio, a Republican-dominated state that has become a political crucible, testing the party's strength nationally as next year's mid-term elections approach.
The Republican governor, Bob Taft, is ensnared in an ethics scandal that has sent his approval ratings into a freefall. One House Republican from Ohio, Representative Bob Ney, has been implicated in a federal fraud investigation. Another, Representative Jean Schmidt, has been ridiculed on late night television for sharply criticizing a prominent Democrat over the war in Iraq.
 With President Bush's popularity ratings dropping, Republican candidates in Ohio say they will run on their own records, not that of their party or the president. They are mindful that in Central Ohio, as in the rest of the nation, unease over the economy and the war in Iraq runs deep. 
 At Huffman's Market, an independent grocery store in Upper Arlington, one supporter of Ms. Pryce said she was ''very unhappy'' with President Bush over the war. An hour's drive south, in the blue-collar city of Chillicothe, where Mayor Joe Sulzer is challenging Mr. Ney, another Republican woman spoke bitterly of losing her job at a shoe factory when the plant moved overseas.
 ''I think we need to throw them all out and get new,'' said the woman, Christine Chaney, echoing the Democrats' refrain that Washington needs a change.
 Whether such sentiments will translate into votes against Republicans remains to be seen; Ms. Pryce, for example, holds an important leadership post as chairwoman of the House Republican Conference and will undoubtedly be tough to beat. Still, she is facing her first credible Democratic opponent since being elected to Congress in 1992 .
 ''It is challenging,'' Ms. Pryce said when asked if it is hard to be an Ohio Republican these days. ''I think the Democrats see Ohio as a target. They believe the time is right to make some progress here.''
 And history favors the Democrats because the party out of power typically gains seats in a mid-term election during a president's second term. In Ohio, Democrats hope to unseat as many as eight House Republicans, as well as the state's senior senator, Mike DeWine. Mr. DeWine is considered vulnerable, having run slightly behind his leading Democratic opponent, Representative Sherrod Brown, in the polls.
 ''All political roads lead to Ohio in 2006,'' said Charlie Cook, the editor of the nonpartisan Cook Political Report in Washington. ''First, there is almost no way Democrats can get control of the Senate back without beating DeWine. Second, it's going to be one of the best chances Democrats have to pick up a governorship, and a big governorship, not just any old governorship. And third, it's the state with the most vulnerable Republican House seats in the country.''
 Suburbs like Upper Arlington, a wealthy Republican area, will be critical. Experts say suburbs are trending Democratic, and last year, when Senator John Kerry ran for president, Upper Arlington's Democrats went all out in support of him, forming a fledgling political group, UA for Kerry.
 They raised a banner along the July 4 parade route -- ''We drew criticism for being political,'' said Jody Scarbrough, a founder of the group, -- and planted lawn signs. Mr. Kerry took 43 percent of the vote in Upper Arlington, Ms. Scarbrough said, but that was good news compared with Al Gore's 36 percent in 2000.
 Ms. Pryce's district, which includes a chunk of nearby Columbus, was essentially split between Mr. Kerry and President Bush. Ms. Pryce herself took 60 percent of the vote in 2004, her lowest margin since 1992.
 ''It was really an awakening,'' Ms. Scarbrough said.
 Now, with a Web site and an e-mail list of 1,500 and a new name, UA Progressive Action, the group is throwing itself behind Ms. Pryce's competitor, Mary Jo Kilroy, the president of the Franklin County Board of Commissioners. Ms. Kilroy entered the race in October after an intense courtship by Washington Democrats. Representative Steny H. Hoyer, the Democratic whip from Maryland, flew to Ohio to see her, and every Democrat in the Ohio delegation left encouraging messages on her cellphone.
 Early Wednesday morning, Ms. Kilroy could be found at a wood-paneled breakfast joint on the outskirts of downtown Columbus, making a pitch to a friendly audience of union leaders. Her aides brought green folders stuffed with statistics and press releases, including one from the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee linking Ms. Pryce with Representative Tom DeLay, who stepped aside as majority leader after being indicted in his home state, Texas.
 Ms. Kilroy's message adopted the language Democrats are using around the nation. She said Ms. Pryce voted with Mr. DeLay ''94 percent of the time,'' a figure Ms. Pryce attributes mostly to procedural votes. Mr. Kilroy decried the Republican ''culture of corruption'' and called Congress a ''rubber stamp.'' 
 That phrase is the centerpiece of radio advertisements the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee is running in Ohio this week against Ms. Pryce and two other Republicans, Representatives Steve Chabot and Steven C. LaTourette. The advertisement singles out their recent vote on the Republican budget, which cut federal student aid by $14 billion. 
 ''This is a winnable race,'' Ms. Kilroy told the union men. ''For a long time we have thought that this was an untouchable seat, that the Republicans had a lock on the Congressional districts in Central Ohio. That will be shown to be wrong.''
 Incumbents have a powerful advantage, however, and Democrats like Ms. Kilroy will have to do more than criticize Republicans to win. At a forum in Cleveland on Wednesday, Mr. Ney sounded confident, saying he is cooperating with investigators and did not believe that ethics inquiries would hurt Republicans at the polls. Thursday night, he was planning a fund-raiser in Columbus; Ms. Pryce is among the hosts.
 ''They just can't paint Republicans with the bad Bush brush,'' said Neil Clark, a Republican lobbyist in Columbus. ''They're going to have to give a substantial reason why Republicans shouldn't be here.''
 Democrats will also have to recruit more candidates. Aside from Representatives Ney, Pryce, Chabot, LaTourette and Schmidt, Mr. Cook says Representatives Michael R. Turner, Pat Tiberi and Ralph Regula are all vulnerable. But of the eight, so far only Ms. Pryce, Mr. Ney and Mr. Turner have opponents.
 Republicans are also comforted by the results of a recent ballot initiative, in which four voting and campaign finance proposals backed by Democrats were resoundingly defeated. Mr. Chabot, like Mr. Ney, says that a national message will not work and that every race will be local.
 ''I'm going to run on my own record and what I've done and what I intend to do,'' Mr. Chabot said, ''and the people of my district will ultimately make the decision.''
 Mr. DeWine sounded a similar theme. ''Ohioans are very discerning,'' he said. ''They make individual decisions in individual races.''
 Republicans also say time is on their side. Last summer, after Ms. Schmidt squeaked out a victory over Paul Hackett, a Democrat and Iraq war veteran in an overwhelmingly Republican district, Ms. Pryce told the editorial board of The Columbus Dispatch that the political situation for Ohio Republicans was ''just dreadful.'' Now she predicts that next year will be different.
 ''Hopefully, the governor's problems will be behind us, the war in Iraq will be taking a different phase,'' Ms. Pryce said. ''I think that things will change enough that Ohio won't be quite as fertile as the Democrats believe it is right now.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Mary Jo Kilroy, president of the Franklin County Board of Commissioners in Ohio, at a community event in Columbus. Ms. Kilroy is challenging Representative Deborah Pryce, a Republican, in the 2006 election. (Photo by Michael Houghton for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (78%); WOMEN (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); RANKINGS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); GOVERNORS (71%); ETHICS (70%); SCANDALS (70%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (67%); POLLS & SURVEYS (64%); FOOTWEAR MFG (64%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (54%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (53%) 

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives (US)

PERSON: DEBORAH PRYCE (91%); JEAN SCHMIDT (59%); SHERROD BROWN (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%) Sheryl Gay Stolberg; Deborah (Rep) Pryce; Mary Jo Kilroy

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (73%) OHIO, USA (95%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (92%) Ohio; Ohio

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2005



48 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; GOING TO; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1608 words

HEADLINE: Hong Kong

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:

WHY GO NOW -- Because the Hong Kong of today is rapidly being replaced by a new, more showy incarnation of itself -- with the recently opened Disneyland just a hint of what the future holds. This fall, the Four Seasons and a boutique version of the city's famous Mandarin Oriental have opened outposts in the city's financial district. New nightclubs are luring fashionable people from across Asia. And a nearly completed cable car system will soon vault from the airport up over a steep hillside to a well-preserved monastery and its immense outdoor statue of Buddha.
 But as Hong Kong undergoes its latest transformation, traces of its storied past are being eradicated. Heavy traffic and strong demand for office and retail space have prompted the government to begin an extensive reclamation project, and barges are filling in a wide swath of the scenic heart of the harbor between the tip of Kowloon Peninsula and Hong Kong Island. The graceful Star Ferry building, on downtown land it has occupied since 1955, will be one of the victims. Next spring, it will be demolished and replaced by a new ferry landing on the end of a landfill. 
The best time of year to visit Hong Kong is November through March, when it seldom rains and the temperature seldom falls below 50 degrees. Severe smog periodically blankets the city, although it lessens during Chinese New Year when most factories close for the weeklong holiday, which falls at the end of January next year and is the most popular time for Western tourists to come. 
 This month, Hong Kong will be the focus of international attention, as thousands of delegates, lobbyists, executives and protesters gather for the World Trade Organization ministerial conference, which takes place from Dec. 13 to 18.

WHERE TO STAY -- The first question for visitors is whether to stay on the island or in Kowloon. The island has lovely colonial buildings built long before Britain returned the territory to China in 1997 and excellent hiking, as well as the investment banks, stock exchange and government buildings that many business travelers frequent. But if you are visiting this month and want to avoid the crowds and security juggernaut generated by the W.T.O. meeting, which will be held at the island's convention center, Kowloon Peninsula may be less congested. Moreover, it has excellent museums and good views of the Hong Kong skyline.
 On the island, the Four Seasons Hotel, 8 Finance Street, (852) 3196-8888, www.fourseasons.com/hongkong, caters mainly to business travelers and is right next to the International Finance Center and Exchange Square and a two-minute walk to the Cheung Chau Ferry. Rooms are 3,200 Hong Kong dollars, or about $420, at 7.6 Hong Kong dollars to the United States dollar, (prices do not include service charges and taxes totaling 13 percent). Note that all prices that follow are in Hong Kong dollars. 
 The J W Marriott Hotel, 88 Queensway, (852) 2810-8366, 2,050 dollars, on the Web at www.marriott.com, and the Island Shangri-La, Supreme Court Road, (852) 2877-3838, 2,900 dollars, www.shangri-la.com, are both next to Hong Kong Park, and a short walk across the park from the Peak Tram. For avid shoppers who want to hit the stores in Causeway Bay, there is the recently opened Jia Boutique Hotel, a chicly remodeled apartment building at 1-5 Irving Street, www.jiahongkong.com, 1,600 dollars. For the frugal who want to be near the heart of the city, the Bishop Lei International Hotel is 702 dollars, plus a 10 percent service charge, but no tax. (Remember to divide by 7.6 to get United States dollars.) 
 In Kowloon, the 300-room Peninsula, Salisbury Road, 2,700 dollars, on the Web at www.hongkong.peninsula.com, (852) 2926-2888, is the grande dame of Hong Kong hotels, famous for its afternoon teas. The 587-room InterContinental, 18 Salisbury Road, 2,590 dollars, www.hongkong-ic.intercontinental.com, (852) 2721-1211, is on the harborfront, with unmatched views of Hong Kong Island.

WHERE TO EAT -- For an excellent dim sum lunch, 400 dollars for two, go to Man Wah at the top of the Mandarin Oriental Hotel, (852) 2825 4025, which offers a bird's-eye view of Central, including the elegantly domed Legislative Council building. At Victoria City Seafood in Wan Chai, Sun Hung Kai Center, 3 Harbour Road, (852) 2827-9938, you may not get the view, but you'll be served superb Chinese food -- try the stuffed crab legs and large shrimp sauteed in garlic -- in a large, nearly windowless and sparsely decorated room on the third floor of a mall near the convention center. Dinner is 700 dollars for two. For one of the more scenic dining experiences in Hong Kong, go to the Top Deck, Shum Wan Pier Drive, Aberdeen, (852) 2552-3331, which opened in October and offers international cuisine in the middle of Aberdeen harbor, which is filled with junks and yachts. Dinner for two is 900 dollars. The Peak Lookout Cafe, 121 Peak Road, (852) 2849-1000, at the top of Peak Tram, offers Western cuisine, outdoor dining and a leafy view of the back side of the island. The sea bass is excellent but reservations are essential. Dinner for two is 800 dollars.

WHAT TO DO DURING THE DAY -- To see what Hong Kong used to look like, catch a ferry from Outlying Islands Ferry Pier 5 to car-free Cheung Chau, a fairly traditional Chinese community with 18th-century temples. Each hour there is a fast ferry (45 minutes), and a slow ferry, (an hour); the schedule is at: www.nwff.com.hk. The round-trip fare on the fast ferry is 62 dollars on Sundays and holidays, economy-class passage; the slow ferry and other days of service are all cheaper.
 Hong Kong Disneyland had a rocky opening marred by wild dogs that had to be captured, long lines and a fuss with environmentalists over a short-lived plan to serve shark's fin soup. It has few rides but lots of actors dressed up as Mickey Mouse and other favorites. The price is 295 dollars, 210 dollars for children on weekdays, and 350 dollars and 250 dollars on weekends, Hong Kong and mainland Chinese holidays and during July and August.
 For pleasant walking paths, excellent historical exhibits and great views of the lovely eastern entrance to the harbor, try the Museum of Coastal Defense at the island's eastern tip, 10 dollars admission, 175 Tung Hei Road, (852) 2569-1500, www.lcsd.gov.hk/CE/Museum/Coastal, closed on Thursdays. The beach at Big Wave Bay, a 15-minute taxi ride from the museum, is the cleanest and nicest on the island. On rainy days, visit the superb Hong Kong Museum of History in Kowloon, which includes everything from a traditional Chinese fishing junk to a dock and street lined with shops just as they were more than a century ago. The museum is at 100 Chatham Road South, (852) 2724-9042, hk.history.museum, 10 dollars admission.

WHAT TO DO AT NIGHT -- Every night, 20 buildings on the Hong Kong waterfront stage a spectacular show of colored lights running up and down their sides from 8 to 8:18. You can admire the lights from the harbor promenade in Kowloon or ride the Star Ferry. A 10-minute ride across the harbor is just 2.2 dollars. But the best way to see the harbor, day or night, is the Star Ferry Harbor Tour, www.starferry.com.hk/harbourtour. The luxuriously outfitted ferry is 40 dollars for an hourlong circuit by day, 85 dollars in the evening and 150 dollars for a daily pass.
 Many clubs in and around the Lan Kwai Fong neighborhood have signs saying they are for members only, but this is mainly to qualify for tax rules that favor clubs. Tourists are typically admitted even at the hottest new club, Sugar, which opened in September; 1 On Hing Terrace, (852) 2131-2222, 200-dollar cover charge Wednesday to Saturday, is waived for women Wednesdays and Thursdays; open Monday to Saturday. A consistent favorite with expatriates is Dragon-I, best known for its tropical bird aviary the size of a Manhattan bedroom, Centrium building, 60 Wyndham Street, (852) 3110-1222, 100- to 150-dollar cover charge on some Fridays and Saturdays. Hong Kong also has a low-profile, dispersed gay and lesbian scene in Central and Causeway Bay. For instance, Propaganda, 1 Hollywood Road, (852) 2868 1316, is a popular gay and lesbian music and dance club in Central. 

HOW TO STAY WIRED -- A local chain called Pacific Coffee provides free time on desktop computers and wireless access. Especially convenient is the Pacific Coffee at 23 Hollywood Road, (852) 2537-1688.

YOUR FIRST VISIT OR YOUR 10TH -- Nothing beats a ride on the Peak Tram (30 dollars round-trip for adults). The maroon double trolley car starts in Central and climbs steep, 117-year-old tracks for seven minutes, past skyscrapers and through a tropical jungle to an upper terminal perched 1,300 feet above sea level. The terminal at the top is closed for renovations until next summer, but cafes and shops are available nearby.

YES, FREE -- From the top of the Tram, take a leisurely, two-mile stroll around Victoria Peak on Lugard and Harlech Roads, which form a loop and are mostly closed to traffic. The roads are fairly level and the views over the city, harbor and outlying islands are spectacular, especially in the morning.

HOW TO GET THERE -- Continental and Cathay Pacific offer nonstop flights from New York. Expect to pay nearly $1,000 roundtrip even in the winter and more during Hong Kong's sweltering summer.

GETTING AROUND -- Walking around downtown on Hong Kong Island is easy, with covered bridges spanning most of the streets. Taxis are easy to find and cost 15 dollars for short rides and up to 160 dollars for a trip to the farthest beaches on the island. Buses and trams are numerous and even less expensive.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A busy street in Kowloon, on the mainland opposite Hong Kong Island. The former British colony, now a special administrative region of China, will be the site of a World Trade Organization conference this month.
Fishing on Cheung Chau, an island with 18th-century temples.
Ducks and chickens in a Hong Kong restaurant.
 Hong Kong Island, seen from the harbor. (Photographs by Nelson Ching for The New York Times)Map of China highlighting Hong Kong.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FERRIES (88%); CHINESE NEW YEAR (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); HIKING (75%); ISLANDS & REEFS (72%); OFFICE PROPERTY (69%); SMOG (69%); LOBBYING (68%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (68%); STOCK EXCHANGES (68%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (64%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (64%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (62%); LANDFILLS (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HONG KONG (97%); CHINA (93%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2005



49 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; PRACTICAL TRAVELER: SAFETY AT SEA; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1058 words

HEADLINE: After Attack, Cruise Ships Rethink Security

BYLINE: By DEBRA A. KLEIN

 BODY:
UNTIL last month, the greatest worry for cruise passengers may have been Norwalk virus or having their vacations disrupted by a hurricane. Now the armed attack on the Seabourn Spirit off Somalia on Nov. 5 has the cruise industry checking its bearings on security. 
 The Spirit was carrying 151 passengers and 161 crew members when it was fired upon at dawn from two small vessels off the Somalia coast. The ship evaded the attackers; there was one injury, to a crew member. Bruce Good, a spokesman for Seabourn Cruise Line, said that if there were more attacks, ''then we would certainly adjust our itineraries to maximize the safety of our guests and our ship.'' 
 At Crystal Cruises, which will have Indian Ocean cruises this spring, ''A few guests have asked where we're traveling and we have reassured them that we will not be anywhere near the coast of Somalia,'' said Mimi Weisband, a spokeswoman. 
 Princess Cruises and the Cunard Line are also taking a close look at safety. Both are part of the Carnival Corporation and have ships with 2006 Indian Ocean itineraries. ''Given recent events, we will be again reviewing all our operations procedures and the specific itineraries of those ships to determine whether any changes are necessary,'' said Julie Benson, a spokeswoman for both lines.
 And Dan Grausz, senior vice president for fleet operations of the Holland America Line said, ''We are looking into the specifics of that attack and assessing whether our procedures need to be revised.'' 
 According to the International Maritime Bureau of the International Chamber of Commerce in London, www.icc-ccs.org, attacks on cruise ships are rare. Almost all similar attacks have involved cargo vessels. In the first nine months of this year, 61 pirate attacks or attempts occurred in Indonesia, 14 in Nigeria, and 10 and 7 in the Malacca and Singapore Straits, respectively. 
 A rise in Somalia incidents in recent weeks has brought the number of attacks there to over 30 since March 15. There have been a smattering of robbery and piracy incidents on yachts in Jamaica (7) and Haiti (2), and one in the Dominican Republic. 
 Maritime security experts say cruise ships do not make good targets because they carry too many people and are not easy to board. 
 ''Not only do pirates prefer a ship with very few people to control, they also prefer a ship with very easy access from a small boat to a ship's deck,'' according to Kim E. Petersen, president of SeaSecure, a maritime security company in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. Cruise ships typically have very high freeboards, the distance from the water to the first open deck. 
 Yet Mr. Petersen cautioned that high-profile vessels are ideal terrorism marks, and that the Seabourn incident may have been terrorism rather than piracy. ''The larger the ship, the bigger the target,'' he said. ''Smaller boats may be faster and more nimble and could have the means to escape a potential attack.'' 
 Jeroen Meijer, a maritime security expert in Amsterdam with Control Risks Group, a business risk consulting firm used by several cruise lines, said that rather than looking at the ship's size, passengers should look at its itinerary. 
 ''I would look at what ports the cruise is going to visit and what are the risks of walking into town,'' he said. ''That is more relevant than the piracy issue.'' 
 He listed the Straits of Malacca; the region between Indonesia and Singapore; and the coasts of Bangladesh and Somalia as the areas of highest risk. 
 The Travel Warnings listing on the State Department site, www.travel.state.gov, lists regional risks on land, while the International Maritime Organization maintains a monthly piracy report under the heading Circulars on its site, www.imo.org. The Office of Naval Intelligence Violence at Sea desk also publishes a weekly diary of maritime threats at pollux.nss.nima.mil, as does the International Maritime Bureau at www.icc-ccs.org/prc/piracyreport.php. 
 After the 9/11 attacks, the industry revamped security plans. Since July 1, 2004, cruise ships operating in international waters must comply with the International Maritime Organization's International Ship and Port Facility Security Code. It mandates minimum security standards, including a shipboard security officer and crew members trained in a security plan in the event of a terrorist attack, piracy or criminal act. It also requires ships to undergo vulnerability assessments and take corrective measures. 
 The International Marine Organization discourages the use of weapons; alternative innovations include real-time video from unmanned aircraft that can be launched from a ship, and nonlethal electrified fences that surround ships and can give off a 9,000-volt pulse. (Many cruise lines will not reveal all of their procedures.) 
 ''These days a major concern is a terrorist attack,'' Peter Butz, vice president for fleet operations at the adventure cruise company Lindblad Expeditions, which operates smaller craft. Mr. Butz said the cruise line planned itineraries to avoid risk, a reason it pulled out of the Middle East. 
 Lindblad's officers and crew participate in at least four security drills annually. Mr. Butz said ships are armed with high-pressure fire hoses to combat potential threats. ''If someone is attempting to make their way up the side of the ship, we would aim the hose,'' he said.
 Abercrombie & Kent, the luxury tour company, maintains private docks along the Nile: one each at Luxor, where a tour bus was attacked in 1997, and at Aswan. Both have metal detectors; plainclothes security officers are on the boats. 
 The fleets of Royal Caribbean and Celebrity Cruises use a security force of former military personnel, including from the Israeli special forces and the British navy, and Nepalese Ghurkas. The lines say the ships rely on fire hoses, radar and powerful searchlights that could blind potential attackers, but would not reveal whether there is stronger firepower aboard. 
 In the wake of the Seabourn Spirit attack, the International Maritime Organization plans to raise the issue of Somalia coast piracy to the level of the United Nations Security Council and the Secretary General. The organization conducts meetings in the Caribbean, South Asia, West and Central Africa to promote local responses to piracy. The next one is in Oman in January.


GRAPHIC: Photo: These attackers of the Seabourn Spirit last month off Somalia were photographed by a passenger. (Photo by Norman J. Fisher/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRUISES (94%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (91%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); MARITIME PIRACY (89%); SOMALI PIRACY (89%); TERRORISM (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); MARINE SHIPPING (76%); VIRUSES (73%); EXECUTIVES (65%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (64%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CARNIVAL CORP (91%); SEABOURN CRUISE LINE (57%); CRYSTAL CRUISES INC (56%)

TICKER: CCL (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4481 DEEP SEA TRANSPORTATION OF PASSENGERS, EXCEPT BY FERRY (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (75%) INDIAN OCEAN (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) SOMALIA (96%); HAITI (79%); NIGERIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); INDONESIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2005



50 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 5; Real Estate Desk; NATIONAL PERSPECTIVES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1027 words

HEADLINE: Building Homes For Disabled Soldiers

BYLINE: By FRED A. BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
EARLY last year, John Gonsalves, a construction supervisor from Taunton, Mass., decided to use his skills to help build houses for soldiers returning from Iraq. The soldiers he had in mind were paralyzed, or missing arms or legs, or blind or deaf. Or more than one of the above.
 After failing to find an organization building houses for disabled Iraq veterans, Mr. Gonsalves founded one, Homes for Our Troops. In less than two years, the group has completed three houses (with three more under way), received countless awards and been the subject of several television shows.
But now Mr. Gonsalves, 39, may need to start a new organization: Land for Homes for Our Troops. Finding the lots to build the houses on has proved a stumbling block, Mr. Gonsalves said. ''The real estate is the hardest part,'' he said.
 Mr. Gonsalves, soft-spoken and earnest, has created a groundswell of support for his organization, with donors like the singer Billy Joel and the golfer Phil Mickelson. Most labor and materials for the houses have been donated. 
 ''Companies have been incredibly generous,'' Mr. Gonsalves said. But without a piece of property, there is nowhere for the generosity to go. 
 One soldier already owned property. Another was able to build on a corner of a family plot. But those are the exceptions. 
 For other disabled veterans, in an overheated real estate market, just finding the land for a free house is nearly impossible.
 Mr. Gonsalves is particularly eager to find a lot in Dale City, Va., 25 miles southeast of Washington. That's the hometown of Eugene Simpson, a 27-year-old father of four. Mr. Simpson, whose spinal cord was severed when a bomb exploded under his Humvee in Tikrit in April, was paralyzed from the waist down.
 Right now, Mr. Simpson and his family are living with his parents in a three-level house in Dale City, where he is confined to the ground floor. Homes for Our Troops has committed to building him a wheelchair-accessible dwelling. And Mr. Gonsalves is determined to do it in Dale City.
 ''How do you tell a guy like this, 'You're going to have to move out into the middle of nowhere,' '' Mr. Gonsalves said. Mr. Simpson said he wants to be close enough to his parents so that ''if my wife's not here and I need assistance, I can get it.''
 But in Dale City, a section of Woodbridge developed in the 1950's, land is at a premium. The community, Mr. Simpson said in a telephone interview, ''is going from middle class to upper middle class.''
 ''Everywhere you look, they're building giant houses,'' he said.
 Mike Minnery, a broker at Re/Max Allegiance in Dale City, said that, at present, ''there are no residential building lots that can be bought in Dale City.'' A commercial lot, the least expensive piece of property on the market, he said, is listed at $700,000.
 How is that possible? ''What we're running into here is that all residential construction is pretty much monitored, supervised, maintained by commercial developers, and they buy up huge tracts of land, and create subdivisions,'' Mr. Minnery said. ''The odds of finding a vacant lot are slim to none.''
 Several other brokers agreed with Mr. Minnery's view.
 Mr. Minnery added that he works with Habitat for Humanity International, ''and we face the same stumbling block.''
 True, there are houses in Dale City for less than $700,000. New homes start at about $500,000, and older ones in the $300,000's. But Mr. Gonsalves said that Mr. Simpson ''has four kids -- it's got to be a good-sized house.''
 And wheelchair accessibility, as Mr. Gonsalves defines it, means more than a ramp to the front door. ''He should be able to access everything the children can access; he certainly deserves it,'' Mr. Gonsalves said. And that, he said, ''means the whole house has to have wider-than-usual hallways and doors.'' 
 Mr. Gonsalves said he was so surprised by real estate prices in Dale City that ''the first time I went looking there, I thought I must be doing something wrong.'' Lately, he has come to the conclusion that tearing down a house and building on the lot may be the most economical option. But for a group that is in the business of creating housing, demolishing a perfectly good house seems wasteful.
 Mr. Simpson said that he goes out with real estate agents once or twice a week, looking at houses that can be renovated or torn down, ''but I haven't found anything in our price range.'' Mr. Gonsalves said he has budgeted about $300,000 for land for Mr. Simpson.
 Government subsidies won't help, Mr. Gonsalves said. The Department of Veterans Affairs offers disabled veterans a housing subsidy of up to $50,000. But the amount is capped at 50 percent of what the veteran pays for the home. Because Homes for Our Troops does not charge veterans for the houses, they do not qualify for the grant, Mr. Gonsalves said. (Jose S. Llamas, a Veterans Affairs spokesman, said that those figures were correct.) Mr. Gonsalves said that he is negotiating the matter with the department.
 But even if he succeeds, $50,000 won't buy much in Dale City. ''I don't think the veterans' benefits are really keeping up with the times,'' Mr. Gonsalves said. 
 Among the disabled veterans who already owned land is Sam Ross, a combat engineer with the Army's 82nd Airborne Division. In 2003, while he was disposing of munitions near Baghdad, an explosion left him sightless. He is also missing a leg, and the other ''is in bad shape,'' Mr. Gonsalves said. The organization has nearly completed a wheelchair-accessible log cabin for him on some land owned by his family in Dunbar, Pa.
 Kyle Burleson, in Spring Hill, La., is the most severely wounded soldier that the group has worked with. He is a quadriplegic on a respirator, and Homes for Our Troops is building a house for him on part of 20 acres in Spring Hill owned by his family. ''His mom will be his next-door neighbor,'' Mr. Gonsalves said.
 ''We just broke ground a few weeks ago, site work is done and the foundation is being put in,'' he added. 
 But the Simpson house is still only a dream. ''When we find the right piece of land,'' Mr. Gonsalves said, ''I'm ready to fly down there and buy it.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: DEVELOPING DREAMS -- John Gonsalves, far left middle, has started a group that builds houses for soldiers injured in Iraq, like a house in Middleboro, Mass., far left top. He is eager to build for Eugene Simpson, left, who was paralyzed in a bomb explosion. But there are few lots in Mr. Simpson's hometown, Dale City, Va., far left bottom. (Photos by top left and center, Robert Spencer for The New York Times
 bottom left and above, Steve Ruark for The New York Times)(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); VOLUNTEER HOUSE BUILDING & REPAIR (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); DISABLED PERSONS (90%); PARALYSIS (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); VETERANS (78%); SPINAL CORD INJURIES (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); BOMBINGS (73%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (55%); DISABLED ACCESS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: PHIL MICKELSON (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUGENE, OR, USA (79%) OREGON, USA (79%) IRAQ (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2005



51 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 5; The City Weekly Desk; ON THE EGDE; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 447 words

HEADLINE: For Many Reasons, Tracks Turn Deadly

BYLINE: By RICHARD MORGAN

 BODY:
Ever since Leidschnudel Dreispul, described as a middleaged Bronx man, was struck dead at 137th Street and Broadway by Express Train 3051, on Nov. 3, 1904, hundreds of people have died on the subway tracks, victims of murder or suicide, accident or folly. Here are some memorable examples. 


2005 -- Robbed of a gold chain, a crucifix and $50 he kept in a hidden pants pocket, Enrique Soriano, a 66-year-old man who was heading from Morrisania, the Bronx, to his job as a baggage handler at La Guardia Airport, was found dead May 31 about 3:30 a.m. He was killed on the No. 6 track at the elevated Whitlock Avenue station, widowing his 61-year-old wife, Rosa, above.

2005 -- Jean Eng, 53, died retrieving her purse on the uptown No. 6 track at 23rd Street and Park Avenue just after 10 a.m. on Feb. 2. She avoided being hit by the first car, but was pounded by the second and third before the train stopped.

2001 -- On Feb. 5, Thomas G. Nelford, a 23-year-old college dropout, jumped in front of a northbound No. 1 train at 181st Street after fatally slashing his girlfriend's throat in her Columbia University dorm room.

2000 -- On April 25, Chintamanie Vijantimala, a 34-year-old from East New York, became dizzy at the Grand Street station, fainted and fell to her death onto the tracks in front of a B train.

1999 -- On Jan. 3, Kendra Webdale, a 32-year-old aspiring writer who had moved from Buffalo three years earlier, was fatally pushed onto the N track at 23rd Street by Andrew Goldstein, a 29-year-old schizophrenic with a history of violence. Her death prompted the state to enact Kendra's Law, which gave judges more authority to order the mentally ill to comply with treatment.

1991 -- Jean Guerrier, a 14-year-old student at William Alexander Junior High in Park Slope, Brooklyn, was struck dead on Jan. 9 by an M train at the Union Street station. He and his friends had been playing a game called tracking, in which they seek to roam the tracks and tunnels without being hit by trains.

1991 -- On Jan. 8, a purse snatcher shoved his victim, Grace Cheng, 31, onto the C track at 96th Street and Central Park West. She was trapped between the track wall and a moving southbound train. One leg was almost severed, and an arm, a thigh and her pelvis were broken. She died in the hospital after two and a half hours of surgery. Her purse contained $1.

1988 -- Joseph Leslie, a 21-year-old unemployed man from Crown Heights, Brooklyn, lay down on Feb. 13 on the southbound No. 2 tracks between the Wall Street stop in Manhattan and the Clark Street stop in Brooklyn. His body, apparently dragged, was found in Brooklyn, 400 feet east of the Furman Street emergency exit. RICHARD MORGAN

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS (90%); TRAINS (90%); MENTAL ILLNESS (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); SCHIZOPHRENIA (77%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (73%); SUICIDE (72%); BAGGAGE HANDLING (72%); STUDENT HOUSING (71%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (66%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2005



52 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Society Desk; WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 290 words

HEADLINE: Adriana Pezzulli, Tony Newman

 BODY:
Adriana Dorffi Pezzulli, the daughter of Sandra Pezzulli and Dr. Fred Pezzulli of New York, is to be married today to Tony Newman, the son of Annie and Steve Newman of Santa Cruz, Calif. The Rev. Dr. Jacqueline J. Lewis, a Presbyterian minister, is to officiate at the nondenominational ceremony at the Monkey Bar, a restaurant in New York. 
 The bride, 29, is keeping her name. She is the fund-raising director for the Lower Eastside Girls Club of New York, a nonprofit organization that provides after-school, summer and weekend programs for economically disadvantaged girls. She graduated cum laude from New York University.
The bride's father, a radiologist, retired from Lenox Hill Hospital as the assistant director of breast imaging. He now practices at Lenox Hill Radiology and Medical Imaging, a group practice in New York. He is also a playwright whose works include ''Rattlesnake'' and ''The Trial of Klaus Barbie,'' which were performed at the WorkShop Theater Company in New York. Her mother is a nurse practitioner at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York; she specializes in clinical trials for the development of new treatments.
 The bridegroom, 34, is the director of communications for the Drug Policy Alliance, nonprofit organization in New York. He is also on the board of directors of Global Exchange, a human rights organization. He graduated from the University of California, Santa Cruz. 
 The bridegroom's mother retired as a kindergarten teacher at Salsipuedes Elementary School in Watsonville, Calif. His father, also retired, was a computer programmer at Beta Technology in Santa Cruz, which makes industrial pumps, regulators and other equipment.
 The bridegroom's previous marriage ended in divorce.


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Alex Tehrani)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); MARRIAGE (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (76%); THEATER (76%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (76%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (72%); RELIGION (72%); FUNDRAISING (71%); DRUG POLICY (71%); CLINICAL TRIALS (71%); RESTAURANTS (71%); DRINKING PLACES (71%); NURSES & NURSING (69%); THEATER COMPANIES (68%); DRAMA LITERATURE (68%); THEATER & DRAMA (68%); CANCER (66%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (64%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: MEMORIAL SLOAN-KETTERING CANCER CENTER (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2005



53 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2005
Early Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: Out of the Muddy Rubble, a Vision for Gulf Coast Towns

BYLINE: By BRADFORD McKEE

DATELINE: BILOXI, Miss., Dec. 2 

 BODY:
With an estimated 18 million cubic yards of storm debris still on the ground, residents of 11 Gulf Coast towns in Mississippi got their first look this week at detailed planning proposals for rebuilding roads, houses and buildings wiped out by Hurricane Katrina. 
 The residents, who attended a series of public meetings on Wednesday and Thursday, generally embraced the plans. But their approval was tempered by frustration over the slow pace of reconstruction and by questions about who would pay. 
Most of the money for rebuilding will have to come from private sources, said Jim Barksdale, the chairman of the Commission on Recovery, Rebuilding and Renewal established by Gov. Haley Barbour. The commission began the planning effort in mid-October. Mr. Barksdale said he hoped Congress would approve the state's request for $34 billion in relief money by Dec. 25.
 ''We don't know why it's taking them so long,'' Mr. Barksdale told Gulfport residents Thursday evening, adding that ''they were supposed to get it done by Thanksgiving'' under a deadline set by Congress. 
 The plans, which are to be passed on to local officials as concepts for rebuilding, originated with a set of design workshops held in Biloxi that included about 200 architects, city planners and engineers from around the nation. 
 Many of the designers belong to an outspoken and controversial group known as the Congress for the New Urbanism, which advocates more densely built neighborhoods with mass transit and easily walkable streets. The group's detractors say it imposes heavy-handed rules that codify a nostalgic Disney version of small-town America. 
 Don Holden, 73, a Gulfport property owner, viewed the plans for the city on Thursday evening with dozens of other residents at a local church. Mr. Holden said he hoped the orderly development outlined in the plans would be realized, given the random style of development of the town that he had seen since 1953.
 Mr. Holden recalled a similar plan that emerged after Hurricane Camille struck the region in 1969. ''It wasn't like this, though,'' he said. ''We paid a lot of money for it, and it went on a shelf.''
 The plans addressed some large-scale problems, like replacing a highway bridge between Biloxi and Ocean Springs, Miss., one of several major bridges destroyed in the region, and restoring fishing harbors as tourist attractions. The plans also proposed the rezoning of several downtown areas along the Gulf Coast to encourage more housing mixed with casinos, stores and restaurants. 
 For several of the waterfront towns, one of the most significant and expensive proposals involves turning the CSX railroad that parallels the coast into a wide boulevard or corridor for light-rail trains. The idea has been studied in the past but deemed too costly, at an estimated $2 billion to acquire the land rights from the railroad.
 Current negotiations with CSX could bring down the cost of the rail proposal to about $500 million, said Anthony J. Topazi, president and chief executive of Mississippi Power, who led the commission's infrastructure committee. ''It is a probability that we will acquire the railroad right of way,'' Mr. Topazi said, adding that he expected a final answer from CSX officials by Feb. 3.
 In Gulfport, Hank Coolidge, a retired engineer, and his wife, Camilla, a retired computer analyst, noted that because the railroad rose to an elevation of about 25 feet above sea level, it formed a natural barrier several blocks north of the waterfront. The tracks helped to protect the Coolidges and other residents north of the tracks from flooding during Hurricane Katrina. 
 ''If they tear down the tracks, the next storm surge is going to go all the way to Hattiesburg,'' Mrs. Coolidge said. Hattiesburg, Miss., lies about 70 miles north of the coast.
 Before unveiling the town plans to the public Wednesday evening, the governor's commission convened a group of casino owners. Twelve casinos were destroyed by the hurricane, including nine in Biloxi, putting about 14,000 people out of work. Their absence costs an estimated $500,000 a day in state and local tax revenues.
 In October, Governor Barbour signed a law allowing casinos to sit on land within 800 feet of the shore, no longer restricting them to offshore barges. 
 The Miami architect Andres Duany, a principal figure in the New Urbanism movement, urged the casino owners to integrate the casinos more seamlessly among new clusters of retail stores and restaurants rather than as isolated establishments.
 Describing his vision, Mr. Duany said, ''You step out onto a beautiful avenue, where you can get a chance to look at the water and the marvelous sunsets and the shops, and walk up and down to restaurants and easily find taxis to other places.'' 
 But Mr. Duany's design sharply clashed with the casino owners' main priority.
 ''A casino owner wants people to stay on the property,'' said Bernie Burkholder, president and chief executive of the Treasure Bay Casino, in Biloxi. ''As running-dog capitalist casino owners, we need to understand that the community fits together,'' Mr. Burkholder added, ''but we need an economic unit that will hold the customer.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Elizabeth Flatt and her son, Daron, viewing a map of flooding levels Thursday at a meeting in Gulfport, Miss. (Photo by James Edward Bates for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN DEVELOPMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); HURRICANES (78%); HURRICANE KATRINA (78%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (77%); ZONING (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); TRAINS (69%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (64%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (60%); RESTAURANTS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: HALEY BARBOUR (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BILOXI, MS, USA (93%); GULFPORT, MS, USA (93%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (94%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2005



54 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2348 words

HEADLINE: The Changing Landscape Of Roosevelt Island

BYLINE: By NADINE BROZAN

 BODY:
IT was to have been the quintessential urban utopia: a small town within yards of the city, a waterfront paradise with abundant open space and a demographer's dream bringing together a broad sweep of nationalities, ages and income levels. 
 How closely Roosevelt Island has fulfilled the vision of Philip Johnson and John Burgee, the architects who designed its master plan in 1969, is debatable. Whether it is paradise depends on one's point of view.
But there is no question that the 800-foot-wide, two-mile-long sliver of land in the East River between Manhattan and Queens is undergoing a transformation that could alter its image and thrust it in the public eye. 
 As Matthew Katz, a former president of the Roosevelt Island Residents Association, put it: ''We are in the midst of vast change, and real estate is the prime consideration. The island is being set up for gentrification, which means that middle-class housing will disappear and it will become homogeneous.'' 
 Whether his premise is valid remains to be seen. But it is clear that the island, a bastion of economic and racial diversity, is taking a tilt toward greater affluence than prevailed in the past. 
 Until now, it has remained nearly invisible to New Yorkers who do not live there or have no friends there. ''Roosevelt Island is still transparent,'' said John Weatherhead, president of the board of Rivercross, a Mitchell-Lama co-op there. ''It is not on anyone's radar screen, which is strange given that it is such a spectacular waterfront site.'' 
 The island has around 10,000 residents, about half the number projected in the original development plan. According to the most recent census data, 45 percent of them are white, 27 percent are black, 14 percent Hispanic and 11 percent Asian. The median income in 2000, the year the census was conducted, was $49,976, with 37 percent of the population earning less than $35,000 a year and 40 percent between $35,000 and $100,000. 
 There are several residential complexes on the island, all containing high-rise buildings, including four built in the mid-1970's under the Mitchell-Lama program, which gave developers financial incentives in exchange for caps on rents or, in the case of the one co-op, purchase and resale prices. 
 Manhattan Park, a cluster of buildings that went up in 1989 north of the island's commercial center, is a market-rate rental except for one building reserved for tenants qualifying for Section 8 housing subsidies.
 The imminent introduction of the first luxury condo will mark a turning point. A partnership of the Related Companies and the Hudson Companies is set to open an 18-story structure called Riverwalk Place in the southern part of the island, known as Southtown, in January, when it will also break ground on a second condo, Riverwalk Landing. Ultimately, they will put up nine Riverwalk buildings with 2,000 residences. Until now, there has been no housing in Southtown. 
 The first two buildings were sold to the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center and the New York-Presbyterian Hospital/Weill Cornell Medical Center, which rent apartments to their employees. 
 At Riverwalk Place, 95 percent of the 220 units have been snapped up since marketing began in October 2004. ''There have been no opportunities to buy condos here in the past, and 30 percent of the buyers already reside here,'' said David J. Wine, vice chairman of the Related Companies, who has worked on the $700 million venture for 10 years. ''Now we felt that the market was ready for a luxury condo.'' 
 It has not been decided what the remaining five buildings will be. Riverwalk Place will have Manhattan-style amenities like a 24-hour concierge, landscaped roof deck, health club, children's playroom, bicycle storage and, inside the apartments, granite countertops, ceramic tile floors and pearwood cabinets. 
 Prices for studios, which have sold out, were $275,000 to $375,000. For one-bedrooms, they are $400,000 to $700,000; two-bedrooms, $550,000 to $850,000; and three-bedrooms, $800,000 to $1.5 million. Mr. Wine estimated that they are 35 to 40 percent lower than comparable offerings in Manhattan, and he added, ''They have waterfront views.'' 
 One of those who has bought into the new building is Silvia Kramar, a correspondent in New York for Il Giornale, a daily Italian newspaper. The single mother of a 4-year-old daughter, Olivia, Ms. Kramar lived for a while in East Hampton, N.Y., before buying a co-op on Park Avenue a year ago. 
 ''East Hampton was a beautiful environment for my daughter, but I felt isolated there,'' she said. ''On Park Avenue, everything was traffic. I had to be constantly vigilant, never letting Olivia's hand go for more than a minute. I wondered if living in this environment 24 hours a day was good for her. I love everything the city offers a child, but part of me wished I could move out again.'' 
 Then Ms. Kramar, who plays tennis on Roosevelt Island, noticed Riverwalk Place and inquired about apartments. Now she is planning her move to a three-bedroom condo there. ''My daughter will have a moving landscape of boats in the river,'' she said. ''It is the best of both worlds, removed from the city but 20 minutes away.'' 
 At the north end of the island opposite East 84th Street, the Octagon is being reincarnated as a 500-unit luxury rental tower. It is the remnant of a landmark constructed in 1839 as the New York Lunatic Asylum and later converted into Metropolitan Hospital. It was shut in 1955, and only the eight exterior walls survived the ravages of fire and time. Reproductions of the octagonal dome and the sweeping interior circular staircase will be the architectural centerpieces of the building, which will extend over two wings around a courtyard. 
 The Octagon was developed and designed by Becker & Becker Associates of Fairfield, Conn., and like everything else on Roosevelt Island has ignited debate, in this case about the way it is positioned on open space. It will have a child-care center, a swimming pool, tennis courts, a library, a lobby designed by David Rockwell, a fitness center, a billiards room, a clubhouse, a business center and underground parking. 
 With a target completion date of June, it will have 400 units of market-rate housing with monthly rents ranging from about $1,950 for a studio to $3,800 for a unit with three bedrooms, though a few will be listed for as much as $6,000. So far, leases are being processed for 40 applicants and there are 700 names on a list of people who have requested information, including one who has asked for a 62-year lease -- a proposal not yet rejected or accepted. 
 Bruce Redman Becker, president of the firm, said there would also be 100 units of middle-income housing, reserved for tenants earning no more than $94,000, which is 150 percent of the area median income for a family of four. They would pay slightly lower rents and go through the same application procedure as other potential tenants.
 Provisions will also be made for affordable units in the Riverwalk complex, besides those offered to the hospital employees, which are not available to the public at large. A 1990 amendment to the general development plan specified that 40 to 60 percent of the housing in Southtown fall under a middle-income program, but its location has yet to be determined. 
 Because of the new projects, some residents of the island are expressing concern about the influx of a wealthier constituency, with references being made to Riverwalk as ''Millionaires' Row.'' 
 ''Most people feel that the newcomers will operate in their own sphere and won't be integrated into the traditional Roosevelt Island,'' said Dorothy Davis, chairwoman of the tenants association in Island House, one of three Mitchell-Lama clusters in Northtown, which have a total of 1,878 units. ''Maybe they won't fight for it the way we do, speak up whatever the cause and send armies to Albany. As people move out, the spirit of the island might change with the incoming people.''
 There does seem to be an unusually high degree of community-mindedness on the part of Roosevelt Islanders, who wax eloquent about the island's friendliness, public spirit, diversity and small town ambience. As Mr. Katz said, ''This is the world shrunk down to 10,000 people.'' 
 Indeed, it is difficult to stroll down Main Street, the primary thoroughfare, without noticing the greetings people proffer one another in a variety of languages. But they are also outspoken about its shortcomings -- everything from interruptions in transportation services, which include the aerial tram, the F subway line and car access over the Roosevelt Island Bridge (which connects to Queens), to shoddy maintenance of buildings to the Roosevelt Island Operating Corporation, which governs them. 
 It is not the prospect of more affluent residents in their midst that rankles, but rather the fear that projects like Riverwalk and the Octagon will spur the proliferation of upscale buildings and tip the balance away from the middle-income interests. 
 ''Millionaires' Row is O.K., but don't push us out,'' Maxine Siegel, an events planner at the City University of New York, said at a tenant get-together in Westview, one of the buildings scheduled to be taken out of the Mitchell- Lama program. ''We are open to growth, to people with different economic backgrounds, and we are more concerned with maintaining our homes than keeping out the rich.'' 
 The units in her building will most likely be put up for sale by the Sheldrake Organization, which is in the process of buying both Westview and Island House. Robert J. Klehammer, executive vice president of Sheldrake, said the company is negotiating with tenant groups in both buildings. It aims, he said, ''to do conversions where the maximum number of people could buy and there would be protections for those who don't or can't buy.''
 Another Mitchell-Lama development on the island, Eastwood, where some residents, including a number of elderly and disabled people, receive federal subsidies, is in the throes of emerging from the program. It is expected that those with subsidies will be eligible for so-called sticky vouchers, which will help them with their rent whether they remain in place or move elsewhere. But no one at the office of the owner, Jerome Belson Associates, would comment. 
 Discussions have also begun about privatizing Rivercross, a Mitchell-Lama co-op where an average one-bedroom apartment now goes for $33,000 and an average three-bedroom for $54,000. Privatizing would entitle Rivercross owners to sell their apartments at market rate, but they would be subject to substantial flip taxes in order to keep the maintenance charges reasonable. 
 ''We don't want to increase maintenance so much that people will have to leave,'' said Mr. Weatherhead, the board's president. ''We are a middle-income building and don't want to privatize ourselves onto the street.'' 
 Under the Mitchell-Lama legislation that was enacted in 1955 to spur the construction of moderate-income housing around the state, developers were granted the right to withdraw from the program after 20 years.
 But the Sheldrake and Belson firms' legal right to charge whatever the market will bear may well be on a collision course with a contract leasing the city-owned land to the state that was signed in 1969. According to the terms of that agreement, which is not due to expire until 2068, 40 percent of the housing in Northtown, the area where the Mitchell-Lama buildings sit, was to go to tenants eligible for federally assisted public housing, 35 percent to those qualified for Mitchell-Lama and 25 percent to those able to pay market rate. 
 Whether the conditions of the lease override the rights of Mitchell-Lama owners to be free of constraints is being studied by the state's Division of Housing and Community Renewal. ''Both the owners and the tenants have submitted legal opinions, and we are currently reviewing them,'' said David B. Cabrera, acting general counsel for the department. ''We will not comment until a final decision is made.'' 
 Chad A. Marlow, a lawyer and principal with the Public Advocacy Group, who represents the Westview Task Force, said: ''If the buildings are removed from the Mitchell- Lama program and no longer remain as affordable housing, the owners will be in violation of the lease and the general plan that runs with the land on which they sit. The owners would have us believe that the only rule that affects them is the Mitchell-Lama program, but in truth they were allowed to build because they promised the city and state they would remain affordable until 2068.'' 
 Hank Sheinkopf, a spokesman for the Sheldrake Organization, said, ''We will take into account income levels with the hope of maintaining a middle-income community and we will involve the tenant associations in these discussions.''
 The mood has been decidedly pessimistic at Westview, where leaders seem less amenable to reaching a settlement with the owners than do those at Island House. Opher Pail, co-chairman of the Westview Task Force and an engineer who raised two sons at Westview, said bluntly: ''The threat we face is that of mass evictions. Very few of us in the building have options.'' 
 ''Mitchell-Lama was a beautiful idea designed for middle-income people like teachers, police officers, engineers, people who have incomes of $50,000 to $60,000, although we have a lot of people earning less than $30,000,'' he continued. ''With rents for two-bedrooms averaging $1,500 to $1,600 a month (or more than $18,000 a year), if they are doubled to where market rate falls, you are talking about eviction.'' 
 Carol Elbaz, a hair colorist, and her husband, Rafael Elbaz, a stay-at-home father who takes care of their three children and who recently received a real estate license, view the future with extreme concern. ''We came here five years ago because of Mitchell-Lama, and if that changes, it will be impossible for us to stay in New York,'' Mrs. Elbaz said. ''This is not a stopover. It is our home.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: BEST OF BOTH WORLDS -- Silvia Kramar and her daughter, Olivia, are moving from Manhattan to a three-bedroom condo at Riverwalk Place on Roosevelt Island. (Photo by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)(pg. 1)
GREAT VIEWS -- Roosevelt Island, in the East River between Manhattan and Queens, is being transformed with the development of luxury buildings like the Octagon, far left, with its spiral staircase. But residents like the Elbaz family, left, are worried that the changes will drive out less affluent residents. (Photos by above, Rick Maiman for The New York Times
below, Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times
 far left, Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)(pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (87%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (73%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (73%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (73%); RENT CONTROL (73%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (72%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (72%); PUBLIC HOUSING (72%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (71%); CENSUS (70%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2005



55 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; 'T'; Column 1; THoliday; THE TALK; Pg. 110

LENGTH: 1437 words

HEADLINE: Still Magnolias

BYLINE: By JULIA REED

 BODY:
It was bound to happen. I got married, bought a house big enough to hold the combined families of my husband and me at Christmas, and a Category 4 hurricane all but takes out the city I'd finally chosen to call home. We were lucky -- our house is mostly intact, and one of our first purchases for it, from my friend Patrick Dunne at Lucullus in the French Quarter, was a glorious walnut dining-room table that seats 28. Among the few things we didn't have to replace when we first started our renovation (which is now shaping up to be among the longest in the history of the world) was a commercial South Bend stove, so enormous that it takes up almost a whole wall in the kitchen. Given these fortuitous facts, I am relieved, grateful and imbued with not just a touch of survivor's guilt, the combination of which has made me more determined than ever to create the most joyous, festive and delicious holiday ever. I feel I owe it to my adopted city -- after all, its reputation and much of its economy have long been based on celebration and fine cuisine. 
It was not easy to wrest the holiday mantle from my mother. Every December she becomes a woman possessed, turning our house in the Mississippi Delta into a sort of mini-Williamsburg. It takes her four days just to hang the 75 strings of lights that she insists on putting on the tree; she removes every photograph from every silver frame and replaces all of them with Christmas images. It is always beautiful, and for more than 40 years I loved pulling up to her table and enjoyed her always-tender turkey and her justifiably renowned scalloped oysters. But I am a tad too old to continue dumping out the contents of my childhood stocking (my husband inherited the one that had belonged to several of our dogs), and I was more than ready to take over. Pre-Katrina, I had planned to combine our family traditions with at least a few Creole elements. Post-Katrina, it seems important to create a full-blown homage to New Orleans.
 Since there is now a decidedly pioneer aspect to the Big Easy, I chose to reach back as far as possible. In Harnett Kane's ''The Southern Christmas Book,'' I read that the early Creoles of French descent kept Christmas a low-key affair, attending a midnight mass followed by a reveillon, or Christmas breakfast, in houses that invariably boasted creches but not necessarily a tree. (In those that did, the tree was not yet the formalized fir of the Germans -- The Daily Picayune reported that one well-to-do local used a Japanese plum instead.) More extravagant celebrations, along with the exchange of gifts, didn't take place until the New Year, when feasts included a seafood gumbo, pralines, dragees (sugar-coated almonds) and little cakes, along with cafe brulot (aka cafe diabolique), a wickedly strong, brandy-infused coffee flamed in a silver punch bowl at table.
 By the end of the 19th century, the American way had taken over, and Papa Noel gave way to Santa Claus: gift-giving took place on Christmas Day, feasts still included gumbo and cafe brulot as well as turkey and dressing, and extravagance was the rule. In the ''Picayune Creole Cook Book,'' published in 1901, Christmas dinner was made up of 34 items, including oysters on the half shell, a relish tray, a bouillabaisse of red snapper and redfish with ''Louisiana rice,'' and a vol-au-vent of pigeon followed by a sweet souffle of bananas au rhum. Still to come were roast turkey 
 with cranberry sauce, snipe on toast and desserts: ''pouding a la reine,'' mince pie, apple pie, strawberry ice, ouchees, petits fours, fruit, nuts, raisins and bonbons, followed by a wheel of Roquefort. As an alternative, the book provides ''An Old-Fashioned Creole Suggestion for a Holiday Menu'' of file gumbo, redfish courtbouillon (a thick and spicy roux-based stew with tomatoes), turkey with oyster stuffing, plum pudding, pineapple sherbet and ''homemade sponge, jelly and poundcakes.'' There is yet another menu, deemed, astonishingly, ''more economical.'' It features: river shrimp on ice; broiled trout with sauce remoulade; Brabant potatoes; orange salad; chicken pie; turkey with baked yams, buttered winter squash and stuffed tomatoes; and much the same lineup of cakes and pies, followed by cheese.
 Clearly, there's a lot to draw from on the menu front. I even thought of a turducken, the Cajun creation that is a boned chicken inside a boned duck inside a boned turkey, with a spicy stuffing in between each layer, but it's a relatively new creation from the 1980's. In my pioneer mode, I've decided to go with a couple of wild turkeys, which are in ample supply in Louisiana, along with a stuffing made of the oysters I was originally afraid I wouldn't be able to get. But in late October, after what it assured us were extensive chemical and microbiological tests, the Louisiana Department of Health and Hospitals allowed half the oyster beds in the state to be reopened. I'll definitely start with a seafood gumbo and maybe a relish tray accompanied by shrimp remoulade. I adore the ''economical'' menu's winter squash, especially 
 when it is made uneconomically with white truffles per the instructions in ''Jeremiah Tower Cooks.''
 I said I wanted a joyous holiday, and nothing increases my joy quite like truffles. With that in mind, I think I'll kick off the proceedings off with canape Rothschild from ''Antoine's Restaurant Cookbook'' (essentially toast spread with pate de foie gras topped with a black truffle cube), accompanied by what's left of the case of Champagne Billecart-Salmon that a close friend gave us as a present the night before we evacuated from Katrina (diligent testing has revealed that it was undamaged by the post-Katrina heat).
 Instead of orange salad, I think I'll precede all the cakes and puddings with ambrosia, a layered concoction of orange slices, sugar and fresh grated coconut, which, according to the Picayune, is ''a famous Creole dessert.'' It was also the only thing my father's decidedly un-Creole mother knew how to make, and she served it at every family gathering. In years past, I could have picked oranges from my own trees, but alas, they didn't survive. Plenty of groves did, however, so I plan to fill my house with bowls of Louisiana citrus perfect for holiday picking: oranges and satsumas, tiny kumquats and enormous thin-skinned lemons whose scent permeates the air. One year I decorated a tree with nothing but kumquats and dragee-studded ginger cookies; this year I think I'll add the antique blown-glass ornaments, mostly of birds, that I've been collecting just for this moment.
 In 1901, the ''Picayune'' cookbook quite rightly advised its readers that ''the woods are full of the beautiful Christmas offerings of nature at this time of the year,'' and the authors were especially pro-holly: ''Fill the vases and bowls with holly; hang a wreath above the mantel'' -- I have three, all in need of mirrors, so the holly solves an expensive problem -- ''and set a great clustering bouquet ... in the center of the table.'' I will, though mine will be augmented by branches from my over-200-year-old magnolia, whose fragile health was further endangered when Katrina snapped its top off. Since my tree guru, the increasingly rich John Benton (some businesses are better to be in than others after a storm), says it won't last another year, I'll accept its parting gifts graciously.
 Sadly, the one New Orleans tradition that we won't be able to take part in is Christmas Eve at Antoine's, where families have been celebrating since 1840. This Creole institution has been in the same family since Antoine Alciatore of Marseilles, France, first opened its doors on St. Louis Street. The hurricane caused extensive damage to the building and killed Clifton Lachney, the restaurant's beloved 71-year-old maitre d', who perished in his house. The fact that the current generation vows to reopen as quickly as possible is enough of a gift for most locals, though I'll miss its softly lighted dining room, always decorated with a tree. In the meantime, I will cook Antoine's specialties at home for Christmas Eve: oysters Rockefeller, which was invented there; crab meat ravigote; souffleed potatoes, which, thank goodness, my mother has the patience to make; trout meuniere; and filet of beef with marchand de vin sauce. At the meal's end there will, of course, be cafe brulot, which Antoine's waiters always prepare at the table with considerable drama. We will likely not match their flair, but it won't matter. We'll turn out the lights, watch the magical flame and toast to being alive -- and in New Orleans.


GRAPHIC: Photo: (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN COOLEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (90%); FAMILY (90%); CHRISTMAS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (89%); HURRICANES (77%) 

PERSON: Julia Reed

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2005



56 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine; Pg. 53

LENGTH: 4873 words

HEADLINE: Illness as More Than Metaphor

BYLINE: By David Rieff. 
David Rieff is a contributing writer for the magazine.

 BODY:
My mother, Susan Sontag, lived almost her entire 71 years believing that she was a person who would beat the odds. Even during the last nine months of her life, after she was discovered to have myelodysplastic syndrome, or M.D.S., a particularly virulent blood cancer, she continued to persevere in the belief that she would be the exception. M.D.S. is technically a precursor to acute myeloid leukemia. On average, its survival rates across the generational cohorts are no better than 20 percent, and far worse for a woman in her early 70's who had had cancer twice before. It wasn't that she didn't know that the biological deck was stacked against her; as someone who prided herself on her ability to grasp medical facts, she knew it only too well. In the immediate aftermath of her diagnosis, she went online to learn all she could about M.D.S. and despaired as the fact of its lethality sank in. But that despair was almost the flip side of a lifelong confidence in her ability to defy the odds. ''This time, for the first time,'' she told me, ''I don't feel special.'' 
Remarkably, in only a few weeks she had righted herself psychologically and was gearing up, just as she had done during her successful fights to survive two previous cancers, to find the doctors and the treatments that seemed to offer her some hope of defying those terrifyingly long odds and once more becoming the exception. How she did this, I don't know. Perhaps it was the spirit that had led her, when she recovered from her first cancer, to write a little proudly in her book ''AIDS and Its Metaphors'' of ''confounding my doctors' pessimism.'' Perhaps she was able, somehow, to confound her own as well. What I do know is that the panic attacks that had overwhelmed her after her diagnosis began to lessen, and in the M.D.S. literature that she found on the Web she began to find reasons for hope rather than despair. She even began to work again, writing a fiery piece on the Abu Ghraib torture photographs for this magazine at the same time she was readying herself to become a patient at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center in Seattle, where the bone-marrow transplant that was her only realistic hope of cure had been pioneered.
 Her ''positive denial,'' as I always thought of it, whether with regard to her health, her work as a writer or her private life, had not been extinguished by the hard facts of M.D.S. after all. On her 70th birthday, 15 months before she found out she was ill again, she talked to me at length and with the characteristic passion she brought to her work about how she was only now starting a new and, she thought, the best phase of her writing life. Leaving for Seattle, she began speaking again of projects she would undertake -- above all the novel she had been outlining -- after her return to New York and even to speculate about whether she would feel strong enough to write during her treatment.
 Was it bravado? Doubtless it was, but not bravado alone. During the two years of chemotherapy she underwent in the mid-1970's to treat her first cancer -- Stage 4 breast cancer that had spread into 31 of her lymph nodes -- she managed to publish a book on photography and, a year later, her book ''Illness as Metaphor.'' That time, she had beaten the odds. William Cahan, then her principal doctor at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York, told me at the time that he saw virtually no hope. (Those were the days when doctors often told patients' relatives things they did not disclose to the patients themselves.) But as her friend Dr. Jerome Groopman, chief of experimental medicine at the Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center in Boston, told me a few months after her death: ''The statistics only get you so far. There are always people at the tail of the curve. They survive, miraculously, like your mother with breast cancer. Her prognosis was horrific. She said: 'No, I'm too young and stubborn. I want to go for it''' -- meaning treatment. ''Statistically, she should have died. But she didn't. She was at the tail of that curve.''
 ''We tell ourselves stories in order to live.'' The line is Joan Didion's, and looking back on my mother's life, I've been wondering lately if we don't tell them to ourselves in order to die as well. In retrospect, I realize that death was never something my mother talked about much. But it was the ghost at the banquet of many of her conversations, expressed particularly in her single-minded focus on her own longevity and, as she got older, by her frequent voicing of the hope of living to be 100. She was no more reconciled to extinction at 71 than she had been at 42. After her death, a theme in many of the extremely generous and heartfelt letters of condolence I received from her friends puzzled me: it was surprise -- surprise that my mother hadn't beaten M.D.S. as she had beaten both breast cancer and the uterine sarcoma that struck her in her mid-60's. 
 But then, she, too, was surprised when the doctors in Seattle came in to tell her the bone-marrow transplant had failed and her leukemia was back. She screamed out, ''But this means I'm going to die!''
 I will never forget that scream, or think of it without wanting to cry out myself. And yet, even that terrible morning, in a pristine room at the University of Washington Medical Center, with its incongruously beautiful view of Lake Union and Mount Rainier in the background, I remember being surprised by her surprise. I suppose I shouldn't have been. There are those who can reconcile themselves to death and those who can't. Increasingly, I've come to think that it is one of the most important ways the world divides up. Anecdotally, after all those hours I spent in doctors' outer offices and in hospital lobbies, cafeterias and family rooms, my sense is that the loved ones of desperately ill people divide the same way. 
 For doctors, understanding and figuring out how to respond to an individual patient's perspective -- continue to fight for life when chances of survival are slim, or acquiesce and try to make the best of whatever time remains? -- can be almost as grave a responsibility as the more scientific challenge of treating disease. In trying to come to terms with my mother's death, I wanted to understand the work of the oncologists who treated her and what treating her meant to them, both humanly and scientifically. What chance was there really of translating a patient's hope for survival into the reality of a cure? One common thread in what they told me was that interpreting a patient's wishes is as much art as science. Dr. Stephen Nimer, my mother's principal doctor, heads the division of hematologic oncology at Memorial Sloan-Kettering and is also one of America's foremost researchers in the fundamental biology of leukemia. As he explained it to me: ''The fact is that people are never as educated as the doctor. You have to figure out something about the patient'' -- by which he meant something that takes both patient and physician beyond the profound, frustrating and often infantilizing asymmetry between the patient's ability to comprehend the choices to be made and the doctor's.
 Still, the doctor's task here is not impossible. As Nimer put it: ''There are risk takers and risk-averse. There are those who say, you know: 'I'm 70 years old. If I get another four or five months, that would be fine.' Others say, 'You do everything you can to save my life.' Then it's easy. You can go straight into a discussion of what a patient wants.''
 For Nimer, as for Jerome Groopman, the ethical challenge, vital for a doctor to recognize and impossible (and ethically undesirable) to deal with formulaically, comes not with the 30 percent of patients Nimer estimates know for certain whether they want aggressive treatment or not, but with the ''undecided'' 70 percent in the middle. As Nimer told me somewhat ruefully, the doctor's power to influence these patients, one way or the other, is virtually complete. ''There are ways to say things,'' he said. '''This is your only hope.' Or you could say, 'Some doctors will say it's your only hope, but it has a 20 times better chance of harming you than helping you.' So I'm pretty confident I can persuade people.'' Groopman, in his clinical practice with patients like my mother, patients for whom, statistically, the prognosis is terrible, at times begins by saying, ''There is a very small chance, but it comes with tremendous cost.'' 
 In these situations, doctors like Groopman and Nimer see their job as, in effect, parsing the patient's response and trying to determine a treatment plan that is responsive to the patient's wishes but is also not what physicians refer to as ''medically futile'' -- that is, offering no real chance for cure or remission. That is hard enough. What makes the doctor's decision in such situations even more painful is that ''medically futile'' means different things to different physicians. After my mother's transplant failed and she was medevacked from the University of Washington hospital back to Memorial Sloan-Kettering, Nimer tried one last treatment -- an experimental drug called Zarnestra that had induced remission in some 10 percent of the small number of patients to whom it had been administered. I would learn from the nurses' aides who attended my mother in the last weeks of her life that some of the doctors and nurses on the transplant floor were uncomfortable with the decision, precisely because they saw my mother's situation as hopeless, that is, medically futile. As division head, in consultation with Dr. Marcel van den Brink, the hospital's chief of bone-marrow transplantation, Nimer could overrule these objections. But neither man would have denied the difficulty of drawing a clear line between what is and is not medically futile.
 My mother was determined to try to live no matter how terrible her suffering. Her choices had been stark from the outset. Unlike some other cancers that can be halted for years through treatment, there are few long-lasting remissions in M.D.S. Her only real chance of survival lay in the possibility of an outright cure offered by an adult-blood-stem-cell transplant. Otherwise, to quote from one of the medical Web sites my mother visited repeatedly during the first weeks after her diagnosis, treatment offered her only an ''alleviation of symptoms, reduction in transfusion requirements and improvement of quality of life.'' During their second meeting, Nimer offered her the option of treatment with a drug called 5-azacitidine, which gave many M.D.S. patients some months during which they felt relatively well. But the drug did little to prolong life. My mother replied, with tremendous passion, ''I am not interested in quality of life!''
 What Nimer knew with the horrified intimacy of long clinical practice, but what my mother could not yet know, was just how agonizing the effects of an unsuccessful stem-cell transplant can be: everything from painful skin rashes to inordinately severe diarrhea to hallucinations and delirium. To me, torture is not too strong or hyperbolic a word. After my mother's declaration, Nimer only nodded and began talking about where the best place might be for her to have the stem-cell transplant, going over with her the variations in different medical research centers' approaches to transplantation. After the transplant failed, and my mother returned from Seattle, Nimer obviously knew how long the odds were against an experimental drug like Zarnestra inducing even a brief extension of her life. But he said he felt that he had to try, both because the drug had had some success and because my mother had told him (and me) from the outset that she wanted her doctors to do everything possible, no matter how much of a long shot it was, to save or prolong her life. 
 ''Always assuming it's not medically futile,'' he told me a few weeks before her death, ''if I can carry out my patients' wishes, I want to do that.''
 My mother could express herself only with the greatest of difficulty in the last weeks of her life. ''Protective hibernation'' was how one Sloan-Kettering psychiatrist described it. Like most people who have lost someone dear to them, I would say that one of my dominant emotions since my mother's death has been guilt -- guilt over what I did and failed to do. But I do not regret trying to get her to swallow those Zarnestra pills even when her death was near, for I haven't the slightest doubt that had she been able to make her wishes known, my mother would have said she wanted to fight for her life to the very end.
 But this does nothing to change the fact that it seems almost impossible to develop a satisfactory definition of what is and is not medically futile. What is the cutoff? A 10 percent chance of success? Five percent? One percent? When does the ''very small chance'' my mother's doctors bought at the ''tremendous cost'' in suffering that Groopman described for me become so infinitesimal as to make it no longer worth trying? 
 I have found no consensus among the oncologists I have spoken with in the aftermath of my mother's death, and I don't believe there is one. There are those who take a strong, consistent stance against not just such treatments but also against the general orientation of American medicine, particularly oncology, toward doing everything possible to save individual patients, no matter how poor their chances. These doctors seem inspired by a public-health model based on better health outcomes for communities rather than individuals, viewing it as the most moral and the only cost-effective way of practicing medicine. This view, often associated with the work of the medical ethicist Daniel Callahan, is increasingly influential.
 One reason for this is that the current American medical system is breaking down. Several physicians with little sympathy for Callahan's approach pointed out to me that, like it or not, American society either can't afford or no longer chooses to afford to underwrite the kind of heroic care people like my mother, whose prognoses are obviously poor, still receive in the United States. Dr. Diane E. Meier, a palliative-medicine specialist at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York, remarked that if we as a society spent the sort of money on medical care that we spend, say, on the military, the challenge facing physicians would be very different. But neither Meier nor any other doctor I spoke to seemed to believe that there is much chance of that. If anything, medical financing has moved and is likely to continue to move entirely in the opposite direction. As Meier put it to me, ''The cost crisis facing Medicare will lead to substantial and real reductions in access to care.''
 One illustration of Meier's point is that Memorial Sloan-Kettering already treats, through funds received from private philanthropists, many patients whose treatment is not covered by Medicare or who have had their applications for treatment at major cancer centers refused by their insurance companies. But it is one of only a few cancer centers in a position to do so. (Even more sobering is the statistic that only a small percentage of Americans with cancer are treated in a cancer center.) Philanthropy aside -- and even the most generous philanthropy can never make up the shortfall the continuing cuts in federal financing are likely to produce -- it may well be, as Meier suggests, that we are rapidly moving toward a health care system in which ''only the rich will be able to choose the treatment they want.''
 In a sense, the financial background of my mother's treatment prefigured the world Meier was describing. Once she and Nimer agreed that she would have a bone-marrow transplant at the Hutchinson Center, and she was accepted as a patient there, she applied to Medicare -- her primary insurance -- for coverage of the treatment. Medicare refused, saying that coverage could begin only once her M.D.S. had ''converted'' to full-blown leukemia; in other words, when she was far sicker. My mother then applied to her private insurance company. The response was that her coverage did not extend to organ transplants, which was what it considered a bone-marrow transplant to be. Later, my mother's insurance company relented but still refused to allow her to go ''out of network'' to the Hutchinson Center, even though Nimer was convinced that the doctors there stood the best chance of saving her life. Instead, the insurer proposed four ''in network'' options -- hospitals where it would pay for the transplant to be done. But three out of the four said they would not take a patient like my mother (because of her age and medical history). The fourth did agree to take her but admitted, frankly, that it had little experience with patients of her age.
 My mother was determined to get the best treatment possible, and Nimer had told her that treatment was to be found in Seattle. So she persevered. She was admitted to the Hutchinson Center as a so-called self-pay patient and had to put down a deposit of $256,000. Even before that, she had to pay $45,000 for the search for a compatible bone-marrow donor. 
 The knowledge that she was getting the best treatment available, both at Sloan-Kettering and at Hutchinson, was a tremendous consolation to my mother. It strengthened her will to fight, her will to live. But of course she was getting that treatment only because she had the money to pay for it. To be sure, as she was doing so, her doctors both in Seattle and New York very generously helped with her appeal of her insurance company's decision -- calling and writing letters providing documentation and expert opinions explaining why the only viable treatment option was the one they had recommended. But both she and they knew that whatever hope she had of cure depended on moving rapidly toward the bone-marrow transplant. This would have been impossible had she not had the money to in effect defy her insurer's verdict, even as she was appealing it legally. 
 Let me state the obvious: The number of Americans who can do what she did is a tiny percentage of the population, and while I shall always be thankful beyond words for the treatment she received, and believe that she and her doctors made the right choice, I cannot honestly say that there was anything fair about it.
 How or whether the realities of the health care system in America today can be reconciled with the fundamental aspiration of science, which is discovery, and the fundamental aspiration of medicine, which is to cure disease, is impossible for me to say. But if the time I have spent in the company of oncologists and researchers convinces me of anything, it is that these aspirations are almost as fundamental in serious doctors as the will to live is in cancer patients. The possibility of discovery, of research, is like a magnet. Marcel van den Brink, the Sloan-Kettering bone-marrow chief, who is Dutch, told me that one of the main reasons he is in the United States is that here, unlike in the Netherlands or, he thought, in the other major Western European countries, there is money for his research. For his part, Jerome Groopman emphasized the overwhelming number of foreign researchers in his lab. He described it as ''the opposite of outsourcing -- it's insourcing.''
 Researchers find inspiration in the example of AIDS research, an almost paradigmatic example of heroic, cost-indifferent medicine. By public-health standards, AIDS has received a big share of the nation's medical resources, in large measure thanks to the tireless campaigning of gay Americans who have had the economic clout and cultural sophistication to make their voices heard by decision-makers in the medical establishment and in government. As Dr. Fred Appelbaum, clinical-research director of the Hutchinson Center, pointed out to me, understanding AIDS and then devising treatments for it at first defied the best efforts of research scientists. And though a cure has not yet been found, effective treatments have been -- albeit, extremely expensive ones. 
 If there is a difference between AIDS research and cancer research, it is that while advances in AIDS came relatively quickly, advances in cancer treatment and, indeed, in the fundamental understanding of how cancer works have come far more slowly than many people expected. Periodically since 1971, when President Nixon declared his war on cancer, the sense that the corner is about to be turned takes hold. We appear to be in such a moment today. The National Cancer Institute has recently put forward ambitious benchmarks for progress in cancer research and treatment. As its director, Dr. Andrew von Eschenbach, a respected surgeon and a cancer survivor himself (he is also acting head of the Food and Drug Administration), put it recently: ''The caterpillar is about to turn into a butterfly. I have never known more enthusiasm among cancer researchers. It's a pivotal moment.'' The suffering of cancer, he argued, will be well on its way to being alleviated by 2015.
 The media have mostly echoed this optimism. It is not unusual to read about the latest ''breakthrough'' in cancer treatment, both in terms of understanding the basic biological processes involved and with regard to innovative new drug therapies. On the level of research, there is no doubt that significant progress has been made. Dr. Harold Varmus, the Nobel laureate who now heads Memorial Sloan-Kettering, is emphatic on the subject. ''Fifty or 60 years ago,'' he told me, ''we didn't know what genes were. Thirty or so years ago we didn't know what cancer genes were. Twenty years ago we didn't know what human cancer genes were. Ten years ago we didn't have any drugs to inhibit any of these guys. It seems to me we've made an awful lot of progress in one person's lifetime.''
 Other research scientists seemed far more pessimistic when I spoke with them. Dr. Lee Hartwell, also a Nobel laureate, is president and director of the Hutchinson Center. He has urged that the focus in cancer treatment shift from drug development to the new disciplines of genomics and, above all, proteomics, the study of human proteins. Though he acknowledged the profound advances in knowledge made over the past two decades, Hartwell emphasized a different question: ''How well are we applying our knowledge to the problem? The therapy side of things has been a pretty weak story. There have been advances: we cure most childhood leukemias with chemotherapy, for one thing. But the progress has been surprisingly weak given the huge expenditures that we've made. We're spending over $25 billion a year improving cancer outcomes, if you include the spending of the pharmaceutical companies. So you've got to ask yourself whether this is the right approach.''
 The focus needs to be on ''diagnostics rather than therapeutics,'' Hartwell said. ''If you catch a cancer at Stage 1 or 2, almost everybody lives. If you catch it at Stage 3 or 4, almost everybody dies. We know from cervical cancer that by screening you can reduce cancer up to 70 percent. We're just not spending enough of our resources working to find markers for early detection.''
 Some researchers are even more skeptical. Mark Greene, the John Eckman professor of medical science at the University of Pennsylvania and the scientist whose lab did much of the fundamental work on Herceptin, the first important new type of drug specifically designed to target the proteins in the genes that cause cells to become malignant, agrees with Hartwell. The best way to deal with cancer, he told me, is to ''treat early, because basic understanding of advanced cancer is almost nonexistent, and people with advanced cancer do little better now than they did 20 years ago.'' 
 Varmus, who appears to be somewhere in the middle between the optimists and the pessimists, told me that so far the clinical results are mixed. As he put it: ''Many cancers are highly treatable. I am optimistic, but I'm not saying, 'Here's when.'''
 The irreducible fact is that failure is the clinical oncologist's constant companion. Each of those who treated my mother seemed to have evolved a strategy for coping with this. Stephen Nimer said: ''I'd have to be an idiot to think everything I do works. I mean, where have I been the last 20 years? I'm not afraid to fail.'' Fred Appelbaum put it still more plainly. ''You get victories that help balance the losses,'' he said. ''But the losses are very painful.'' 
 Appelbaum's almost studied understatement brought home a question that had recurred through the savage months of my mother's illness and also after her death. I kept wondering how the doctors who were treating her with such determination, against all the odds, could possibly stand swimming in this sea of death that they confronted every day, since they did not have the luxury of pretending, at least to themselves, that they didn't know which of their patients were likely to make it and which were not.
 The question made sense to some. For Nimer, though, it did not. ''I prefer 'swimming in a sea of life,''' he said, adding: ''I know I'm not going to save everyone, but I don't think of myself as swimming in a sea of death. People who have congestive heart failure, their outcomes are like the worst cancers. People think of it as a cleaner death and cancer as a dirtier death, but that's not the case. I approach things with the question 'What would it be like if I were on the other side?' The first thing is being dependable. I give people a way to always reach me. They're not going to call me frivolously. There's a peace of mind that comes with knowing you can reach a doctor. I think if you have one of these diseases, you know you can die. Before people get to the time of dying, people want to have some hope, some meaning, that there's a chance things can get better.''
 And when they don't, Nimer continued, ''whatever happens is going to happen. But how about the ride? How rough will it be? If I were dying, the thing I'd worry about most is how much I'm going to suffer. I've had a lot of people die over the years. One thing is to reassure people, 'Look, I'm going to do whatever is humanly possible so that you don't suffer.' We're all going to die, but I'm going to spend just as much time paying attention to your last days as I do at the beginning.''
 And with my mother, that is exactly what he did in the moment of her death -- one of the many, too many, Nimer has seen. With all due respect to him, if that's not swimming in a sea of death.. . .
 If my mother had imagined herself special, her last illness cruelly exposed the frailty of that conceit. It was merciless in the toll of pain and fear that it exacted. My mother, who feared extinction above all else, was in anguish over its imminence. Shortly before she died, she turned to one of the nurses' aides -- a superb woman who cared for her as she would have her own mother -- and said, ''I'm going to die,'' and then began to weep. And yet, if her illness was merciless, her death was merciful. About 48 hours before the end, she began to fail, complaining of generalized low-grade pain (possibly indicating that the leukemia was in her bloodstream). Shortly after, she came down with an infection. Given the compromised state of her immune system, the doctors said, there was little chance that her body could stave it off. She remained intermittently lucid for about another day, though her throat was so abraded that she could barely speak audibly and she was confused. I feel she knew I was there, but I am not at all sure. She said she was dying. She asked if she was crazy.
 By Monday afternoon, she had left us, though she was still alive. Pre-terminal, the doctors call it. It was not that she wasn't there or was unconscious. But she had gone to a place deep within herself, to some last redoubt of her being, at least as I imagine it. What she took in I will never know, but she could no longer make much contact, if, indeed, she even wanted to. I and the others who were at her side left around 11 p.m. and went home to get a few hours' sleep. At 3:30 a.m. on Tuesday, a nurse called. My mother was failing. When we arrived in her room, we found her hooked up to an oxygen machine. Her blood pressure had already dropped into a perilous zone and was dropping steadily, her pulse was weakening and the oxygen level in her blood was dropping.
 For an hour and a half, my mother seemed to hold her own. Then she began the last step. At 6 a.m., I called Nimer, who came over immediately. He stayed with her throughout her death. 
 And her death was easy, as deaths go, in the sense that she was in little pain and little visible anguish. She simply went. First, she took a deep breath; there was a pause of 40 seconds, such an agonizing, open-ended time if you are watching a human being end; then another deep breath. This went on for no more than a few minutes. Then the pause became permanence, the person ceased to be and Nimer said, ''She's gone.''
 A few days after my mother died, Nimer sent me an e-mail message. ''I think about Susan all the time,'' he wrote. And then he added, ''We have to do better.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Fighting the Odds: Determined to live, Susan Sontag scoured the Internet for information about M.D.S. (Photographs by Mitch Epstein for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEUKEMIA (91%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); CANCER (89%); ONCOLOGY (77%); BLOOD DISORDERS (77%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (72%); WRITERS (68%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (60%) 

PERSON: Susan (1933-2004) Sontag; David Rieff

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (66%) WASHINGTON, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (66%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2005



57 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; COOKING; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1822 words

BYLINE: By Corby Kummer. 
Corby Kummer is a senior editor of The Atlantic Monthly.

 BODY:
MORE than an irresistible new technique, a fantastically exotic ingredient or even the promise of a better marriage, what inspires us to go into the kitchen is the voice of a writer, seducing and prodding and bucking us up.
The voice that spoke to a generation of cooks is back with the 40th anniversary edition of MASTERING THE ART OF FRENCH COOKING (Knopf, $40). This time, Julia Child's name is front and center, and her collaborators, Louisette Bertholle and Simone Beck, are listed in small type. But the voice behind the voice is back too: Mme. Saint-Ange, whose BONNE CUISINE DE MADAME E. SAINT-ANGE (Ten Speed, $40) was the inspiration for Child's thorough, encouraging step-by-step approach. For years, readers of the 1927 French edition would marvel -- or cluck -- at how similar the attitude and even the recipes were. Now that the first English translation, by the former Chez Panisse chef Paul Aratow, is available, anyone can compare -- and take life lessons from this delightfully opinionated cook. To make a trilogy and add some generational continuity, Julie Powell's engaging blog of a year of cooking every recipe in ''Mastering'' has been expanded into a book called JULIE AND JULIA (Little, Brown, $23.95). 
 For many years, this country's most original culinary voice has been Barbara Kafka's: teasing, erudite, curious, often iconoclastic and always provocative. I've been lucky (and challenged) to hear this voice firsthand, as a friend, and have always learned from her writing. Kafka's encyclopedic new VEGETABLE LOVE (Artisan, $35) is two books in one: a collection of notes and recipes on vegetables (eccentrically divided by continent) and an alphabetical ''Cook's Guide'' to buying, storing and cooking them. Despite the theme, there's plenty of meat; in many ways, this book is the season's meatiest. And, as with even the biggest cookbooks, there's one recipe you'll turn to again and again. Mine is a sumptuous variation on roasted potatoes, cooked in butter, olive oil and stock. Make it with goose fat for Christmas, whatever you do with the goose.
 The Los Angeles chef Suzanne Goin brings a fresh new voice and a wonderful California-Mediterranean sensibility to SUNDAY SUPPERS AT LUCQUES (Knopf, $35). Like Kafka's, Goin's book has a somewhat frustrating structure: she arranges her menus by season. But I'll buy her ''quirky theory that green and orange foods go together'' (like peas and carrots) when the proof is saffron chicken with spring onions and sugar snap peas, served with Parmesan pudding.
 Susan Spungen, the founding food editor of Martha Stewart Living, offers un-gimmicky, way-we-live-now meals in RECIPES: A Collection for the Modern Cook (Morrow, $34.95). Her chicken rubbed with smoked paprika and roasted with root vegetables on a ''rack'' of thick onion slices will be good for casual winter entertaining. Come summer, try her warm caprese salad with stacked slices of tomato and mozzarella grilled ''until the cheese slumps.''
 Paula Wolfert launched a generation of international culinary adventurers with THE COOKING OF SOUTHWEST FRANCE: Recipes From France's Magnificent Rustic Cuisine (Wiley, $37.50), which she has just revised and updated. A bold and indefatigable cross between Mme. Saint-Ange and Freya Stark, Wolfert writes recipes with such vivid and explicit instructions you might think you were really cooking in Toulouse or Carcassone.
 This year's international cookbooks put particular emphasis on running a thrifty home kitchen. Elizabeth Andoh has borrowed the Japanese word that suggests this ''harmony of food'' for the title of her new cookbook, WASHOKU: Recipes From the Japanese Home Kitchen (Ten Speed, $35). An American who moved to Japan almost 40 years ago, Andoh describes the daily routine of a Japanese kitchen, seasoned with recipes (like citrus-and-soy-glazed swordfish) that anyone can borrow.
 Susanna Foo, whose previous book, ''Susanna Foo Chinese Cuisine,'' thoroughly introduced Westerners to Chinese cooking, includes other Asian and even Mexican ingredients in SUSANNA FOO FRESH INSPIRATION (Houghton Mifflin, $35), written with Hermie Kranzdorf. Here she provides recipes both homey and exotic -- grilled lamb chops in a roasted sesame marinade, a velvety chicken pumpkin soup. I'm also eager to try her recipe for homemade buckwheat noodles (who knew they were so easy: half buckwheat flour, half semolina, bound with a bit of egg and water, then rolled in a pasta machine) and pair them with her spicy pork tenderloin with poblanos and plums.
 Rick Bayless has long made Mexican food accessible -- and desirable -- for American cooks, and in MEXICAN EVERYDAY (Norton, $29.95) he teams with his wife, Deann Groen Bayless, to toss off dozens of recipes you know you can make, even if you've just started conjuring with poblano chiles: roasted poblano-potato salad with flaked tuna, say, or smoky chipotle salsa with pan-roasted tomatillos.
 Spanish cuisine is still waiting for a Susanna Foo or Rick Bayless -- someone who can open the door to a rich culinary world that easily offers as much as France and Italy, and is right now a subject of intense curiosity among restaurant chefs. Teresa Barrenechea takes a step in this direction with THE CUISINES OF SPAIN: Exploring Regional Home Cooking (Ten Speed, $40), although her hard-core recipes are mostly aimed at cooks who've already been converted. A simple, cold-conquering fish soup with bitter orange will increase the conversion rate.
 Jose Andres, the Washington chef who trained with Ferran Adria, the Spanish master of innovation, keeps the home cook in mind in TAPAS: A Taste of Spain in America (Clarkson Potter, $35). Teaming with Richard Wolffe, he presents straightforward recipes like artichokes sauteed with serrano ham, wine and bay leaf and sauteed garlic shrimp with chili and parsley.
 The world's kitchens open to Peter Menzel and Faith d'Aluisio, the intrepid couple who created the series of books called Material World. In HUNGRY PLANET (Ten Speed, $40), they photograph families and markets around the globe, this time adding recipes to their trademark weekly consumption statistics. Some you won't want to try (pigskin jelly from Beijing), and some you will (Cuban rice and beans with pork and bacon). As always with this couple's terse, lively travelogues, politics and the world economy are never far from view. (Six essays from other writers are spliced between the chapters, including one from me on the Slow Food movement.)
 Easily the most appealing new American cookbook is HOMEGROWN PURE AND SIMPLE: Great Healthy Food From Garden to Table (Chronicle, $35), by Michel Nischan and Mary Goodbody. The recipes have been gathered from many cultures, but somehow they all seem homespun, perhaps because of the book's rustic design. I was especially drawn to the recipe for crispy striped bass with tomato and onion sauce.
 Truly American recipes can be found in GIVING THANKS: Thanksgiving Recipes and History, From Pilgrims to Pumpkin Pie (Clarkson Potter, $22.50), by Kathleen Curtin, Sandra L. Oliver and the staff of Plimoth Plantation. The introductory section reminds us that the fabled 1621 harvest celebration wasn't the first -- and wasn't even a thanksgiving, which for Puritans had a specific religious definition. Although the Puritans' descendants shunned Christmas until the mid-1800's, they snuck in traditional Christmas dishes at Thanksgiving, so many of the recipes in this book, like plum pudding, can do double holiday duty.
 THE NIMAN RANCH COOKBOOK (Ten Speed, $35), by Bill Niman and Janet Fletcher, shows what responsible, humane, non-agribusiness ranching can be. (''These animals have to die, but they don't have to suffer.'') It's an instructive, well-told and even inspiring story -- and grateful chefs have contributed many good recipes, like the one for barley soup with smoked pork hocks and wild mushrooms. Michael Ableman, himself a farmer, tells similarly admirable stories in FIELDS OF PLENTY: A Farmer's Journey in Search of Real Food and the People Who Grow It (Chronicle, $35).
 Say ''a book on bones'' to any serious foodie and you'll hear, ''Where can I get it?'' or ''Why didn't I think of that?'' The Australian-born, Toronto-based chef Jennifer McLagan did. Her BONES: Recipes, History, and Lore (Morrow, $34.95) is a collection of solid recipes like veal shank with sage and mustard, whole monkfish roasted with rosemary, garlic and olive oil and (naturally) deviled bones. Meat-lovers who eschew bones can find solace in the panoply of pates and sausages in CHARCUTERIE: The Craft of Salting, Smoking, and Curing (Norton, $35), by Michael Ruhlman and Brian Polcyn.
 Those who avoid all kinds of meat --or just plain love cheese -- will find solace, and shopping incentives, in CHEESE: A Connoisseur's Guide to the World's Best (Clarkson Potter, $32.50), by Max McCalman and David Gibbons. This atlas to high-end cheeses features the sort of salesmanship -- pecorino foglie noce is a ''looker''; Berkswell is a ''boss cheese'' -- that made McCalman a valued maitre fromager at several restaurants and now at the indispensable Artisanal Cheese Center in New York.
 Liberate your inner chocolatier with Michael Recchiuti's CHOCOLATE OBSESSION: Confections and Treats to Create and Savor (Stewart, Tabori & Chang, $35), written with Fran Gage. Even if your creations aren't as exquisite as this popular San Francisco candy maker's, you'll learn the basics of his art and be tempted by the recipes featuring his favorite flavor, burnt caramel. Good results are also assured by the excellent and reliable baker Lisa Yockelson in CHOCOLATE CHOCOLATE, (Wiley, $45). My own chocolate excursions will be in Michael Turback's HOT CHOCOLATE (Ten Speed, paper, $9.95), with its many variations of that most restorative of drinks.
 Anyone who has missed the firm, businesslike voice of Martha Stewart will find it, at least intermittently, in MARTHA STEWART'S BAKING HANDBOOK (Clarkson Potter, $40), a comprehensive reminder that the goal of her empire is, as ever, to instruct and clarify. The other baking books I'll be exploring this winter are more idiosyncratic. DAMON LEE FOWLER'S NEW SOUTHERN BAKING (Simon & Schuster, $26) has the kind of clear passion and historical mastery that will make me try his takes on popovers, corn bread, benne wafers and lemon buttermilk chess pie. And with its whimsical drawings and old-fashioned recipes like chocolate-frosted chocolate cake and amazing toffee thins, Judith Sutton's SWEET GRATITUDE (Artisan, $15.95) has solved many of my Christmas gift problems. Put that cake or those thins in a box, and you'll be observing the true spirit of Christmas. Or, when time runs out (as it always does), simply wrap up the book and hope the recipient will be seduced back into the kitchen.

ONLINE: BOOKS FOR COOKS
 25 other noteworthy cookbooks published this year: nytimes.com/books.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Jules Feiffer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); COOKING & ENTERTAINING (90%); WRITERS (89%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (72%); ANNIVERSARIES (71%); CHEESE (68%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (68%) 

PERSON: Corby Kummer

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (51%) CALIFORNIA, USA (51%) MEDITERRANEAN (57%); UNITED STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2005



58 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET: INTERVIEW -- WITH ANDREW L. FARKAS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1536 words

HEADLINE: A Headline Deal Maker Stays Off the Beaten Path 

BYLINE: By TERI KARUSH ROGERS

 BODY:
DON'T be fooled by the cheery red tie dotted with yellow beach umbrellas. There is very little laid back about Andrew L. Farkas, the founder and chief executive of Island Capital Group.
 A restless, calculated deal maker whose growing entwinement with the investment-happy Arab emirate of Dubai has made him an object of interest and envy in the commercial real estate community, the 45-year-old Mr. Farkas introduces himself with a take-charge handshake that provokes a frisson of anxiety about whether you will ever regain custody of your forelimb.
On a recent morning in the glass-walled conference room of his company's offices across East 56th Street from Trump Tower, Mr. Farkas suggested that he owed much of his toughness to his grandfather -- George Farkas, the founder of Alexander's, a once-thriving department store chain that went bankrupt in 1992. 
 ''I remember as a young boy, literally 5 or 6 years old, walking down Fifth Avenue holding his hand,'' said Mr. Farkas of his grandfather, who died in 1979. ''The man could not walk half a block without people coming up to him saying hello and shaking his hand. And I thought that was so cool. I wanted to be just like him.'' His grandfather, he said, ''was extremely opinionated, and prepared to express that opinion. He was not a sugar-coater of things.''
 In his youth, Mr. Farkas attended the elite Trinity School in Manhattan, where he formed a close circle of friends -- many of them scions of other New York business families -- who continue to make up the base of his social network. He also spent much time at the family home in Jamaica, igniting a lifelong passion for sailing.
 But he suffered a challenging adolescence. His mother died when he was 11. Two years later, in 1973, he broke his neck while attempting a midair somersault off a springboard in gymnastics. He wound up in traction, a body cast and later a halolike device. ''It probably helped cultivate the nerdy side of me,'' he said. Deprived of organized sports, he became business-obsessed and ''developed an affinity at a very young age for computers, well before there was any such thing as a PC.''
 At 16, he and some classmates started a database management company. The company made a modest profit, said Mr. Farkas, who recalled spending his leisure time poring over Yachting magazine.
 He sold the venture and went to Harvard, majoring in economics. Afterward, he leapt into a full-time job in the nascent real-estate investment banking operation of a large brokerage firm, where ''the love of everything I do today was discovered,'' Mr. Farkas said. 
 A year and a half later, at age 23, he was abruptly fired for following a supervisor's instructions to disobey the chairman. ''I'm teaching you amongst the most valuable lessons of business,'' explained his boss, who had saved his own job by asserting Mr. Farkas had acted independently, ''which is, sometimes soldiers must die so that generals can live to fight again.''
 As a result, Mr. Farkas said, ''I learned that I would prefer not to treat people that way, that even today, particularly in business, loyalty is the single most important commodity to me.'' (His close friends agree.) 
 After his dismissal, he decided he could do just as well on his own. In 1984, with a $56,000 bank loan, he founded a real estate investment bank called Metropolitan Asset Group. The company, which structured and sold real estate tax shelters, employed 100 at its peak. ''During the first couple of years, it was unbelievably successful,'' he said. ''I thought I was a master of the universe.''
 But the Tax Reform Act of 1986, a crash in the oil economy and the liquidity-draining savings and loan association crisis created what Mr. Farkas called ''the perfect storm.''
 ''It all came tumbling down,'' he said, ''which was another great lesson. And I had to spend the next several years basically digging myself and everybody else out of the trouble.'' 
 Running a skeleton crew of 20, he worked feverishly to bail out his limited partners, ''hocked everything'' and went $10 million into debt.
 ''My ambition was to be broke,'' he said wryly of himself at 26. ''To be broke would be $10 million better off than where I was.''
 In 1987, he hatched an ambitious scheme to buy Burlington Northern. The plan ultimately failed but was profitable nonetheless, as securities of the railroad company rose substantially in the course of his effort. Soon he paid off his debts and went looking for his next opportunity.
 He realized that although he had managed to salvage many real estate partnerships in his portfolio, some major firms had not. ''I was going to start buying the portfolios of failed and failing real estate partnerships,'' he said of his new vision. ''And I was going to build the largest real estate company in greater New York City.''
 Insignia Financial Group was born in 1989 with $5 million raised from 10 investors, many of whom had backed him in Metropolitan Asset Group. By 1997, Insignia was ''the largest owner and operator of multifamily residential housing in the U.S.,'' he said. 
 Stephen Siegel, chairman of the commercial real estate brokerage CB Richard Ellis and a former chief executive of the Edward S. Gordon Company, a venerable commercial brokerage that was acquired by Insignia in 1996, recalled the disbelief initially encountered by Mr. Farkas.
 ''I do believe when he started Insignia he had a great tidal wave of skeptics,'' Mr. Siegel said. ''I'm not so sure how easily he found investors. But people who invested in that early round got 25 to 30 times their money back.''
 Mr. Farkas, an acknowledged risk-seeker (''I think it's genetic,'' he explained), said he was usually undeterred by others' lack of enthusiasm. ''I don't think I've ever done anything where there hasn't been a preponderance of opinion that I'd finally lost the last marble,'' said Mr. Farkas, who enjoys reading about robber barons like J. P. Morgan and whose outsized personality occasionally rubs others the wrong way.
 Mr. Farkas took the company public in 1993, and he ultimately decided it would be worth more split apart. By 2003, the business had been sold and Mr. Farkas moved on to his current venture: Island Capital Group, a real estate merchant banking firm specializing in real estate, real estate securities and securitization. 
 A portion of the company's business is devoted to managing a portfolio of real estate assets worth around $1.5 billion.
 Another major slice is the Island Global Yachting division, spawned by Mr. Farkas's passion for what he calls ''boats'' and what the rest of us call yachts. With a dearth of marinas able to handle an exploding population of oversize yachts, Mr. Farkas is developing the first of what he hopes will be many sprawling sites (that include shopping, office space, dining and accommodations) to attract mega-yachters. The first phase of the $150 million Yacht Haven Grande project will open in January on the island of St. Thomas.
 The third focus is the oil-rich country of Dubai. On a trip there in 2003, Mr. Farkas was introduced to a representative of the royal Dubai family, which has been intent on building the country into a major center for business and tourism and on finding ways to diversify its economy as its oil wells are depleted. Part of the plan includes adding 932 miles of waterfront property to Dubai at a cost of $20 billion.
 Island Global Yachting has been hired to develop and manage all of Dubai's new marinas, but that is merely one facet of a complex relationship.
 ''We've been building a secondary mortgage system for them; we invest in property together; we advise them on a whole series of different things,'' Mr. Farkas said. ''It's a very close relationship.''
 In November, Mr. Farkas made news with his involvement with Istithmar, the many-faceted investment firm owned by Dubai's royal family, on its $705 million purchase of the Helmsley Building at 230 Park Avenue in New York. His company brought the property to Istithmar's attention and invested 10 percent in the property itself. It followed other trophy acquisitions by the Dubai entity, including the Essex House in New York and 1 Trafalgar Square in London.
 ''We are always on the lookout for a good investment, and he has been working with us to identify investments in the States and other places,'' said Sultan Ahmed Bin Sulayem, executive chairman of Istithmar.
 For Mr. Farkas, the off-the-beaten-path stratagem is his stock in trade, and the thing that excites him. 
 ''I'm not close to the richest guy in the world,'' said Mr. Farkas, who is known as Fark to friends and close associates, and Farkie to his second wife, a tall, blonde newly minted playwright. They married in 2001, three years after his divorce from his first wife, with whom he has two daughters.
 ''Therefore, since you have to assume that in any given circumstance you have to compete against the richest guy in the world, you're never going to get anywhere unless you have a competitive advantage. So you have to come up with interesting things to do and go places that others just don't want to go. Because if you go where everyone wants to go, you can't afford to get there.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Whenever he wins a wager, Andrew L. Farkas, chief executive of Island Capital Group, attaches the money to a globe in his office on East 56th Street. (Photo by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (76%); ADOLESCENTS (76%); FAMILY (75%); INVESTMENT BANKING (72%); BONE FRACTURES (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); DEPARTMENT STORES (68%); RETAILERS (68%); SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATION (68%); BOATING & RAFTING (67%); SAILING (67%); GYMNASTICS (66%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (65%) Biographical Information

COMPANY: OFF THE BEATEN PATH LLC (58%); FIFTH AVENUE HOLDINGS LTD (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Island Capital Group

INDUSTRY: SIC2331 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' BLOUSES & SHIRTS (55%)

PERSON: Andrew L Farkas; Teri Karush Rogers

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (91%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2005



59 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; DANCE; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1522 words

HEADLINE: The Master of Reinvention Finds a New Role: Patron

BYLINE: By JOHN ROCKWELL

 BODY:
IN October a worthy New York organization called Career Transition for Dancers celebrated itself with its annual gala. It is part of a worldwide movement designed to help dancers, as they approach their cruelly early retirement age, to reinvent themselves for the rest of their lives.
 It would be difficult to find a better exemplar of career reinvention than Mikhail Baryshnikov. Of course, he started with a few little advantages, like being one of the most idolized ballet dancers of all time, like being seductively handsome, like having multiple talents and the fame to capitalize on them.
He has starred on film and on Broadway and on television. He has choreographed and been artistic director of American Ballet Theater, and founded and starred in his own White Oak Dance Project. But most of his efforts so far have been extensions of his dance career, rather than a transition from it.
 Now he is overseeing something else, the much-bruited, still almost stealthy Baryshnikov Arts Center. It was supposed to open in 2004. Then it was November. Except there was no official, or at least publicly advertised, opening date, no gala hoo-ha. And the center, on the top three floors (plus roof access) of a new six-story building at 450 West 37th Street in the garment district, has already been functioning for several months. 
 Mikhail Baryshnikov is the subject here, but the center still commands attention. It is almost done (a ''punch list'' of construction details needs taking care of), and the idea is to expand in 2008 with the purchase of the smallest (299 seats) of the three theaters in the building, on the third floor. The lower floors are run by the West 37th Group, a consortium of Off Broadway and Broadway producers.
 Exactly what will go on in the center down the road, and whether it will involve performances by Mr. Baryshnikov, seems a little vague. Already there has been a test run of an internship program with the Tisch School of the Arts at New York University, in which young artists work with older mentors. The mentors will presumably be drawn from the heady list of artistic advisers Mr. Baryshnikov has assembled -- people like Pedro Almodovar, Pina Bausch, Trisha Brown, William Forsythe, Gidon Kremer, Mark Morris, David Salle, Peter Sellars and Sam Shepard.
 There is also a commissioning program, in all the arts -- the choreographer-director Richard Move will do a show this spring at the Kitchen, already commissioned by the Baryshnikov Dance Foundation and given a trial spin in 2002. There is a residency program for artists like Donna Uchizono, Tere O'Connor, John Jasperse and Deborah Hay -- mostly dancers so far, but diversification is promised. There will be an artists' rent-subsidy program. And there will be public events, even before the acquisition of the theater, starting with a salonlike chamber-music series in one of the center's studios. 
 All of which will cost money. There is a $7 million goal for the center's portion of the building. Kick-started by a $1 million donation from Mr. Baryshnikov, the campaign has reached $6 million. But there will be more to be raised after that, not least for the purchase of the third-floor theater. Annual operations, amounting to some $300,000, are paid for by studio rentals. The programming budget, currently set at a little more than $1 million per year, is covered by the Baryshnikov Dance Foundation, through further fund-raising and income from Mr. Baryshnikov's own dancing and touring.
 Above all, Mr. Baryshnikov wants the center to be a low-key, relaxed laboratory for artistic interchange, albeit one set in the heart of Manhattan. In a conversation with Susan Sontag two years ago, he cited as a model the ''easy camaraderie without pressure'' that existed at the White Oak Plantation in Florida, owned by the late arts patron Howard Gilman. Shades of Black Mountain in the 1940's and 50's and endless other American arts utopias.
 All of this activity has a self-serving element to it, no doubt. In commissioning so many projects with his foundation, which he began as far back as 1979, Mr. Baryshnikov has also extended his own dance career and kept himself in the public eye.
 Yet that's the way capitalism -- the economic model for the part of the world to which Mr. Baryshnikov defected from Russia and the Kirov Ballet in 1974 -- is supposed to work: ambition fired by self-interest leading to the greater good. And there can be no question that his dance commissions and the White Oak Dance Project have contributed a lot of good to the world of dance. And to the livelihood of the dancers and choreographers involved. Dances were commissioned from, and often performed by, artists as diverse as Karole Armitage, Maurice Bejart, Lucinda Childs, Eliot Feld, David Gordon, Erick Hawkins, Lar Lubovitch, Mr. Morris (seven of them!), Yvonne Rainer, Jerome Robbins and Sara Rudner.
 A major part of Mr. Baryshnikov's efforts has been to revitalize the reputations of the now-aging downtown dance experimentalists clustered around the Judson Church in the 1960's. That interest culminated in a White Oak tour called ''PastForward'' in 2001, with old and commissioned work from these veterans, some of whom reappeared as choreographers in a 2003 program of solos Mr. Baryshnikov commissioned for himself.
 All this highly diverse dance work, much of it involving natural movement and dogged tasks and acting, deadpan or otherwise, was in part a shrewd adjustment to his own body. Mr. Baryshnikov is now 57, which is impossibly old for any sort of ballet dancer except those who, like Frederic Franklin at 91, still play kings and other character parts. Besides, Mr. Baryshnikov has had chronic knee problems. Those who remember his soaring, weight-free leaps back in 1974, when he first danced with American Ballet Theater, find something very different today, though his grace and elegance have never deserted him.
 One reason so many Judson veterans are still working and still performing is that their ideas of dance are closer to those of Asia, focusing on mature artistry and the upper body and meditative calm, than to the buoyantly aggressive, virtuosic West. Nobody was as buoyant or virtuosic as Mr. Baryshnikov, though even back then he invested all his stunts with the illusion of modest effortlessness. But now he has a different kind of body and must dance a different kind of dance.
 All along, though, he had doubts about ballet in the West as a true field for artistry and even suggested that had he grown up in the United States, he never would have become a ballet dancer. ''Here, classical dance is commercial theater,'' he told Anna Kisselgoff of The New York Times in 2001. ''There's nothing really serious about it.''
 But Mr. Baryshnikov's self-reinventions have to do with a lot more than just prolonging his dance career. Ever since he was a student of Alexander Pushkin, the great Russian ballet master, back at the Kirov School in St. Petersburg in the 60's, he has had a restless curiosity. ''That is what a dancer's work is -- to have as large a variety of choices as possible,'' he wrote in ''Baryshnikov at Work,'' published in 1976.
 It was curiosity that he often cited as his primary reason for leaving Russia, and he backed it up when he was still in his prime by seeking out modern-dance choreographers like Martha Graham, Paul Taylor, Alvin Ailey and above all Twyla Tharp.
 He had a huge Ballet Theater hit with her ''Push Comes to Shove'' in 1976, and Ms. Tharp was a regular at Ballet Theater under his regime. ''I had no idea what I could do or couldn't do,'' he wrote in ''Baryshnikov at Work.'' ''Twyla pushed me and encouraged me to accomplish many things I never would have dreamed I could do.''
 Where will Mr. Baryshnikov's latest invention lead him, and the arts and the artists for whom he serves as a focal point? The Baryshnikov Arts Center is a noble idea, and one hopes and trusts he can sustain it and develop it and establish it as its own entity after his departure.
 By ''departure'' I don't mean some restless new venture, but death. Both Mr. Baryshnikov's parents died fairly young. In an interview with Jennifer Dunning in The New York Times in 1998, as he turned 50, he was in a darkly reflective mood.
 ''This is the last part of life,'' he said. ''Life is over. That's it.'' 
 He added that all he wanted to do was ''find peace with myself and everybody around, and see my children grow as long as I can.'' Yet he is still with us and has found other work to do, other ways to invent and sustain himself.
 That same year, in the introduction to a sophisticated ballet primer by Robert Greskovic called ''Ballet 101,'' just now reissued by Limelight Editions, Mr. Baryshnikov wrote, ''Exceptional dancers, in my experience, are also exceptional people, people with an attitude toward life, a kind of quest, and an internal quality.''
 No dancer has been more exceptional than Mikhail Baryshnikov, and no quest more exciting and rewarding than his. May his own career transitions continue until he reaches a still riper old age than he has thus far attained.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Mikhail Baryshnikov in a dance studio at the Baryshnikov Arts Center on 37th Street in the garment district. Below, at the White Oak Plantation, an arts center in Florida, in 1990. (Photo by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)
 (Photo by Barry McKinley)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCERS (91%); BALLET (90%); DANCE (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); CHOREOGRAPHY (89%); EARLY RETIREMENT (78%); DANCE COMPANIES (78%); RETIREMENT AGE (77%); FILM SCHOOLS (75%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (73%); THEATER (70%) Dancing

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (56%) Baryshnikov Arts Center (NYC); New York University

PERSON: John Rockwell; Mikhail Baryshnikov

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2005



60 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MARKET WEEK; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 429 words

HEADLINE: Which Chart Isn't Telling The Truth?

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
WHAT'S wrong with these pictures -- the ones charting the courses of the Dow Jones industrial average and the yield curve? 
 The Dow is hovering on the threshold of 11,000 after languishing for more than four years on the other side of the line. And the bond market is close to its first inverted yield curve in five years, meaning that Treasury instruments with long maturities have lower yields than shorter-dated paper. 
If these milestones are reached around the same time, it may worry investors with long memories. A strong Dow is usually a sign of economic optimism. But an inverted yield curve is held to be a precursor of recession, because it usually occurs when bond investors are willing to accept yields that are lower than current rates for years to come. That seems like a raw deal -- unless you're anticipating a long bout of slow economic growth and quiescent inflation.
 When stocks and the yield curve have sent different messages, as in 2000, the yield curve usually is the more prescient indicator, said Matthew Smith, chief executive of Smith Affiliated Capital, a New York firm that manages fixed-income investments. But, he asked, ''If we're heading into recession, why is the equity market acting the way it is?''
 Mr. Smith had a couple of answers to his own question, neither of which suggests that a bear market is due. For one thing, he said, the yield curve is flat but has yet to invert. It may not happen. And financial stocks have outperformed the market over the last two months. That has helped the Dow's push, indicating that equity investors expect the Federal Reserve to stop tightening credit soon. That would steepen the yield curve.
 But even if the yield curve inverts, Mr. Smith said, it may only be a sign of a whole lot of dollars looking for a home. Chinese manufacturers, Middle East oil producers and European and Asian exporters all have dollars to invest.
 A safe place for them, especially with the dollar as strong as it has been lately, is the American bond market, Mr. Smith said. ''The dollars are out there, and they don't really have a place to go,'' he said.

DATA WATCH -- A sparse economic calendar includes one gauge of manufacturing health. Factory orders are estimated to have risen 2.2 percent in October after a 1.7 percent decline in September, according to a Bloomberg News poll of economists. The report is due on Tuesday.
 A reading of 85 is expected Friday when the University of Michigan releases its initial reading of December consumer confidence. The final consumer confidence figure for November was 81.6.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Industrials since 2001.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: YIELD CURVE (94%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); BONDS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); CURRENCIES (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); EXECUTIVES (66%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (58%); SMITH AFFILIATED CAPITAL CORP (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (55%)

PERSON: Conrad De Aenlle

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2005



61 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 55

LENGTH: 649 words

HEADLINE: Boats With Attitude

BYLINE: By Liesl Schillinger

 BODY:
If you head to the East River before sunset, you're likely to catch a glimpse of a doughty little tugboat gliding under the necklace of lights on the 59th Street Bridge, accompanying a string of giant scows. Dwarfed by its massive charges, the tug calls to mind a dog escorting a herd of cattle. But appearances are deceiving: if you look closely, you'll see that the tug leaves a powerful wake. Its engine is mighty, and its pilot knows not just the treacherous local tides and currents but the tiny adjustments necessary to keep a chain of barges from going astray. He has to. As George Matteson writes in TUGBOATS OF NEW YORK: An Illustrated History (New York University, $39.95), ''It takes relatively little power to get them moving and a long time to get them to stop, and anything that gets in their way is done for.'' 
As the breathtaking photographs and illustrations Matteson has culled from two centuries of archival material show, the boats' outward appearance hasn't changed all that much since they were first built in the early 19th century. They still look like a child's toy, but they do a man's work -- or, more precisely, a horse's work. As Matteson explains, the 56 tugs that currently transport oil in the harbor for three major towing companies have a combined force of ''roughly a quarter of a million horsepower.''
 In 1929, at the height of tugboat activity in New York Harbor -- before flatbed trucking made highways busier than waterways and before a series of unpopular boatmen's strikes led the city to seek less troublesome ways to receive its staples -- more than 800 tugs had the run of the East River and the Hudson, hauling barges of grain, nosing ocean liners into their berths, coaxing ferries through drifting ice or pushing garbage scows to landfills in Staten Island. But today the number of tugs has dropped below 200. Watching one pass, silhouetted against glittering skyscrapers, has an anachronistic thrill. It's like seeing a triceratops on the move.
 Matteson's fascinating account of this evolutionary saga begins with the geographical formation of New York Harbor, but quickly moves to the era of the vessels themselves, ''heavily built and exceedingly durable,'' made of wood until well into the 20th century. He painstakingly describes the mechanical innovations that made towing more efficient -- all the way up to recent articulated tug-and-barge combinations, in which a tug interlocks tightly with barges that are joined like a series of Legos, ''married together by massive hydraulically activated pins set in the bows of the tug.'' Anyone fond of books about the way things work will enjoy Matteson's detailed explanations; others will relish his metaphors. (One combination, in which a small tug is jammed bow first into the notch of two floats, is compared to ''a small pig stuck between the jaws of a large alligator.'')
 But Matteson also investigates the social and economic history of the business, contrasting the quick-thinking capitalists who invested in the trade with the stubborn loners who worked the boats. In 1832, in the early days of towing in New York Harbor, opportunistic ferry pilots would interrupt scheduled runs ''whenever a more lucrative towing job presented itself,'' converting the ferry into a tug. The City of Brooklyn soon passed an ordinance forbidding such moonlighting, which helped give rise to boats designed exclusively for towing. And once the profitability of the business became apparent, shrewd men like J. P. Morgan and Cornelius Vanderbilt helped make it competitive.
 Tugs may no longer dominate New York Harbor, but to Matteson, who has operated them for almost three decades, they remain symbols of a proud maritime past. ''Every one of them was built for a purpose, worked a long, arduous career and was then retired,'' he writes. ''The tide comes in, then the tide goes out.'' Liesl Schillinger


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Callanan No. 1 (above), a World-War-II-vintage tug with six loaded sand barges (Steamship Historical Society of America, Langsdale Library, University of Baltimore)
below, the Edward J. Berwind, a 950-horsepower steel tug built in 1902 (Library of Congress)
 both from ''Tugboats of New York: An Illustrated History.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); MAMMALS (77%); ACADEMIC LIBRARIES (74%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (70%); BULK SHIPPING (70%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (69%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (67%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (64%); LANDFILLS (61%); SPECIAL FREIGHT TRUCKING (50%) 

ORGANIZATION: LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (59%)

PERSON: Liesl Schillinger; Matteso00110600e

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2005



62 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; Pg. 58

LENGTH: 8129 words

HEADLINE: Coach Leach Goes Deep, Very Deep

BYLINE: By Michael Lewis. 
Michael Lewis, a contributing writer for the magazine, is the author of ''Moneyball'' and, most recently, ''Coach,'' about a high-school baseball coach.

 BODY:
7:02 . . . 7:01 . . . 7:00 . . .
 It was still ordinary time. The seconds ticked off the digital clock on the locker-room wall. A smell: the acrid odor of vomit. They were still ordinary college football players, and a few of them had lost their pregame meals to a war of nerves. Side by side at their lockers the players sat, silently, almost penitently, stomachs churning, waiting for their coach to show up and to make the place a lot less ordinary.
A muted roar from the other side of the thick concrete walls: that would be their mascot, Texas Tech's Masked Rider, a man on a black stallion galloping across their home field. The governor of Texas, a graduate of Texas A.&M., Texas Tech's opponent this evening in early November, was just now finding his seat, along with the biggest crowd ever to watch a football game in Lubbock. The governor would be rooting for the other team, obviously. It could be worse, and had been. Two years before, when Texas Tech played Navy in a bowl game in Houston, the president of the United States, a Texan, was rumored to be in the stands rooting against them. ''We aren't exactly America's team,'' Texas Tech's head coach, Mike Leach, said. 
 2:51 . . . 2:50 . . . 2:49 . . . 
 A sound: of surgical tape ripping, as Texas Tech's quarterback, Cody Hodges, affixed to his wrist a piece of laminated paper listing all the plays he might run tonight. Four years ago, Hodges was a high-school senior with just one other offer to be a college quarterback, from the University of Wyoming. Now, two-thirds of the way through the 2005 N.C.A.A. football season, and with a throwing arm so dead that he required a cortisone shot to move it, Hodges was the nation's leader in yards passed, total offense and touchdowns. Three weeks earlier, against a competent Kansas State defense, he threw for 643 yards and, had Coach Leach not pulled him in the fourth quarter, might well have broken the N.C.A.A. record for passing yards in a single game (716).
 A lot of the players in the locker room had similar stories of rejection and redemption. In this part of the country, the University of Texas and Oklahoma University are the old-money football schools, with Texas A.&M. right behind. Those schools fish first in the local-talent pool. Tonight there would be very few players on the field for Texas A.&M. -- for Oklahoma or Texas there wouldn't be a single player -- to whom Texas Tech would not have offered a football scholarship. Conversely, the Texas Tech locker room was filled with players rejected by the old-money schools. And yet -- look around! Hodges led all of college football in passing. The team's tailback, Taurean Henderson, had broken the N.C.A.A. career record for most passes caught by a running back. The top four receivers on the team were the four leading pass receivers in Texas Tech's league, the formidable Big 12.
 At least one N.F.L. head coach had taken a special interest in the Texas Tech offense and had been ordering its game tapes on Monday mornings. At least one N.F.L. defensive coordinator, Jim Schwartz of the Tennessee Titans, had stumbled upon Texas Tech accidentally and said, Oh, my. The surprise runner-up in the search earlier this year for a new San Francisco 49ers head coach, Schwartz had scrambled to answer a question: if he got the 49ers job, whom should he hire? He was just in his mid-30's, and his football career stopped at Georgetown (where he graduated with honors in economics), so he really hadn't thought about this before.
 The 49ers had not bothered to interview college coaches for the head-coaching job in part because its front-office analysis found that most of the college coaches hired in the past 20 years to run N.F.L. teams had failed. But in Schwartz's view, college coaches tended to fail in the N.F.L. mainly because the pros hired the famous coaches from the old-money schools, on the premise that those who won the most games were the best coaches. But was this smart? Notre Dame might have a good football team, but how much of its success came from the desire of every Catholic in the country to play for Notre Dame?
 Looking for fresh coaching talent, Schwartz analyzed the offensive and defensive statistics of what he called the ''midlevel schools'' in search of any that had enjoyed success out of proportion to their stature. On offense, Texas Tech's numbers leapt out as positively freakish: a midlevel school, playing against the toughest football schools in the country, with the nation's highest scoring offense. Mike Leach had become the Texas Tech head coach before the 2000 season, and from that moment its quarterbacks were transformed into superstars. In Leach's first three seasons, he played a quarterback, Kliff Kingsbury, who wound up passing for more yards than all but three quarterbacks in the history of major college football. When Kingsbury graduated (he is now with the New York Jets), he was replaced by a fifth-year senior named B.J. Symons, who threw 52 touchdown passes and set a single-season college record for passing yards (5,833). The next year, Symons graduated and was succeeded by another senior -- like Symons, a fifth-year senior, meaning he had sat out a season. The new quarterback, who had seldom played at Tech before then, was Sonny Cumbie, and Cumbie's 4,742 passing yards in 2004 was the sixth-best year in N.C.A.A. history. 
 Now Texas Tech had Cody Hodges, still another fifth-year senior -- barely six feet tall, with an average arm and four college seasons on the bench. Before the 2005 football season even began, Hodges was short-listed for the Maxwell Award for the finest college football player in the land. Whoever played quarterback for the Texas Tech Red Raiders was sure to create so much offense that he couldn't be ignored.
 Schwartz had an N.F.L. coach's perspective on talent, and from his point of view, the players Leach was using to rack up points and yards were no talent at all. None of them had been identified by N.F.L. scouts or even college recruiters as first-rate material. Coming out of high school, most of them had only one or two offers from midrange schools. Sonny Cumbie hadn't even been offered a scholarship; he was just invited to show up for football practice at Texas Tech. Either the market for quarterbacks was screwy -- that is, the schools with the recruiting edge, and N.F.L. scouts, were missing big talent -- or (much more likely, in Schwartz's view) Leach was finding new and better ways to extract value from his players. ''They weren't scoring all these touchdowns because they had the best players,'' Schwartz told me recently. ''They were doing it because they were smarter. Leach had found a way to make it work.''
 But when Schwartz studied videotape of the Texas Tech offense, what he saw unsettled him. The offensive linemen positioned themselves between three and six feet apart -- on extreme occasions, the five linemen stretched a good 15 yards across the field. At times it was difficult to tell the linemen from the receivers. Strictly speaking, they were not a line at all, just a row of dots. ''The offensive line splits -- you look at them, and you're just shocked,'' Schwartz said. ''It scares people to see splits that are that wide.''
 The big gaps between the linemen made the quarterback seem more vulnerable -- some defenders could seemingly run right between the blockers -- but he wasn't. Stretching out the offensive line stretched out the defensive line too, forcing the most ferocious pass rushers several yards farther from the quarterback. It also opened up wide passing lanes through which even a short quarterback could see the whole field clearly. Leach spread out his receivers and backs too. The look was more flag than tackle football: a truly fantastic number of players racing around trying to catch passes on every play, and a quarterback surprisingly able to keep an eye on all of them.
 This offense was, in effect, an argument for changing the geometry of the game. Schwartz didn't know if Leach's system would work in the N.F.L., where they had bigger staffs, better players and a lot more time to prepare for whatever confusion the offense cooked up. On the other hand, he wasn't sure it wouldn't.
 1:51 . . . 1:50 . . . 1:49 . . .
 Finally, a coach: Mike Leach, 44, entered the locker room with the quizzical air of a man who has successfully bushwhacked his way through a jungle but isn't quite sure what country he has emerged into. ''When you first meet him,'' Jarrett Hicks, a junior wide receiver, told me, ''you think he's an equipment manager.'' Leach's agent, Gary O'Hagan of I.M.G., who represents dozens of other big-time college and N.F.L. coaches, put it this way, ''He's so different from every other football coach it's hard to understand how he's a coach.''
 Leach shouted, ''All right, everybody up!'' Seventy players pushed into the middle of the room and bent down on one knee. (''That's the great thing about football,'' Leach says. ''All you gotta do is yell.'')
 Leach isn't really sure that there's anything a coach can say to football players minutes before a game that will inspire them to put aside their pain and their problems and play their best. He thinks that revenge is a silly motive and that waxing poetic on how history will judge you is distracting. Two weeks earlier, his team was ranked seventh in the country but then lost badly to the University of Texas, the nation's No. 2 team, which ended Texas Tech's surprising shot at a national championship. Now they were 7-1, ranked 15th and still within sniffing distance of a major bowl game. Not worth mentioning, in Leach's view.
 ''Everyone find someone,'' he yelled. Hands sought hands and clasped. The room swelled with the disturbingly deep rumble of 70 football players speaking in unison. Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done, on earth as it is in heaven.. . .(''Basically I'm a religious person, but with some clear obedience and discipline issues,'' Leach says.) ''All right,'' he cried, after the Lord's Prayer. ''Three things.'' He jumped up onto a little green stool and looked down on his players, all larger than he. ''Do your job. DO -- YOUR -- JOB!'' 
 He was talking to the entire team, but his mind was on the offense, which Leach coordinates, unlike most head coaches. He watches the tape, draws up the game plan, schools the quarterbacks and calls the plays.
 ''No. 2,'' he said, ''play together with great tempo.''
 He had been harping on tempo all week: he thinks the team that wins is the team that moves fastest, and the team that moves fastest is the team that wants to. He believes that both failure and success slow players down, unless they will themselves not to slow down. ''When they fail, they become frustrated,'' he says. ''When they have success, they want to become the thinking-man's football team. They start having these quilting bees, these little bridge parties at the line of scrimmage.'' His 45-second pregame speech set a certain tempo, but he had one final thing to say:
 ''Your body is your sword. Swing your sword.''
 Each off-season, Leach picks something he is curious about and learns as much as he can about it: Geronimo, Daniel Boone, whales, chimpanzees, grizzly bears, Jackson Pollock. The list goes on, and if you can find the common thread, you are a step ahead of his football players. One year, he studied pirates. When he learned that a pirate ship was a functional democracy; that pirates disciplined themselves; that, loathed by others, they nevertheless found ways to work together, the pirate ship became a metaphor for his football team. Last year, after a loss to Texas A.&M. in overtime, Leach hauled the team into the conference room on Sunday morning and delivered a three-hour lecture on the history of pirates. Leach read from his favorite pirate history, ''Under the Black Flag,'' by David Cordingly (the passages about homosexuality on pirate ships had been crossed out). The analogy to football held up for a few minutes, but after a bit, it was clear that Coach Leach was just . . . talking about pirates. The quarterback Cody Hodges says of his coach: ''You learn not to ask questions. If you ask questions, it just goes on longer.''
 Hodges knows -- the players all do -- that their coach is a walking parenthesis, without a companion to bracket his stray thoughts. They suspect, but aren't certain, that his wide-ranging curiosity benefits their offense. Of all the things motivating Texas Tech to beat Texas A.&M. this night, however, the keenest may have been the desire to avoid another lecture about pirates. Even now, their beloved coach had his left arm in the air, wielding his imaginary sword.
 ''SWING --YOUR -- SWORD!''
 With that, the players rose and crowded into the bright red double doorway leading to the tunnel.
 Hu! Hu! Hu! Hu! Hu! Hu! Hu!
 Leach had mixed feelings about this fever pitch -- ''You never know if they're too wired,'' he says. ''I've had them saunter out and play like gangbusters'' -- but it couldn't really be helped, not at home against the Texas A.&M. Aggies. The players jammed in close and tight. They were no longer names; they were numbers. Leach walked up behind 88, Jarrett Hicks. Three years ago, Hicks was a widely ignored receiver playing for a high school in Houston. Neither Texas nor Texas A.&M. showed any interest in him; the only other offer he received from a serious football program was from Purdue. He had not caught his share of passes this season, but tonight Leach had plans for him. Leach placed his hand on the small of his back and said: ''You and me, Hicks. You and me.''
 0:03 . . . 0:02 . . . 0:01 . . .
 They burst through the doors and into the thick concrete tunnel and then onto the field and into the hot Texas wind and the roar of the crowd that gave them the feeling that they were running straight into the mouth of a lion.
 Wherever Mike Leach walks onto a football field, a question naturally follows. Vincent Meeks, who plays safety, puts it this way: ''How does a coach who never played a down of football have the best offense in the game?'' Leach actually rode the bench through his junior year in high school in Cody, Wyo. But that was it for his playing career. When he left Cody for Brigham Young University, Leach planned to become a lawyer. From B.Y.U. he went straight to Pepperdine law school, where he graduated, at the age of 25, in the top third of his class. That's when he posed the question that has sunk many a legal career: ''Why do I want to be a lawyer?'' One day he announced to his wife, Sharon -- soon to be pregnant with their second child -- that what he really wanted to be was a college football coach. (''Yeah, her side of the family flipped.'') To Leach, coaching football requires the same talent that he was going to waste on the law: the talent for making arguments. He wanted to make his arguments in the form of offensive plays.
 The last 20 years have been an odd journey, with coaching jobs at College of the Desert, Cal Poly, Iowa Wesleyan, Valdosta State and a European league team in Pori, Finland. His first year coaching Division 1 college football was 1997, at the University of Kentucky. He arrived from Valdosta State with the head coach, Hal Mumme, and turned the Kentucky offense from joke into juggernaut. The year before he arrived, Kentucky's quarterback passed for 967 yards. In Leach's first year, his quarterback, Tim Couch, threw for 3,884 yards; the year after that, Couch, who lasted for only a few disappointing years in the N.F.L., threw for 4,275 yards. After Kentucky, Leach moved to Oklahoma for a single season, 1999. That year Oklahoma went from 101st to 8th in the country in offensive scoring. Its quarterback, Josh Heupel, passed for 3,850 yards that season, which was 1,700 more than any quarterback in Oklahoma football history had thrown for in a season. The next year, running Leach's offense, Oklahoma won the national championship -- but by then Texas Tech had picked up the pattern and hired Leach to run its team. ''Mike was different,'' says Patty Ross, who has long served as an assistant to Texas Tech head football coaches and who didn't know what to make of this new one. ''We had always had West Texas guys. We always ran the ball here. The first time Mike's offense came out on the field everyone is like, Whoa. He has that play he calls the Ninja -- when they all line up on one end. I'm not sure anyone had ever seen the Ninja. It was just a shock effect. Mike's personality was like that, too.''
 Stepping out into Jones SBC Stadium, surrounded by people wearing self-conscious looks of grim determination, Leach was even easier than usual to identify: he was the one guy wandering about, as Meeks has put it, ''with this look on his face like he's walking around an airport, lost.'' True, he had shaved (''It's a good idea to shave for TV games'') and shed his flip-flops, his ''Hawaii Five-O'' baggy shirts and his board shorts for an outfit that looked vaguely coachlike. As his team raced onto the field, he gazed into the stands filled with screaming fans and wondered about the several thousand ''cadets'' from Texas A.&M. clustered in one end zone. They wear military uniforms and buzz cuts, holler in unison and stand at attention the entire game. ''How come they get to pretend they are soldiers?'' he asked. ''The thing is, they aren't actually in the military. I ought to have Mike's Pirate School. The freshmen, all they get is the bandanna. When you're a senior, you get the sword and skull and crossbones. For homework, we'll work pirate maneuvers and stuff like that.''
 Leach made his way to the sideline and from his back pocket pulled a crumpled piece of paper with the notations for dozens of plays typed on it, along with a red pen. When a play doesn't work, he puts an X next to it. When a play works well, he draws a circle beside it -- ''to remind myself to run it again.'' But at the start of a game, he's unsure what's going to work. So one goal is to throw as many different things at a defense as he can, to see what it finds most disturbing. Another goal is to create as much confusion as possible for the defense while keeping things as simple as possible for the offense.
 What a defense sees, when it lines up against Texas Tech, is endless variety, caused, first, by the sheer number of people racing around trying to catch a pass and then compounded by the many different routes they run. A typical football offense has three serious pass-catching threats; Texas Tech's offense has five, and it would employ more if that wasn't against the rules. Leach looks at the conventional offense -- with its stocky fullback and bulky tight end seldom touching the football, used more often as blockers -- and says, ''You've got two positions that basically aren't doing anything.'' He regards receivers as raffle tickets: the more of them you have, the more likely one will hit big. Some go wide, some go deep, some come across the middle. All are fast. (When Leach recruits high-school players, he is forced to compromise on most talents, but he insists on speed.) All have been conditioned to run much more than a football player normally does. A typical N.F.L. receiver in training might run 1,500 yards of sprints a day; Texas Tech receivers run 2,500 yards. To prepare his receivers' ankles and knees for the unusual punishment of his nonstop-running offense, Leach has installed a 40-yard-long sand pit on his practice field; slogging through the sand, he says, strengthens the receivers' joints. And when they finish sprinting, they move to Leach's tennis-ball bazookas. A year of catching tiny fuzzy balls fired at their chests at 60 m.p.h. has turned many young men who got to Texas Tech with hands of stone into glue-fingered receivers.
 The first play Leach called against Texas A.&M. was the first play on Cody Hodges's wrist. That wrist held a mere 23 ordinary plays, 9 red-zone plays (for situations inside an opponent's 20-yard line), 6 goal-line plays, 2 2-point-conversion plays and 5 trick plays. ''There's two ways to make it more complex for the defense,'' Leach says. ''One is to have a whole bunch of different plays, but that's no good because then the offense experiences as much complexity as the defense. Another is a small number of plays and run it out of lots of different formations.'' Leach prefers new formations. ''That way, you don't have to teach a guy a new thing to do,'' he says. ''You just have to teach him new places to stand.'' Texas Tech's offense has no playbook; Cody Hodges's wrist and Mike Leach's back pocket hold the only formal written records of what is widely regarded as one of the most intricate offenses ever to take a football field. The plays change too often, in response to the defense and the talents of the players on hand, to bother recording them.
 Hodges looked down and read what to anyone but a football player is incomprehensible: Ace Rip 6 Y Shallow.
 The first part -- Ace Rip -- is the formation, the way the players line up. Here's how a conventional college football offense lines up:
 Here's how Texas Tech lines up in Ace Rip, its most common formation:
 Leach is unusual in giving his quarterback the authority to change every play, wherever the line of scrimmage. ''He can see more than I'll ever see,'' Leach says. ''If I call a stupid play, his job is to get me out of it. If he doesn't get me out of it, I might holler at him. But if you let him react to what he sees, there's a ton of touchdowns to be had.'' All Leach is really saying to Hodges when he sends in the play is, ''Line up in Ace, see how they line up against it and call a good play.'' 
 Hodges stuck with 6 Y Shallow. The four wide receivers fanned out, two on each side, and the lone back stood several steps to the right of the quarterback. 6 Y Shallow tells them where to run -- sort of. The play calls for the two outside receivers, X and Z, to run deep and drag both the cornerbacks and the safeties with them. If the cornerbacks and safeties are in a zone defense and refuse to follow along, X and Z are supposed to stop and wait in empty pockets within the zone. H is also supposed to adjust his plans according to how the defense lines up: if it looks as if the defenders will blitz -- that is, rush in to get the quarterback -- H runs a quick slant across the middle of the field so that the quarterback can throw to him immediately. If the defenders do not blitz, H runs a more leisurely 10 yards downfield and cuts across the middle. F, the tailback, takes off sideways and waits for a pass. Y, for whom the play is named, goes shallow. He runs 3 yards down field, then tears across the middle of the field, crossing H's route but separated by 7 or 8 yards. Leach doesn't expect receivers to go entirely uncovered -- though in the confusion he creates, that happens a lot -- but he does assume he will get single defenders covering a couple of them. A fast receiver covered by just one player is an open target waiting to happen for the simple reason that he knows where he is going and the defender does not. 
 Hodges took the snap from a shotgun position a couple of yards behind the center and saw something not often seen on a football field: 10 of the 11 Texas A.&M. defenders running backward to cover 5 Texas Tech receivers. There was but one lone white jersey in front of Hodges, walled off by five Tech lineman. A.&M.'s fear of the open spaces down the field had left the space right in front of Hodges empty. He ran for an effortless 11 yards and a first down.
 Quickly, a pattern was established: A.&M.'s fear of Tech's passing meant that the field just beyond the line of scrimmage was so open that a blind man with a cane could find the holes. Though the defense managed to stymie his passing attack -- temporarily -- the sight of big, lumbering defensive linemen dropping back to cover the receivers did not displease Leach. ''The thing is,'' he said after the game, ''defensive linemen really aren't much good at covering receivers. They aren't built to run around that much. And when they do, you have a bunch of people on the other team doing things they don't have much experience doing.'' For the first 16 plays of the game, Texas Tech lined up in seven different formations (one with two running backs, another with two tight ends, etc.) just to see how the defenders would respond and which way they would run after the ball was snapped. Hodges threw to four different receivers, at eight different spots on the field. Leach wanted to move the ball toward the opponent's goal line, of course, but he also wanted to see how the spaces changed, to see what the A.&M. defense conceded and also which parts of the inherent disorder the defenders were failing to understand. Seven of the first 11 plays were pass plays that Hodges changed into runs.
 Finally, A.&M. brought a few more players to the line of scrimmage. Hodges looked over and noted Jarrett Hicks all alone with a cornerback and threw Tech's first touchdown pass to him. The entire Texas Tech possession lasted just 2 minutes 42 seconds. Two minutes later, Tech got the ball back, and this time it was only four plays and 47 seconds before the tailback, Taurean Henderson ran, barely touched, for 18 yards into the end zone. An idea about the use of football time was being challenged. The typical football offense seeks to eat up as much of it as it can. The Texas Tech offense, which at that point in the season had passed for more touchdowns than any team in the country, uses just a shade over two minutes on each drive. But speeding everything up has a curious effect on game time. A typical college football team runs 65 to 75 offensive plays a game. Texas Tech tries to run 90 -- and sometimes does. A college team with a robust passing game might throw the football 35 times a game; at this point, 8 games into an 11-game regular season, the Red Raiders were averaging 53 passes a game. And because the clock stops after first downs, touchdowns and incompletions, Texas Tech's games are among the longest in college football. Less than six minutes into game time but nearly 30 into real time, Tech led, 14-0.
 The Texas Tech offense is not just an offense; it's a mood: optimism. It is designed to maximize the possibility of something good happening rather than to minimize the possibility of something bad happening. But then something bad happened. (''It always does,'' Leach says.) On its third series, the Tech center cut his hand and began bleeding profusely; instead of telling anyone, or wiping it off, he snapped a blood-drenched ball that slithered out of Hodges's hand as he prepared to throw, and the huge loss of yards killed the drive.
 ''There's no such thing as a perfect game in football,'' Leach says. ''I don't even think there's such a thing as the perfect play. You have 11 guys between the ages of 18 and 22 trying to do something violent and fast together, usually in pain. Someone is going to blow an assignment or do something that's not quite right.''
 Three more times in the first half Texas Tech had the ball and each time it failed to score. But its problems weren't obviously caused by the A.&M. defense. One drive ended in a missed 38-yard field goal. On another, a touchdown was nullified by a holding call on the receiver Robert Johnson far away from the action. If you are the captain of a pirate ship, you cannot complain too much about lawless behavior -- and Texas Tech is one of the most heavily penalized teams in college football -- but still it's painful to watch a crew member drop treasure overboard. (Later, watching a videotape of the incident, Leach actually says, ''Johnson's got to do a better job holding.'') The final drive reached the A.&M. 5-yard line, where Leach called a pass play. Cody Hodges rolled out and, when he might well have simply run the ball into the end zone, threw an interception.
 The Red Raiders trotted off the field at halftime with a lead, but not a large one: 14-10. A disappointing half, yet with hidden value. For 40 plays Leach's offense had groped -- digressing, probing to learn something new -- and it had been useful to see how the empty spaces on the field shifted. Coach and quarterback now knew what they wanted to know about the A.&M. defense. They had paid for the knowledge with time, but time means less to them than it does to any other offense in the land. A half to the Texas Tech offense is as good as a full game to most. The game within the game was about to begin.
 From the beginning of football time, when there was no such thing as a forward pass and an offense did nothing but run, innovation has come from the passing attack. The last great shift was the so-called West Coast offense, developed by Bill Walsh during his time as a coach for Stanford University and then the San Francisco 49ers. Now widely imitated, it emphasizes controlling the game with lots of short passes. Still, football's mixed feelings toward passing are ingrained. Bob Carroll, a leading football historian, summarizes the attitude of the game's rule makers to the forward pass: ''We're going to allow it because we know it makes the game safer. But we're going to make it difficult for you, because we don't approve of it.'' A whisper of the old antipass bigotry can be heard in football's conventional wisdom: that a balanced offense means running as often as you pass; that you can't pass all that effectively unless you first establish a running game; that a running game is necessary to ''control the clock''; that passing is inherently riskier than running because a pass might be intercepted and give the other team good field position.
 Leach and his offense are approaching the natural end of a path football strategy has been taking for 50 years. They are testing a limit. Synergy, in Leach's view, doesn't come from mixing runs with passes but from throwing the ball everywhere on the field, to every possible person allowed to catch a ball. ''Our notion of balance,'' Leach says, ''is that the five guys who catch the ball all gain 1,000 yards in the season.'' (The Indianapolis Colts last season became only the fourth team in N.F.L. history to have three receivers gain more than 1,000 yards in a single season.) The trouble with running plays, as Leach sees it, is that they clump players together on the field -- by putting two of them, during a handoff, in the same spot with the ball. ''I've thought about going a whole season without calling a single running play,'' Leach says, only half-joking. To a team that gains as many yards as Texas Tech, the usual boring, penny-ante yard-eating tactics -- punts, penalties -- are trivial. Field position is simply a thing to improve. Cody Hodges, who has spent the last four years marveling at Leach's in-game refusal to accept that his offense might have to be so conservative as to punt, says, ''There's been lots of times I'm on the sidelines, and I'm like, 'Oh, my God, we're going for it!' We went for it on fourth and 5 on our own 23 -- in the first quarter. We went for it once on fourth and 18 -- and we were ahead.'' E. J. Whitley, an offensive lineman, says: ''If you're on this offense, you expect to score. Most offenses on fourth down are coming off the field. On fourth down we expect a play to be called. Because we haven't scored yet.''
 One of the side effects of Leach's tinkering with the accepted rules of offensive conduct is to upset the ordinary rhythms of a football game. In the five full years Leach has coached Texas Tech, four or five times each season the team has flopped around ineffectually for the first third or so of a game before racing off to score touchdowns at a rate unheard of in organized tackle football. It's as if his opponent's defense has some deep dark secret that takes time for his offense to extract. Early this season, Texas Tech had been losing to Kansas State, 13-10, late in the second quarter -- and won the game, 59-20. Last year's game against Texas Christian University was even odder: T.C.U., heavily favored, had shut out Southern Methodist University the week before, 44-0. With 8 minutes left in the second quarter, T.C.U. scored its third touchdown, for a 21-0 lead, and a T.C.U. defensive back was caught mouthing into a television camera, ''They aren't going to score.'' In the last six minutes of the half, Texas Tech scored three quick touchdowns; after the break Leach's team came out and scored another seven and won the game, 70-35. A few games later, the Texas Tech offense scored the most points Nebraska had ever given up in its 114-year-old history. In that game, Texas Tech had been ahead, 14-3, with 2 minutes remaining in the first half. It won 70-10.
 Halftime during the game against A.&M. was dull-minded; by now the original thrill of the game was gone. The team had slumped into the locker room, oozing self-disgust, and the players scattered into little bureaucratic meetings with their position coaches -- the offensive linemen with the offensive line coaches, the receivers with the receivers coach and so on. Leach met with his quarterbacks in the coaches' locker room; he spent a few moments glancing at the first-half statistics. ''The only information he ever asks for at halftime is the distribution,'' Hodges says. ''He doesn't even care about the score. If Y has caught five passes and Z hasn't caught any, he wants to figure out how to get the ball to Z.'' Leach says, ''You try to get the ball in everyone's hands because then it makes the whole offense harder to keep track of.'' If they aren't spreading the ball around, they aren't forcing the defense to cover the entire field. They are leaving empty spaces unprobed.
 Leach had just a few minutes with Hodges, but he told him what he had noticed. First, the A.&M. cornerbacks were disguising their intentions. They were lining up as if to cover the fade routes -- that is, before the play began, they stood between the receiver and the sidelines -- but then, just as the ball was snapped, they were scampering back into the middle of the field. To Hodges it looked as if fade routes would be covered, so he had been sending his receivers on slants into the middle of the field. ''Throw the fade,'' Leach said. ''It doesn't look like it's there, but it is.''
 The other glaring opportunity, to Leach's mind, was A.&M.'s response to Tech's formations. On the few occasions when Texas Tech lined up in a formation that suggested a running play, with two running backs, the Aggies ''put their ears back and stop the run.'' But when Tech was, as it preferred, in its passing formation, A.&M.'s fear of the pass caused them to leave huge empty spaces to run in. In the second half, the Tech running backs would be charging into pass coverage, and the Tech receivers would be running toward the sidelines. 
 There was one other thing Leach had noticed -- and Hodges had noticed it, too. The A.&M. front line appeared tired. ''The minute you see the defensive line bent over and their hands on their hips,'' Hodges told me, ''that's when you know you have them.'' The A.&M. linemen were a lot bigger than the Texas Tech linemen. They may or may not have been fatter -- Leach insists they were -- but their bodies were clearly designed for a different sort of football game than this frenetic one. ''That's the risk of playing 330-pound guys,'' Leach said later. ''You get good push, but if you got to run around a lot, you get tired.'' Before the game, Leach had said to Hodges: ''Get those fat guys up front and make them run. They're already a little slow. By play 40, they'll be immobilized.'' That was one reason he kept sending so many receivers on deep routes: to force the defense to run with them.
 A coach cannot change the shape of the football field, but he can change its effective size. And if he can alter the environment, even slightly, he alters the environment's system of rewards and punishments. He can put 330-pound defensive linemen on the fast track to obsolescence and turn a pass-catching tailback into the holder of N.C.A.A. records. He can take a quarterback whose greatest assets are his moxie and his ability to see the field quickly and efficiently and make him the most prolific passer in the nation.
 When he was finished with Hodges, Leach marched into the locker room, climbed back up on his green stool and exhibited, with the enthusiasm of a man doing it for the first time, the proper way to swing a pirate sword. ''Coach's motivational speeches are always the same,'' says Daniel Loper, who played four years for Leach and is now a rookie offensive tackle with the Tennessee Titans. ''He tells very long stories, and you're never sure what they mean. But he's a genius. When we leave the locker room, we all know that we'll have three receivers wide open every play.'' 
 ''Thinking man's football'' is a bit like ''classy stripper'': if the adjective modifies the noun too energetically, it undermines the nature of the thing. ''Football's the most violent sport,'' Leach says. ''And because of that, the most intense and emotional.'' Truth is, he loves the violence. (''Aw, yeah, the violence is awesome. That's the best part.'') Back in the early 1980's, when he was a student at B.Y.U., he spotted a poster for a seminar, ''Violence in American Sports.'' It was given by a visiting professor who bemoaned the influence of football on the American mind. To dramatize the point, the professor played a video of especially shocking blows delivered in college and pro football. ''It had all the great hits in football you remembered and wanted to see again,'' Leach recalls. ''Word got around campus that this guy had this great tape, and the place was jammed. Everybody was cheering the hits. I went twice.''
 For him, the game combines the appeal of chess with the joy of a demolition derby. Before the game, he and his coaching staff had spent a fair amount of time reminding the players, as if they needed to be reminded, that they were meant to hit people as hard as they can. ''Be the hammer, never the nail.'' ''You go out and knock the living dog snot out of people.'' ''You get after him -- get after him like he stole something from you.'' Et cetera.
 On the second play of the second half, a lot of violent imagery, along with a pair of Texas Tech safeties, converged on a Texas A.&M. running back as he broke into the open field. One of the safeties, Vincent Meeks, was a ridiculously fast athlete who thought he came to Texas Tech to be a running back; the other, Dwayne Slay, had been hitting receivers so hard that they had started taking dives before he got to them. Slay was one hit shy of the N.C.A.A. record for forcing fumbles in a season -- this was the hit. He drove right through the A.&M. ball carrier and took out Meeks as well, who rolled around on the ground screaming and clutching his groin. As the ball popped free and was grabbed by a Tech defender, a bent-over Meeks stumbled to the sidelines, where a coach asked a trainer, ''Now who gonna touch that and make it well?''
 What happened next doesn't often happen in big-time college football, and almost never in the N.F.L. But here at Texas Tech it now passes for normal: the Tech offense scored a touchdown, then got the ball back five times more -- and scored all five times. One moment the scoreboard read 14-10 and suggested a hard-fought contest; the next it showed Texas Tech winning 56-17, with the ball and, with a minute remaining in the game, driving to score again. By the time he left the game, with 5 minutes to go, Cody Hodges had thrown 44 passes for 408 yards, a lot of them to Jarrett Hicks, who had 8 catches for 147 yards and 2 touchdowns, both on fade routes. The Texas Tech rushers had gained another 218 yards, just about all of them from pass formations.
 But when Leach removes his starting quarterback, he does not mean for his offense to stop scoring touchdowns. Scoring is a habit, he says; the more players do it, the better they get at it. The new quarterback, Graham Harrell, had the offense marching as fast as possible toward the end zone, and with 23 seconds left, Texas Tech had reached the Texas A.&M. 25-yard line.
 It was then that I looked over and noticed Bennie Wylie standing uneasily next to Mike Leach. Wylie is Texas Tech's strength and conditioning coach. Leach hired him three years ago from the Dallas Cowboys to prepare football players to run more than they had ever run on a football field. Just after he moved to Lubbock, Wylie learned that this job might be less a job than a calling. The thought struck him when he was driving and spotted, in the distance, a sloppily dressed middle-aged man in-line skating down the center of the road. The guy was rocking back and forth in the middle of what in Lubbock passes for a busy street; cars were whizzing past at 30 m.p.h. in both directions. There was no skating lane; truth to tell, there wasn't a lot of in-line skating going on in Lubbock. As Wylie drew closer, he thought to himself, That lunatic looks a little like Coach. As he pulled alongside the lunatic, he realized, It is Coach. Later, Leach explained that he had decided to take up in-line skating, and he'd calculated that the middle of that particular road was Lubbock's flattest, smoothest surface and so the obvious place to start. ''To Mike, everything he does makes sense,'' Wylie says. ''It just takes a while to see how it all fits together. But if you were a fly on his shoulder for six months, you'd laugh your eyeballs out.''
 But on this night Wylie was a fly on Leach's shoulder, and his eyeballs were still in their sockets. The end of this football game was shaping up disturbingly like last year's game against S.M.U., which had been, by Leachean standards, a low-scoring affair. With 15 seconds left, Texas Tech was ahead, 27-13. The clock was running, but the Red Raiders had the ball on the S.M.U. 4-yard line. It was then that Wylie realized that Leach and his offensive machine lacked an off switch. With 15 seconds left, Leach leaned into the field and called a timeout.
 On the last play of that game, Leach sent in a pass play, and the quarterback, Sonny Cumbie, stepped into the shotgun position. ''I could hear Bennett screaming,'' Cumbie says, referring to the S.M.U. head coach, Phil Bennett. ''He's furious. He's yelling: HIT HIM! HIT HIM! HIT HIM! HIT THE QUARTERBACK!'' Cumbie threw the ball into the end zone to a wide-open receiver, who dropped it. (None of the S.M.U. defenders hit him.) ''I see their coach slam his earphones, throw down his clipboard and come running across the field,'' Wylie says. ''I'm thinking: This is gonna be bad. He's mad at Mike for trying to score. And Mike really has no idea that he's mad. Mike is sitting there upset that we didn't score.'' Leach was, in fact, jotting notes on his wadded-up sheet of paper with the plays on it. His head was down; he didn't see Bennett. But before the S.M.U. coach reached Leach, Wylie jumped in. ''The guy starts poking me in the chest -- Bam! Bam! Bam! -- and screaming,'' Wylie says. ''If I hadn't been there, I think he might have taken a swing at Mike.''
 Now Texas Tech had a 39-point lead over A.&M. and the ball and was moving forward as rapidly as ever. To minimize its humiliation, the A.&M. offense had been running plays meant to use up time and get the team out of Lubbock. The governor of Texas slipped away early and was on his way back to Austin. The guys dressed up as soldiers in the Aggie end zone had run out of military drills to perform. Up in the sky boxes, the wife of an Aggie assistant coach insulted every female Red Raider in earshot by saying that at least she lived in College Station instead of Lubbock. (''First of all, we just beat them, 56-17,'' Leach says when told of the incident. ''By rights she should now be a Red Raider slave.'') For everyone but Mike Leach, the game was over, but he jumped onto the field and called a timeout. The referees did not notice: they were too busy throwing yellow flags at the extra Texas Tech players who had tried to get into the game. Tech was penalized, and in the subsequent confusion, Leach let the clock run out. ''There was 23 seconds on the clock,'' he told me later. ''That's more than enough time. I think we all had a level of disappointment we didn't score one more touchdown.''
 Bad as it was for Texas A.&M., its staff might wonder how much worse it could have been if Leach had the same access to talent as A.&M. or Texas or Alabama or, God forbid, Notre Dame. The chances of that happening can't be great, though. Leach remains on the outside; like all innovators in sports, he finds himself in an uncertain social position. He has committed a faux pas: he has suggested by his methods that there is more going on out there on the (unlevel) field of play than his competitors realize, which reflects badly on them. He steals some glory from the guy who is born with advantages and uses them to become a champion. Gary O'Hagan, Leach's agent, says that he hears a great deal more from other coaches about Mike Leach than about any of his other clients. ''He makes them nervous,'' O'Hagan says. ''They don't like coaching against him; they'd rather coach against another version of themselves. It's not that they don't like him. But privately they haven't accepted him. You know how you can tell? Because when you're talking to them Monday morning, and you say, Did you see the play Leach ran on third and 26, they dismiss it immediately. Dismissive is the word. They dismiss him out of hand. And you know why? Because he's not doing things because that's the way they've always been done. It's like he's been given this chessboard, and all the pieces but none of the rules, and he's trying to figure out where all the chess pieces should go. From scratch!''
 Leach was out in the middle of the field shaking hands with a visibly upset Dennis Franchione, the Texas A.&M. coach. The press had descended on him, to ask him to describe just how happy he felt. But he didn't look happy; he looked distracted, for all the world as if he would rather be left alone. And by the time the cameras left, he was. The football field was huge and green and empty. The only other people on it were the two Texas Rangers assigned to protect him. As he allowed himself to be escorted toward the locker room, there were many things Mike Leach might have been thinking about. His team was now 8-1 -- the best start in nearly 30 years for a Texas Tech football team. They had just beaten Texas A.&M. by the largest margin in the 80-year-old history of the rivalry. He knew he was not going to sleep anytime soon -- he keeps the hours of a vampire and wouldn't go to bed until 6:30 a.m. -- and so he might have even been thinking about reviewing game tape, which he usually does while others sleep.
 Then he spotted a giant grasshopper on the turf. It twitched on the very spot where, two days earlier, he picked up his third-string halfback's tooth after it had been knocked out by his second-string defensive tackle. He gazed upon the grasshopper in wonder. He wondered, specifically, how far a giant grasshopper could hop, were he to put his foot to its rear. It was on the 20-yard line; he thought maybe it might make it to the 30.
 Finally he looked up from the grasshopper. And, as if for the first time, he noticed that he wasn't exactly alone. The stands were thick with fans. Twenty thousand Red Raiders were chanting his name.
 Coach! Leach! Coach! Leach!
 Texas college football teams seem to have a particular need for hand signals. Fans of the University of Texas Longhorns deploy the thumb-and-pinkie hook-'em-horns gesture to suggest their bovinity. The Aggies have gig 'em, a frog-murdering gesture. The Red Raiders have guns up; when they are excited, they turn their index fingers into gun barrels. Now they were excited, perhaps as excited as they have ever been, and the fingers of West Texas filled the air. Ah, yes, it seemed to occur to Mike Leach, I'm supposed to feel as if I've won. He glanced once more at the grasshopper and thought, Oh, well, next time. Then he threw two triumphant trigger fingers high over his head and jabbed the air with them, twice. Guns up!
 Twenty thousand natural-born underdogs roared the winner's roar. The man who made the moment possible by refusing to do anything but what he loves to do smiled, and for just a few seconds his mind was present and accounted for. Then he ran up the concrete tunnel and back into the pleasure of thinking for himself.

 (Photographs by Danielle Levitt for The New York Times)

CORRECTION-DATE: December 18, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article on Dec. 4 about Texas Tech Coach Mike Leach misidentified the hand signal used by fans of the University of Texas Longhorns in a sign to suggest their bovinity. It is the index finger and the pinkie, not the thumb and the pinkie.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Sand Pit: Leach's receivers are nonstop runners, and to strengthen their ankles and knees he has them work out on a 40-yard beach he has installed on the practice field.
 Texas Tech Scores! Again!: Marquis Johnson (27), a Red Raider wide receiver, after a touchdown against Indiana State on Sept. 24. Texas Tech won, 63-7.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (90%); ATHLETES (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); SPORTS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); SPORTS CAMPS & SCHOOLS (77%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION (72%); US PRESIDENTS (52%) 

ORGANIZATION: TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY (94%) Texas Tech University

PERSON: Michael Lewis; Mike (Football Coach) Leach

GEOGRAPHIC: LUBBOCK, TX, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (77%) TEXAS, USA (97%); INDIANA, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2005



63 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1264 words

HEADLINE: All Visitors Must Be Announced

BYLINE: By JUDITH MARTIN. 
Judith Martin writes the Miss Manners columns and books, of which the latest is ''Miss Manners' Guide to Excruciatingly Correct Behavior (Freshly Updated).''

 BODY:
DOORMEN
 By Peter Bearman.
 288 pp. The University of Chicago Press. Paper, $25.
Here is the cure for any envy of privileged Manhattanites brought on by viewing their apartments in shelter magazines. These people may occupy huge slices of glass apparently suspended halfway between the twinkling of stars and the twinkling of street lights, and sparsely dotted with black leather, burnished steel, giant flowers and more glass. Or they may occupy horizontal versions of Versailles with wood paneling, ormolu mirrors, marble busts and tapestry-covered furniture. But beyond the financial cost, they and their not-quite-so-grand neighbors pay an emotional price for this every year. They have to figure out what to tip the doorman at Christmas. 
 The agony of this decision and the perceived consequences of getting it wrong occupy a key chapter in ''Doormen'' -- and this is not an etiquette book. It is a sociological treatise, complete with footnotes. Far from dispelling the tip trauma, the author, Peter Bearman, ratchets it up by killing the notion that asking the neighbors what they give or organizing a pooled tip fund will solve the problem. The neighbors are lying, he assures us, and they are sure to sabotage group efforts by giving extra on the sly. That is how important it is considered to be the tenant at the high end, but not the top, of the tipping scale.
 Furthermore, the suspense of worrying whether one has succeeded or failed will be drawn out until February. To obfuscate the relationship between the expectation of tips and the improved service that begins in November -- thus setting off the fretting season -- the doormen routinely delay any punishments they mete out. Whew. 
 Bearman, who is chairman of the sociology department and director of the Institute for Social and Economic Research and Policy at Columbia University, was somewhat traumatized by his first encounter with a doorman. He writes that when fresh up from North Carolina, he made a fool of himself by pushing past a Columbia professor's doorman, whom he mistook for an intruder, then describing the bewildered guardian to his host as dangerous. Bearman has recovered to the extent of now having his own doormen, whom he prudently did not interview for this book.
 Still, those of us in the etiquette business can attest that he is not exaggerating this peculiarly New York anxiety. Every autumn, national television shows and magazines appeal to us for a definitive tip figure (there isn't one), oblivious to the fact that the question is of no interest to the vast majority of their viewers and readers. Elsewhere, apartment dwellers just tip their receptionists, residential managers, concierges and security guards according to local practice and get on with life. Those employees do not depend on significant largesse to plump up their basic incomes. Residential (as opposed to hotel) doormen, who do, are almost exclusively a Manhattan phenomenon. A New York Times reader recently wrote the Metropolitan Diary that she recognized ''a real N.Y.C. kid'' by the way the child sang ''Frere Jacques, Frere Jacques, Doorman vous? Doorman vous?''
 And their tenants tend to love them. Many speak of doormen as being one of the family, rather in the manner, Bearman points out, that they speak of their pets. There are more doormen than taxi drivers in Manhattan, Bearman discloses, and these relatively well-paying jobs are not easy to come by -- positions are held for decades and openings are saved for relatives or friends. Except for an occasional young recruit with delusions of using famous tenants to assist his show business aspirations, doormen are cherished.
 Here is, beyond the Christmas tip, another economic peculiarity of the trade: when a strike of the local Service Employees International Union looms, doormen spring into action, teaching their tenants to scab. These eager recruits, signing up to sort the mail, put out the trash and receive the packages, keep assuring the doormen that they are on their side and hope they get raises. They send care packages for the doormen's children. The doormen declare that they hate striking, and hope the tenants will get along in their absence. The immediate bond of everyday life triumphs over the more distant one that doormen feel for their union or that tenants feel about being assessed for increased pay.
 Exploring these relationships was an interesting choice. A major consideration was that in a field where it is considered ''more interesting to study heroin addicts, gangsters, petty crooks, denizens of the subways or prostitutes,'' doormen were easily available and safe subjects for students in Bearman's class on Evaluation of Evidence to approach.
 Surely we hear enough about derelicts from confessional television, magazines and books. The never-simple workings of other people's daily lives are more of a mystery. It cannot be said that doormen's days are eventful, and as an academic -- although readable -- book, this tells more about the job than one might wish to know. There is not likely to be a movie or a popular clamor for a sequel on supers. But even non-New Yorkers may find it interesting to peek into this odd line of work, and tenants who see their doormen several times a day, year after year, will find information that may surprise them.
 Bearman notes that a good doorman remembers who wants guests announced and who doesn't, who wants dry cleaning sent up and who wants it stored, and who wants videos delivered to the door and who wants them left at the desk (in order to avoid tipping). What tenants forget is that they didn't move in with clear preferences about such inconsequential matters. A good doorman has to train his tenants to have preferences before he can practice the flattery of meeting them. A doorman has plenty of other duties, including help in scheduling repairs. ''The combination of watching tenants 'live it up socially' and 'have no time' for household repairs serves as a crisp -- if exaggerated -- reminder of the differences in lifestyle and trajectory that they have with their tenants,'' Bearman writes.
 Tenant confusion about what the job entails is a source of frustration to the doormen. They spend most of their time just standing at the door, seeming to do nothing. To their minds, they are protecting the building from uncleanliness and crime -- and the city agrees, because it puts extra police officers on duty when doormen go on strike. Doormen often chat up tenants, some of whom hang out in the lobby for the company, but they do not flirt. Inside the building it would endanger their jobs, and outside, it doesn't work. ''You know,'' one doorman complains, ''you can be a good-looking man, but if you are wearing this uniform, all the good-looking women look right through you.'' The appearance of leisure irritates tenants who come looking for doormen during one of the rush periods when mail, deliveries and trash collection all need to be attended to at once; tenants assume their doormen are goofing off from a job that asks only that they goof off within sight.
 Tenants may also be surprised and relieved to hear that the doormen do not particularly envy them their expensive apartments. Doormen do take pride in their particular buildings, and they may aspire to such a way of life for their children. It just doesn't happen to be to their taste. They live in the Bronx, Brooklyn, Staten Island or northern New Jersey, many of them in houses they own, and in spite of the long commutes, they confide that they prefer the atmosphere back at home.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Viktor Koen)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); ADVICE COLUMNS (90%); HOTEL STAFF (89%); SOCIOLOGY (88%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (88%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); WRITERS (72%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) 

PERSON: Judith Martin; Bearman00105000

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2005



64 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 2; Magazine; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 12-04-05: CONSUMED; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: Entertainment Poverty 

BYLINE: By Rob Walker. 
E-mail: consumed@nytimes.com

 BODY:
'Extreme Makeover: Home Edition'
 A National Public Radio report this summer, marking the 40th anniversary of the Watts riots, earnestly examined the lingering problems in the area. The report included interviews with community leaders like Sweet Alice Harris, who talked about persistently high unemployment. The reporter also mentioned, less predictably, that Harris is ''living in a brand new house built by the 'Extreme Makeover' TV show.''
''Extreme Makeover: Home Edition'' is one of the highest-rated ''reality'' shows on television; it is part of the reality subgenre that turns on improving the life of a lucky subject -- in this case by remodeling or rebuilding someone's house. It was recently in the news when it was reported that Laura Bush would be making a cameo in an episode scheduled to air next week dealing with hurricane victims on the Gulf Coast. Because the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina raised so many uncomfortable questions about race and class in America, this would seem to be strange ground for a reality show to tread upon. But the truly strange thing is that such issues are recurring -- if very carefully handled -- themes on the show. 
 Every episode includes a solicitation for viewers to suggest a family whose home needs an ''extreme makeover,'' and of course the applicants are legion. Those selected get a visit from the hunky host, Ty Pennington, and his ''design team'' of architectural, shopping, decorating and ''glamour'' experts, who tend to look fabulous and have names like Dawson. Often they simply rip down the house and build a bigger one, tastefully appointed and filled with high-end appliances and the occasional plasma-screen television. ''I wanted to do this for people who needed it and, to the extent you can judge it, people who deserved it,'' says Tom Forman, the show's executive producer.
 You could dismiss all this as a mere exercise in Oprah-esque tear-jerking do-goodism, and on one level it is: the families chosen have heartbreaking back stories, and the only element more common than children with disabilities are scenes in which grown men cry. On the other hand, there is often a social component -- these are the American families who are stuck in tough neighborhoods, whose children die in Iraq, who have no health care, who are swindled by contractors or who are so close to the edge that a lost job is a financial catastrophe. Episodes last year featured a Hispanic family who lost a mother to a stray bullet and a young African-American man in South Central Los Angeles crippled in a mistaken gang hit. On the latter episode, the design team went to the site of the shooting and listened to a recording of the horrifying 911 call; one of them observed that ''the worst thing is, around this area, that's commonplace.'' These are, in other words, the American families who do not exist in the world of more traditional TV hits like, say, ''The O.C.'' or ''Desperate Housewives,'' and certainly not in ''Pimp My Ride'' or ''Queer Eye for the Straight Guy.'' 
 A former news producer, Forman says he looks for interesting stories and tries to ''embrace these families on their own terms.'' This may mean that class issues emerge, or it may mean that the families express their gratitude for this startling ride from crushing desperation to material abundance in openly religious terms.
 If there are two Americas, as John Edwards argued during the last presidential campaign, prime time seems like a curious place for the trading up and the falling down to meet. It's hard to know how to process the sudden shift between Pennington's calling the area where Sweet Alice lives a ''barren wasteland'' and Dawson's exclamation, ''We just got all these free pansies!'' Or when the program directs viewers to a Web site to ''find out more about the products used on tonight's show.'' But the attraction is that the two Americas not only meet on the show; they also seem, reassuringly, to be neatly resolved and reconciled by the forces of tasteful consumption. At the hour's end, there appears to be no problem that the miracle of sponsored entertainment cannot solve. The Sweet Alice installment reached a climax with a child, in prayer, saying, ''Thank you for ABC, thank you for Extreme Makeover.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Leif Parsons)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RIOTS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); FAMILY (88%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); REALITY TELEVISION (76%); HURRICANE KATRINA (74%); HURRICANES (73%); TROPICAL STORMS (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); SHOOTINGS (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); PLASMA TELEVISIONS (71%); APPOINTMENTS (71%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%) 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO (84%) Abc Inc

PERSON: Rob Walker

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2005



65 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; 100 Notable Books of the Year; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 3042 words

 BODY:
Fiction & Poetry
 BEYOND BLACK. By Hilary Mantel. (John Macrae/Holt, $26.) Neurotic, demanding ghosts haunt a British clairvoyant in this darkly comic novel.
A CHANGED MAN. By Francine Prose. (HarperCollins, $24.95.) A neo-Nazi engages a Jewish human rights leader in this morally concerned novel, asking for help in his effort to repent.
 COLLECTED POEMS, 1943-2004. By Richard Wilbur. (Harcourt, $35.) This urbane poetry survived the age of Ginsberg, Lowell and Plath.
 EMPIRE RISING. By Thomas Kelly. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $25.) A muscular historical novel in which the Irish erect the Empire State Building in a cheerfully corrupt New York. 
 ENVY. By Kathryn Harrison. (Random House, $24.95.) A psychoanalyst is unhappy but distant until Greek-tragedy things start happening in this novel by an ace student of sexual violation.
 EUROPE CENTRAL. By William T. Vollmann. (Viking, $39.95.) A novel, mostly in stories, of Middle European fanaticism and resistance to it in the World War II period.
 FOLLIES: New Stories. By Ann Beattie. (Scribner, $25.) This keen observer of the surface of life now slows down for an occasional epiphany.
 HARRY POTTER AND THE HALF-BLOOD PRINCE. By J. K. Rowling. Illustrated by Mary GrandPre. (Arthur A. Levine/ Scholastic, $29.99.) In this sixth volume of the epic series, the Dark Lord, Voldemort, is wreaking havoc throughout England and Harry, now 16, is more isolated than ever.
 HOME LAND. By Sam Lipsyte. (Picador, paper, $13.) Lipsyte's antihero, a loser but unbowed, asserts in endless letters to his alumni magazine that all the others are losers too.
 THE HOT KID. By Elmore Leonard. (Morrow, $25.95.) Many seek fame in this rendering of America's criminal landscape in the 1930's; the title character, a killer lawman, achieves it.
 HOW WE ARE HUNGRY: Stories. By Dave Eggers. (McSweeney's, $22.) A shining miscellany peopled by characters in close touch with childhood.
 IN CASE WE'RE SEPARATED: Connected Stories. By Alice Mattison. (Morrow/HarperCollins, $23.95.) The stories concern a family whose members couldn't lose each other if they tried.
 INDECISION. By Benjamin Kunkel. (Random House, $21.95.) This postmodern, posteverything, fresh and funny novel by a young writer seems to develop a nonironic social conscience.
 KAFKA ON THE SHORE. By Haruki Murakami. (Knopf, $25.95.) Two characters alternate in this dreamish novel: a boy fleeing an Oedipal prophecy and a witless old man who can talk to cats.
 LUNAR PARK. By Bret Easton Ellis. (Knopf, $25.) A novel starring a brat named Bret Easton Ellis, who knows everybody and has more fun than ever happens to real people.
 MAPS FOR LOST LOVERS. By Nadeem Aslam. (Knopf, $25.) Unhappy Pakistani exiles in a cold, hard Britain populate this intricate novel.
 THE MARCH. By E. L. Doctorow. (Random House, $25.95.) Characters in this absorbing novel are transformed by distress and destruction as Sherman marches to the sea in 1864.
 MEMORIES OF MY MELANCHOLY WHORES. By Gabriel Garcia Marquez. (Knopf, $20.) A strange and luminous novel whose elderly hero pays for sex but finds love.
 MIGRATION: New and Selected Poems. By W. S. Merwin. (Copper Canyon, $40.) Half a century's work, from archaic allegories to unpointed lyrics to secular prophecy and wisdom verses.
 MISSING MOM. By Joyce Carol Oates. (Ecco/ HarperCollins, $25.95.) This novel peers into the void left by a woman's sudden absence.
 MISSION TO AMERICA. By Walter Kirn. (Doubleday, $23.95.) In his new novel, Kirn invents a religion whose believers hit the road to recruit.
 MOTHER'S MILK. By Edward St. Aubyn. (Open City, $23.) In this novel an ancient family's sins are visited on its offspring, who repeat them.
 NATURAL HISTORY: Poems. By Dan Chiasson. (Knopf, $23.) This second collection conjures a postmodern landscape where folk knowledge and superstitions arrange into oddly moving litanies.
 NEVER LET ME GO. By Kazuo Ishiguro. (Knopf, $24.) This bold novel imagines a school where clones are trained for a terrible destiny.
 NO COUNTRY FOR OLD MEN. By Cormac McCarthy. (Knopf, $24.95.) Women grieve, men fight in this hard-boiled Texas noir crime novel.
 ON BEAUTY. Zadie Smith. (Penguin Press, $25.95.) The author of ''White Teeth'' pounces on a place like Harvard in a cultural-politics comedy. 
 OVERLORD: Poems. By Jorie Graham. (Ecco/HarperCollins, $22.95.) Politics and World War II, mediated by a major poet.
 THE PAINTED DRUM. By Louise Erdrich. (HarperCollins, $25.95.) A ceremonial drum is magically linked to children and death in Erdrich's latest novel set among the Ojibwa.
 PLEASE DON'T COME back FROM THE MOON. By Dean Bakopoulos. (Harcourt, $23.) When the fathers in the Rust Belt town of this novel abandon it en masse, their sons take over.
 PREP. By Curtis Sittenfeld. (Random House, $21.95.) A scholarship girl at a nifty prep school is thrust into a world of privilege in this novel.
 SATURDAY. By Ian McEwan. (Nan A. Talese/Doubleday, $26.) This novel traces a day off in the life of an English neurosurgeon who comes face to face with senseless violence.
 THE SEA. By John Banville. (Knopf, $23.) Banville's new novel, which won this year's Man Booker Prize, concerns an aging art critic mourning his wife's recent death -- and his blighted life.
 SEVEN TYPES OF AMBIGUITY. By Elliot Perlman. (Riverhead, $27.95.) An Australian novel so large in its concept of fiction's grasp on the world it takes seven narrators just to tell it.
 SHALIMAR THE CLOWN. By Salman Rushdie. (Random House, $25.95.) Beauty loses out as Kashmir and Rushdie's characters who live there turn brutal.
 SLOW MAN. By J. M. Coetzee. (Viking, $24.95.) Crippled at 60 in a car-bike accident, instructed willy-nilly by a know-it-all female novelist, Coetzee's hero studies the diminished life.
 STAR DUST. Frank Bidart. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $20.) The fastidious and the primal join in poems concerned with man as maker.
 THE SUCCESSOR. By Ismail Kadare. (Arcade, $24.) A whodunit tragicomedy by Albania's pre-eminent novelist, about a loyal Communist who dies before succeeding to power in that unlucky land.
 TOWELHEAD. By Alicia Erian. (Simon & Schuster, $22.) A bluntly erotic novel whose narrator's budding sexuality gets her driven from home. 
 VERONICA. By Mary Gaitskill. (Pantheon, $23.) A novel that ruminates on beauty and cruelty, told by a former Paris model now sick and poor.

Nonfiction
 THE ACCIDENTAL MASTERPIECE: On the Art of Life and Vice Versa. By Michael Kimmelman. (Penguin Press, $24.95.) A study of the unpredictable, by the chief art critic of The Times.
 AHMAD'S WAR, AHMAD'S PEACE: Surviving Under Saddam, Dying in the New Iraq. By Michael Goldfarb. (Carroll & Graf, $25.95.) A memoir of a good man murdered for his decency.
 AMERICAN PROMETHEUS: The Triumph and Tragedy of J. Robert Oppenheimer. By Kai Bird and Martin J. Sherwin. (Knopf, $35.) The first full biography of the atom bomb's father -- rich in new revelations.
 ARE MEN NECESSARY? When Sexes Collide. By Maureen Dowd. (Putnam, $25.95.) The Times's twice-a-week Op-Ed columnist for the last decade expands her observations on the gender situation, from the Y chromosome up.
 ARMAGEDDON: The Battle for Germany, 1944-1945. By Max Hastings. (Knopf, $30.) Though obviously beaten, the Germans wouldn't give up; an experienced journalist pursues the apparent paradox.
 THE ASSASSINS' GATE: America in Iraq. By George Packer. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $26.) The New Yorker reporter reviews the pride and ignorance he blames for the war.
 THE BEATLES: The Biography. By Bob Spitz. (Little, Brown, $29.95.) Spitz's broad, incisive chronicle breathes new life into the familiar story of the Liverpool boys who conquered the entertainment world.
 BECOMING JUSTICE BLACKMUN: Harry Blackmun's Supreme Court Journey. By Linda Greenhouse. (Times Books/Holt, $25.) A Times correspondent tells how a Minnesota lawyer became the author of the Roe v. Wade decision.
 BEYOND GLORY: Joe Louis vs. Max Schmeling, and a World on the Brink. By David Margolick. (Knopf, $26.95.) A heavyweight chronicle of good's symbolic clash with evil in the ring.
 BOSS TWEED: The Rise and Fall of the Corrupt Pol Who Conceived the Soul of Modern New York. By Kenneth D. Ackerman. (Carroll & Graf, $27.) The colorful master of graft, our greatest.
 BREAK, BLOW, BURN. By Camille Paglia. (Pantheon, $20.) Smart, lively essays on 43 poems, written without ego for a popular audience.
 BURY THE CHAINS: Prophets and Rebels in the Fight to Free an Empire's Slaves. By Adam Hochschild. (Houghton Mifflin, $26.95.) How the struggle availed, especially when black Haitian armies beat white French and British ones.
 COLLAPSE: How Societies Choose to Fail or Succeed. By Jared Diamond. (Viking, $29.95.) In ''Guns, Germs, and Steel'' (1997), Diamond speculated on how the world reached its present pecking order of nations; his latest book examines geographic and environmental reasons some societies have fallen apart.
 CONSPIRACY OF FOOLS: A True Story. By Kurt Eichenwald. (Broadway, $26.) A meticulous dissection of the rise and fall of Enron by a correspondent for The New York Times.
 DE KOONING: An American Master. By Mark Stevens and Annalyn Swan. (Knopf, $35.) An exploration at length of de Kooning's life and work and their role in art's midcentury upheaval.
 DREAM BOOGIE: The Triumph of Sam Cooke. By Peter Guralnick. (Little, Brown, $27.95.) This exhaustive biography surrounds Cooke in the overlapping worlds of gospel, the civil rights movement and rock 'n' roll.
 ELIA KAZAN: A Biography. By Richard Schickel. (HarperCollins. $29.95.) The stranger-than-fiction life story of the distinguished stage and screen director.
 AN END TO SUFFERING: The Buddha in the World. By Pankaj Mishra. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $25.) An intellectual autobiography: what Mishra has learned from the Buddha's legacy.
 1491: New Revelations of the Americas Before Columbus. By Charles C. Mann. (Knopf, $30.) This sweeping portrait of pre-Columbian civilization argues that it was far more populous and sophisticated than previously thought.
 FREAKONOMICS: A Rogue Economist Explores the Hidden Side of Everything. By Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner. (Morrow, $25.95.) A maverick scholar and a journalist apply economic thinking to everything from sumo wrestlers who cheat to legalized abortion and the falling crime rate.
 GARBAGE LAND: On the Secret Trail of Trash. By Elizabeth Royte. (Little, Brown, $24.95.) A chronicle of the weird stuff that happens to what we discard.
 THE GLASS CASTLE: A Memoir. By Jeannette Walls. (Scribner, $25.) Walls and her three sibs, dragged all over the country by damaged parents, thought it a glorious adventure. Tough kids.
 A GREAT IMPROVISATION: Franklin, France, and the Birth of America. By Stacy Schiff. (Holt, $30.) A wise account of Benjamin Franklin's diplomatic brilliance, revealed in Paris at 70.
 IN COMMAND OF HISTORY: Churchill Fighting and Writing the Second World War. By David Reynolds. (Random House, $35.) How a very busy man and a staff of busy assistants managed to turn out six volumes in 1948-54.
 JEAN-JACQUES ROUSSEAU: Restless Genius. By Leo Damrosch. (Houghton Mifflin, $30.) A life of the self-taught Swiss who proclaimed the noble savage and denounced conventional social distinctions.
 JOHN KENNETH GALBRAITH: His Life, His Politics, His Economics. By Richard Parker. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $35.) The career of a public intellectual, ambassador and aphorist.
 LADIES AND GENTLEMEN, THE BRONX IS BURNING: 1977, Baseball, Politics, and the Battle for the Soul of a City. By Jonathan Mahler. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $25.) A narrative that captures New York City's about-face from rot to rehab.
 THE LETTERS OF ROBERT LOWELL. Edited by Saskia Hamilton. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $40.) Confessions, opinions and other people's secrets animate these missives from a fine poet.
 LINCOLN'S MELANCHOLY. By Joshua Wolf Shenk. (Houghton Mifflin, $25.) In an era before the relentless good cheer and glad-handing of modern politicians, Lincoln passed through shadows to triumph.
 THE LOST PAINTING. By Jonathan Harr. (Random House, $24.95.) The adventures of Caravaggio's ''Taking of Christ,'' painted in 1602, rediscovered by scholar-hunters in 1990.
 MADE IN DETROIT: A South of 8-Mile Memoir. By Paul Clemens. (Doubleday, $23.95.) Clemens (born in 1973) recalls growing up working-class white in a black city losing both people and jobs.
 MAO: The Unknown Story. By Jung Chang and Jon Halliday. (Knopf, $35.) A huge, meticulously researched biography that paints Chairman Mao in authentic Hitler-Stalin 20th-century hues.
 MARK TWAIN: A Life. By Ron Powers. (Free Press, $35.) A wise and lively biography of an American paradox, always lively, rarely wise.
 MATISSE THE MASTER: A Life of Henri Matisse. The Conquest of Color, 1909-1954. By Hilary Spurling. (Knopf, $40.) The final volume of a huge, careful study of a 20th-century wizard.
 MIRROR TO AMERICA: The Autobiography of John Hope Franklin. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $25.)A riveting and bitterly candid memoir by a seminal African-American scholar, raised and educated in an era of stifling race prejudice.
 NEW ART CITY. By Jed Perl. (Knopf, $35.) The art critic of The New Republic explores heroic Abstract Expressionism and its cool, empirical successors in New York.
 NIGHT DRAWS NEAR: Iraq's People in the Shadow of America's War. By Anthony Shadid. (Holt, $26.) An Arabic-speaking reporter on life in the Red Zone, outside American control.
 OH THE GLORY OF IT ALL. By Sean Wilsey. (Penguin Press, $25.95.) A coming-of-age memoir by a writer so skillful his account of his sufferings as a rich kid never becomes insufferable.
 OMAHA BLUES: A Memory Loop. By Joseph Lelyveld. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $22.) A memoir of a complicated childhood by a former executive editor of The Times.
 102 MINUTES: The Untold Story of the Fight to Survive Inside the Twin Towers. By Jim Dwyer and Kevin Flynn. (Times Books/Holt, $26.) A skilled reconstruction by writers of The Times.
 THE ORIENTALIST: Solving the Mystery of a Strange and Dangerous Life. By Tom Reiss. (Random House, $25.95.) The bold writer and impostor Lev Nussimbaum (Kurban Said) (Essad Bey) and his lives from 1905 to 1942.
 OUR INNER APE: A Leading Primatologist Explains Why We Are Who We Are. By Frans de Waal. (Riverhead, $24.95.) De Waal addresses the similarities between humans and their closest relatives, bonobos and chimpanzees.
 POSTWAR: A History of Europe Since 1945. By Tony Judt. (Penguin Press, $39.95.) An inquiry into why the condition of Europe is so much better than anyone would have dared hope in 1945.
 THE PRINCE OF THE CITY: Giuliani, New York and the Genius of American Life. By Fred Siegel with Harry Siegel. (Encounter, $26.95.) Giuliani seen as the Machiavellian prophet of an alternative urban policy and as an eligible president.
 THE RISE OF AMERICAN DEMOCRACY: Jefferson to Lincoln. By Sean Wilentz. (Norton, $35.) A clear, readable and monumental narrative work of scholarship, full of rich detail.
 THE RIVER OF DOUBT: Theodore Roosevelt's Darkest Journey. By Candice Millard. (Doubleday, $26.) A vibrant retelling of Roosevelt's postelection expedition through the Rio da Duvida; what was supposed to be a well-provisioned safari became instead a survey of an uncharted capillary of the Amazon.
 1776. By David McCullough. (Simon & Schuster, $32.) A lively work that skewers Washington's pretensions and admires citizen soldiers.
 SPOOK: Science Tackles the Afterlife. By Mary Roach. (Norton, $24.95.) A diligent, cheerful account of efforts to learn whether science can show that there is (or isn't) life after death.
 THE SURVIVOR. By John F. Harris. (Random House, $29.95.) An assessment of Bill Clinton's performance in the White House; by a reporter for The Washington Post. 
 A TALE OF LOVE AND DARKNESS. By Amos Oz. (Harcourt, $26.) A memoir by the Israeli novelist, mourning the death of his mother long ago and the demise of the socialist Zion in his own time.
 TEAM OF RIVALS: The Political Genius of Abraham Lincoln. By Doris Kearns Goodwin. (Simon & Schuster, $35.) An elegant, incisive study of Lincoln through his relationships with his former political rivals turned cabinet members.
 THE TENDER BAR: A Memoir. By J. R. Moehringer. (Hyperion, $23.95.) As an only child abandoned by his father, the author found an adoptive family in a Long Island bar (now defunct).
 THEATRE OF FISH: Travels Through Newfoundland and Labrador. By John Gimlette. (Knopf, $25.) Gimlette explores the provincial psyche by journeying through the barren regions whose chief resource, fish, has departed.
 TULIA: Race, Cocaine, and Corruption in a Small Texas Town. By Nate Blakeslee. (PublicAffairs, $26.95.) How 38 people, mostly black, were convicted of grave drug charges on virtually no evidence but the word of a single cop.
 VINDICATION: A Life of Mary Wollstonecraft. By Lyndall Gordon. (HarperCollins, $29.95.) A biography of the brilliant early feminist.
 A WAR LIKE NO OTHER: How the Athenians and Spartans Fought the Peloponnesian War. By Victor Davis Hanson. (Random House, $29.95.) The fate of Athens, the superpower of its day, after it tried to export its political system to the rest of the Greek world.
 WARPED PASSAGES: Unraveling the Mysteries of the Universe's Hidden Dimensions. By Lisa Randall. (Ecco/HarperCollins, $27.95.) From a Harvard physicist, advanced cosmological theories for lay folk who are a bit baffled by the idea of 10 dimensions.
 WITHOUT APOLOGY: Girls, Women, and the Desire to Fight. By Leah Hager Cohen. (Random House, $24.95.) Cohen thoughtfully tracks girls' boxing till she herself is converted to pugilism.
 WODEHOUSE: A Life. By Robert McCrum. (Norton, $27.95.) The prolific, industrious creator of Jeeves and oh so many dear others.
 THE WORLD IS FLAT: A Brief History of the Twenty-First Century. By Thomas L. 
 Friedman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $27.50.) The New York Times columnist maps the next phase of globalization as technological forces level the world's economic playing field.
 THE YEAR OF MAGICAL THINKING. By Joan Didion. (Knopf, $23.95.) A powerful, persuasive account of the crisis of mortality after the sudden death of the author's husband.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Jules Feiffer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (92%); POETRY (91%); HUMOROUS LITERATURE (89%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (89%); WRITERS (79%); CORRUPTION (77%); WORLD WAR II (72%); HISTORY (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS (57%) 

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%)

PERSON: J K ROWLING (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%); ENGLAND (73%); EUROPE (71%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2005



66 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; SOAPBOX; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 788 words

HEADLINE: The High-Tech State?

BYLINE: By HAROLD J. RAVECHE. 
Harold J. Raveche is president of Stevens Institute of Technology in Hoboken.

 BODY:
HIGH-technology innovation is economically vital to the success of America's largest and most important industries, including finance, health care, telecommunications, biotechnology and homeland security itself. With annual United States trade deficits of $1 trillion now conceivable, bold steps are required to strengthen our leadership in innovation.
 To those of us committed to the education and research frontiers of technology, the election of Jon S. Corzine as governor presents significant opportunities for New Jersey to leapfrog ahead in global business vision. 
We must recognize and understand that the governor-elect faces difficult budget deficits. As the New Jersey State House develops plans to eliminate this vexing problem, it must also plan to advance New Jersey's high-tech base. 
 There are four core elements to this approach: 
 Strategic research and development financing for New Jersey's corporate-university research partnerships. More financing must be centered on the unique research capabilities of New Jersey R. & D. organizations. Imposing a generic approach will fail. Priorities must be established. 
 Tax incentives for private early-stage investments in high-tech startups must be instituted.
 Doctoral fellowships should be financed for those college seniors from anywhere in the United States who pursue programs in engineering and science at New Jersey research universities. 
 A chief priority must be to build a future high-tech talent pool by encouraging New Jersey's youth to pursue careers in engineering and science. All youth should be encouraged, including the underrepresented Latino and African-American talent base, under the rubric of ''engineering our future.''
 New Jersey is home to an amazing concentration of world-class academic institutions and research laboratories, and New Jersey residents are among the most tech-savvy in the world. A high percentage of people in the state are employed in high-tech industries.
 Given the speed of technology development, many policy issues are only now beginning to be understood, such as identity theft, protecting consumer privacy online, ensuring equal access to new technology, making government services Internet-accessible, allowing online trading of digital music and the taxing of e-commerce. Here, too, the governor-elect has direct access to the expertise that can help him take precedent-setting initiatives. 
 The development of an e-wallet technology in concert with technologies to prevent identity theft, new advances in biotechnology and continued leadership in port security are all areas in which New Jersey excels, and where a greater entrepreneurial approach by the state can make a global difference for the American economy. 
 Technologies that transform a cellphone into a simple device for making payments are finding their way into the marketplace in Europe and Asia, and soon will be seen as a convenient banking tool here. We can now envision these e-wallet communicators used for a wide range of secure transactions, from paying for a pizza to having your salary paid directly into your e-wallet bank account, or for international money transfers, or for use by New Jersey's gambling industry. 
 Port security is a local and national priority, and recent world events have reminded us of the dangers of international terrorism. Research facilities created in partnership with the United States Navy, the Port Authority and Office of Emergency Management can demonstrate ways that technology can be used to prevent terrorist attacks. 
 A new enterprise architecture for security can be leveraged by nurturing collaboration among academic research centers, applying new technologies for data collection and response, and allowing for real-time systems development and data analysis for the protection of the maritime infrastructure. 
 This New Jersey-generated technology can be exported to any part of the nation, or to our strategic allies, with security applications that could conceivably be implemented along the insecure national borders in Iraq or elsewhere. The governor-elect must engage these new homeland security technology innovations and support them as part of his commitment to bolstering the state's universities as a true national asset.
 Governor-elect Corzine can quickly and effectively show his understanding of the importance of high-tech R. & D. here in New Jersey by implementing these high-level, high-impact initiatives. 
 The next few decades will bring amazing breakthroughs in research and development, and the potential for new industries will continue to be unlimited. Visionary leadership will place New Jersey on the crest of the coming wave of global technology innovation.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Tom Bloom)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (89%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (85%); ELECTRONIC WALLETS (84%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (78%); ONLINE TRADING (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); SECURE ONLINE TRANSACTIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); IDENTITY SECURITY (77%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (76%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); STARTUPS (73%); FINANCING ROUNDS (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); INTERNET PRIVACY (72%); HARBOR & PORT SECURITY (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (71%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (71%); TAX LAW (67%); TAX INCENTIVES (67%); IDENTITY THEFT (66%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (61%); CRIME PREVENTION (61%); MUSIC (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) Science and Technology; Colleges and Universities; Research; Finances; Scholarships and Fellowships; Engineering and Engineers; Science and Technology

COMPANY: NATIONAL TECHNICAL SYSTEMS INC (92%)

TICKER: NTSC (NASDAQ) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES (92%); NAICS541380 TESTING LABORATORIES (92%); SIC8734 TESTING LABORATORIES (92%); SIC7363 HELP SUPPLY SERVICES (92%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (57%) harold j raveche

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2005



67 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; MUSIC; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 455 words

HEADLINE: An Ode to Skronk 

BYLINE: By BRIAN WISE

DATELINE: PRINCETON 

 BODY:
TIMES are tough for experimental music in New York. Club owners say the economics of presenting noncommercial music are not favorable in real estate-crazed Manhattan. But a trip to Princeton University tells a different story. A concert series called Free-Form Mash-Up harks back to the freewheeling artist lofts and performance spaces of Lower Manhattan in the 1970's and 1980's. 
 The series, held at the Terrace Club here twice a month, has been giving experimental musicians a place to improvise and play since 2003. Named for both a D.J. term for mixing two songs together and a spontaneous radio format, Free-Form Mash-Up brings together established and emerging musicians who work on the fringes of jazz, contemporary classical and computer-based music. Admission to the Tuesday-night concerts is free; the next one is set for Dec. 13 at 9 p.m.
Scott Smallwood, the series' director and a sound artist, says the concert series fills a crucial niche in New Jersey. ''What we're trying to do with the series is present a forum for artists with unusual points of view,'' he said. ''There isn't much experimental music in this part of New Jersey. In a way it's very ripe for getting out there.''
 Free-Form Mash-Up was founded when Newton Armstrong, a doctoral student in composition at Princeton, began organizing concerts with both student composer-performers and professional musicians on tour. Although the series was not officially sponsored by Princeton, over time it began receiving modest support. Today, the university's music department contributes a small amount to pay musicians.
 Last fall, Mr. Smallwood, who is also a doctoral student in composition at Princeton, took over programming from Mr. Armstrong. The season opener, on Sept. 20, began with ''Colton Swarm,'' written by Mr. Smallwood for laptop computer and based on recordings of a cluster of chords played on a plastic harmonium that he bought at a thrift store. Also on the program was a spiky improvisation for dry ice and guzheng (a plucked Chinese table harp) performed by Catherine Pancake and Clare Cooper.
 Past guests have included artists like the experimental keyboardist Anthony Coleman, performing with the kitsch cabaret artist Meow-Meow; the free-jazz veteran Mark Dresser improvising works for contrabass; Trockeneis, an experimental music quintet from Baltimore; and Evol, a computer music duo from Barcelona specializing in algorithmic composition.
 Steve Mackey, a composition professor at Princeton who also plays electric guitar, said that the series was more offbeat than what is typically found at school-sponsored concerts. ''Let's face it, free improvisation is not a mainstream thing,'' he said. 
 For more information: ww.ffmup.org.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Free-Form Mash-Up at Princeton. (Photo by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (93%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (91%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); RADIO FORMATS (69%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (69%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (69%) Music

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (94%) Princeton University

PERSON: Brian Wise

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2005



68 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; JERSEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: College Acceptance Made Easy

BYLINE: By Paula Span. 
PaulaSpan@nytimes.com

DATELINE: JERSEY CITY 

 BODY:
AFTER school, Maria Abello washed her hair and changed her jeans for a businesslike pair of black pants and a striped shirt. Then she and her girlfriend took the bus from Bayonne, found the admissions office here at New Jersey City University, and filled out applications. 
 On the anxiety scale, where 1 is hey-no-sweat and 10 is no-fingernails-left-to-gnaw, Ms Abello was ''a 7 or 8,'' she said, in a voice you had to strain to hear. The oldest of four children who emigrated from Colombia, she'd be the first in her family to go to college -- if the admissions gods smiled on her this afternoon. It was Instant Decision Day. 
This is a remarkably humane idea. A high school senior who brings her transcript, her College Board scores and a personal statement explaining her ''aspirations and motivation'' can sit down with an admissions counselor, chat a bit then get a verdict on the spot: thumbs up or thumbs down. 
 ''When we say 'Congratulations, you've been accepted,' '' said the admissions director, Carlos Nazario, ''you see the grins on their faces, and the relief.'' Several other colleges in the state offer similar options. 
 A pity this approach isn't catching on at most institutions favored in the more prosperous suburbs a few miles west, where students who chose early decision are already checking the mail with hope and dread.
 The psychosis only seems to intensify. 
 ''The admissions culture is more complex than it was even four or five years ago,'' said Peter Caruso of the National Association for College Admission Counseling.
 Small wonder the college-bound are increasingly likely to have a team of coaches and counselors steering them through the process. A tutor for the College Boards, of course. Perhaps a writing instructor to help prepare and polish that personal statement. (''Professor with a track record gets kids in,'' crows an ad in my local weekly.) Possibly an admissions coach who, for a couple of thousand bucks, develops what's essentially a marketing strategy and oversees the whole campaign.
 I assumed this last function was about getting into Windshield Decal University, but it's also an attempt to maintain family harmony. The rationale: Let the admissions coach, not the parent, be the one nagging endlessly about deadlines. ''You don't want your kid to go off to college hating you,'' a friend with a junior explained.
 Well, no. But what if we told our children -- and believed ourselves -- what reams of research confirms: Having a degree has great impact on your future, but what brand-name college it comes from doesn't much matter.
 Prof. Patrick Terenzini of Penn State and Prof. Ernest Pascarella of the University of Iowa have reviewed so many studies conducted over so many years that they've produced two 900-page volumes called ''How College Affects Students.'' They looked at every conceivable outcome: intellectual skills, economic returns, career satisfaction, graduates' attitudes and values, the quality of their lives; they compared results from all kinds of colleges.
 And they found, over and over, that when researchers take into account the quality of students who come through the doors, the differences when they come out are ''modest to trivial,'' says Professor Terenzini.
 In other words, bright, hard-working, successful students who can't get into Princeton, which turns away almost 90 percent of its applicants, will do virtually as well in every measurable way if they graduate from their third-choice school or their eighth, or from New Jersey City University. 
 Logically, then, everybody should take a deep breath and relax. Fat chance. Somehow we still believe that the right diploma is a passport to all life's bounty, and lack thereof spells doom. ''These myths die hard,'' Professor Terenzini said.
 In our household a few years back, we promised one another we'd stay calm about college. No tutors, no drama. Still, in weeks before the acceptance letters came, my daughter took to sleeping with a T-shirt -- from the university she yearned to attend -- under her pillow. Rationality had fled.
 At least Maria Abello can spare herself such torment. An admissions counselor at New Jersey City University ushered her into an office on Instant Decision Day, and 10 minutes later, she emerged, looking dazed but very happy. ''She said, 'O.K., you're accepted,' '' Ms. Abello recounted. ''I was like, wait, are you sure?'' 
 She was eager to call her parents and tell them the news. ''I don't know why I was so nervous,'' she said.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Nancy Doniger)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); COMPANY STRATEGY (60%) Colleges and Universities; Admissions Standards; Colleges and Universities

ORGANIZATION: New Jersey City University

PERSON: Paula Span; patrick (prof) terenzini; ernest (prof) pascarella

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2005



69 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE WORLD; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: On Climate Change, a Change of Thinking 

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN

 BODY:
IN December 1997, representatives of most of the world's nations met in Kyoto, Japan, to negotiate a binding agreement to cut emissions of ''greenhouse'' gases. 
 They succeeded. The Kyoto Protocol was ultimately ratified by 156 countries. It was the first agreement of its kind. But it may also prove to be the last.
 Today, in the middle of new global warming talks in Montreal, there is a sense that the whole idea of global agreements to cut greenhouse gases won't work. 
 A major reason the optimism over Kyoto has eroded so rapidly is that its major requirement -- that 38 participating industrialized countries cut their greenhouse emissions below 1990 levels by the year 2012 -- was seen as just a first step toward increasingly aggressive cuts.
 But in the years after the protocol was announced, developing countries, including the fast-growing giants China and India, have held firm on their insistence that they would accept no emissions cuts, even though they are likely to be the world's dominant source of greenhouse gases in coming years. 
 Their refusal helped fuel strong opposition to the treaty in the United States Senate and its eventual rejection by President Bush. 
 But the current stalemate is not just because of the inadequacies of the protocol. It is also a response to the world's ballooning energy appetite, which, largely because of economic growth in China, has exceeded almost everyone's expectations. And there are still no viable alternatives to fossil fuels, the main source of greenhouse gases. 
 Then, too, there is a growing recognition of the economic costs incurred by signing on to the Kyoto Protocol. 
 As Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain, a proponent of emissions targets, said in a statement on Nov. 1: ''The blunt truth about the politics of climate change is that no country will want to sacrifice its economy in order to meet this challenge.''
 This is as true, in different ways, in developed nations with high unemployment, like Germany and France, as it is in Russia, which said last week that it may have spot energy shortages this winter. 
 Some veterans of climate diplomacy and science now say that perhaps the entire architecture of the climate treaty process might be flawed. 
 The basic template came out of the first international pact intended to protect the atmosphere, the 1987 Montreal Protocol for eliminating chemicals that harmed the ozone layer, said Richard A. Benedick, the Reagan administration's chief representative in the talks leading to that agreement. 
 That agreement was a success, but a misleading one in the context of climate. It led, Mr. Benedick now says, to ''years wasted in these annual shindigs designed to generate sound bites instead of sober contemplation of difficult issues.''
 While it was relatively easy to phase out ozone-harming chemicals, called chlorofluorocarbons, which were made by a handful of companies in a few countries, taking on carbon dioxide, the main climate threat, was a completely different matter, he said. 
 Carbon dioxide is generated by activities as varied as surfing the Web, driving a car, burning wood or flying to Montreal. Its production is woven into the fabric of an industrial society, and, for now, economic growth is inconceivable without it. 
 Developing countries -- China and India being only the most dramatic examples -- want to burn whatever energy they need, in whatever form available, to grow their economies and raise the living standard of their people. 
 And the United States -- by far the world's largest producer of greenhouse gases -- continues to say that emissions targets or requirements would stunt economic growth in both rich and poor nations. All this has turned the Montreal meeting, many participants have conceded, into, at best, a preliminary meeting on how to start over in addressing the threat of global warming. 
 Indeed, from here on, progress on climate is less likely to come from megaconferences like the one in Montreal and more likely from focused initiatives by clusters of countries with common interests, said Mr. Benedick, who is now a consultant and president of the National Council on Science and the Environment, a private group promoting science-based environmental policies. 
 The only real answer at the moment is still far out on the horizon: nonpolluting energy sources. But the amount of money being devoted to research and develop such technologies, much less install them, is nowhere near the scale of the problem, many experts on energy technology said. 
 Enormous investments in basic research have to be made promptly, even with the knowledge that most of the research is likely to fail, if there is to be any chance of creating options for the world's vastly increased energy thirst in a few decades, said Richard G. Richels, an economist at the Electric Power Research Institute, a nonprofit center for energy and environment research.
 ''The train is not leaving the station, and it needs to leave the station,'' Mr. Richels said. ''If we don't have the technologies available at that time, it's going to be a mess.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Mother Earth -- In Montreal, the site of an international meeting on global warming, a wall of paintings proclaims support of the Kyoto Protocol, which set limits on the release of greenhouse gases. (Photo by Christinne Muschi/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (91%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CHEMICALS & ENVIRONMENT (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); OZONE DEPLETION (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); GLOBAL WARMING (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (64%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (63%); PRIME MINISTERS (63%) 

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (50%) Andrew C Revkin

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH (79%); KINKI, JAPAN (73%) CANADA (93%); JAPAN (92%); CHINA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); INDIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (78%); FRANCE (69%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (68%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2005



70 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE WORLD; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 891 words

HEADLINE: Pave My Road and You'll Get Your School

BYLINE: By CARLOTTA GALL

DATELINE: KABUL, Afghanistan 

 BODY:
AFTER two and a half tortured decades -- Russian invasion, civil war, Taliban rule, a hunt for members of Al Qaeda and a war to oust the Taliban -- Afghanistan is finally getting a glimpse of what representative national rule will look like.
 The results of elections held in September are now in. The winners are the same broad and often bickering array of forces, largely inspired by Islam and often led by men who were called warlords, who fought the Soviet invasion in the 1980's, with a sprinkling of former Communists thrown in. 
Their large egos, divisions, rivalries and clan and ethnic interests survive and promise new clashes. But this time the hope is that the quarrels can be contained in the halls of Afghanistan's first nationally elected legislature, which is scheduled to convene on Dec. 18, rather than spilling onto the battlefield in yet another round of civil war.
 Still, President Hamid Karzai will have his work cut out for him as broker in chief.
 There are several ways to think about the rifts within this Parliament. If one were to look for a principal division, it would be territorial, roughly between north and south -- with the half a dozen ethnicities of the center and the north more or less united in competition against the largest single ethnic group, the Pashtuns, in the south and east.
 If there is a primary ideological division, it is between those who fought the Soviets and those who collaborated with them or sat out that war in exile.
 Many commanders who resisted the Soviets and later the Taliban took on the roles of warlords in their districts, with their militias exerting control in the absence of a strong central government. Many amassed wealth and power virtually unchecked, as smuggling and poppy cultivation flourished. Now, many militias have been disarmed, with their leaders put in offices like police chief or governor. 
 While their inclusion in Parliament now offers a chance to integrate in a system based on central authority, it also poses a challenge to that system: one big point of contention is expected to involve efforts to call some commanders to account for past war crimes, and in some areas armed groups continue to sow fear. 
 A third division is between those formally allied with Mr. Karzai and those in opposition. There will also be competition among local districts for favors, power and funds. There are already demands for roads, schools and clinics and calls for help for farmers willing to change how they use their land -- a crucial factor in eradicating the cultivation of opium poppies.
 The ethnic division goes back to the founding of the Afghan state by a Pashtun in 1747. Except for two turbulent periods, Pashtuns have ruled. The Taliban was a predominantly Pashtun movement, and although it had Pashtun enemies, too, it was battling primarily Hazara, Uzbek and Tajik forces in the north when the United States helped overthrow it in 2001. Now, those tribes want a share of central power.
 In fact, the main opposition to Mr. Karzai is expected to center around three colorful characters: Muhammad Yunous Qanooni, a Tajik; Muhammad Mohaqeq, a Hazara Shiite, and Gen. Abdul Rashid Dostum, who did not run for Parliament, but is the unrivalled leader of the Uzbeks and Turkmens and is expected to influence their representatives.
 Those three command an estimated 60 to 80 seats in the 249-member lower house. They are expected to stand together on matters involving the amount of services and representation their minorities get. 
 Mr. Karzai's fellow Pashtuns number 118, nearly half the house. But they are a varied group. Political analysts say that Mr. Karzai's true loyalists hold only about 65 seats. 
 The largest grouping is the 100 free agents aligned neither with Mr. Karzai nor the opposition. They include some 20 ex- Communists, as well as tribal and religious leaders, businessmen and many of the 68 women elected as representatives. For his economic agenda, Mr. Karzai may have to bargain hard with them as individuals.
 If ethnicity is not considered, the politics can be divided between parties and people who date to the anti-Soviet resistance and represent almost half of the house, and those who do not. This split will matter on issues of religion and culture -- since many resistance members are conservative Islamists -- and prosecution of war crimes.
 Where are the likeliest bargains to be made? Yet another pattern comes to mind: the old habit of forming alliances of convenience, on the basis of who can offer the best deal, or pay the highest bribe, on any given day. Already rumors are swirling about large sums of money being offered in the race for speaker of the Parliament.
 Provincial governors and police chiefs will continue to wield enormous power locally, and groups outside the government, including drug traffickers and Taliban insurgents, will remain at large.
 If the legislators really want to seek out figures operating at or beyond the margins of the law, they may not have far to look: One Western diplomat, who spoke anonymously for fear of antagonizing the government, estimated that there are 17 drug traffickers and 24 people with criminal links among the members of Parliament themselves -- a reminder, at the very least, of how deep into Afghanistan's government such influences have reached in the past.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Drugs and Security''OPIUM BOOM -- Afghanistan is at the base of the drug-trafficking chain for heroin, responsible for roughly 87 percent of the world's opium production. Although Afghans receive far less than the drug's worth in Western markets and elsewhere, money received from opium amounts to more than half of Afghanistan's G.D.P.Graph tracks annual cultivation since 1986.Map of Afghanistan highlighting estimated opium cultivation by district, 2005.U.S., ALLIED DEATHSAt least 89 American and foreign soldiers and civilian contractors have died this year in Afghanistan, most in hostile actions.81 AMERICAN SOLDIERS5 FOREIGN SOLDIERS3 CIVILIAN CONTRACTORSMap of Afghanistan highlighting regions where foreign soldiers and civilian contractors have died this year.(Drawings by Alisa Nance, Joe Burgess and Bill Marsh/The New York Times)(Sources by New York Times research
United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime Afghanistan Opium Survey 2005
 Department of Defense)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); TALIBAN (91%); AL-QAEDA (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (89%); WAR CRIMES (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (72%); POLICE FORCES (72%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (71%); ETHNIC GROUPS (69%); ETHNICITY (69%); OPIUM (67%); RELIGION (56%) Politics and Government; Legislatures and Parliaments

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (90%); UNITED NATIONS OFFICE ON DRUGS & CRIME (59%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (57%) Carlotta Gall

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) AFGHANISTAN (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); TAJIKISTAN (79%); UZBEKISTAN (79%) Afghanistan

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2005



71 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; IN BRIEF; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 224 words

HEADLINE: Middlesex Is Highest In a Measure of Income

 BODY:
In 2003, Middlesex County residents had a median household income of $61,770, the highest in Connecticut, according to United States Census Bureau data released on Tuesday. 
 Households in Tolland County had the second-highest median income, $61,290, while Fairfield County was third at $60,881.
Edward Deak, an economics professor at Fairfield University, said he was surprised that Fairfield County was not first. ''My take is that it's almost exclusively the fact of lower capital gains,'' he said.
 The median household incomes for the other Connecticut counties in 2003 were Litchfield, $57,691; Hartford, $51,622; New London, $51,457; New Haven, $50,723; and Windham, $45,929. 
 The state's median household income, $56,409, was the highest in the country in 2003. New Jersey's was next, at $56,356. The national median was $43,318.
 Dr. Deak attributed the state's first-place finish for 2003 to an improving stock market, but pointed out that in 2000, when the market was stronger, the state's median household income was much higher, and first in the nation. 
 Dr. Deak also warned of the downside of a high median household income. ''The high income reflects high wages, which is good for the people who are working,'' he said. ''But it also makes it difficult for firms to locate and expand here because it is expensive to do business.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (92%); COUNTIES (90%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (90%); CENSUS (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (57%) 

COMPANY: UNITED STATES CENSUS BUREAU (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (91%) Census Bureau

INDUSTRY: SIC8399 SOCIAL SERVICES, NEC (58%)

PERSON: Jeff Holtz

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); NEW LONDON, CT, USA (73%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Connecticut; Middlesex County (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2005



72 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: Courts Say Man Can Sue Despite Signing Waiver

BYLINE: By AVI SALZMAN

 BODY:
THE State Supreme Court said in a ruling released on Tuesday that a man who broke his ankle while snow-tubing at the Powder Ridge Ski Area in Middlefield could sue the resort even though he had signed a waiver that said he wouldn't. It's a decision that lawyers expect will open the door to new liability concerns for operators of recreational activities, like sky diving and rock climbing, where customers are asked to sign waivers to participate.
 Greg Hanks, an engineer from Durham, went tubing with his three children and one of their friends on Feb. 16, 2003, at Powder Ridge. On one of his runs down the slope, Mr. Hanks caught his ankle between the tube and the snowbank at the side of the tubing run, shattering his ankle, he said. Mr. Hanks said he had already undergone six surgeries, but still walked with a limp and on bad days used a cane and ''lots of pain medication.'' 
Mr. Hanks had signed a waiver that said he would not sue the company even if he was injured due to the resort's negligence. The word ''negligence'' was written in capital letters. He signed it, he said, but didn't think it would hold up in court.
 In most states, Mr. Hanks would be wrong. These sorts of waivers, even in the case of the operator's negligence, are generally considered valid, the State Supreme Court said. But after its decision, by a 4 to 3 vote, Connecticut is one of a handful of exceptions.
 The majority on the court found that Mr. Hanks had a reasonable expectation that tubing would be safe, according to the opinion written by Chief Justice William J. Sullivan. 
 The waivers are problematic as a matter of public policy, the opinion said. The court found that ''it is illogical to permit snowtubers, and the public generally, to bear the costs of risks that they have no ability or right to control.''
 Justice Flemming L. Norcott Jr., who wrote the dissent, found that tubing, like other recreational activities, is a voluntary act and that people are under no pressure to sign the contract if they are concerned about its terms. 
 ''The average person is capable of reading a release agreement and deciding not to snowtube because of the risks that he or she is asked to assume,'' he wrote.
 Mr. Hanks's case has been sent back to the trial court, Middletown Superior Court, so he can present his claim that the resort was negligent in keeping him safe on the tubing run, which the resort denied.
 In the meantime, the ruling means that snow-tubing companies in Connecticut can continue to ask customers to waive rights associated with the risks of the sport, but not with the company's negligence. John B. Farley, a lawyer for Powder Ridge, said it might have to close its snow-tubing area because the cost of operating it and purchasing insurance will skyrocket without the waivers.
 Kenneth R. Leavitt, an owner of the resort as well as its president and chief executive, said he expected that the snow-tubing area will remain open, but customers might have to pay more.
 Mr. Leavitt said he is concerned that the trend toward making recreational companies assume more risk would jeopardize the economic viability of ski areas like his.
 ''People in America don't seem to want to assume responsibility,'' he said. ''It's so easy for anybody in our country to say 'I slipped on your snow.' 
 Adam Scales, a visiting professor at the University of Connecticut School of Law, disagreed with some of the logic behind the ruling, but said the majority's conclusion made sense. For a company to be able to write off virtually all risk would present a lopsided situation, he said. 
 ''It's odd to say 'I want you to sign this paper that says I can do whatever I want to you,' '' he said.
 The case will likely have impact beyond Powder Ridge's snow-tubing area, lawyers said.
 Laura Pascale Zaino, a lawyer who also represented Powder Ridge, said she expected that the ruling will affect other recreational enterprises, from rock climbing to bicycle racing to sky diving.
 ''It could impact providers' ability to stay in business,'' she said.
 Richard Kay, a professor at the University of Connecticut School of Law who teaches a class on contracts, also expected that the ruling could force other recreational businesses to change the contracts they ask customers to sign.
 ''Almost all recreational activities will now no longer enter into these sorts of agreements,'' he said.
 The ruling is part of a shift in the way Americans deal with risk, he said. Instead of individuals assuming risk on their own by paying for their own injuries, businesses increase their costs to deal with liabilities and each person pays a little extra up front. That way, every customer contributes to paying for the cost of the injuries that occur.
 But the court's decision may do more than just spread the risk out by increasing costs, he said. It could also make resorts safer.
 ''One of the points of this decision is not just to spread risk,'' he said. ''It's to reduce risk by encouraging operators to take those measures which will prevent injuries.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The State Supreme Court recently ruled that Powder Ridge Ski Area in Middlefield could be sued in an injury case. (Photographs by Carl David LaBianca for The New York Times)
Greg Hanks of Durham injured his ankle while snow-tubing at Powder Ridge. (Photo by Quask North America)
 A sign at Powder Ridge warning customers of the possibilities of injuries. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEGLIGENCE (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); BONE FRACTURES (90%); SKIING (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); EXTREME SPORTS (78%); RESORTS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); SPORTS INJURIES (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (73%); BUSINESS TORTS (71%); SKYDIVING (71%); CLIMBING (71%) 

PERSON: greg hanks; Avi Salzman

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2005



73 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 4; Connecticut Weekly Desk; IN BRIEF; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 184 words

HEADLINE: A Record for Ridership On a Bus to Westchester

BYLINE: By JEFF HOLTZ

 BODY:
A record high of 11,675 passengers rode the I-Bus, or Interstate Bus, between Stamford and White Plains in Westchester County in October, the State Department of Transportation announced on Monday. 
 This was slightly more than the previous high of 11,322 this past September, and a nearly 20 percent increase in riders from October last year.
 Michael A. Sanders, the department's transit administrator, said ridership on the line had grown steadily since it was started in 1996. He cited the changing economy, increased traffic congestion and higher fuel prices as some of the reasons. 
 ''People are expanding their job search to different markets,'' he said. ''We have people who are taking the train from Milford to Stamford and getting on the bus to White Plains to go to work.''
 The I-Bus, a joint venture between the state transportation departments in Connecticut and New York, runs 19 round trips on weekdays, and 11 on Saturdays and Sundays. The trip, which is about 15 miles, takes about a half-hour. The one-way fare is $2.50, and monthly passes and discount packages are available. JEFF HOLTZ

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (78%); TRAINS (73%); JOINT VENTURES (52%) 

PERSON: Jeff Holtz

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) Connecticut; Stamford (Conn); White Plains (NY)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2005



74 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 5493 words

HEADLINE: Mile by Mile, India Paves a Smoother Road to Its Future

BYLINE: By AMY WALDMAN

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, India 

 BODY:
In the middle of the old Grand Trunk Road a temple sits under a peepul tree. The surrounding highway is being widened to four lanes, and vehicles barrel along either side. But the temple and tree thwart even greater speed, and a passing contractor says they soon will be removed. 
 Kali, Hindu goddess of destruction, thinks otherwise. She is angry, say the colorfully garbed women massing in the holy tree's dappled shade. As evidence, they point to one woman's newly pockmarked face and other mysterious ailments recently visited on their nearby village, Jagdishrai. They have tried to convince Kali that the tree and temple devoted to her must go, but they have failed. Now they have no choice but to oppose the removal, too, even if they must block the road to do it.
 Goddess versus man, superstition versus progress, the people versus the state -- mile by mile, India is struggling to modernize its national highway system, and in the process, itself. 
 The Indian government has begun a 15-year project to widen and pave some 40,000 miles of narrow, decrepit national highways, with the first leg, budgeted at $6.25 billion, to be largely complete by next year. It amounts to the most ambitious infrastructure project since independence in 1947 and the British building of the subcontinent's railway network the century before. 
 The effort echoes the United States' construction of its national highway system in the 1920's and 1950's. The arteries paved across America fueled commerce and development, fed a nation's auto obsession and created suburbs. They also displaced communities and helped sap mass transit and deplete inner cities.
 For India, already one of the world's fastest-growing economies and most rapidly evolving societies, the results may be as radical. At its heart, the redone highway is about grafting Western notions of speed and efficiency onto a civilization that has always taken the long view. 
 Aryan migration, Mogul conquest, British colonialism -- all shaped India's civilization over centuries. Now, in a span of less than 15 years, capitalism and globalization have convulsed India at an unprecedented rate of change. 
 The real start came in 1991, when India began dismantling its state-run economy and opening its markets to foreign imports and investment. While that reform process has been fitful, leaving the country trailing its neighbor and rival, China, India has turned a corner. Its economy grew 6.9 percent in the fiscal year ending in March. India has a new identity, thanks to outsourcing, as back office to the world. 
 The new highway is certain to jump-start India's competitiveness, given that its dismal infrastructure helped keep it behind the economic success stories of the Asian Tigers. 
 ''The perception of India earlier was that it cannot be in the rank of other fast-growing nations,'' said Sudheendra Kulkarni, who was an aide to Atal Bihari Vajpayee, the former prime minister who championed the project. With the highway, Mr. Kulkarni said, ''People began to see that India is transforming.'' 
 To grasp that transformation, and India's transition, a New York Times reporter and photographer spent a month this year driving the first stage of the highway project, which has been dubbed, in awkward but bullish coinage, the Golden Quadrilateral.
 More jagged than geometric, the four- and six-lane quadrilateral's 3,625 miles run through 13 states and India's four largest cities: New Delhi, Calcutta, Chennai, formerly Madras, and Mumbai, formerly Bombay. The journey along the highway offered a before-and-after snapshot of India, of the challenges of developing the world's largest democracy, and of how westernization is reshaping Indian society. 
 To drive east from New Delhi to Calcutta is to travel through flat fields, almost primeval forests, lush rice paddies -- and some of India's poorest, roughest states, where contractors have battled violence and corruption to get the road built. 
 To move south from Calcutta, alongside the Bay of Bengal, through palm-covered hills, then up the west into Rajasthan's desert, is to see the highway as a conduit for the forces molding the new India. Ever-flashier cars, evidence of a frenzied new consumerism, leave bullock carts in the dust. Truckers slow at night for roadside sex workers, each of them potential carriers of H.I.V. Farmers' sons make a beeline for swelling cities that are challenging the village as the center of Indian life. 
 The highway itself brings change. For a nation inured to inefficiency, the improved interstate saves time -- for Kailash Pandey, a milk-seller, one-third off a 90-minute commute to market; for Imtiaz Ali, 15, half off the bike ride to school; and half off the travel time for Sarjeet Singh, a trucker. 
 These micro gains make for macro benefit: some $1.5 billion a year in savings, by one World Bank estimate, on everything from fuel costs to faster freight delivery. More intangibly, the highway may turn India into a society in a hurry, enslaving it to the Western notion that time equals money. 
 Nationalists also hope the highway will further unite a country that is home to 22 official languages, the world's major religions, a host of separatist movements, and 35 union territories and states, many more populous than European nations. 
 But coherence may bring collision. Since 1991, India's population of poor has dropped to 26 percent from 36 percent, yet the poor seem poorer than ever. India now juxtaposes pre- and postindustrial societies: citizens who live on dirt floors without electricity and others who live like 21st-century Americans, only with more servants. The highway throws these two Indias into jarring proximity. 
 Outside Jaipur, young men virtually bonded into labor hack with primitive tools at old tires. They work in an archaic assembly line beside the highway, chopping the tires into pieces and loading them onto trucks so they can be burned as toxic fuel at a brick kiln. The tent camp they call home splays out in dirty disarray behind them. A brutish overseer verbally whips them to work faster. 
 ''Please take me out of here,'' Rafiq Ahmed, 21, whispered as he bent in the darkness to lift another load. ''My back hurts.'' 
 On the revamped road next to him, the darkness has been banished by electric lights overhead. Auto-borne commuters race along six silky lanes toward the Golden Heritage Apartments, the Vishal Mini-Mart, the Bajaj Showroom featuring the New Pulsar 2005 with Alloy Wheels, all the while burning rubber that will eventually fall to the young men, hidden by night, obscured by speed, forgotten by progress, to dispose.

Empires and Engines
 On the highway from New Delhi to Agra, where the Taj Mahal floats over a grimy city, homelier but no less enduring relics line the route. Kos minars -- massive pillars that once served as markers -- invoke India's last great road-building effort. 
 It was five centuries ago.
 The Moguls, whose empire stretched into central Asia, understood the importance of transport links for solidifying empire. Most famously, Sher Shah Suri, who ruled in the 16th century, commissioned the Grand Trunk Road along ancient trade routes.
 The British who began colonizing India a century later also understood that imperial rule required physical connection, not least for moving the raw materials, like cotton, that made empire profitable. But they cemented their rule in the age of the steam engine, laying railways rather than roads across the subcontinent.
 For decades afterward, India's roads remained better suited to bullock carts than motor cars. In the 50 years after independence, the government built just 334 miles of four-lane roads. 
 The romance of India's railroad, meanwhile, could not obscure the reality of a badly aging system, with state funds bolstering patronage more than service or safety.
 Over time, more and more traffic shifted to the roads, despite their choked, potholed state. Driving in India has meant more stops than starts, necessitating braking for sacred cows, camel carts, conversational knots, tractors and women balancing bundles of wood on their heads.
 The new highway, then, is nothing short of radical, which becomes clear after Agra, where large stretches are already complete. An American-style interstate unfurls through villages where mud-brick buildings rarely rise above two stories and women still cook with buffalo dung. The highway is smooth, wide, flat and incongruous: an ambitious road amid still-humble architecture, a thoroughfare from this century amid scenery from a previous one. 
 To drive it is to gain momentum, to not want to stop, and not have to. Drivers no longer pass through towns, but by them, or where the highway soars into the air, over them. The rural landscape, formerly painted in pointillist detail, becomes a blur, an abstraction -- a vanishing trick that may portend things to come. 

Bridging Distances
 The highway's nerve center sits on the outskirts of the Delhi metropolis, a sleek, six-story building with automatic doors and functioning elevators that radiates immaculacy and efficiency. Most Indian government buildings sit in the British-built heart of the city. They wear a decrepit air, reflecting a fusty bureaucracy hidebound by red tape. 
 The distance, in geography and mien, between the highway headquarters and the rest of India's government is no accident. 
 The highway was conceived in 1998, soon after a Hindu nationalist-led government took power. The prime minister at the time, Mr. Vajpayee, quickly ordered a series of nuclear tests, and later that year announced the highway project. 
 Former aides say that both moves were essential to Mr. Vajpayee's nationalist vision of a secure, competitive India. To circumvent India's entrenched bureaucracy, Mr. Vajpayee empowered an autonomous authority to oversee the highways, streamline the contracting process and privilege the private sector.
 He allowed foreign companies in to do much of the work, ending four decades of postcolonial self-sufficiency, and imposed taxes and tolls, challenging a political culture engorged with government subsidies. 
 The man responsible for executing these shifts was Maj. Gen. B. C. Khanduri, who had been India's minister of roads. A year after he left the post, he still kept a map of the Golden Quadrilateral on his wall. 
 Political pressures, rushed planning and mixed performance by contractors have led to uneven results along the route. But Mr. Khanduri, a retired army engineer who cites Rudolph W. Giuliani as a role model, did imbue the project with both military discipline and a patriotic ethos. He told contractors, ''You are not only making money, you are building a nation.'' 
 But that nation's people had their own opinions, plenty of them. India's democracy may have been imposed by a nationalist elite, but the idea had taken root and was bubbling up from below. 
 Truckers went on strike against the taxes and tolls. Citizens blocked the highway, stopped construction and staged hunger strikes to demand underpasses, overpasses and cattle crossings. Sometimes they won, sometimes they lost, but their point was made. Highway officials say future projects are being designed with far more local input -- an accountability that may give India a long-term edge over authoritarian China. 
 Still, Mr. Khanduri is wistful about China, where officials can literally pave over objections. On every infrastructure front, India has fallen well behind China, although debate over whether the blame for that lies with democracy or just with India's short practice of it is an enduring Indian pastime. Having invested more than 10 times as much as India since the mid-1990's, China now has 15 times the expressway length. 
 Mr. Khanduri conceded that China's system has its own price, but concluded of India's experience, ''So many constraints are there in a democratic society.'' 

Clearing a Path
 The air in Rashidpur village, in the state of Uttar Pradesh, smelled of betel juice and excrement, and festered with raw feelings. The authorities had come and ''done the needful,'' to use a favorite Indian saying, smashing houses into piles of bricks to clear a path for the highway. Dust from the demolitions still seemed to hover in the village. 
 Resentment certainly did.
 Building a highway is by nature a violent act, since everything in its path must yield. So the project has cut a swath of destruction, swallowing thousands of acres of farmland, shearing off the fronts of thousands of homes. Smashed walls and piles of bricks line the route like broken teeth. 
 The process of acquiring the land along the highway -- 20,574 acres -- has delayed the project more than anything else. Once scheduled to be finished in December 2003, the highway is some three years behind.
 The government has the power of eminent domain, but it must compensate for land taken, relying on cumbersome regulations and a revolving door of local officials. 
 Land prices recorded on paper routinely bear no relation to actual market value. Often, people have refused to vacate until they received satisfactory payment. Even where the price was right, the emotional toll was heavy. Land and home here are primal possessions -- a tie to ancestral roots that extend back centuries, a legacy to children, a link to rural life in an urbanizing society.
 The process has left bruised feelings, reflecting the distance between impoverished, often illiterate citizens and an administration whose structure and attitude can seem frozen in colonial amber. 
 ''They spoke what you call police language, I can say it was indecent,'' an indignant 68-year-old named R. S. Dubey said of the officials who had come to oversee the destruction of his family home. 

Navigating Religion
 Neem. Mango. Sisam. Most delicate of all, holy peepul, the Indian fig, which could not be cut without prime ministerial dispensation. In work contracts several phone books thick, every tree that would be felled for the highway's construction was documented before its demise. 
 This reflected not only the bureaucracy that had slowed the project, despite the efforts of Mr. Khanduri, the former roads minister. For Hindus, trees are sacred; one highway official said Muslims were sometimes hired to cut them down at night. 
 Then there were the hundreds, or thousands, of religious institutions that lined the highway. Contractors were required to move or rebuild every one. On some stretches, contractors said they suspected that new religious structures had been hastily nailed together to extract compensation for their moving. Hindu contractors and officials whispered about the ''sensitivities'' of moving mosques for fear of offending India's Muslim minority. 
 The process was careful, but imperfect. In the south the earth movers preparing the way for the highway churned up the bones of the dead next to a Shiite Muslim shrine. Muhammad Shah, 74, tender of the shrine, gathered and reburied them. 
 ''They could have been anyone's ancestors,'' he said in the purpling dusk, a long beard lengthening an already sorrowful face. ''They could have been mine.'' 

Roadside Attractions
 In October 2003, Yogendra Singh, a hotel manager, bought a plot of land from a farmer in the village of Raipur. Mr. Singh, from the nearby city of Kanpur, had no interest in agriculture, but every interest in what he saw supplanting it. 
 The land was next to the highway, on which construction was well under way. Mr. Singh foresaw that a steady increase in traffic would follow its completion. He imagined, among other things, tourists driving from the Taj Mahal to Varanasi, an unthinkable passage on the extant roads. He opened Shiv Restaurant, where the chickens are killed in the basement and served on the ground floor, and he planted a garden out back and planned a hotel. 
 America's early interstate years had their own such visionaries, like the men who built an empire of Holiday Inns. Mr. Singh's dreams may not be on that scale, but these are early days, and he is not alone. Land prices along the highway have shot up, as farmers who see little future in farming have cashed out, and entrepreneurs who see gold in asphalt have bought in. 
 ''The entire stretch has been sold off,'' Mr. Singh, 40, said of the land along the highway.
 With construction nearly done in Raipur, Mr. Singh's place was already a popular way station, and his land had almost doubled in value. It was not hard to imagine how different life along the highway could look in a few years. The newly rich farmer who sold his land to Mr. Singh, meanwhile, had moved to the city of Kanpur.

Picking Up Speed
 In the village of Kaushambi, in Uttar Pradesh, Anil Kumar, a 34-year-old shopkeeper, watched truck traffic speed by on the widened highway and explained how the artery's revamping had reconfigured long-held local geography. 
 Because vehicles rarely traveled at more than 25 miles an hour, village life had always happened on both sides of the road. The two-lane highway inhabited space, but did not define it. The railway station and village hand pump were on one side, the school and fields on the other. Women roamed across the land, indifferent to whether soil or asphalt was beneath their feet, gathering wood, water, the harvest. 
 In India roads have been public spaces, home to the logical chaos that governs so much of life. They have been commas, not periods, pauses, not breaks.
 The redone highway has challenged that, trying to impose borders and linearity, sometimes controlling pedestrian (and bovine) access to ensure drivers' speed. In Kaushambi, the highway planners put concrete walls on both sides to ensure that neither crossing pedestrians nor trucks stopping to shop would slow traffic. There were cuts every 380 yards or so, requiring detours for crossing. Cars and trucks sped along at 70 or 80 miles an hour. 
 The women with bundles atop their heads now had to walk to a cut in the wall, and then sprint across. Even that had not saved Parwathi Devi, 70, from a cut lip and head from a speeding car as she ran across with dried plant stalks on her head. For many rural Indians, insulated from the westernizing of urban India, the highway is the most dramatic change in their lifetimes. All along the route, the disorientation showed in the faces of uncomprehending pedestrians who darted out in front of cars coming fast enough to kill. 
 The highway was bifurcating Kaushambi, too. Villagers had begun pressing district officials for a second hand-pump so women wouldn't have to keep crossing for water. 
 ''It is almost like two villages now,'' Mr. Kumar said. 

Service With a Smile
 In a perky blue uniform, 34-year-old Pradeep Kumar stepped forward to pump gas with a smile. He had reason to: he had been coached on American-style, customer-comes-first service, and in an area of north India with rampant unemployment, he was thrilled just to have a job. That it made little use of his bachelor's degree in political science was of secondary concern. 
 Where crops once grew along the Golden Quadrilateral, gas stations are sprouting. Mr. Kumar's employer near Allahabad -- Reliance Industries Ltd., one of India's largest private conglomerates and a petroleum giant -- is planning 5,000 stations. Perhaps more than any company, it has grasped the highway's commercial potential. 
 Commerce along the American interstate system began with quirky roadside establishments. Over time it evolved toward deliberately homogenized chains -- McDonald's, Motel 6 -- whose signs meant familiarity in unfamiliar terrain. 
 Reliance has leapfrogged that process, making itself the Golden Arches of the Golden Quadrilateral. Its British-designed gas stations are identically bright and streamlined, with computerized billing and clean, airy dhabas, or restaurants. 
 That the stations feel American is not accidental: Reliance had hired as a consultant the Flying J Company of Ogden, Utah, which runs diesel stations and travel plazas across the United States. 
 The growth of gas stations suggested the way India's agricultural society is yielding not to an industrial economy, but a service one. Fifty percent of India's gross domestic product is now in the service sector, compared with 25 percent apiece for manufacturing and agriculture. 
 In 21st-century India, the $50 a month that Mr. Kumar, the attendant, was earning was still more than farming would pay. 

An Easier Journey
 Nathu Yadav was burning, his body morphing into a plume of smoke and ash that moved out over the sacred water of the Ganges. His soul, Hindus believe, was being liberated in the process. 
 Mr. Yadav was 95 when he died, the oldest man in his village. His family rode 14 hours in a bus -- the body stored on top -- to reach Varanasi, Hinduism's holiest city.
 The river was, in essence, India's first highway, and the bodies were once brought down it. Now they come by train, or the Grand Trunk Road, which had brought Mr. Yadav's body and family from Bihar state. 
 ''God bless Sher Shah Suri for making this road!'' his son, Adya Prasad, exclaimed. 
 The road's condition has long been less of a blessing, a state the new highway project is changing. That is welcome news to the family that runs the Harishchandra ghat, where Mr. Prasad's father was burning. Members of the Dom caste have manned this ghat, named for a legendary king, since ancient times. The ritual is essential, but the act of touching the dead is reviled by upper castes. It is a job of smoke-in-the-face indignities consigned to untouchables. 
 The new highway will ease one unpleasant aspect. ''In summer, the bodies start to smell,'' said Matru Choudhary, a 47-year-old Dom with a morose mien. ''The faster they can come, the better.'' 

Bureaucracy and Bandits
 In the shade of a makeshift shelter at the border crossing between Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, two truckers were killing time on string cots. They wanted to move from one state to another, but given India's cumbersome, often corrupt interstate bureaucracy, they might as well have been trying to pass to Pakistan. 
 It was noon, and they had been waiting five hours, their trucks among hundreds parked in endless lines. They figured they would pass by nightfall, after paying a bribe on top of the interstate tax. 
 The improved highway was already easing their passage and saving them time, the truckers said, cutting their drive from New Delhi to Calcutta to three days from five. They relished the new ease of the ride. 
 But the improvements had not addressed other obstacles. Petty extortion by officials was common at many border posts. In the north, bandits, or dacoits, robbed truckers on the highway. 
 ''In Bihar, they'll cut off your neck and leave you six inches shorter,'' said Rajesh Sham Singh, 30. 
 Kamludeen Khan, 38, said, ''The police don't do anything,'' except join in the extortion, stopping trucks at night to demand bribes. At least with the bandits, there was a chance of escape. 

Feats of Engineering
 At night on a floodlit bridge in Bihar, a chain of women moved in graceful tandem, hoisting buckets of cement onto their head and hurrying to pour before it hardened. Imported from southern India, they were living in a meager shanty camp next to the highway, earning less than $40 a month. 
 Such mingling of primitive methods with the mechanization mostly being used to construct the Quadrilateral fascinated the Korean engineers ensconced 12 miles down the road, in a camp near the town of Aurangabad. Employed by Ssangyong, a construction giant in South Korea, they came to the state of Bihar to work on the highway with an Indian company, Oriental Structural Engineers Pvt. Ltd. ''We in Korea have never seen people putting cement on their heads,'' said M. S. Won, a planning engineer. ''We only use machines.'' 
 His boss, Noh Sung Hwan, was a cheery man who spoke a smattering of Hindi and had taught his Indian cook to make kimchi. Having arrived with an appreciation of India's rich engineering history, he was soon well versed in its current challenges. 
 They had far less to do with building the highway than with the forces circling it. This stretch of Bihar was home to often violent local mafias, some tied to a Maoist insurgency that has spread through at least 11 states. 
 Some three years ago the Maoists attacked a construction plant for the highway, and fractured the bones of a project manager with rifle butts and sticks. The Maoists occupied the plant for months while negotiations dragged on over how much it would cost to buy their cooperation. 
 ''India is very fantastic,'' Mr. Noh said. ''Just a little bit risky.''

A Study in Limits
 For four years, the Indian project managers and engineers of Oriental Structural had been living in enclosed camps next to the highway, serenaded nonstop by truck horns.
 In the camp near Aurangabad, Bihar, 18 families and some 30 single men found their entertainment in a volleyball and badminton court, television and cold beer. Most of them were from Punjab or southern India. Bihar was as much of a foreign country to them as it was to their Korean counterparts, a country they could not wait to leave. 
 The sociologist Yogendra Yadav calls Bihar a metaphor: for the rest of India, it represents being poor. Bihar offers a reflection at which ascendant India recoils. 
 Bihar is home to more than 82 million people and some of India's most storied history. Bodhgaya, where Buddha achieved enlightenment, is only a few miles off the highway. The area was once a center of democracy and learning, and of India's freedom struggle against the British. 
 Today, Bihar is a study in democracy's limits. Villagers depend on doctors who are quacks, schoolteachers who siphon government grain meant for children, policemen who charge businesses to provide security. 
 Bihar, by most measures, is India's poorest state. Migration to other states for work is epidemic. Only 5 percent of rural households have electricity.
 J. P. Gupta, the jovial Punjabi project manager at the Aurangabad camp, spent his mornings appeasing the gods, praying first in his car, then in his office, then much of the rest of his days appeasing local politicians. Politics was a business here, he said. 
 Biharis did not want the road, one engineer asserted, because they preferred a potholed one that would make it easier to rob passing trucks. 
 Farther east along the highway, near the town of Mahapur, dozens of armed guards patrolled another camp where more Oriental Structural employees had bunkered down. Its chief project manager, P. Nageswara Rao, gray-haired, and on this project, usually grim-faced, never left camp without an armed escort.
 Buddha preached ahimsa, or nonviolence, in the area, ''but the most crime is here,'' he said. ''For nothing they will kill the people.'' 
 His camp, to the east of Mr. Gupta's, operated under an even greater threat of violence. What appeared to be an armed robbery nearby took the life of a government engineer working on the project; it took seven months to fill his shoes. 
 Mr. Rao had no pesky politicians to deal with, but only because even they feared the Maoists. Government had all but melted away here. From the highway, the Maoists extorted money and, for followers, jobs. 
 The Maoist movement had begun with a 1968 agrarian peasant uprising in West Bengal. In the years since, Naxalites, as the rebels are known, have flourished, penetrating, with arms and ideology, the many corners where prosperity has yet to reach. 
 Mahapur, Bihar, is one such corner. 

Poverty and Promise
 In a gilding morning light on the margins of the Grand Trunk Road, a fight broke out over wet concrete.
 A hailstorm the night before soaked the ground before the concrete could finish drying. So scarecrow-like scavengers had come out to scrounge the wet muck. An emaciated Bishnuji Bagwan, at least 90 and wearing little more than rags, had brought his wife, children and grandchildren to collect enough of it to shore up his dilapidated house. Malti Devi, mother of four, married to a man she called useless, wanted to smooth her floor. 
 One family accused another of greed, and the fight began. Ms. Devi shrugged off the finger-pointing, hoisted a load atop her head, and headed across the highway. 
 ''It's my share of concrete,'' she said. ''If someone takes it, won't I fight?'' 
 She called the highway a ''blessing,'' and said she had never seen anything like it. And it holds promise for Indians like her, with data showing that proximity to a real highway could alleviate poverty. 
 For now, the villagers living along the route rarely had bus fare to reach nearby Mahapur. For them, the highway was more spectacle than utility.

An American Dream
 As Ms. Devi was lugging wet concrete into her mud house, Mr. Rao, the project manager, was counting the days until he could take highway, train and plane, and escape for a holiday in America. 
 He had three daughters living there, one a computer engineer, the other two married to computer engineers. Most of his engineers -- almost all, like him, from the southern state of Andhra Pradesh -- had relatives in America, too. 
 If Bihar was enemy territory for the professionals roosting in rugged camps to build India's dream highway, America was the promised land. India's traffic with America has never been higher; sending a child there had become a middle-class ''craze,'' in one engineer's word. 
 The founding elites of India were British-educated. Today, the ambitious young pursue degrees from Wharton and Stanford, with some 80,000 Indian students in the United States. Two million Indians live there, working as doctors, software engineers, and motel owners along America's highways. 
 No surprise, then, that America has shaped the ideas of what India's highway can be. Mr. Rao's deputy, B. K. Rami Reddy, also with a daughter in America, was nearly breathless as he described one stretch of finished roadway in southern India: ''You really feel like you are in the U.S., it is so nice. When you go on that road, you feel you are somewhere else.'' 
 The implicit effort to make India ''somewhere else,'' more like America, more of the first world and less of the third, girds this entire project. With the highway and India's accompanying rise, Mr. Rao predicted that by 2010 or 2020, ''Indians may not feel the need to go abroad.'' 
 ''This highway will really change the face of India,'' he said. 

Time Travel
 The face of West Bengal, home to 28 years of Communist rule and acres of green rice paddies, was already changing. Three satellite townships were being built near the town of Bardwan, which would be only an hour from Calcutta when the new highway was complete. Residents would commute, as they did from suburbs across America. 
 If the highway was enabling the middle class to migrate out of cities, it was also encouraging the poor to migrate in. Beneath a crosshatch of elevated highways on the edge of Calcutta, thousands of rural Indians had burrowed in, constructing homes, creating businesses. Dung patties dried on the highway's underpinnings. Yellow taxis sat in rows. A whole civilization within, or beneath, a civilization, had hatched. 
 Dal bubbled over a wood fire in the single room, constructed from wood and jute bags, that eight men shared. Bal Dev Rai, a 40-year-old from the state of Jharkhand, had called the room home for five years. He drove a bicycle handcart, sending money to his wife and daughters, returning to his village at harvest time. For him and his fellow bottom-dwellers, the improved highway meant a nicer roof over their heads. 
 Each year the permanent residents were joined by temporary migrants, idol-makers who came from their villages to work their craft for Calcutta's festival for the 10-armed goddess, Durga, the invincible killer of demons. Statues of Saraswati, the goddess of knowledge, lay cast off under the highway overpass, waiting to be resurrected. From above came the sound of speeding cars. 

India Accelerating
 Articles in this series are examining India's highway modernization, a vast undertaking reflecting the country's overall transformation. Audio of Amy Waldman, additional photographs and maps are at nytimes.com/asia.

 leftover wet concrete. (Photographs by TYLER HICKS/The New York Times)(pg. 33)

Chart/Map: ''India's New Main Street: The 'Golden Quadrilateral'''
Map of India highlighting New Delhi, Calcutta, Mumbai, and Chennal. Map is a comparison of driving distances on U.S. interstates and on India's Golden Quadrilateral.

Los Angeles -- Phoenix: 371 miles
Phoenix -- Denver: 912
Omaha -- Denver: 540
Chicago -- Omaha: 467
Chicago -- Columbus, Ohio: 356
Philadelphia -- Columbus, Ohio: 468
Philadelphia -- New York: 100

New Delhi -- Calcutta: 906 miles
Calcutta -- Chennai: 1,039
Chennai -- Mumbai: 824
New Delhi -- Mumbai: 745

(Sources by ML Infomap; Geographic Enterprises; www.geo-e.com)(pg. 32)

GRAPHIC: Photos: In the western state of Rajasthan, a woman crossed the newly built highway that splits her village from its water supply. (Photo by Tyler Hicks/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
MAKING WAY -- Buildings in Uttar Pradesh were demolished to accommodate the highway. The Indian government has the power of eminent domain. (pg. 32)
ON THE JOB -- Migrant workers carrying cement at night to fill a section of a bridge under construction west of Aurangabad, in the state of Bihar.
 SCAVENGING -- Villagers along the highway in Mahapur, Bihar, collecting 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGHWAYS & STREETS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (86%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (86%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (78%); HEAVY & CIVIL CONSTRUCTION (78%); HINDUS & HINDUISM (77%); OUTSOURCING (77%); INFRASTRUCTURE (73%); IMPORT TRADE (68%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (67%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (65%); GLOBALIZATION (63%); CITY LIFE (63%) Roads and Traffic; Roads and Traffic

PERSON: Amy Waldman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%) BIHAR, INDIA (88%); UTTAR PRADESH, INDIA (57%); RAJASTHAN, INDIA (57%) INDIA (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) India

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2005



75 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and Britain Try a New Tack on Iran 

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN and DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 3 

 BODY:
In a new effort to pressure Iran to allow strict controls on its nuclear program, Britain and the United States are trying to persuade Russia and China to endorse their conclusion, derived from what officials call new evidence, that Tehran intends to build nuclear weapons, American and European diplomats said.
 Until now, the effort to rein in Iran's nuclear program has occurred largely in the International Atomic Energy Agency, the United Nations nuclear watchdog, which has described a pattern of highly suspicious behavior by Iran. But the agency focuses on identifying possible diversions of nuclear material and has little weapons expertise. 
The diplomats, who asked not to be identified to avoid any possible disruption of the delicate negotiations, say the new effort has been floated by Britain and endorsed by France and the United States, and seeks the declaration on Iran from the five major nuclear weapons powers that are the permanent members of the Security Council, which has the power to impose penalties. 
 The statement is the hoped-for result of arms specialists in China and Russia examining the evidence on Iran -- including thousands of pages found on a laptop computer obtained by the United States last year -- and concluding, as the United States, Britain and France have with varying degrees of certainty, that it points at least to an intent to build a weapon. 
 ''If we could get China and Russia to agree that this bears all the hallmarks of a weapons program, it could have an enormous impact on Iran,'' said one senior European diplomat, because it might signal that if the issue reaches the Security Council, Iran could not count on Beijing or Moscow blocking action.
 Russia and China have extensive energy and economic dealings with Iran and have argued that a confrontational approach will simply drive its government to walk away from international obligations on its nuclear program and oust the inspectors who are examining its facilities. 
 While Russia and China have declared that Iran should not be allowed to have nuclear weapons, they have resisted American efforts to get the nuclear agency to refer Iran to the Security Council for possible penalties. A resolution passed by the agency's member nations in September said the case should be referred, but specified no time frame, and none was established at a subsequent meeting last month. 
 Running parallel to the effort to declare that Iran is trying to ''weaponize'' its program, despite its denials, is a diplomatic effort to support a Russian proposal that Iran be allowed to enrich uranium for its nuclear reactors -- but only on Russian soil. Russian officials said this would guarantee that the material could not be used secretly for nuclear weapons, because it would be enriched only to ''reactor grade.'' 
 Many aspects of the Russian proposal remain unclear. An American official said it could involve Iranian investment in a company based in Russia, but with the actual enrichment done elsewhere in the country, with no Iranian participation.
 The official said the Russian initiative was ''more of an idea than a proposal,'' and European officials said it was being discussed more as a way of involving Russia in the diplomacy than out of a conviction that Iran would accept it.
 Eventually, the United States hopes that Russia will develop its idea, and that Britain, France and Germany will try to get the Iranians to resume talks on it, as part of a strategy to keep the talks going.
 But Iran has so far declined to discuss the Russian proposal and has steadily insisted that it cannot surrender its sovereignty in developing enriched uranium for what it says is a peaceful nuclear program.
 The British, as part of the effort to persuade Russia and China to join a declaration on Iran, are citing documents turned over to the nuclear agency by Iran apparently showing that it was offered technology to make metallic hemispheres from highly enriched uranium.
 Iran maintains that it never acted on the offer, which came from the former Pakistani nuclear chief, Abdul Qadeer Khan. British and American officials say they find that explanation impossible to believe.
 Britain, France and Germany have forged an ambitious effort to persuade Iran to abandon nuclear fuel activities that could lead to the making of a bomb, in return for economic and political incentives and also some form of security guarantees. But Iran has refused to give up its right to these activities.
 ''The most important aspect of our discussions is to broaden the support by countries like Russia, China, India, South Africa and Brazil,'' said a top European diplomat. ''To do that, it's important that they feel all the diplomatic possibilities are exhausted before we step up the pressure.''
 The impasse with Iran is at a stage where ''they are talking about talks,'' said an American official. That is, European officials say, they are trying to reach out to Iran to discuss informally the possibility of resuming negotiations on an eventual abandonment of its nuclear programs.
 On top of these problems, European officials say that Iran's negotiating team is in some disarray, with evidence that the new president of Iran, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, is feuding with Iran's chief negotiator, Ali A. Larijani. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); NEW ISSUES (88%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (76%); FINES & PENALTIES (72%); TERRORISM (59%) Atomic Weapons; Terrorism; United States International Relations; Uranium

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%)

PERSON: Steven R Weisman; David E Sanger

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (58%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); CHINA (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); FRANCE (91%); IRAN (90%) Iran; Great Britain; Russia; China; France; Iran

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2005



76 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1357 words

HEADLINE: HEALTH COVERAGE OF YOUNG WIDENS WITH STATES' AID 

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Dec. 3 

 BODY:
The number of American children without health care coverage has been slowly but steadily declining over the past several years even as health care costs continue to rise and fewer employers provide insurance, creating a breach that states have stepped in to fill with new programs and fresh money.
 The overall ranks of the uninsured continue to swell, to nearly 46 million Americans at the beginning of this year. But a landmark federal program begun in 1997 to provide health coverage to poor and working-class children and additional measures taken by states have provided health insurance to millions of children who might otherwise go without.
In the past year, 20 states have taken steps to increase access to health coverage for children and their parents and nine states have reversed actions they took during the 2001-3 economic downturn to limit benefits, according to the Kaiser Commission on Medicaid and the Uninsured, part of the Kaiser Family Foundation, which tracks health care trends. Among them are Illinois, which just signed a child health bill, and Vermont, with its ''Dr. Dynasaur'' health program, both of which broadened coverage for children. 
 As a result of these and other steps, there are 350,000 fewer uninsured children in the United States than there were in 2000, the foundation reported. Over the same period, the overall number of uninsured rose by six million. 
 While elected officials cannot agree on how to provide or pay for health coverage for uninsured adults, there seems to be a consensus in many states that covering children is medically wise and politically smart. 
 However, even the situation for children is not uniformly favorable. Eleven states facing political and financial pressure, including Maryland, Pennsylvania and Tennessee, made it more difficult for eligible children to retain coverage. 
 The movement to expand coverage for children dates to the mid-1990's, after the Clinton administration devised a complex plan to provide all Americans with health care coverage. That plan failed, and advocates of wider coverage began pursuing more incremental changes at the federal level and lobbying legislatures to expand coverage. 
 Alan R. Weil, executive director of the National Academy for State Health Policy, a nonpartisan research group, said children's health was one area of state spending that had consistently risen. Mr. Weil said it was much easier for officials to approve spending ''for the kids'' than to expand welfare programs for adults, even in times of hardship.
 ''It goes back to the Elizabethan poor laws that drew a conceptual distinction between the deserving and the undeserving poor,'' he said. ''It's very hard to call kids undeserving, even if you don't like the parents' behavior.''
 Illinois took the most far-reaching step this fall, enacting a law intended to provide coverage to all children in the state, extending low-cost or free coverage to the 250,000 Illinois youngsters who are now uninsured.
 But even states unwilling to go as far as Illinois are moving to provide insurance for children. 
 New Jersey, which imposed sharp restrictions on publicly financed health care for families during the economic slowdown, restored eligibility this year to some 75,000 low-income families.
 In Washington State, where 39,000 children were dropped from state-financed health care programs in 2003 and 2004, officials reversed course this year. The state eased health care eligibility requirements for families with children and delayed a plan to charge premiums.
 And Texas, which has one of the nation's highest rates of uninsured children, took steps this year to stop a decline in the number of children with health coverage. The state eliminated premiums for the poorest families enrolled in state health care programs and stopped cutting off families with higher incomes that failed to keep up with premiums.
 As of the beginning of this year, 16 percent of all Americans lacked health insurance, but only 12 percent of children under 18 went uncovered, although that still amounts to nine million children, according to the Kaiser commission. That gap has been widening over the years as fewer employers offer health care coverage, federal spending fails to keep pace with rising costs, and states limit eligibility to balance budgets.
 The picture is brighter for children than for adults in large part because of the enactment of the State Children's Health Insurance Program, or Schip, in 1997. The program provides federal money for child health care to states, which determine eligibility, income limits and covered benefits within federal guidelines. The number of children covered under the federal-state program grew rapidly, from 897,000 children nationwide in 1998 to 3.95 million in the middle of 2003, before leveling off. 
 The percentage of uninsured children ranges from less than 5 percent in Vermont to almost 20 percent in Texas. The differences reflect state policies, the poverty rate, the number of immigrants, and the percentage of children covered by employers and other programs.
 The chief factor determining how many children are covered is the income eligibility level set by the states under Schip. The federal government requires coverage for families at or below the federal poverty level, about $20,000 for a family of four. Only a few states set the limit that low. In some states, including Minnesota, Rhode Island and Vermont, families with incomes at 250 percent or even 300 percent of the federal poverty line qualify.
 California is witnessing a battle that is also playing out in Washington and other states. State officials here and private groups are trying to bring health coverage to more than a million California children who now go without it. A bill that passed the Legislature this year would have eased eligibility requirements for the poorest families, bringing coverage to hundreds of thousands of children. Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, a Republican, vetoed the bill, saying that he agreed with its aims but that the sponsors had not come up with a way to pay for it.
 Partly in reaction, a coalition of health groups including the American Cancer Society and the American Heart Association are proposing a ballot initiative to raise the state cigarette tax to finance universal health care for children. Sponsors say that the estimated $1.4 billion raised by the new tax would pay for health coverage for more than 800,000 California children.
 Vermont leads the nation in the percentage of its children who are insured through state and federal programs and private insurance, with almost 95 percent coverage. 
 In 1989, Madeleine M. Kunin, then the governor, created a state-financed program for pregnant women and for children up to age 6 who did not have private insurance and did not qualify for Medicaid. The program, which came to be known as Dr. Dynasaur, was expanded in 1992 under Gov. Howard Dean to cover children through age 17. Families with incomes up to 300 percent of the federal poverty level, or nearly $60,000 a year, qualify, and the program covers doctor visits, dental care, immunizations, vision care, medicines and mental health.
 Financing comes from the federal government, tobacco taxes and general state revenues.
 Despite the fading fortunes of the auto industry, 93 percent of Michigan children are covered, several percentage points higher than the national average. But that still leaves 200,000 Michigan youngsters uninsured.
 Even though Ms. Granholm intends to ask for significant cuts in some state programs in her budget next month, she said she would propose increasing spending to address the problem of uninsured children. 
 ''Let's get real about it,'' Ms. Granholm said. ''Let's designa public system that truly reflects where we want to be, so states are not twisted into pretzels to try to insure their most vulnerable citizens. I don't think we want to be a nation where you go to Dunkin' Donuts to put a quarter in a jar for Aunt Linda's mastectomy. We need a national solution for competitiveness and moral reasons. And Washington is utterly silent.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); CHILDREN (90%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (90%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); LOBBYING (78%); MEDICAID (78%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); FOUNDATIONS (76%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); APPROVALS (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); EXECUTIVES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%) Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Children and Youth; States (US); Medicine and Health

PERSON: John M Broder

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2005



77 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 47

LENGTH: 1065 words

HEADLINE: A Cleanup That's Easier Legislated Than Done

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
Two years ago, the New York State Legislature passed what it called the most significant environmental legislation in recent memory, the culmination of a seven-year effort to turn many long-abandoned industrial sites into usable properties.
 The law, hailed by an unlikely coalition of environmentalists, government officials and real estate interests, seemed to set the stage for economic revitalization in neighborhoods blighted by such sites -- in no small part because of tax incentives offered to developers willing to clean up the sites.
In New York City, where many former manufacturing neighborhoods were recently rezoned to allow for residential construction, there was hope that the legislation, known formally as the Brownfield Cleanup Program, would pave the way for badly needed housing. 
 But two years after the legislation passed, only slightly more than 100 of the state's thousands of industrial sites have been approved for the program. As well, scores of developers, confused about the program's regulations, still have no idea whether they qualify to participate.
 Indeed, many private nonprofit organizations hoping to use the legislation to develop housing and other projects in low-income neighborhoods complain that the program excludes smaller, less contaminated sites -- like a dump filled with car parts or construction materials -- and may prevent new economic development in the communities that were supposed to benefit most from the legislation.
 ''This law was a very good idea,'' said Richard G. Leland, an environmental lawyer and chairman of the environmental law committee Real Estate Board of New York's environmental law committee. ''But it is flawed in its execution.'' 
 Officials at the Department of Environmental Conservation, which is overseeing the program, say many applications have been filed with the state and that they are encouraged by the response from developers and others. 
 They contend that any new program of this size can be expected to encounter some snags.
 ''The Brownfield Cleanup Program has made substantial progress since its creation just over two years ago with more than 240 applications submitted to the program in that short period of time,'' said Dale Desnoyers, the department's official in charge of the program. 
 But some developers and community groups say the environmental agency, while well-intentioned, is too understaffed to deal with the paperwork and other aspects of a sprawling new program.
 In many ways, some legislators and development experts say, the experience of the brownfield cleanup program is emblematic of New York's way of doing business: later and more strangely than any other state in the union. New York was the last former manufacturing center to pass a brownfield law, and it structured its incentive program in a way that seems to favor large developers. 
 In fact, many of the program's problems, these people say, stem from the Legislature's decision to give tax credits up to 22 percent of the total cost of a project on a brownfield. Most states offer tax credits based only on the cleanup cost, rather than the project's total cost.
 If developers here do not spend all their credit, they are eligible for a check for the difference. Participants get protection from lawsuits and a letter when they have completed their work declaring the site clean, which can be useful in attracting investors. 
 But the generous tax benefits set off a stampede of developers -- many of whom were already planning to build before being offered the incentives -- that has overwhelmed the environmental agency and led to long delays. The New York Times Company, in fact, sought a brownfield tax credit for its new headquarters in Midtown, but was rejected.
 ''It is going more slowly than people had hoped,'' said Michael B. Gerrard, an environmental lawyer with the Arnold and Porter firm.
 Some of the most acute frustration with the state has been felt by nonprofit organizations interested in building low- and moderate-income housing. They say their applications -- for cleaning up and building on smaller, less toxic sites -- have been rejected because those sites are not contaminated enough.
 Mathy Stanislaus, a director of New Partners for Community Revitalization, a nonprofit group that develops projects on brownfields in low-income neighborhoods, said the environmental agency had basically decreed that sites available for development had to have been the scene of major toxic spills. 
 Mr. Stanislaus is not alone in his frustration.
 ''There are swaths of areas around the Bronx River, in many cases in low- or moderate-income neighborhoods, where those sites are not eligible as defined by D.E.C.,'' said Linda Shaw, legal chairwoman of the National Brownfield Association, which represents developers who want to develop brownfields. 
 Mr. Desnoyers of the D.E.C. insisted that all projects get the same consideration, no matter their size or what will ultimately go on them.
 Tension has also continued between environmental groups -- who generally believe that the most important thing is to clean up hazardous sites, no matter what their ultimate use -- and economic development interests that generally believe that a cleanup without a development goal is a wasted opportunity. 
 ''In order to solve a problem you have to agree on what the problem is,'' said Mark A. Izeman, a senior lawyer at the Natural Resources Defense Council. ''And when it comes to brownfields, there is no agreement on what the problem is. Every person you speak to has a different reason for why sites are not being cleaned up.''
 Lawyers and developers point to New Jersey and Pennsylvania as states with easier-to-navigate programs. Those programs, which offer more modest tax breaks than New York's, have produced hundreds of cleaned-up properties since their inception a decade ago. ''Pennsylvania is a very streamlined program,'' said Kenneth J. Warren, an environmental lawyer in Philadelphia.
 Thomas P. DiNapoli, the state assemblyman who was instrumental in getting the law passed, acknowledged that New York's program needed work. ''It is a very ambitious program with a lot of detail attached to it,'' Mr. DiNapoli said. ''It would have been nice if it had been done faster but it would rather have it done right. As we monitor things, we are open to things being tweaked here and there.''


CORRECTION-DATE: December 13, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article on Dec. 4 about problems in a New York State program to clean up abandoned industrial sites and turn them into usable properties misattributed a quotation criticizing the State Department of Environmental Conservation's criteria in determining the eligibility of sites. It was Mathy Stanislaus, a director of the nonprofit New Partners for Community Revitalization -- and not Linda Shaw of a group that represents developers -- who said, ''There are swaths of areas around the Bronx River, in many cases in low- or moderate-income neighborhoods, where those sites are not eligible as defined by D.E.C.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Flushing Industrial Park in Queens is one of thousands of brownfield sites throughout the state that have yet to be converted into usable properties. (Photo by Uli Seit for The New York Times)
Brownfield sites include a lot on East 160th Street in the Bronx
an oil depot next to the Gowanus Canal in Brooklyn
and a lot at Park Avenue and 125th Street. (Photo by Phil Mansfield for The New York Times)
(Photo by Michael Nagle for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Dima Gavrysh for The New York Times)Chart/Map: ''Reclaiming Lost Land''There are 36 active brownfield cleanup projects in the city. Queens has the most, with 13.Map of New York City highlighting the 36 active brownfield cleanup projects. (pg. 52)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); BROWNFIELD SITES (89%); HAZARDOUS MATERIALS REGULATION (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); TAX LAW (77%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (77%); ZONING (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (76%); TAX INCENTIVES (76%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (75%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (70%) 

PERSON: Jennifer Steinhauer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York State; New York State; New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2005



78 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 626 words

HEADLINE: Ohio Bodies Are Those Of Children Slain in 2003

BYLINE: By PAM BELLUCK

 BODY:
On a desperate quest last summer for the bodies of her murdered children, Teresa Knight searched 650 miles of Midwestern highway and came up empty.
 But word had gotten around: Ms. Knight's children, Philip and Sarah Gehring, 11 and 14, had been killed near their home in New Hampshire in 2003 by their father, Manuel Gehring, and he had buried them somewhere in the Midwest.
 The story reached another mother, Stephanie Dietrich, a cashier at the Acme grocery store in Akron, Ohio, and Ms. Dietrich, who had never had any contact with Ms. Knight, started her own search. 
 Six months later, after scouring parts of northeastern Ohio virtually every couple of days, Ms. Dietrich, accompanied by a shovel and her dog, Rico, found the Gehring children. They were buried in a desolate spot in the woods on the outskirts of Hudson, Ohio, in black garbage bags that had been affixed with crosses Mr. Gehring had made out of sticks and duct tape.
 ''It was the mother's plea that made me do it,'' Ms. Dietrich, 44, said Saturday evening, shortly after the Summit County medical examiner confirmed with dental records that the bodies found Thursday were Philip and Sarah.
 The children were last seen at a Fourth of July fireworks display in Concord, N.H., with Mr. Gehring, who was embroiled in a custody dispute with Ms. Knight.
 The authorities said autopsies showed that Mr. Gehring had shot Sarah three times in the head and, apparently with another handgun, shot Philip four times, in the head, neck and each arm.
 ''I don't think I've really had my real reaction,'' Ms. Knight, who lives in Hillsboro, N.H., said Saturday evening. She said she must have driven within a mile of the Hudson site last summer. ''Overall there's a sense of release. It's almost been like a ball and chain that we had to carry with us, that was part of our life, that we didn't know.''
 On Friday night, before the identities had been confirmed, Ms. Knight said she knew the children had been found when the authorities told her that one of the bodies had braces on its teeth, as Philip did.
 Mr. Gehring, 44, an unemployed accountant, was arrested in California six days after the killings and killed himself in prison last year before his trial. Before he died, he gave investigators a description of where he had buried the children -- off Interstate 80 between Grove City, Pa., and Iowa City under a tree that drooped like a willow and near a wire fence, an old pump and defunct concrete sewer pipes.
 Ms. Dietrich, who has a 21-year-old son and a 23-year-old daughter, said she had never undertaken anything like this before. But she pored over transcripts of Mr. Gehring's description from a Web site about the case. And she packed the trunk of her red Dodge Intrepid with four shovels, a pick axe, mud boots and a flashlight, and set off several times a week.
 ''I'd give away as many of my work hours as I could,'' Ms. Dietrich said. ''I couldn't focus at work.''
 Ms. Dietrich said she visited at least six or seven spots over and over again, always with her dog, a Rottweiler-boxer mix, and occasionally with her husband or friends ''to try to show them that I wasn't crazy.'' 
 Last Tuesday, at the Hudson site on Terex Road, Rico ''kept moving to this spot'' under a tree whose ''branches were hanging down'' like a willow, she said.
 Two days later, she reported it to the Hudson police, but ''I couldn't make myself stay home'' and, digging under the tree, ''I had only to go down about a foot and a half and I hit a black trash bag.''
 In months of searching, Ms. Dietrich never sought attention and never contacted Ms. Knight, who did not even know Ms. Dietrich's name until a reporter told her Saturday night.
 ''I didn't want to disappoint her,'' Ms. Dietrich said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Teresa Knight's former husband fatally shot their two children. (Photo by Jim Cole/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MURDER (90%); CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (78%); AUTOPSIES (78%); FORENSICS (78%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (72%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (63%); ARRESTS (50%) Murders and Attempted Murders; Suicides and Suicide Attempts

PERSON: Pam Belluck; Philip Gehring; Sarah Gehring; Teresa Knight; Stephanie Dietrich; Manuel Gehring

GEOGRAPHIC: CONCORD, NH, USA (58%); AKRON, OH, USA (57%) OHIO, USA (95%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) New Hampshire; Ohio

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2005



79 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; The Neediest Cases; Pg. 50

LENGTH: 1063 words

HEADLINE: Answering Call of Needy, and Asking Others to Follow

BYLINE: By KARI HASKELL

 BODY:
For Lily Safra, the impulse to give makes her think of starfish.
 Specifically, it makes her think of a proverb about a beach covered in starfish. As she tells it, a girl begins throwing the starfish back into the ocean, prompting a man walking by to ask, ''What are you doing?''
''I'm throwing starfish back into the ocean,'' she says.
 ''But what difference can you make?'' the incredulous man asks. ''There are so many of them.'' 
 The girl replies, ''It made a difference for that one.''
 To Mrs. Safra, 78, that story symbolizes one of the reasons she recently donated $500,000 to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, which is in the midst of its annual fund-raising campaign.
 ''If each one of us does just a little bit, it will make a difference,'' Mrs. Safra said during a recent phone interview from Paris. ''The fund puts this into practice.''
 Last month, the Neediest Cases began its 94th fund-raising campaign, with daily articles in The Times exploring the lives of New Yorkers in dire straits. The subjects are people who are struggling to do more for themselves and their families but need the help of the fund and its seven beneficiary charities to buy life-saving medicines, fend off evictions, conquer addictions and rebuild troubled lives.
 Mrs. Safra, a philanthropist and the widow of Edmond J. Safra, founder of Safra Bank, said she began reading Neediest Cases articles years ago, when she and her husband lived on Fifth Avenue. ''Some of them are so sad; sometimes it was very difficult to get to the end of them,'' she said.
 But she also saw another side to these stories: ''They are a reminder that even in the worst cases you cannot crush the human spirit.''
 From a more modest adolescence in England to time in Brazil as a young woman to her philanthropic work as an adult, she said, she has seen the hardships poverty brings. That reality inspired her to give $500,000 from the proceeds of a recent art auction at Sotheby's. ''Anytime I know about suffering, I have to do something,'' she said. 
 Unrestricted funding allows money to be distributed without limitations to the local charities supported by the Neediest Cases. 
 ''We never know when we will get a large donation,'' said Jack Rosenthal, the president of The New York Times Company Foundation. ''We are greatly appreciative of Mrs. Safra's generous support.'' 
 With her gift, Mrs. Safra also challenged New Yorkers to make a donation. ''I'm very confident as the holidays come; a great deal can happen,'' she said. 
 This call for support comes at a pivotal time. A month into the recent campaign, fund officials have noted a significant lag in donations compared to those at the same point last year. As of Wednesday, the fund had taken in $2,633,602. A year earlier, donations totaled $2,972,462.81. 
 In the wake of last year's tsunami and the ravages of Hurricane Katrina, Mr. Rosenthal said he was concerned about donor fatigue and hoped that was not the case. ''The needs of longtime New Yorkers are as real,'' he said.
 Recent statistics about the city's poor make the drop in contributions even more significant. Despite the economic turnaround since 2001, a report released by one of the seven charities, the Community Service Society, found that one of every five New York City residents are considered poor -- as defined by an annual income of less than $18,400 for a family of four -- compared with one of every eight people nationwide.
 The agency also found that hourly wages for poor New Yorkers fell 5.5 percent from 2002-3 to 2003-4, while the cost of living increased. The high cost of housing in New York has added to the burden.
 But while donations are down over all, many, like Mrs. Safra, continue to give.
 Some people, for example, responded to a Nov. 23 article about Kanema Williams, 15, a Bronx girl who has immersed herself in music to transcend a painful family past. Apart from donations spurred by this story, several readers have offered to donate cellos to Kanema.
 A Nov. 11 story, about Jairo Padilla, a 12-year-old with a brain tumor, touched Denise Tredwell of Brewster, N.Y. Her family donated $300.
 ''I know what it's like to have a sick child and be in the hospital,'' she said. Her son, Joshua, was found to have a brain tumor as a baby; he was 9 when he died in 1990. 
 ''It's not just a sick child, it's a family in crisis,'' she said.
 In early November, the fund received a donation of $2,620 from Richard, Barbara and Davy Marsh, of Forest Hills, N.Y. In a letter, the Marshes said they were particularly moved by stories of children in need.
 ''While many children's problems are best solved by love and caring, sometimes money can help, particularly with families in distress,'' they wrote. ''We consider it an honor and a duty to share our good fortune with others.''

Previously recorded: $2,594,258.00
Recorded Wednesday: $39,344.00
Total: $2,633,602.00
Last year to date: $2,972,462.81

HOW TO HELP

Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund should be sent to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245, or any of these organizations:

BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE
285 Schermerhorn Street
Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217

CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street
Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201

CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK
1011 First Avenue
New York, N.Y. 10022

CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY
105 East 22nd Street
New York, N.Y. 10010

COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK
105 East 22nd Street
New York, N.Y. 10010

FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES
281 Park Avenue South
New York, N.Y. 10010

UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK
Church Street Station
P.O. Box 4100
New York, N.Y. 10261-4100

No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.

Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (800) 381-0075 or online, courtesy of NYCharities.org, an Internet donations service, at www.nytimes.com/neediest or www.nycharities.org/neediest. For instructions on how to donate stock to the fund, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 556-4450.

The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor.

Contributions to the fund are deductible on federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law.

To delay may mean to forget.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Several readers have offered to donate cellos to Kanema Williams, 15, of the Bronx, who has used music to overcome a painful family past. (Photo by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUNDRAISING (90%); CHARITIES (89%); FOUNDATIONS (88%); PHILANTHROPY (88%); INTERVIEWS (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); ADOLESCENTS (66%); AUCTIONS (60%) 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (83%)

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (83%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (83%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (83%)

PERSON: Kari Haskell; Lily Safra; Kanema Williams

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (79%); ENGLAND (52%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2005



80 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL/2006 Chevrolet Impala LT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1241 words

HEADLINE: Teaching an Old Antelope to Jump Through New Hoops

BYLINE: By CHERYL JENSEN

DATELINE: CLEVELAND 

 BODY:
WITH the redesign of its Impala family sedan, Chevrolet claims to have revamped its entire line of passenger cars. Still, the Impala could be forgiven for having a hand-me-down complex.
 Beyond the recycled nameplate, which made the first of its several appearances on 1958 models, the 2006 Impala is a mix of old and new. While other recent Chevys like the Cobalt and Malibu got fresh starts, the Impala inherited mechanical underpinnings from the previous model, though these have mostly been massaged and improved.
At least Chevy's engineers tried to make clever use of what they had to work with, and well they should: this is an important car for General Motors. Since the Impala was reintroduced as a 2000 model, some 1.3 million have been sold. Last year, sales of 290,000 made this G.M.'s best-selling automobile and America's No. 3 car (after the Toyota Camry and Honda Accord). 
 The new Impala, like the last one, is built on G.M.'s W-car architecture, the foundation for many of the company's midsize cars since 1988. This architecture, which is the basic frame and chassis setup of a car, was significantly re-engineered in 1997. 
 While keeping the old platform certainly pinched pennies for a company in deep financial trouble, G.M. executives say it was also smart from an engineering point of view. ''The structure has been around for years,'' said Andy Byerly, vehicle performance manager for the Impala. ''Frankly, we are proud of it.''
 He added that the W architecture had not only proved durable, ''it has had very good crash ratings.''
 The Impala is still assembled in an Oshawa, Ontario, factory that ranked No. 2 in North America in the 2005 Initial Quality Survey by J. D. Power & Associates. (G.M. is cutting production at that factory next year, as part of its blueprint for a turnaround, and closing another Oshawa plant.)
 The Impala breaks no ground and sets no standards. But I concluded that the new model is competent, spacious and newly refined after I drove one more than 700 miles on major highways and two-lane roads from Nashville, home of the Country Music Hall of Fame, to Cleveland, home of the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.
 I tested a version that is likely to be the best seller, a medium-trim Impala LT with a 3.5-liter V-6 engine that puts out 211 horsepower, 31 more than that of the comparable previous engine.
 This is a new power plant, albeit one with an old pushrod design. (A different 3.5-liter V-6 powers the Chevy Malibu and Pontiac G6; that less powerful motor dates to the 1980 Chevrolet Citation.) 
 For a car so large, the Impala gets respectable mileage with its 3.5 engine; the federal rating is 21 miles per gallon in the city and 31 on the highway.
 There is another V-6, too, a 3.9-liter engine that comes on the fancier Impala, the LTZ. The larger engine is an option on the LT.
 Both V-6's are new, and G.M. says they are the first pushrod, or overhead valve, engines with variable valve timing. The more efficient timing gives the engines a wider torque band, from about 1,600 to 5,800 r.p.m. On the road, this means better engine response almost anytime the driver needs it. G.M. engineers say the change also improves fuel economy and reduces emissions.
 Yet a third engine is offered. The Impala SS, which I did not test, has a 5.3-liter V-8 with 303 horsepower and cylinder deactivation, which G.M. calls Displacement on Demand. All eight cylinders operate when acceleration is needed, but the engine runs on four cylinders at cruising speeds, for better fuel economy.
 While Chevy doesn't pretend the mass-market LT is a sport sedan, it was anything but clumsy on State Route 78 in southeast Ohio, a roller-coaster two-lane blacktop with whoop-de-do hills and blind crests that push your heart into your throat.
 Indeed, the new Impala handles nicely for such a big car with such a compliant ride, though you must get used to the fact that the steering tends to make a secret of the handling prowess hidden within. My biggest complaint was the steering's lack of strong on-center feel.
 The body feels solid and sturdy, even on rough surfaces; my test car had no shakes or rattles. Vibrations were nicely suppressed, thanks to improvements like the use of laminated ''quiet steel'' to separate the engine and passenger compartments. 
 Despite the use of thicker window glass, I heard wind noise near the rear roof pillar when I sat a while in the rear seat.
 With only a four-speed automatic transmission, the Impala falls short of the Honda Accord (with five speeds) and Ford Five Hundred (with six). But Chevy's four-speed responds fast enough to redeem itself most of the time.
 The previous Impala's styling took its knocks, especially for its ungainly rear and oversize round taillamps. While not markedly different, the redesign is cleaner and more elegant, with a simple, conservative rump. 
 The Impala SS has different suspension components, including larger stabilizer bars to reduce body lean and high-performance 18-inch tires. 
 The two V-6 versions share their suspension setups, but the tires are matched to the engines. Models with the 3.5 V-6 come with quieter, softer-riding 16-inch tires intended to enhance fuel economy. Models with the 3.9 engine have 17-inch tires with more grip; they aid the handling but make the ride somewhat harsher.
 The interior, like those of several recent G.M. vehicles, is much improved. Cheap, shiny bits are mostly gone, replaced by plastic with a richer-looking grain. The basic controls have a high-quality feel that has been missing from G.M. cars for decades.
 I recommend leather upholstery, given that the cloth seats of my test car had a mouse-fur texture not unlike that of my own five-year-old Ford Focus. More sophisticated fabrics of tightly woven material are showing up in many other cars, including some from G.M.
 The Impala can seat five or six people. If you pick the six-passenger version, as 60 percent of buyers do, you get a front bench that includes a padded storage bin that folds down like an armrest when the space is not needed for a tiny middle passenger.
 While the new Impala has lost almost an inch of rear legroom, my 6-foot-4 husband found the space acceptable even when an equally tall person was seated in front.
 A new flip-and-fold rear seat adds some flexibility, though it is standard only on the LTZ and SS. The bottom cushions flip forward to reveal a plastic-lined storage space ideal for messy items.
 The base LS model starts at $21,999 and the powerful SS at $27,790. My LT test car had a base price of $22,520 and a sticker of $24,085 with options that included the trick folding seat and a package of antilock brakes and traction control.
 On the other hand, a crucial bit of safety equipment, antilock brakes, is not standard on less expensive Impalas. All Camrys, Accords and Hyundai Sonatas come with antilock brakes, and those cars offer electronic stability control, a worthwhile feature not available on the Chevy.
 All Impalas have four air bags, including head-protection curtains; Accords and Sonatas come with side-impact bags as well.
 The Impala was once the quintessential American family car, a label that nowadays probably sticks better to the Camry. But with its credible revamping, the 2006 Impala shows new promise and a lot more polish. It deserves consideration for those seeking a spacious mainstream sedan at a reasonable price.

INSIDE TRACK: Rock of ages.


GRAPHIC: Photos: G.M. has been trying to upgrade its interiors, and the Impala's proves it. (pg. 4)
 The 2006 Impala doesn't look a lot different, but much of it is new or improved. (pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (93%); ENGINEERING (90%); SEDANS (90%); RANKINGS (88%); AUTOMOBILE RATINGS (78%); VEHICLE CRASH TESTING (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (77%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (73%); QUALITY CONTROL (69%); POWER PLANTS (67%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (67%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (66%); COUNTRY MUSIC (60%); POP & ROCK (60%) Automobiles; Reviews

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Chevrolet Division of General Motors Corp

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%)

PERSON: Cheryl Jensen

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (90%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (66%) TENNESSEE, USA (90%); OHIO, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (53%) UNITED STATES (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (53%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2005



81 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 382 words

HEADLINE: Engines Go Back to the Future

BYLINE: By CHERYL JENSEN

 BODY:
GERMAN automakers gave up pushrod engines long ago, in favor of more complex overhead-cam power plants. The Japanese have essentially quit making the old-design engines. Ford is down to just a couple. 
 But Chrysler, with seven, and especially General Motors, with about a dozen in 21 different forms, remain bastions of the pushrod engine, also known as an overhead-valve design.
Not only has G.M. continued to carry forward older engine designs, like the famous ''small block V-8'' in your grandfather's 1955 Bel Air (and your son's 2005 Corvette), it has been designing new ones. The Chevy Impala offers two pushrod V-6's that are new for 2006.
 G.M. says the new engines share almost nothing with the old ones. The Impala's base engine, a 3.5-liter V-6, was actually developed from the more powerful 3.9 V-6; the two share more than 80 percent of their parts.
 While the Impala's powertrains may seem caught in a piston-pushing time warp, the new-old engines were designed with innovations like variable valve timing, which provides a broader power range and produces lower emissions. 
 Further, G.M. and Chrysler say that pushrod engines lend themselves better than overhead-cam engines -- the two companies make plenty of those, too -- to another bit of fuel-saving technology that is becoming popular: deactivation of half the cylinders at cruising speed.
 But money is a big factor in G.M.'s back-to-the-future powertrains. Brett Smith, director of product and technology forecasting for the Center for Automotive Research in Ann Arbor, Mich., said the company saved an estimated $800 a vehicle by sticking with pushrod motors, which cost less to make largely because they contain fewer parts. Dollars saved on the engines can be used to add other features to the cars.
 Some enthusiasts defend pushrod engines, which usually have two valves per cylinder (rather than the three or more valves common among overhead-cam designs) for their strong low-end thrust. 
 A potentially bigger deficiency of the new Impala is its four-speed automatic transmission; competitors have five or six speeds. Additional gears can improve acceleration and fuel economy. G.M. is working on six-speed automatics for front- and all-wheel-drive cars, but they were not available in time for the 2006 Impala. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERING (78%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (78%); AUTOMOTIVE RESEARCH (73%); EMISSIONS (65%) Automobiles; Engines; Fuel Efficiency

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Daimlerchrysler Ag; General Motors Corp

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: Cheryl Jensen

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2005



82 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OFFICE SPACE: ARMCHAIR M.B.A.; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: An American in Europe Bridges a Cultural Divide

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. HOLSTEIN. 
William J. Holstein is editor in chief of Chief Executive magazine.

 BODY:
AMERICAN women can lead European companies successfully if they are sensitive to cultural nuances, says Nancy McKinstry, the chief executive of Wolters Kluwer, based in the Netherlands. It is a provider of information, software and services to professional customers, and she has been its chief since 2003. She is the only female C.E.O. of a Dutch company. Here are excerpts from a conversation: 


Q. Is Wolters strongly European in focus?

A. We are a multinational active in about 26 countries. We have a fairly good balance between our North American and European operations. Revenues are split pretty much 50-50. We've also grown a lot through acquisitions. Within about a decade, we have acquired 300 different businesses. As a result, we're somewhat of a melting pot. We have a lot of different cultures and nationalities.

Q. How have you been managing this complex entity?

A. We took a very decentralized set of companies and created a much more centralized group of companies that are integrated based on the markets they serve. For example, we brought together all of our health companies into a health division. Likewise, we brought together all our tax and accounting businesses. Running the business, in my view, being an American C.E.O., has the same set of challenges as if you were a European.

Q. Is there a greater resistance in Europe to corporate reorganizations?

A. There are some real differences. In the U.S., we were able to restructure underperforming businesses in 12 months and see fairly dramatic improvements in performance in the second 12 months. So within two years, beginning in 2003, we were able to go from underperformance to a turnaround. In Europe, it is taking us and will take us three years to see that. The reason for that is you have more social regulations and employment guidelines that you have to follow within the European structure.

Q. How has your nationality and your gender influenced your operating style?

A. I'm very direct, very communicative. If I feel someone doesn't understand what I'm asking them to do, I'll keep revisiting the subject. I spend a lot of time going out to the operating units to talk to rank-and-file employees to understand what the issues are. Those characteristics are typically associated with an American style.
 I think what I do, which is something that people associate more with female managers, is that I'm more focused on the team. I believe that my role as a C.E.O. is to facilitate getting the resources for the businesses to deliver what we need them to deliver. I'm very aware that it's not my own efforts alone that make us successful.

Q. How have your town hall meetings with employees worked out?

A. Because I've done this several times, when I come back and meet with them again, people are much more open about asking questions. When I first started, employees were pretty reluctant to be the first ones to raise their hands and ask questions.
 In general, I've created a much more informal atmosphere. When I first came here, everybody kept referring to me as Mrs. McKinstry. I kept saying, ''No, no, no, you have to call me Nancy'' as they would in the U.S. It took about six months for people to get comfortable stopping in my office, talking to me in the cafeteria or calling me by my first name.

Q. Have you altered your style to fit in?

A. I spend a lot more time on what I call detail and follow-through. I really cycle back often after we make a decision to make sure people are implementing that decision and that they are really on board. In the U.S., managers are much more vocal if they disagree. In Europe, the culture is more one of respecting people in positions of authority. They may not disagree with you right in the meeting. I've found that it's very important to pick up on the subtle cues that people give you and to go back around, sometimes one on one, and say, ''Okay, how are we coming along on what we decided?''

Q. Why are there relatively few women C.E.O.'s in Europe compared with America?

A. There are two reasons. One, I don't think the economic need that drives many women into the work force in the U.S. is apparent in all the countries of Europe. They have a tremendously high quality of life in Europe, much stronger than in the U.S. There is a safety net for families that doesn't exist in North America. There's not the pressing need to go back to work after having children. That's changing but it's changing relatively slowly.
 In some countries, there isn't the social acceptance yet of women being in serious management. If you look at Sweden or Norway, a lot of women have worked their way up to senior levels.

Q. Which countries are the most resistant?

A. I think where you see the least participation of women in senior management, in my experience, would be a country like Germany.

Q. Do you speak any European language?

A. I've been trying to learn Dutch. It's a very complicated language, but I still try.

Q. Despite that, would you say you've been effective?

A. Yes, if you look at the key dimensions such as growing our revenues, improving shareholder value and driving the cash flow of the company, we have either met or exceeded the targets we set. We're making real progress.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Sean Kelly)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (89%); WOMEN WORKERS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%) Biographical Information

COMPANY: WOLTERS KLUWER NV (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Wolters Kluwer Nv

TICKER: WKL (AMS) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: NANCY MCKINSTRY (88%) Nancy Mckinstry; William J Holstein

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NETHERLANDS (73%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2005



83 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; EVERYBODY'S BUSINESS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1444 words

HEADLINE: On Milton Friedman's Birthday, We Get the Present: Him

BYLINE: By BEN STEIN. 
Ben Stein is a lawyer, writer, actor and economist. E-mail: ebiz@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
ONE of the infinite number of ways in which I have been blessed is in the friends I inherited from my parents. Peter M. Flanigan, investment banker and aide to my former boss, Richard M. Nixon, and ambassador to Spain. Roy L. Ash, a co-founder of Litton Industries and a budget director in the Nixon and Ford administrations. Mr. Nixon, president and peacemaker. Paul W. McCracken, genius economist and adviser to three presidents. C. Lowell Harriss, a super teacher and emeritus professor of economics at Columbia University. Anna Jacobson Schwartz, a renowned economist and statistician. And the list goes on and on. 
 But at the top of the totem pole for their contributions to man's progress and to human understanding comes Milton Friedman, and his wife, Rose D. Friedman. This week, a giant fete is being held in their honor (nominally about his 90th birthday, although he actually turned 93 in July) in Los Angeles. I was to be the master of ceremonies, but I was also needed to preach the good gospel of freedom and gratitude at the University of Utah that night, so I think I will tell a little bit about this giant of a man right now.
In addition to being an emeritus professor of economics at Chicago, where he taught from 1946 to 1976, Milton Friedman is: 
 1. A brilliant mathematician; 
 2. A spectacularly original and insightful economist (winner of one of the first Nobels in economic science, in 1976, when they were being given to truly heavy hitters instead of the uneven selection we sometimes see today); 
 3. A gifted writer;
 4. A tireless crusader for education for the disadvantaged; 
 5. A loyal and helpful friend; and 
 6. Above all, a fearless fighter for individual freedom. 
 His wife has stood by him and collaborated in these triumphs.
 I first came to know Milton and Rose Friedman as something other than pals of my Ma and Pa in 1964-65, when Professor Friedman was, for one fabulous year, the Wesley Clair Mitchell Research Professor of Economics at Columbia, while on leave from his beloved Chicago. I was a junior at Columbia and madly in love with a girl named Cathy, who was at Chicago. On my first visit to Professor Friedman's office, I was lamenting the fact that Cathy was so far away and that I could never possibly find a girl I loved as much in a small town like New York. ''Benjy,'' Professor Friedman said, ''I can tell you as a statistician that if there were only one right woman for every man, they would never find each other. Go out and find someone else.'' It was a flashing insight (and, indeed, I soon found a much more pleasant girlfriend named Mary right across the street at Barnard).
 A few days later, when I was crossing Broadway at 116th Street to get to lunch at a Chock full o'Nuts restaurant with Professor Friedman, I urged him to run ahead and cross against the light. ''Benjy,'' he said, ''why should we risk the rest of our lives to save 20 seconds?''
 These were my first hints that I was in the presence of genius. Although he was working in the graduate school, Professor Friedman let me be a pupil. If memory serves, the text we used was the book he had written with Dr. Schwartz (one of the truly great unsung heroes of economics and my late mother's best friend at Barnard), ''The Monetary History of the United States.'' This book was the culmination of their analysis of the connection between the quantity of money and business cycles in the United States economy.
 Until ''The Monetary History,'' the prevailing view of economists was that the supply of money affected the price level but not the real level of economic activity. By dint of painstaking research and formulas, Professor Friedman and Dr. Schwartz showed that changes in the money supply greatly affected real levels of output and employment.
 The main thesis of the book was that the Great Depression had been caused not by changes in tariff laws (always a questionable notion at best), not by the stock market crash (even more questionable), but by catastrophically wrongheaded decisions by the Federal Reserve Board in the period 1929-33 and again in 1936-37. The Fed -- obsessed with fears of inflation even as the economy was collapsing -- shrank the money supply drastically and basically choked the life out of the economy. (There was also a fascinating ethnic and racial angle to the story, which Professor Friedman later related to me: certain potentates at the Fed were doing this in part as an anti-Semitic reaction to the views of a Jewish Fed official named Eugene I. Meyer, who was also owner of The Washington Post and father of Katharine Meyer Graham.)
 In the world of economics, this was a discovery on a par with the theory of relativity in physics or Copernican astronomy. There is simply no way to exaggerate its importance. The use of the money supply to regulate the economy and to prevent future depressions was largely born of the work by Professor Friedman and Dr. Schwartz. It was, in every way, lifesaving.
 There was an immense additional amount of work by Professor Friedman in economics and econometrics, and much of it had to do with the relation of the price level, monetary aggregates, output and unemployment to each another, and especially the key role of expectations in thwarting economic policy. For this work, he won the Nobel. But economics was just the beginning of his work, along with his wife's.
 In about 1965, the whole world was worshiping at the altar of John F. Kennedy's words, ''Ask not what your country can do for you -- ask what you can do for your country.'' Professor Friedman, in his writing, said that neither was a fitting question in a free society. People should be asking what they can do for themselves and their friends and communities, not how they can serve the state or what they could get as wards of the state.
 This became the beginning of Professor Friedman's 1980 PBS series ''Free to Choose,'' also about the role of individual freedom in creating a prosperous, politically free society. At a time when the prevailing liberal ethos was all about the state, planning and direction from on high, Professor Friedman and his wife stood up for the glory of the rights and choices of the individual. From the individual, not from the state, came creativity, progress, freedom, prosperity. From the state came oppression and stagnation. While (just as a humble opinion) I see the state having a vital role in securing freedom for minorities, defending the society against aggression, and delivering the mail, Professor Friedman's basic point is certainly correct. (He saw major roles for the state in enforcing antitrust laws and insuring banks and in other areas, too.) One of Professor Friedman's most apt students was Ronald Wilson Reagan, and another is the governor in my home state of California, Arnold Schwarzenegger.
 Now, in the autumn of his life, Professor Friedman works for school choice. He wants to give parents vouchers so they can send their children to better schools, removing them from failing public schools. He wants to end the state's near-monopoly on education, which has produced such disappointing results, especially among the nonrich and nonwhite. He faces an uphill struggle (and we parents of teenagers who refuse to do homework think the return of the lash might be a better innovation), but he is in there pitching for giving poor people the same choices rich people have in education. It can hardly be worse than what we have today.
 THERE are a few really great names in standing up for the individual in a world where the beautiful people always seem to want the state to tell us how to live -- William F. Buckley; Robert L. Bartley, the late editor of the Wall Street Journal's editorial page; and Mr. Reagan -- but they all pale before the brain power and ingenuity of Milton and Rose Friedman. If we have a free society today, if we have avoided anything close to another Great Depression, if we have prosperity and fairly stable prices, we owe much of it to Milton Friedman. If we have a free market economy that will yet pull us through our many travails and will be the beacon of hope to the whole world, if we still have a majority of the economy not in the hands of the state, much of the credit goes to Milton Friedman. 
 It is not a stretch to say that when great buildings of Manhattan have vanished, intelligent people will still find inspiration in the works of Milton Friedman. He will be in a pantheon of economists along with Adam Smith, David Ricardo and John Stuart Mill. And he helped me find a girlfriend and kept me from getting run over. Happy birthday, Professor Friedman, and many more to come.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by James Yang)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (73%); BUDGETS (72%) Economics; Biographical Information

COMPANY: MILTON CORP LTD (91%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%); UNIVERSITY OF UTAH (55%)

TICKER: MLT (ASX) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%)

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (90%) Milton Friedman; Rose Friedman; Ben Stein

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2005



84 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1242 words

HEADLINE: What Would J.F.K. Have Done?

BYLINE: By Theodore C. Sorensen and Arthur Schlesinger Jr.. 
Theodore C. Sorensen and Arthur Schlesinger Jr. were, respectively, special counsel and special assistant to , President John F. Kennedy.

 BODY:
WHAT did we not hear from President Bush when he spoke last week at the United States Naval Academy about his strategy for victory in Iraq?
 We did not hear that the war in Iraq, already one of the costliest wars in American history, is a running sore. We did not hear that it has taken more than 2,000 precious American lives and countless -- because we do not count them -- Iraqi civilian lives. We did not hear that the struggle has dragged on longer than our involvement in either World War I or the Spanish-American War, or that by next spring it will be even longer than the Korean War.
And we did not hear how or when the president plans to bring our forces back home -- no facts, no numbers on America troop withdrawals, no dates, no reference to our dwindling coalition, no reversal of his disdain for the United Nations, whose help he still expects. 
 Neither our military, our economy nor our nation can take that kind of endless and remorseless drain for an only vaguely defined military and political mission. If we leave early, the president said, catastrophe might follow. But what of the catastrophe that we are prolonging and worsening by our continued presence, including our continued, unforgivable mistreatment of detainees? 
 Each month that America continues its occupation facilitates Al Qaeda's recruitment of young Islamic men and women as suicide bombers, the one weapon against which our open society has no sure defense. The president says we should support our troops by staying the course; but who is truly willing to support our troops by bringing them safely home? 
 The responsibility for devising an exit plan rests primarily not with the war's opponents, but with the president who hastily launched a pre-emptive invasion without enough troops to secure Iraq's borders and arsenals, without enough armor to protect our forces, without enough allied support and without adequate plans for either a secure occupation or a timely exit. 
 As we listened to Mr. Bush's speech, our thoughts raced back four decades to another president, John F. Kennedy. In 1963, the last year of his life, we watched from front-row seats as Kennedy tried to figure out how best to extricate American military advisers and instructors from Vietnam. 
 Although neither of us had direct responsibility on Vietnam decision-making, we each saw enough of the president to sense his growing frustration. In typical Kennedy fashion, he would lean back, in his Oval Office rocker, tick off all his options and then critique them: 
 Renege on the previous Eisenhower commitment, which Kennedy had initially reinforced, to help the beleaguered government of South Vietnam with American military instructors and advisers? 
 No, he knew that the American people would not permit him to do that. 
 Americanize the Vietnam civil war, as the military recommended and as his successor Lyndon Johnson sought ultimately to do, by sending in American combat units? 
 No, having learned from his experiences with Cuba and elsewhere that conflicts essentially political in nature did not lend themselves to a military solution, Kennedy knew that the United States could not prevail in a struggle against a Vietnamese people determined to oust, at last, all foreign troops from their country. 
 Moreover, he knew firsthand from his World War II service in the South Pacific the horrors of war and had declared at American University in June 1963: ''This generation of Americans has had enough -- more than enough -- of war.'' 
 Declare ''victory and get out,'' as George Aiken, the Republican senator from Vermont, would famously suggest years later? 
 No, in 1963 in Vietnam, despite assurances from field commanders, there was no more semblance of ''victory'' than there was in 2004 in Iraq when the president gave his ''mission accomplished'' speech on the deck of an aircraft carrier. 
 Explore, as was always his preference, a negotiated solution? 
 No, he was unable to identify in the ranks of the disorganized Vietcong a leader capable of negotiating enforceable and mutually agreeable terms of withdrawal. 
 Insist that the South Vietnamese government improve its chances of survival by genuinely adopting the array of political, economic, land and administrative reforms necessary to win popular support? 
 No, Kennedy increasingly realized that the corrupt family and landlords propping up the dictatorship in South Vietnam would never accept or enforce such reforms. 
 Eventually he began to understand that withdrawal was the viable option. From the spring of 1963 on, he began to articulate the elements of a three-part exit strategy, one that his assassination would prevent him from pursuing. The three components of Kennedy's exit strategy -- well-suited for Iraq after the passage of a new constitution and the coming election -- can be summarized as follows:
 Make clear that we're going to get out. At a press conference on Nov. 14, 1963, the president did just that, stating, ''That is our object, to bring Americans home.'' 
 Request an invitation to leave. Arrange for the host government to request the phased withdrawal of all American military personnel -- surely not a difficult step in Iraq, especially after the clan statement last month calling for foreign forces to leave. In a May 1963 press conference, Kennedy declared that if the South Vietnamese government suggested it, ''we would have some troops on their way home'' the next day. 
 Bring the troops home gradually. Initiate a phased American withdrawal over an unannounced period, beginning immediately, while intensifying the training of local security personnel, bearing in mind that with our increased troop mobility and airlift capacity, American forces are available without being stationed in hazardous areas. In September 1963, Kennedy said of the South Vietnamese: ''In the final analysis, it is their war. They are the ones who have to win it or lose it.'' A month later, he said, ''It would be our hope to lessen the number of Americans'' in Vietnam by the end of the year. 
 President Kennedy had no guarantee that any of these three components would succeed. In the ''fog of war,'' there are no guarantees; but an exit plan without guarantees is better than none at all. 
 If we leave Iraq at its own government's request, our withdrawal will be neither abandonment nor retreat. Law-abiding Iraqis may face more clan violence, Balkanization and foreign incursions if we leave; but they may face more clan violence, Balkanization and foreign incursions if we stay. The president has said we will not leave Iraq to the terrorists. Let us leave Iraq to the Iraqis, who have survived centuries of civil war, tyranny and attempted foreign domination. 
 Once American troops are out of Iraq, people around the world will rejoice that we have recovered our senses. What's more, the killing of Americans and the global loss of American credibility will diminish. As Senator Chuck Hagel of Nebraska, a Republican and Vietnam veteran, said, ''The longer we stay, the more problems we're going to have.'' Defeatist? The real defeatists are those who say we are stuck there for the next decade of death and destruction.
 In a memorandum to President Kennedy, roughly three months after his inauguration, one of us wrote with respect to Vietnam, ''There is no clearer example of a country that cannot be saved unless it saves itself.'' Today, Iraq is an even clearer example.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 3, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An Op-Ed article on Nov. 25 about a Senate resolution to honor Bruce Springsteen misspelled the given name of one of its sponsors. It is Jon Corzine, not John. 
 An Op-Ed article on Dec. 4 about what President Bush could learn from John F. Kennedy misstated the year of Mr. Bush's ''mission accomplished'' speech aboard an aircraft carrier. It was 2003, not 2004.
 Frank Rich's column on Dec. 25 about the ''war on Christmas'' referred incorrectly to how suspected witches were killed in colonial Salem, Mass. Nineteen were hanged, and one was pressed to death. None were burned.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NAVIES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); VIETNAM WAR (89%); CIVIL WAR (78%); KOREAN WAR (78%); WORLD WAR I (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); HISTORY (72%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (65%); AL-QAEDA (65%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (65%); RELIGION (50%) Vietnam War; United States Armament and Defense; Vietnam War

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES NAVAL ACADEMY (91%); AL-QAEDA (54%); UNITED NATIONS (56%) United States Naval Academy (Annapolis, Md)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (84%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%) Theodore C Sorensen; Arthur M Jr Schlesinger; John Fitzgerald (1917-63) Kennedy; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (58%) MARYLAND, USA (79%); MARYLAND USA (58%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (96%); VIET NAM (92%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2005



85 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1228 words

HEADLINE: Hmmm. What's This Alternative Tax? Hey, Wait! Ouch!

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
DO House Republicans harbor some sort of deep rage against moderately affluent families with lots of children?
 Maybe not, but take a close look at the $56 billion package of tax cuts that House leaders hope to pass before Christmas, and you have to wonder.
If it were to become law, any family with two or more children and an income of $100,000 ought to run for the hills.
 Sift out dozens of nickel-and-dime provisions, and the essence of the House bill comes down to one provision that it includes and one that it omits.
 What the bill includes is a two-year extension of President Bush's tax cuts for stock dividends and capital gains. Those provisions don't expire until the end of 2008, but the extension would cost $20 billion and is by far the most expensive provision in the House bill. 
 More striking is what the bill does not include: any provision to prevent a surge in the alternative minimum tax, or A.M.T., next year.
 The alternative minimum tax is a topic that makes most people's eyes glaze over until it hits them personally. And if Congress makes no change, it will hit about 15 million new households in 2006 -- with a surprise tax surcharge averaging about $2,000.
 The A.M.T. was created in 1969 to stop the very richest taxpayers from using tax breaks to avoid all or most of their income taxes. But it is set to engulf millions of families with fairly modest incomes, for two reasons: it isn't indexed to inflation and it has a perverse interaction with President Bush's tax cuts of 2001 and 2003. They lowered normal income taxes but not the alternative minimum tax. If the A.M.T. turns out to be higher than the ordinary income tax, a person has to pay the higher amount. 
 For several years now, Congress has ducked the problem by passing temporary fixes that slowed down the expansion of the A.M.T. But those remedies are more expensive each year, and the one for 2006 would cost at least $27 billion.
 If Congress does nothing, the alternative minimum tax will kick in for millions of families, preventing them from taking exemptions for each of their children, deductions for state and local taxes and scores of other common tax breaks. 
 As a result, its biggest impact would be on a classic Republican demographic: affluent families with roomy homes, two cars, high-achievers and lots of children. Think of leafy suburbs like Morristown, N.J.; New Canaan, Conn.; Shaker Heights, Ohio; or Winnetka and Glencoe on the north shore of Chicago.
 The alternative minimum tax becomes relevant for married couples who make as little as $58,000 a year. It applies a flat rate of 26 percent on the first $175,000 in earnings, and it strips out most standard tax breaks.
 According to calculations by the Tax Policy Center, a joint venture of the Brookings Institution and the Urban Institute, here is what would happen for 2006 tax bills if no changes take place:
 Thirty percent of the 12 million households that earn between $75,000 and $100,000 -- about 3.7 million tax filers -- would be hit with a tax increase. Since only 1 percent of people in that income range were affected in 2005, a lot of them would be in for a shock. 
 Married couples with two or more children would be the most vulnerable: about 73 percent with incomes between $75,000 and $100,000 would face a tax increase.
 The total number of people paying the alternative minimum tax would shoot from 3.5 million this year to 18.9 million in 2006 and 30.9 million in 2010.
 Why would House Republicans support tax changes that seem like a recipe for political self-destruction?
 It is tempting, but probably false, to suspect that they seek revenge against Democratic-leaning states.
 It is true that the alternative minimum tax hits primarily Democratic ''blue states'' on the East and West Coasts. New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, Massachusetts and California have by far the highest percentage of households who pay the A.M.T.
 That is partly because many of those states have higher tax burdens, but mostly because those states have the highest concentrations of wealthy people.
 But life is not so simple. All these states have Republicans as well as Democrats in Congress, and the Republican chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, Bill Thomas, is from California.
 The more plausible explanation is that House Republicans have no intention of letting the A.M.T. run wild and are mainly thinking of tactics. But as a rival Senate bill makes clear, Republicans face a serious fiscal and political dilemma.
 The Senate bill offers $63 billion in tax cuts, and almost half of that would be for a one-year patch to the alternative minimum tax.
 But largely because that fix costs so much, Democrats and a pivotal Republican moderate senator -- Olympia J. Snowe of Maine -- forced the Senate's Republican leaders to drop the extension of President Bush's tax cut for dividends.
 Both the tax cut for stock dividends and relief from the alternative minimum tax benefit the wealthy. But because the overwhelming bulk of stock dividends flow to the wealthiest five percent of households, the House bill is skewed more than the Senate bill to the superrich.
 The Tax Policy Center calculated that 51.3 percent of the House bill's tax package would flow to the top 1 percent of filers, people with average annual incomes of $1.1 million. Put another way: half the entire tax cut would go to about 1.4 million households.
 The Senate bill is also stacked in favor of the wealthy, but not nearly as much. Because it emphasizes the alternative minimum tax, only about 12 percent of the tax cuts would flow to those with million-dollar incomes, and about 23 percent would go to households with incomes below $100,000.
 Why would House Republicans have such lopsided priorities? The main reason has to do with tactics.
 The House and Senate tax bills are part of the budget ''reconciliation'' process, which means that the Senate can approve the final bill with a simple majority of 51 rather than the 60 votes that are normally needed to prevent a filibuster.
 Many lawmakers figure that Mr. Thomas is simply packing the most difficult measures into the reconciliation bill, anticipating that he can win easy passage of a separate measure that offers relief from the alternative minimum tax. Even if that legislation needed 60 votes in the Senate, Democrats would be loath to block it with a filibuster.
 The problem with that strategy is that Congress would be piling on tax cuts that add to the deficit, when Republicans on all sides are worried about charges of being fiscally irresponsible. Instead of $60 billion in tax cuts, the total could swell to $90 billion.
 Mr. Thomas has told colleagues that he wants to permanently fix the alternative minimum tax as part of a more sweeping tax overhaul. 
 That could be a much more thoughtful and fiscally responsible solution, especially if the cost of fixing the problem were offset by cleaning up the breaks for special interests that pervade the tax code.
 But Republicans don't even agree among themselves about what an overhaul should look like, and almost none have expressed enthusiasm for the recent recommendations by President Bush's advisory panel on tax reform. Lawmakers will be particularly jittery with elections next November.
 For Mr. Thomas, not to mention President Bush, there may not be any happy choices

CORRECTION-DATE: December 11, 2005

 CORRECTION:
The Economic View column last Sunday, about the impact of the alternative minimum tax, referred incorrectly to the Congressional delegation of Massachusetts, a state that has one of the highest percentages of households that pay the A.M.T. It is made up entirely of Democrats; it has no Republicans.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Ed Schnurr)
Chart: ''Here Comes the A.M.T.''If Congress does nothing to change the rules, about 15 million additional taxpayers will be paying more to the I.R.S. for 2006 because of the alternative minimum tax. Many of the hardest hit will be two-income families with children.Percentage of married filers with $75,000 to $100,000 income* paying the alternative minimum taxNUMBER OF CHILDREN+: 02005 TAX YEAR: 0.6%2006 TAX YEAR: 39.1%NUMBER OF CHILDREN+: 12005 TAX YEAR: 0.52006 TAX YEAR: 51.8NUMBER OF CHILDREN+: 2 or more2005 TAX YEAR: 1.82006 TAX YEAR: 73.4*Adjusted gross income in 2005 dollars.+Number of exemptions taken for children living at home.(Source by Tax Policy Center)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX LAW (92%); FAMILY (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (78%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); DIVIDENDS (74%); MARRIAGE (73%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (70%); BONDS (64%) Taxation; Alternative Minimum Tax; Tax Credits, Deductions and Exemptions; Stocks and Bonds; Capital Gains Tax; Taxation

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%) Edmund L Andrews; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2005



86 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2515 words

HEADLINE: Abundant Energy or Floating Bombs?

BYLINE: By SUSAN WARNER

DATELINE: LOGAN TOWNSHIP 

 BODY:
A FRIGID wind rips up the Delaware River and across the mucky shoreline, rustling the marsh grass. The chill makes the battle over British Petroleum's plan to build a $600 million terminal to receive liquefied natural gas from Trinidad all the more biting. 
 As New Jersey residents hunker down for a long winter and brace for soaring energy prices, BP is quick to remind whoever chooses to listen that its proposed facility, which the company hopes to have up and running by 2008 here in Gloucester County, will help temper those bills in the years ahead.
So convincing is the energy giant that the notion of a facility to store and process liquefied natural gas, or L.N.G., has won the support of top state officials, including Jon S. Corzine, the governor elect. The state is even backing BP in a United States Supreme Court case challenging Delaware's efforts to block the project. On Monday, the Court decided to hear the dispute.
 Opponents of the proposed terminal call L.N.G. tankers ''floating bombs'' and contend that an accident or terror attack could set off a conflagration along this heavily industrialized stretch of the Delaware River separating New Jersey from Pennsylvania and Delaware, which is lined with oil refineries, hazardous chemical plants and the Salem and Hope Creek nuclear plants. 
 ''If, God forbid, anything happened, there would be a domino effect up and down the river,'' said Bob Grant, a retired truck driver from Logan Township who used to haul hazardous materials in and out of plants along the river.
 Mr. Grant's concerns are shared by Sharon Finlayson, chairwoman the New Jersey Environmental Federation, who says the benefits of liquefied natural gas are not worth the risk. ''We've had spills on the river and other accidents that were supposed to be one-in-a-million,'' Ms. Finlayson said. ''Then all of a sudden it happens. The dangers are real and have to be taken seriously.''
 After two years of debate over the wisdom of placing the facility along this stretch of river at a site known as Crown Landing, the Coast Guard on Thursday issued a preliminary finding in support of BP's proposal. After that, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission will decide whether to approve the terminal.
 Already, New Jersey and BP, which has a lease with an option to buy the site from Sunoco Inc., have arrived at a comfortable working relationship. State officials have offered to build and take ownership of a pier that would stretch 1,900 feet into the river. The terminal itself would consist of three storage tanks measuring 250 feet in diameter and 175 feet high. Only about 40 acres of the sprawling site, where soybeans currently grow, would be developed, leaving more than 130 acres as a buffer. In return, the state is asking BP to pay $50 million to $100 million to quasi-public agencies to manage the pier as well as to finance state economic-development projects in the area.
 In addition, BP has donated 130 acres of waterfront land six miles upriver, in Paulsboro, to develop a deepwater port that will be managed by the South Jersey Port Corporation.
 But Delaware has strenuously opposed construction of the pier, contending that under a pre-Colonial pact, it controls the riverbed up to the New Jersey shoreline. For its part, New Jersey argues it is protecting its right to control the shoreline. If the Supreme Court agrees that Delaware has the right to control the riverbed, the project could effectively be blocked.
 As winter descends and energy bills rise, the stakes seem clear to struggling homeowners. For the first seven months of 2005, the price of natural gas used in residences averaged $12.34 per thousand cubic feet, compared with $11.59 for all of 2004 and $8.51 for $2003, according to the Energy Information Administration of the federal Department of Energy.
 ''Over the last couple of years, the cost of natural gas in New Jersey has skyrocketed,'' said Paul Fader, counsel to Acting Gov. Richard J. Codey. ''If this plant can come to New Jersey and be environmentally sound and secure, it's something that can benefit New Jersey.''
 Still, residents in Logan and surrounding communities contend that New Jersey has sold them out in order to tap BP for pet development projects. ''I think there is a huge question surrounding why the State of New Jersey jumped right in to rescue BP to ensure this facility is built,'' Ms. Finlayson said. ''It leaves me very uncomfortable.''
 Tony Spadaccini, a Logan resident who is organizing opposition to the terminal, said: ''It's all about money: $50 million-plus. BP has a lot of money to throw around. That's nothing for them.''

'Not Based on Any Facts'
 Despite the opposition and the claims of hidden agendas, Assemblyman John Burzichelli, a Democrat from Paulsboro, dismissed accusations that state officials had traded safety for development.
 ''That is a reach and not based on any facts,'' Mr. Burzichelli said in a recent interview. ''All this noise from a handful of leaders of the opposition is misplaced.''
 L.N.G. is natural gas that has been super-cooled to minus-260 degrees Fahrenheit, reducing the gas by 600 times its original volume. The liquid is then loaded onto tankers and shipped to terminals like the one proposed here, where it is warmed, converted back to gas, and sent to homes and businesses through a network of pipelines. 
 By converting the gas to liquid, tankers can carry much greater volumes long distances. But residents are concerned because the liquefied natural gas can vaporize when exposed to the air and ignite instantaneously. 
 Today, most of the nation's natural gas is delivered by pipeline from fields in the Gulf Coast and from Mexico and Canada. But rising demand has stretched those resources, leading energy companies to turn to liquefied natural gas to increase supply.
 In the 1970's -- when the nation got its first taste of an energy shortage -- liquefied natural gas enjoyed brief popularity, and a handful of terminals opened in the United States. But in the 1980's, energy prices dropped and several natural gas plants in the United States were mothballed.
 Now, most of those plants are back in operation, and dozens of official and informal plans for terminals are cropping up around the nation. For instance, Philadelphia Gas Works has proposed a terminal in a heavily populated section of Northeast Philadelphia that would bring tankers up the Delaware River far north of the Logan site.
 As for the proposed Crown Landing project, Tom Mueller, external affairs director for BP's Crown Landing project, said the company considered other sites on the East Coast, but settled on Logan because it could accommodate deepwater vessels and was relatively remote from large populations. According to BP's application before the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, 82 people live within a mile of the plant and 383 live within two miles.
 ''The remote location we've selected for this site really helps in terms of support that this project has received,'' Mr. Mueller said.
 Yet others question just how remote the facility will be if it is 6 miles north of Wilmington, 14 miles south of Philadelphia, a region with a combined population of at least three million people.
 What also makes the site attractive to BP is the presence of two major natural gas pipelines that cross the site, although a new 11-mile line would have to be built under the river to Pennsylvania, according to BP's plans. But it all comes down to supply and demand.
 As Mr. Mueller explained, New Jersey and the rest of the Northeast sit at a ''pinch point'' in the distribution network of natural gas, which comes north in pipelines from the Gulf of Mexico. ''There's growth all along from here to Texas, and those states are pulling off greater volumes of gas each year,'' he said. ''It is becoming more and more difficult to make it here in sufficient volumes to meet the growing demand.''
 Bradley M. Campbell, commissioner of the State Department of Environmental Protection, says the terminal may actually benefit the environment because the two existing pipelines will reduce the need to build additional lines, and the increased use of natural gas will lower the need for coal and other pollution-causing fossil fuels.
 Interestingly, several large utility companies -- which would receive gas from Crown Landing through the pipeline system -- have objected to the facility, contending that industrial and residential systems in the Northeast may not be compatible with the gas to be imported from overseas.
 In a letter to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Public Service Electric and Gas, wrote: ''This region is not only heavily industrialized and populated, but it is home to various high-tech industries, including the pharmaceutical industry, which is heavily dependent on consistent gas quality.''

Resolving Safety Concerns
 Lauren Siegal, BP's vice president for the Crown Landing project, said that those concerns could be addressed by mixing other gases into the product in Logan, or along the pipeline.
 ''The gas that goes into the pipeline will meet pipeline specs and we will not deviate,'' Ms. Siegal said. ''If they're looking for additional assurances, when we're closer to operating the facility they will have all their issues resolved.''
 Still, the biggest concern about the gas plant is safety, despite the industry's relatively unblemished record.
 The nation's first liquefied natural gas plant opened in Cleveland in 1941, and three years later 128 people died and a neighborhood was leveled when gas seeped into the sewer system and exploded. In 1973, an explosion at a liquefied natural gas storage facility on Staten Island killed 37 construction workers, and in 1979 a leak at a plant in Maryland lead to an explosion in an electrical control room that killed a worker.
 As for tanker safety, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission noted that during 33,000 shipments of liquefied natural gas over the last 40 years, there has not been one serious accident. Still, since the Sept. 11 attacks and the bombing of the U.S.S. Cole in 2000, port security has become a growing concern.
 To address security issues related to liquefied natural gas, the Department of Energy commissioned a report by Sandia Laboratories in New Mexico that lays out various scenarios for the potential damage from an accident involving a tanker or terminal as well as an intentional attack. The report, made public a year ago, described six scenarios, the most likely one involving radiant heat that could spread about one-third of a mile and cause second- and third-degree burns.
 In a worst-case scenario, an attack on a tanker could lead to the release of the liquid that would immediately become a vapor plume upon contact with the outside air and extend nearly three miles from the site. Under certain circumstances, the gas could then ignite, generating a fireball large enough to imperil Wilmington, the Delaware Memorial Bridge or the nearby Hope Creek and Salem nuclear reactors.
 Capt. David Scott, commander of the Coast Guard's Delaware Bay sector, said an intentional attack is more worrisome than the possibility of an accident involving the tankers, which are double-hulled.
 ''It would take an extraordinary thing to be able to breech the inner and outer hull and compromise a tanker, but it is not impossible to do,'' Captain Scott said. ''I think with intelligently applied security measures we can reduce the risk to an acceptable level with security procedures.''
 Alan Muller, director of Green Delaware, an environmental organization opposed to the facility, said the question becomes, ''What is acceptable?''
 ''I don't want to have to worry about the effects on my property values of people seeing these floating bombs moving up and down the river,'' Mr. Muller said. ''If you look at the measures that would need to be taken if you are serious about protecting these ships, we are going to have cops up and down the river and people kept out of the public parks and a whole series of repressive measures laid on communities.''
 For their part, Delaware officials have vetoed the plan under what they say is their right to block projects that would harm the environment up to the Delaware River shoreline.
 ''This has high potential for environmental impact,'' said Jane Brady, Delaware's attorney general. ''We've declined people who wanted to do this on our own shores, and we don't believe New Jersey should be allowed to engage in this kind of activity.''
 But Ms. Siegal said BP has done a thorough analysis of all the safety and security concerns, and was willing to hire boats to protect the tankers as they come upriver, build security systems to protect the terminal and develop emergency procedures to shut the facility.
 ''We have been proactive with everything from detectors and monitoring systems to engaging in collaborative plans with local police and state-level security,'' she said.
 With combined scrutiny of the Coast Guard, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and state officials, Ms. Siegal said, the project would be safe. ''I don't know of any other material, in any other industry, that has undergone this level of monitoring,'' she said.
 Moreover, Mr. Mueller of BP pointed out that the plant would help improve the economy of the region by generating 550 construction jobs and 50 to 60 full-time jobs once the plant was opened. More important, said Mr. Fader, counsel to Mr. Codey, the availability of a new energy source would help keep costs down, particularly if electrical generation converted to the use of more liquefied natural gas.
 Ms. Siegal acknowledged that BP would have preferred to own the pier rather than lease it from the state, but Mr. Fader said state officials came up with the idea to own the pier as a way to gain more economic development rents from BP and to enhance the case against Delaware before the Supreme Court.

A Matter of Liability
 For his part, Mr. Spadaccini, the Logan resident opposed to the facility, said he was concerned that the state's ownership could lead to taxpayer liability in the event of an incident at the terminal. ''The state is really jeopardizing the taxpayers of New Jersey if one of these things blows up,'' he said.
 But Mr. Fader countered that the state would craft a leasing agreement shifting liability to BP, saying, ''That is a legal hurdle that can be jumped with good lawyering.''
 To Ms. Finlayson of the New Jersey Environmental Federation, the debate over the project misses the point. She says that if $600 million were invested in research into alternative energy sources, there might be little demand for liquefied natural gas, and that becoming dependent on imported natural gas could lead to the same geopolitical problems that have gripped the United States as a result of its thirst for imported oil.
 ''They're putting all this money into ensuring this is built,'' she said. ''All we are doing is creating a reliance on this energy source when I believe there are better, safer alternatives.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: British Petroleum hopes to build a natural gas terminal in Logan Township, above, where two major pipelines already exist. The area is along the Delaware River, left. (Photographs by Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 Top, a view of the Delaware River where a 1,900-foot pier is to be built. A sign marks the site of the proposed terminal. Above left, Tom Mueller, a director of the BP project. Left, Bob Grant, who once hauled hazardous materials. (Photographs by Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. 12)Map of New Jersey highlights the proposed Crown Landing LNG facility. (pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHEMICAL ACCIDENTS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); MARINE TANKERS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); ENERGY REGULATION (73%); RIVERS (73%); LITIGATION (73%); HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TRANSPORT (72%); TERRORISM (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (72%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (71%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (71%); APPROVALS (71%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (69%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); SUPREME COURTS (68%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (67%) Gas (Fuel); Accidents and Safety; Terrorism; Suits and Litigation; Gas (Fuel)

COMPANY: BP PLC (92%); SUNOCO INC (61%)

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (56%) British Petroleum Co Plc

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (92%); BP (LSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (92%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (92%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (92%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (61%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (61%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (76%) Jon S (Sen) Corzine; Susan Warner

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); DELAWARE, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) Delaware River; Logan Township (NJ); Delaware

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2005



87 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 4, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1263 words

HEADLINE: Bush's Speech On Iraq Echoes Analyst's Voice 

BYLINE: By SCOTT SHANE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 3 

 BODY:
There could be no doubt about the theme of President Bush's Iraq war strategy speech on Wednesday at the Naval Academy. He used the word victory 15 times in the address; ''Plan for Victory'' signs crowded the podium he spoke on; and the word heavily peppered the accompanying 35-page National Security Council document titled, ''Our National Strategy for Victory in Iraq.''
 Although White House officials said many federal departments had contributed to the document, its relentless focus on the theme of victory strongly reflected a new voice in the administration: Peter D. Feaver, a Duke University political scientist who joined the N.S.C. staff as a special adviser in June and has closely studied public opinion on the war.
Despite the president's oft-stated aversion to polls, Dr. Feaver was recruited after he and Duke colleagues presented the administration with an analysis of polls about the Iraq war in 2003 and 2004. They concluded that Americans would support a war with mounting casualties on one condition: that they believed it would ultimately succeed. 
 That finding, which is questioned by other political scientists, was clearly behind the victory theme in the speech and the plan, in which the word appears six times in the table of contents alone, including sections titled ''Victory in Iraq is a Vital U.S. Interest'' and ''Our Strategy for Victory is Clear.''
 ''This is not really a strategy document from the Pentagon about fighting the insurgency,'' said Christopher F. Gelpi, Dr. Feaver's colleague at Duke and co-author of the research on American tolerance for casualties. ''The Pentagon doesn't need the president to give a speech and post a document on the White House Web site to know how to fight the insurgents. The document is clearly targeted at American public opinion.'' 
 Dr. Gelpi said he had not discussed the document with Dr. Feaver, who declined to be interviewed.
 Dr. Feaver, 43, who is also a lieutenant commander in the United States Naval Reserve, wrote three books on civilian-military relations. He worked on military issues on President Clinton's National Security Council staff in 1993 and 1994, but he has written critically of Mr. Clinton and other Democrats and sympathetically of President Bush in The New York Times and other publications. 
 Last year in an op-ed article in The Washington Post, noting Mr. Bush's determination to invade Iraq in 2003 in the face of doubts, Dr. Feaver wrote, ''Determined commanders in chief have the mind-set and the resolve to act in spite of the political climate and military resistance.'' 
 He was recruited by the White House this year as public support for the war declined steadily in the face of mounting casualties and costs. A Newsweek poll this month showed that just 30 percent of those interviewed said they approved of the president's handling of the war, while 65 percent disapproved -- an almost exact reversal of the numbers in May 2003, shortly after the toppling of Saddam Hussein.
 A CNN/USA Today/Gallup poll conducted Wednesday underscored the need for a clear, straightforward summary of the administration's Iraq policy. Asked whether they thought President Bush had a plan to achieve victory in Iraq, 55 percent said no and 41 percent said yes.
 Based on their study of poll results from the first two years of the war, Dr. Gelpi, Dr. Feaver and Jason Reifler, then a Duke graduate student, took issue with what they described as the conventional wisdom since the Vietnam War -- that Americans will support military operations only if American casualties are few.
 They found that public tolerance for the human cost of combat depended on two factors: a belief that the war was a worthy cause, and even more important, a belief that the war was likely to be successful.
 In their paper, ''Casualty Sensitivity and the War in Iraq,'' which is to be published soon in the journal International Security, Dr. Feaver and his colleagues wrote: ''Mounting casualties did not produce a reflexive collapse in public support. The Iraq case suggests that under the right conditions, the public will continue to support military operations even when they come with a relatively high human cost.''
 The role of Dr. Feaver in preparing the strategy document came to light through a quirk of technology. In a portion of the document usually hidden from public view but accessible with a few keystrokes, the plan posted on the White House Web site showed the document's originator, or ''author'' in the software's designation, to be ''feaver-p.'' 
 According to Matt Rozen, a spokesman for Adobe Systems, which makes the Acrobat software used to prepare the document, that entry indicated that Dr. Feaver created the original document that, with additions and editing, was posted on the Web. There is no way to know from the text how much he wrote.
 Asked about who wrote the document, a White House official said Dr. Feaver had helped conceive and draft the plan, though the official said a larger role belonged to another N.S.C. staff member, Meghan L. O'Sullivan, the deputy national security adviser for Iraq and Afghanistan, and her staff. The official would describe the individual roles only on condition of anonymity because his superiors wanted the strategy portrayed as a unified administration position. 
 Frederick Jones, an N.S.C. spokesman, said the document ''reflects the broad interagency effort under way in Iraq'' and ''incorporates all aspects of American power,'' including political and economic as well as military efforts. He said major contributions to the plan came from the Departments of Defense, State, Treasury and Homeland Security, as well as the director of National Intelligence. In his news briefing on Wednesday, the White House spokesman, Scott McClellan, characterized the document as an unclassified, publicly accessible explanation of strategies that the administration has been pursuing in Iraq since 2003.
 In a news briefing from Iraq on Friday, Lt. Gen. Martin Dempsey, the top American military official in charge of training Iraqi troops, surprised some reporters by saying he first saw ''Our Strategy for Victory in Iraq'' when it was released to the public on Wednesday.
 The White House official said that while not all top officers in Iraq had necessarily seen the strategy document, Gen. Peter Pace, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said Thursday, ''I have had multiple opportunities to read this document, to critique it, to send it back,'' with the goal of making ''sure that what it says is a) accurate, and b) executable.''
 The Feaver-Gelpi hypothesis on public opinion about the war is the subject of serious debate among political scientists. John Mueller, of Ohio State University, said he did not believe that the president's speech or the victory plan -- which he described as ''very Feaverish, or Feaveresque'' -- could produce more than a fleeting improvement in public support for the war, because it was likely to erode further as casualties accumulated.
 ''As the costs go up, support goes down,'' he said, citing patterns from the Korean and Vietnam wars.
 Dr. Gelpi, of Duke, said approval of the president's handling of the war was probably close to being as low as it could go, because his core supporters were unlikely ever to abandon him. But he said the poll numbers were likely to improve only if enough Americans saw evidence that the Iraq strategy was succeeding.
 Dr. Gelpi added, however, that the speech and the strategy document ''hit exactly on the themes our research said they should.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush used the word victory 15 times in a speech about Iraq at the United States Naval Academy, reflecting public opinion research. (Photo by Doug Mills/ The New York Times)(pg. 45)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); NAVIES (89%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (89%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); POLITICS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); WRITERS (63%); TERRORISM (62%) Public Opinion; Terrorism; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (83%); UNITED STATES NAVAL ACADEMY (90%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (83%) National Security Council

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (51%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (51%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (93%) Scott Shane; George W (Pres) Bush; Peter D Feaver; Christopher F Gelpi

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2005



88 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: The Joyless Economy

BYLINE: By Paul Krugman

 BODY:
Falling gasoline prices have led to some improvement in consumer confidence over the past few weeks. But the public remains deeply unhappy about the state of the economy. According to the latest Gallup poll, 63 percent of Americans rate the economy as only fair or poor, and by 58 to 36 percent people say economic conditions are getting worse, not better.
 Yet by some measures, the economy is doing reasonably well. In particular, gross domestic product is rising at a pretty fast clip. So why aren't people pleased with the economy's performance? 
Like everything these days, this is a political as well as factual question. The Bush administration seems genuinely puzzled that it isn't getting more credit for what it thinks is a booming economy. So let me be helpful here and explain what's going on.
 I could point out that the economic numbers, especially the job numbers, aren't as good as the Bush people imagine. President Bush made an appearance in the Rose Garden to hail the latest jobs report, yet a gain of 215,000 jobs would have been considered nothing special -- in fact, a bit subpar -- during the Clinton years. And because the average workweek shrank a bit, the total number of hours worked actually fell last month.
 But the main explanation for economic discontent is that it's hard to convince people that the economy is booming when they themselves have yet to see any benefits from the supposed boom. Over the last few years G.D.P. growth has been reasonably good, and corporate profits have soared. But that growth has failed to trickle down to most Americans. 
 Back in August the Census bureau released family income data for 2004. The report, which was overshadowed by Hurricane Katrina, showed a remarkable disconnect between overall economic growth and the economic fortunes of most American families.
 It should have been a good year for American families: the economy grew 4.2 percent, its best performance since 1999. Yet most families actually lost economic ground. Real median household income -- the income of households in the middle of the income distribution, adjusted for inflation -- fell for the fifth year in a row. And one key source of economic insecurity got worse, as the number of Americans without health insurance continued to rise.
 We don't have comparable data for 2005 yet, but it's pretty clear that the results will be similar. G.D.P. growth has remained solid, but most families are probably losing ground as their earnings fail to keep up with inflation.
 Behind the disconnect between economic growth and family incomes lies the extremely lopsided nature of the economic recovery that officially began in late 2001. The growth in corporate profits has, as I said, been spectacular. Even after adjusting for inflation, profits have risen more than 50 percent since the last quarter of 2001. But real wage and salary income is up less than 7 percent.
 There are some wealthy Americans who derive a large share of their income from dividends and capital gains on stocks, and therefore benefit more or less directly from soaring profits. But these people constitute a small minority. For everyone else the sluggish growth in wages is the real story. And much of the wage and salary growth that did take place happened at the high end, in the form of rising payments to executives and other elite employees. Average hourly earnings of nonsupervisory workers, adjusted for inflation, are lower now than when the recovery began.
 So there you have it. Americans don't feel good about the economy because it hasn't been good for them. Never mind the G.D.P. numbers: most people are falling behind.
 It's much harder to explain why. The disconnect between G.D.P. growth and the economic fortunes of most American families can't be dismissed as a normal occurrence. Wages and median family income often lag behind profits in the early stages of an economic expansion, but not this far behind, and not for so long. Nor, I should say, is there any easy way to place more than a small fraction of the blame on Bush administration policies. At this point the joylessness of the economic expansion for most Americans is a mystery.
 What's clear, however, is that advisers who believe that Mr. Bush can repair his political standing by making speeches telling the public how well the economy is doing have misunderstood the situation. The problem isn't that people don't understand how good things are. It's that they know, from personal experience, that things really aren't that good.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); FAMILY (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (88%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (87%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); AVERAGE WORK WEEK (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (71%); CENSUS (69%); HURRICANE KATRINA (50%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2005



89 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1136 words

HEADLINE: Give the United Nations a Little Competition

BYLINE: By Ruth Wedgwood. 
Ruth Wedgwood is a professor of international law and organizations at Johns Hopkins University.

 BODY:
KOFI ANNAN's term as secretary general of the United Nations has one year to go, and so far he has been unable to deliver on any real institutional reform. 
 Paradoxically, it is a ''high outside'' pitch that could be the most promising route to reform -- recognizing the virtues of outside competition. Monopoly can be corrosive for any institution, and many of the problems addressed by the United Nations can be and have been handled in other forums. Washington and Turtle Bay would both be aided by recognizing the virtues of ''competitive multilateralism.''
 Even after the exposure of corruption in the oil-for-food program, criminal investigations of the procurement process, reports by a ''high-level panel'' and a bipartisan commission, and a summit meeting of heads of state, there still seems to be no momentum for change at the United Nations. Mr. Annan has simply not swayed the General Assembly with his public pronouncement that ''good management is in the interests of everyone.'' 
 The urgency of United Nations reform is easy to diagnose. When resources are scarce for peacekeeping, health and development, it is deadly to keep spinning gold into hay on redundant jobs and expired mandates. Effective use of funds requires transparency and integrity -- and becomes nearly impossible when there is a short-staffed inspector general who cannot disclose reports to member states. The organization's important work in human rights becomes satiric when its human rights commission includes gross abusers like Cuba and Zimbabwe.
 Smug reliance on an aging brand name is a real danger in any organization; this is no less true for the United Nations than for corporate behemoths like General Motors. ''We are acting for the world community,'' is the mantra in Turtle Bay, ''so we must be O.K.'' At one time that might have been enough. But it is no longer 1945. There are countless regional and transnational organizations that set standards, send peacekeepers and monitor human rights.
 The Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the Organization of American States and the African Union all post standards for democratic militaries and human rights. NATO and groups like the Economic Community of West African States supply peacekeepers. Standards are set by international trade and professional associations and independent economic groups like the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision.
 A resort to outside competition is made necessary by the sclerosis of reform inside the United Nations. The place is micro-managed by a General Assembly that is reluctant to change the status quo. Delegating more power to the Secretary General would allow an institutional flexibility that can adapt to changing events. But some voices in the developing world have championed a tactic of control by inefficiency as a way to block the influence of larger members, without seeing that it frustrates the work of the United Nations in their own regions. 
 The United States and Japan may seek to delay the biennial budget. But even if that leads to some short-term changes, in the end the General Assembly will still control the inside rules on perpetual mandates, patronage, document retention and transparency. And unless the Europeans are solidly on board, American proposals for reform will be defeated. 
 The politics of reform are constrained by the regional solipsism that developed over the organization's first 50 years. During the cold war, the Soviet Union solicited members of the Non-Aligned Movement, an official United Nations caucus, to rally support for its positions against the West. Fidel Castro's Cuba lives on, and still gains influence by wrapping its dictatorship in a cloak of Southern solidarity. American diplomats cannot attend the political discussions of the 115-member group. 
 The other major caucus of developing nations, the Group of 77, also meets in private to determine positions. Now tipping the scales with 132 countries, the G-77 can pass or block a measure in the General Assembly entirely on its own. America has friends in both groups, but they often fear breaking with a caucus position lest they lose support on local issues. 
 So the situation seems intractable. But that's no reason to sit on the sidelines and lament, year after year, our inability to improve things. If the United Nations can't reform on its own, America needs to support other multilateral venues. In fact, our seeking parallel paths to international intervention can help the United Nations as well. 
 As the economist Albert O. Hirschman once observed, ''exit'' and ''voice'' are in delicate balance in any successful organization. If threats to exit are casually employed, it drains away impetus to seek internal reform. But if things can't be changed from within, members may need to vote with their feet, one issue at a time. 
 The idea of competitive multilateralism avoids the stark choice of going alone or going to the United Nations. America must still support the purposes of the United Nations; it is a historic alliance, a product of World War II, and remains the only all-inclusive political organization around. America enjoys prerogatives as a permanent Security Council member that would be hard to gain again. But we do have some flexibility in how we choose to approach international cooperation. 
 The United Nations' specialized programs depend on voluntary financing from member states, and we should direct our money to those that are cost-effective. We can also give funds directly to private relief organizations that show initiative, without a bypass through United Nations middle-management. Relief organizations in newly freed East Timor, for example, were hard put to work around a slow-footed United Nations administrative process. 
 On issues where the global organization is impotent or counterproductive, we can make progress through regional organizations and informal coalitions. We can give greater support to regional human rights groups, instead of seeking consensus with political thugs at the Human Rights Commission. We can act in international crises through the Community of Democracies and NATO. 
 We can negotiate treaties in various forums. The Cybercrime Convention was negotiated through the Council of Europe, with the United States and other high-tech nations as added participants. Likewise, the Proliferation Security Initiative, begun by the United States and 10 other countries in 2003, has been successful in countering shipments of weapons of mass destruction despite not having a formal treaty structure. 
 In the Internet age, there is no single venue for cooperation. This is true for politics and business alike. The United Nations may gain a second wind and a youthful gait if it discovers that it has some real competition. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); PEACEKEEPING (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (77%); CORRUPTION (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (64%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (64%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (92%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); ZIMBABWE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2005



90 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; OUTLOOK ON TELECOMMUNICATIONS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1444 words

HEADLINE: At Traditional Phone Companies, Jobs May Not Last a Lifetime 

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
Danny Mathis remembers his first years on the job building phone networks in northern Georgia in the 1970's. Then, Mr. Mathis and other technicians at Southern Bell, the predecessor to BellSouth, used to splice thick cables containing 3,600 pairs of wires, or 7,200 phone lines. He and his team would work all day to connect just two 500-foot sections of cable.
 These days, Mr. Mathis works far more with fiber optic cable. A single hairlike strand can carry 672 phone calls simultaneously, funnel high-speed broadband connections to homes and carry televisions signals. Technicians can splice 500-foot lengths of fiber in about two hours.
''Fiber is a whole different ballgame,'' said Mr. Mathis, 54, whose brother, Robert, 56, and their sons also work at BellSouth. 
 Fiber is also a new game to BellSouth bean counters. Fiber is more durable, so fewer repair crews are needed to maintain it. Engineers can monitor the network remotely and identify problems on computers miles away instead of sending teams of workers to look for cable breaks. As a result, Mr. Mathis's office, about an hour's drive from Atlanta, has five workers repairing cable, down from 17 when he started working there three decades ago.
 ''There probably won't be a whole lot of technicians around when I'm my dad's age,'' said Jeremy Mathis, Danny's 25-year-old son, who joined BellSouth seven years ago and installs and maintains wiring at customers' homes. ''When there's more fiber in, there's a whole lot less work to do.'' 
 The leap from copper cable to fiber is just one of the many changes facing telecommunications companies like BellSouth and the hundreds of thousands of workers they employ. Traditional phone companies are moving from vast and costly networks -- systems that were managed by legions of workers who received long-term job security, decent pay and good benefits -- to new, cheaper technologies that require fewer workers. 
 In years past, phone companies fought each other. Now, the Bells have to fend off not just cable providers rushing into the phone business, but also companies like Skype, a two-year-old European concern that gives away software that lets users place free calls over the Internet. Google plans to give away wireless connections that will compete with the Bells' mobile phone subsidiaries, while AOL, Yahoo and others are introducing their own voice services. Though these companies are growing faster, they typically pay workers far less than the Bells and are more likely to issue pink slips when times get rough.
 While the Bells have the money and technology to replicate these services, they are reluctant to do so because it undermines their existing businesses. ''Older companies are seldom able to exploit the technology of the newer companies,'' said James E. Katz, a telecommunications historian at Rutgers University. ''We can expect the Bells to be increasingly less successful because they have a huge installed base in a technology that is withering on the vine. It's not a viable option to retrain all their people.''
 This clash between old and new has upended the automobile, airline and computer industries to varying degrees as well. Similarly, telecommunications companies are battling deregulation and new advances that have made it easier for entrants to sell voice, data and video services, often for far less than incumbents with their higher-paid work forces and older, fading technologies.
 The Bells and their like are not going to disappear, of course, since someone will still have to operate the phone and broadband networks that software-driven companies like Skype and AOL must use. But as these newer companies make deeper inroads, the Bells are likely to do what most incumbents do: use their significant political power to win over lawmakers.
 The government has stood by as the Bells bought the two biggest long-distance carriers and created the country's two largest cellphone carriers. And lawmakers have acquiesced to their demands for a speedier entry into the television business. The Bells have also won rulings that make it harder for rivals to piggyback on their networks.
 ''In the end there is going to be more regulation, not less,'' said Christiaan Hogendorn, who teaches the economics of technology at Wesleyan University. ''Every infrastructure industry starts with lots of competition and then as competitive issues come up, we get more regulation.''
 Legal solutions, though, will only delay, not reverse, the decline in higher-paying old-line jobs and rise in lower-paying work at new companies, Mr. Hogendorn and others say. They will also do little to ensure that the next generation of the Mathis family will find comparable work in the phone industry. 
 Thanks to union agreements with BellSouth, the Mathis family is luckier than many, with strong benefits, above-average salaries and protection from outright layoffs. But these jobs are becoming scarce. From 1998 to 2003, traditional wire-line companies eliminated 15.5 percent of their jobs, which paid 26 percent more than those in the cable industry, where employment grew 22.6 percent, according to Jeffrey H. Keefe, a researcher at the Economic Policy Institute, a Washington research institute. 
 This year, SBC Communications said it would eliminate 10,000 jobs before it bought AT&T, and it expects to shed another 13,000 jobs as a result of the merger. Verizon expects to cut 7,000 jobs after it merges with MCI, while Qwest has eliminated nearly 15 percent of its jobs in the last two years.
 Over all, the number of telecommunications workers represented by a union has fallen 23 percent since 2000, to 273,000, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
 These jobs are unlikely to return. Not only are start-ups like Vonage attracting customers with cheaper Internet phone lines, but the other Bells are doing what BellSouth has done: installing fiber networks, software-driven routers and other equipment that needs fewer workers to operate.
 The Bells have tried to adapt by changing the way they hire. When Mr. Mathis joined BellSouth, the company sought people with an ability to learn, trained them extensively and assumed they would work there for life. Now, BellSouth seeks workers with more skills in electronics, engineering and, increasingly, sales and marketing.
 ''We still have excellent training programs, but beyond that, it's the ability of the workers to ramp up to speed,'' said Suzanne Snypp, the director for human resources at BellSouth. ''We'd like them to be fully proficient quicker.''
 BellSouth, in coordination with the union, has added job categories like ''digital technician'' to describe the work Danny Mathis does installing and maintaining new digital equipment. It has also added an array of technical classes for its workers.
 This shift from hard hats to pencil pushers will continue. According to forecasts by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, employment in the industry is expected to grow 6.7 percent from 2002 to 2012, yet the number of mechanics, installers and repairers is expected to grow just 2 percent. The number of computer and network engineers will jump 14.5 percent, while sales and retail jobs are expected to increase 16.3 percent.
 Many of these new jobs are in the cellphone industry, which did not exist when AT&T was broken up 1984 but now employs 225,000. Cable providers have another 176,000 workers.
 But many of these workers and others in newer companies are not part of a union, so they tend to earn less for similar work. Unionized customer service representatives, for instance, earn about $40,000 a year, according to Rosemary Batt, a professor at Cornell University, while workers in a nonunion shop make $33,000.
 In the field, union-represented technicians who work on fiber optic networks earn close to $60,000 with benefits and training, according to the Communications Workers of America. Independent contractors might receive up to $21 an hour, or $43,600 a year, yet have to supply their own tools and truck, and they rarely receive benefits.
 While contract workers and those in up-and-coming companies earn less, they are more representative of where the industry is headed. One of the biggest ways that telecommunications companies can compete in a business where prices continue to fall is to cut labor costs.
 At 32, Josh Mathis, Danny Mathis's nephew and an eight-year employee of BellSouth, has already figured this out. He was attracted to the company because of the stability of the work and the benefits, ''But I don't know if I'd recommend my son get into the phone company when he graduates from high school in 10 years,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Robert Mathis, left, and his son, Josh, in a cable vault at a BellSouth office in Rome, Ga. Robert has worked for BellSouth for 31 years. Josh has worked there for eight.
 Jeremy Mathis, left, with his father, Danny. At Danny's BellSouth office, five workers are employed to repair cable, down from 17 when he started three decades ago. (Photographs by Jessica McGowan for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (89%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); INTERNET TELEPHONY (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); BROADBAND (78%); FIBER OPTICS (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: AT&T SOUTHEAST (90%); GOOGLE INC (51%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (90%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (90%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (90%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); ROME, GA, USA (58%) GEORGIA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2005



91 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; OUTLOOK ON THE ECONOMY; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: In Trade Talks, A Stalemate Of Big vs. Small Hangs Heavy

BYLINE: BY DANIEL ALTMAN

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Dec. 4 

 BODY:
After half a century of progress, has the opening of the global trading system finally reached a standstill?
 The World Trade Organization's ministers still hope to agree on a further lowering of trade barriers when they gather here next week. But perceptions, politics and economics are all pushing in the other direction.
 In the end, while plenty of goods and services will certainly continue to flow across borders, the global trading terrain may look very different indeed.
 The stalemate in the current round of talks, which began in Doha, Qatar, in 2001, has clear and immediate causes. Developing countries want rich countries to stop distorting markets for crops. Rich countries want developing countries to open their markets further for services and manufactured goods. Neither group seems ready to meet the other's expectations. 
 But the underlying causes of this impasse are less obvious, and they have been a long time in the making.
 ''Trade rounds work when things are going well elsewhere,'' said Razeen Sally, a senior lecturer in international political economy at the London School of Economics. 
 He said the Uruguay Round of trade talks, which set up the W.T.O. in 1995, rode a tide of economic growth and optimism around the world: the fall of the Berlin Wall; deregulation in the United States; the integration of the European Union; and the early years of the longest boom since the end of the Depression. Besides the opening of China's economy, he said, nothing comparable is happening now to raise interest in trade. 
 These economic factors matter in the political realm, too. ''People have some fear about trade liberalization, and all the more so when the general economic situation is not so prosperous and the outlook not so optimistic,'' said Georg Koopmann, a senior economist specializing in trade at the Hamburg Institute of International Economics.
 This worsens the political imbalance between the pro-trade and anti-trade camps. ''There are vested interest groups resisting, opposing liberalization,'' Mr. Koopmann said, ''and these groups are, in the political arena, frequently more influential than other groups -- like consumers or users of imported goods or services -- who are not making their voice heard as intensely.''
 Mr. Sally added that groups resistant to freer trade for different reasons, like industry lobbies and nongovernmental organizations, had increasingly been coming together. Their agenda has been strengthened by the emergence of three notions that recently gained support in academic and political circles: that trade liberalization should happen first in rich countries; that there is a legitimate argument for protecting infant industries in the developing nations; and that freer trade can hurt those developing countries.
 These ideas run counter to a quid pro quo negotiating process that is going on at the W.T.O. This disconnection, said Robert L. Howse, a professor of law at the University of Michigan who studies trade, may be the deepest problem of all.
 ''There's a basic divide in the perceptions of the goal of the whole exercise,'' he said. While rich countries are thinking in terms of trade-offs for commercial interests, he said, developing countries see the talks as an opportunity to create a level playing field by righting wrongs of the past.
 The disconnection extends to the style of negotiations as well. ''They're determined to make the W.T.O. as an institution work differently,'' Professor Howse said of developing countries like Brazil and India. ''It will no longer be possible, if there's a deal between Brussels and Washington, to push and shove everyone else.''
 Some developing countries tried to make this point by walking out of the last ministerial meeting, in Cancun, Mexico, in 2003. But, Professor Howse said, the message has not been received.
 ''When I see the way people on the European Commission operate, and the reflexes of the negotiators in Washington, they still haven't gotten out of the club approach,'' he said. ''Even though they got a rude shock at Cancun, they really believe that if they can find the magic, then the others will, kicking and screaming, come on board.''
 After the walkout in Cancun, negotiations intensified for bilateral and regional trade agreements outside the W.T.O. The United States signed deals with countries like Morocco, and the European Union has been aggressively pursuing a Mediterranean free-trade area. Just in the last few weeks, South Asian nations have breathed life into long-delayed plans for a commercial union, and Venezuela may soon become a member of the Mercosur bloc of South America.
 Mr. Koopmann argued that these detours from the W.T.O. did not really encourage free trade. ''For instance, agriculture is in most cases exempted from the liberalization schemes,'' he said. ''There is also little in the way of deep integration, that is to say removal of technical barriers to trade, or mutual recognition of standards in the services sector.''
 The pacts often contain arcane rules, Mr. Koopmann said, in an effort to prevent third parties from benefiting from them. And with almost 200 two-party agreements in force, the rules often overlap or are inconsistent between agreements. ''This creates a very complicated system,'' he said. ''It increases transactions costs in international trade and leads to a fragmentation in international trading relations.''
 Yet agreements like these could dominate the future, if the Hong Kong talks fail. Mr. Sally said that a move toward perhaps 10 regional trading blocs was already happening, and he accused the United States and other countries of being more interested in regional blocs than in a broader system.
 ''These won't be completely sealed blocs, because you have these bilateral agreements now,'' he said. ''It's just going to be one unholy mess.''
 In regional blocs, Mr. Sally said, the big traders could still wield disproportionate power over smaller countries, in a sort of hub-and-spoke model. Moreover, bilateral and regional agreements are often used to reward allies or deflect attention from challenges in the domestic sphere. ''It's about a lot more politics in trade,'' he said, ''rather than less politics, which was the whole point of the W.T.O. to begin with.''
 It is no longer clear that most governments are prepared to take on entrenched interests to help advance a freer trade agenda. Indeed, even allowing the W.T.O. to take a more aggressive lead in making the case for trade and expanding opportunity for developing nations could be dangerous ground for the organization, said Keith Rockwell, the organization's top spokesman.
 Mr. Rockwell said governments seemed to want the organization to butt out.
 ''This is a member-driven organization, and we raised this question with members after Seattle,'' he said, referring to failed talks in 1999. ''The universal response was, 'It's for individual governments to do that.' ''


GRAPHIC: Photo: People opposed to the widening of global trade agreements made their feelings known in Cancun, Mexico, as W.T.O. agricultural talks convened there in 2003. (Photo by Jaime Puebla/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (92%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); TRADE DISPUTES (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); LOBBYING (70%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (54%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) QATAR (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%); MEXICO (79%); HONG KONG (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2005



92 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1054 words

HEADLINE: Employer-Backed Health Care Is Here to Stay, for Lack of a Better Choice 

BYLINE: By REED ABELSON

 BODY:
The number of uninsured Americans is about 45 million and climbing. Companies like General Motors, with large numbers of older or retired workers receiving generous benefits, are struggling under ever-higher health care bills. More companies are abandoning their role in providing health insurance to their employees, and some people worry the federal tax overhaul now being discussed could scare away even more employers. 
 So, are we in the final days of the company health plan? Probably not. 
Frustrations with the status quo notwithstanding, the current system of providing insurance to most working Americans through their employers is not likely to disappear, according to policy analysts and consultants in Washington and around the country. That is mainly, they say, because none of the other possibilities, like a government-run plan or some new private-sector solution, have enough support to serve as a replacement. 
 Employers ''are not about to get out of the business of providing health insurance to employees, even though they complain so loudly about it,'' said Paul B. Ginsburg, the president of the Center for Studying Health System Change, an independent research group in Washington. 
 Inspiring the latest round of debate is the proposal introduced last month by the President's Advisory Panel on Federal Tax Reform, as part of a sweeping effort to overhaul the tax system. Under the proposal, tax breaks for both employers and their workers for health benefits are limited to $11,500 of coverage for a family and $5,000 for an individual. Under current tax law, there are no limits to how much coverage is exempt from payroll and income taxes. 
 Many say the proposal is a political nonstarter. But some critics see it as a threat to a system that is already unraveling. Only 60 percent of employers now offer coverage, compared with 66 percent as recently as 2003, according to annual survey conducted by the Kaiser Family Foundation, a nonprofit health research group in Menlo Park, Calif. In 2000, the percentage was 69 percent. If the tax advisory panel's recommendations on employer-sponsored health care went into effect, they would ''dismantle our current health care system,'' Representative Pete Stark, a California Democrat, said in a news release.
 That might be an exaggeration, and the proponents of the plan assert that they are not trying to take away the entire tax advantage of providing employer-based coverage. Instead, people may view it as ''a tax on excessive health plans,'' one of the panel members, Representative Connie Mack, Republican of Florida, said in a news conference. 
 But employers, particularly large companies that have long offered generous benefits to employees as part of their compensation, are also watching carefully, consultants say. ''It raises a lot of concern among employers who currently offer health care coverage,'' said Frank McArdle, the manager of the Washington research office of Hewitt Associates, a human resources consulting firm. 
 While the average current plan is not generous enough to be taxed under the proposal, consultants say the high rate of health-care inflation could push many plans past that limit and create a problem for employers in the future.
 Companies are also worried about more talk in Congress of making health benefits count toward income subject to Social Security taxes. ''That's enormous for employers,'' said Gretchen Young, an executive with Aon Consulting, which advises companies on benefits.
 Still, the political odds are against any major tax reforms occurring anytime soon. The debate over the fairness of the current tax system, which benefits employees with rich coverage more than people who must buy health insurance on their own, is not a new one. Neither is the heated argument over how best to deliver health care in this country. 
 The proposals ''are beloved by policy wonks,'' said Helen Darling, the president of the National Business Group on Health, a coalition of employers. ''They have been debating them and pushing them for 30 years.'' 
 Which is not to say that employees or employers are satisfied with the current state of affairs. Employers increasingly worry about their ability, and the ability of their employees, to pay for care. But they also recognize that the growing numbers of people without insurance only add to their own health care bills, by expanding the numbers of people without coverage who show up in emergency rooms and contribute to the overall rise in health care costs. ''There's a higher level of frustration, and there's a greater desire for solutions,'' Ms. Darling said. 
 What is also clear, though, is that there are no clear alternatives. Corporate executives and many others are leery of a government solution, but no one has come up with a private-sector option that has gained significant support. Because individuals who buy private insurance on their own pay much higher prices than the group rates employers get, many people could probably not afford health insurance if their employers were not buying it for them. 
 ''There's no functioning individual market'' for insurance, Ms. Darling said. 
 Employers are experimenting with ways that shift more of the additional costs onto their workers while providing incentives to them to pay closer attention to the cost of insurance and their own care. But at least one of these tools, health savings accounts, would be eliminated under the tax advisory panel's plan. The proposal favors a broader savings vehicle, paid through after-tax dollars, that could be used by families for more than health care expenses. 
 So far, at least, many large companies that offer health benefits cannot risk stopping because they need to compete for workers, said William Custer, an associate professor of risk management and insurance at Georgia State University's Robinson College of Business. ''As much as many employers bemoan the rising costs,'' he said, ''they can't move by themselves without endangering their position in the labor force.'' 
 And while change may be inevitable at some point, no one is willing to predict how soon a sufficient consensus might emerge to allow something significantly different than the current system. ''We've been teetering towards a crisis for a long time now,'' Mr. Custer said.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Nicole Fineman)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); TAX LAW (90%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); HEALTH CARE (77%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (77%); TAX REFORM (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); TAX RELIEF (76%); TAX CONSULTING (76%); FOUNDATIONS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: AON HEWITT (84%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561110 OFFICE ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES (84%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (84%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: PETE STARK (54%); CONNIE MACK (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (67%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2005



93 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; OUTLOOK ON THE ECONOMY; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1424 words

HEADLINE: With Oil Prices Off Their Peak, Are Supplies Assured?

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
Hold on to your gas guzzlers -- cheap oil may once again be just around the corner. Even as consumers worry about high gasoline prices and rising heating bills, oil executives in London, Texas and Saudi Arabia seem to be concerned about a prospect of falling oil prices.
 In a recent speech in Singapore, Lord Browne, BP's chief executive, spoke of a possible sharp drop in prices and called current levels ''unsustainably high.'' John Hofmeister, head of the Shell Oil Company in the United States, said in an interview, ''This high price cycle is artificially inflated.''
The notion of a steep fall-off in energy prices may seem far-fetched. 
 After all, in the last year, the market has experienced crude oil that touched nearly $70 a barrel; huge disruptions in the Gulf of Mexico; strong demand from the United States and from the world's fastest-growing market, China; continuing problems in producing Iraqi oil for export; and mounting tensions with Iran, a large OPEC exporter. 
 If anything, most of those situations would point to a sustained period of high energy prices. Indeed, most analysts expect crude oil prices to remain above $40 a barrel for the foreseeable future. 
 But throughout its history -- ever since Edwin L. Drake discovered oil near Titusville, Pa., in 1859 -- the business has witnessed a succession of booms and busts, and oil companies have found it impossible to balance their future production with the world's need for oil. Too much capacity, and prices fall; too little, and they rise.
 Today, oil producers are again under pressure to increase production and refining, and to increase investments to bring more oil to the markets quickly. But oil executives and government ministers are concerned that if demand were to slow down, even a little bit, these investments might create a large oversupply of oil in two to three years, pushing prices down again. 
 Only a few years ago, the industry had a glut in production capacity, sluggish demand and a financial crisis in Asia that led to an oil-price collapse in 1998 with next-month futures contracts falling to about $10 a barrel. 
 Prices eventually rose, but the experience left a deep and lasting impression among producers. Indeed, Saudi Arabia's oil minister, Ali al-Naimi, said recently at a news conference in Riyadh, ''As producers, we don't want to build capacity without demand.'' 
 This recurring debate in the industry may now seem odd. Recently, the theme has been about the end of ''cheap oil,'' prompted by a surge in Chinese demand and a lack of spare production capacity. Traders' concerns that producers would struggle to catch up with consumer demand pushed prices from $30 to $60 in less than two years. Doomsayers saw a sign that the world was running out of oil.
 But there are indications that high oil prices may be coming to an end. After approaching $70 a barrel after Hurricane Katrina interrupted supplies from the Gulf of Mexico, crude oil has fallen by more than $10 a barrel, settling in New York on Friday at $59.32. Analysts at Citibank said the price might fall to $50 -- and possibly less in coming months.
 ''The big issue is what demand is going to be next year,'' David J. O'Reilly, the chief executive of Chevron, said in a telephone interview. ''High prices tend to attract higher production and higher supplies. The question then is, What will happen to the demand side? The fact is we rarely know what is going to happen.''
 Mr. Naimi said Saudi Arabia had ''expressed a concern with consuming countries that it would be helpful for producing countries to have a better forecast and a more reliable projection of what demand is.'' 
 But even as he calls for better data, Mr. Naimi and most oil experts know that predicting the future is more art than science, especially when it comes to oil.
 In November, the International Energy Agency, an adviser to industrial nations, pared its growth forecast for 2006 for the fourth consecutive month. It now expects demand to grow to 85 million barrels a day next year, up 2 percent, or 1.7 million barrels from this year. Demand for all of 2005 is expected to be up 1.5 percent.
 Part of the uncertainty lies in what will happen in the Chinese economy. In 2004, global oil consumption rose 3.7 percent, to 83 million barrels, more than twice the average annual growth in the last decade, a pace that surprised analysts and oil executives. China alone accounted for a third of that growth, its demand for oil up 15 percent. 
 This year, Chinese growth is expected to subside somewhat, expanding 3.3 percent, according to the International Energy Agency. It is expected to pick up in 2006, to 6 percent, as a result of strong worldwide car sales and electricity generating. 
 Such wide swings have led some analysts to express doubt on the reliability of information from China. The reality is that it will take some time before anyone knows for sure what Chinese demand is this year.
 There are other clouds on the horizon -- among them fears of an American economic slowdown, last week's strong economic data notwithstanding, or an outbreak of avian flu, potentially reducing international air travel and hurting regional economies.
 ''The biggest worry I have for next year is geopolitical,'' Mr. Hofmeister of Royal Dutch/Shell's American unit said. These, he said, included ''disruption in supplies, greater distress in the Middle East, a slowdown in China, a collapse of Iraq.'' 
 Mr. Hofmeister continued: ''My other worry is a slowdown in the U.S. economy. When you combine the high energy prices, the difficulties with vehicle sales, the backup in the supply chain, the problems with the retail chain, you could end up with a slowdown in demand.''
 In addition to these questions about where consumption may be headed, there are also uncertainties over how quickly oil companies are adding supplies. 
 In a much-discussed report, a prominent consultant, Cambridge Energy Research Associates of Cambridge, Mass., estimated that global production would rise by 16 million barrels -- or nearly 20 percent -- by 2010, far outstripping the estimated growth in demand over that period. 
 Some analysts fault the report, saying it is far too optimistic. And oil companies have been criticized lately for investing too little in exploration and refining capacity. A few weeks ago, the Senate held hearings and summoned the heads of the top oil companies to testify about their record profits and to justify their investment decisions.
 Saudi Arabia, the world's largest producer, has been assailed for investing too little in new capacity. 
 One of the problems, the industry argues, is that forecasting the level of supplies needed to keep up with long-term demand can be tricky. 
 The International Energy Agency, in its recent global outlook, laid out diverging visions of where energy demand might be headed over the next quarter-century, and it found that the difference between them was nearly 20 million barrels a day by 2030, or twice the current Saudi production. 
 ''This is a new era,'' said Fatih Birol, chief economist at the energy agency, which is based in Paris. ''The risk is less of a drop than higher prices in the future.''
 But not everyone is persuaded. Shell, for example, assumes the opposite, lower prices, when it looks at future projects.
 ''We've very conservative,'' Mr. Hofmeister said, adding that projects he considers must be profitable at $25 a barrel. Some analysts argue that the break-even point on oil is unreasonably low and that it shuts the door to additional, if more costly, supplies.
 But for oil executives, their experiences of the1985 and 1998 price collapses remain a stronger influence than their belief that the world has entered a period of more expensive energy.
 ''If demand slowed, we'd be in a world of cheap supplies again,'' Mr. Hofmeister said. ''But decisions I make today must still make sense in 25 years.''
 As Lee R. Raymond, Exxon Mobil's chairman, said in his recent testimony to Senate committees, ''In the energy industry, time is measured in decades.'' 
 He said Exxon was involved in a $13 billion project in eastern Siberia that began 10 years ago and was expected to produce for 40 years. ''All told, that's more than 50 years for one project,'' he said. To drive home his argument, he added, ''Fifty years ago, Dwight Eisenhower was president.''
 He might have added that this was before the nation's Interstate System of highways was completed and before S.U.V.'s became Americans' vehicles of choice.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Though gasoline prices have dropped markedly from a nationwide average of nearly $3 a gallon, filling your tank in areas like Lower Manhattan can still be expensive. (Photographs by Keith Bedford for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (97%); GASOLINE PRICES (91%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); FUTURES (73%); OIL EXPLORATION (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: SHELL OIL CO (83%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (83%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) TEXAS, USA (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (72%) SAUDI ARABIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SINGAPORE (90%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2005



94 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1172 words

HEADLINE: Richer Than Ever, but Watch Out for Missing Costs

BYLINE: By DYLAN LOEB McCLAIN

 BODY:
What's the best way to measure economic well-being? Businesses, foundations and other entities that take in and spend money use balance sheets to keep track of how they are doing. It is a model that has been used by government agencies to measure everything from the nation's wealth to the financial condition of the country's households. Based on those figures, the United States is in very good shape. But these balance sheets do not give a complete picture. There are hidden long-term problems facing the nation that do not show up among assets and liabilities. DYLAN LOEB McCLAIN

The nation is a lot wealthier now than it was a few years ago, mostly because of what we know.
 From 2000 to 2004, the nation's wealth, as measured by the Office of Management and Budget, a division of the White House, grew more than $12 trillion.
Nearly half of the increase, and nearly half of the country's wealth, was in educational capital -- the amount it would take to educate people 16 and older to their current level of training and expertise. 
 The rapid growth in education capital partly reflects the transformation of the economy into one based on services and technology. It also reflects how much the price of education has risen.
 The national picture is not all rosy. The Government Accountability Office, Congress's investigative arm, estimates that without legislative changes the federal government currently has almost $46 trillion in long-term liabilities, including debt and unfunded benefit programs.

National balance sheet (In trillions) 2000
Assets
Publicly owned physical assets
 Structures and equipment: $5.60
Other federal assets: $1.20
Privately owned physical assets
Residential structures: 11.00
Nonresidential plants and equipment: 13.30
 Inventories: 10.90
Consumer durables: 3.10
Land: 7.80
 Education capital: 41.30 (+12%)
Research and development capital: 2.60
 TOTAL: 85.20

Liabilities
Claims by foreigners on the United States: $3.00

Net worth: $82.10 (+15%)

National balance sheet (In trillions) 2004
Assets
Publicly owned physical assets
Structures and equipment: $6.10
Other federal assets: 1.70
Privately owned physical assets
Residential structures: 13.30
Nonresidential plants and equipment: 12.00
Inventories: 1.70
Consumer durables: 3.60
Land: 11.00
Education capital: 46.40 (+12%)
Research and development capital: 3.00
TOTAL: 98.80

Liabilities
Claims by foreigners on the United States: $4.50

Net worth: $94.30 (+15%)

Graph ''A Wealth of Knowledge'' tracks EDUCATION CAPITAL from 1960-2004. (Estimated cost to educate the population to current level of expertise; in trillions of 2004 dollars)

A Huge Fiscal Burden
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT FISCAL EXPOSURE
Estimate by the Government Accountability Office; in trillions

Federal debt: $9.1
Social Security: $5.7
Pension system: $0.9
Medicare (Parts A, B, and D): $29.9

These days, people are not talking about a Goldilocks economy -- not too hot, not too cold -- as they often did in the 1990's, but maybe they should be. There is little doubt certainly that for most businesses, things are going smoothly.
 Corporate profits are on pace to register their third straight year of double-digit increases. And stocks, as measured by the S. & P. 500 index, are at their highest level since the first half of 2001.
 Over all, the net worth of businesses grew by $2.7 trillion from 2000 to 2004.
 Not everything is perfect, however. Some industries, notably autos and airlines, are struggling in a healthy economy.

Business balance sheet* (In trillions) 2000
Assets
Tangible assets
Real estate: $9.47
Equipment and software: 3.43
Inventories: 1.40
Financial assets
Receivables: 2.28
Checking deposits, domestic and foreign: 0.68
Savings deposits, money market funds: 0.52
Other: 7.72
TOTAL: 25.50
Liabilities
Debt
Bonds: $2.23
Mortgages: 1.68
Bank and other loans: 1.99
Accounts payable: 1.80
Other: 4.58
TOTAL: 12.29

Net worth: $13.21 (+20%)

Business balance sheet* (In trillions) 2004
Assets
Tangible assets
Real estate: $11.63
Equipment and software: 3.83
Inventories: 1.56
Financial assets
Receivables: 2.31
Checking deposits, domestic and foreign: 0.87
Savings deposits, money market funds: 0.64
Other: 8.82
TOTAL: 29.66

Liabilities
Debt
Bonds: $2.95
Mortgages: 2.53
Bank and other loans: 1.87
Accounts payable: 1.89
Other: 4.51
TOTAL: 13.75

Net worth: $15.91 (+20%)
*Nonfarm nonfinancial corporate businesses and nonfarm noncorporate businesses

Graph tracks Flush Times for (most) businesses as well as corporate profits (year-over-year change in S. & P. 500) since 1999.

Graph tracks stocks (The S.& P. 500) monthly since 1999.

Did someone say housing boom? From 2000 to 2004, household assets rose by $10 trillion, fueled by a nearly 50 percent rise in the value of real estate holdings. By 2004, real estate was 32 percent of household assets, up from 26 percent in 2000.
 Not everyone shared equally in the largess. Households in the top quintile had more than two-thirds of overall net worth in 2004, up from less than 64 percent in 1995.
 The overall improvement in household wealth also did little to make a dent in two persistent social problems: poverty and lack of health insurance.
 In 2004, the Census Bureau reported that nearly 46 million people lacked health insurance and 37 million people lived below the poverty line.

Household balance sheet (In trillions) 2000
Assets
Tangible assets
Real estate: $12.62 (+49%)
Durable goods and other: 3.16
Financial assets
Pension funds: 9.00
Stocks: 8.09
Business and farm assets: 4.88
Deposits: 4.33
Mutual funds: 3.04
Credit market instruments: 2.36
Other, including life insurance: 1.60
TOTAL: 49.09

Liabilities
Mortgages: $4.82 (+57%)
Credit cards: 1.73
Other types of debt, insurance premiums and bills: 0.85
TOTAL: 7.40
Net worth: $41.69

Household balance sheet (In trillions) 2004
Assets
Tangible assets
Real estate: $18.75 (+49%)
Durable goods and other: 3.78
Financial assets
Pension funds: 10.12
Stocks: 6.33
Business and farm assets: 6.10
Deposits: 5.59
Mutual funds: 3.73
Credit market instruments: 2.49
Other, including life insurance: 2.14
TOTAL: 59.03

Liabilites
Mortgages: $7.55 (+57%)
Credit cards: 2.14
Other types of debt, insurance premiums and bills: 1.01
TOTAL: 10.70
Net worth: $48.33

Persistent Inequality (1995)
HOUSEHOLD SHARE OF NET WORTH (By income quintile)

HOUSEHOLD NET WORTH (In 2004 dollars): $343,390
Highest quintile: 63.5%
 Fourth quintile: 15.2%
Middle quintile: 9.7%
 Second quintile: 7.5%
Lowest quintile: 4.2%
PEOPLE WITHOUT HEALTH INSURANCE (Percentage of the population): 40.6 million (15.4%)
PEOPLE IN POVERTY (Percentage of the population) 36.4 million (13.6%)

Persistent Inequality (2004)
HOUSEHOLD SHARE OF NET WORTH (By income quintile)

HOUSEHOLD NET WORTH (In 2004 dollars): $437,040
 Highest quintile: 69.3%
Fourth quintile: 14.8%
Middle quintile: 8.0%
Second quintile: 5.5%
Lowest quintile: 2.5%
PEOPLE WITHOUT HEALTH INSURANCE (Percentage of the population): 45.8 million (15.7 %)
PEOPLE IN POVERTY (Percentage of the population): 37.0 million (12.7%)

(Sources by Office of Management and Budget; Federal Reserve; Economy.com; Thomson Financial; Census Bureau; Government Accountability Office)


GRAPHIC: Drawings (Illustrations by Ingo Fast)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); DURABLE GOODS (86%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (70%); PRICE INCREASES (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (56%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2005



95 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; OUTLOOK ON THE WORKPLACE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1819 words

HEADLINE: How Is the Game Played Now?

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
When Vincent Papke joined I.B.M. in 1963, the implicit bargain was simple -- his labor and loyalty for security. Getting rich was not an expectation, but a steady job and regular raises were. The company, he recalled, was a kind of extended family. There were company basketball and softball teams, company activities for the kids, and company social gatherings like Christmas parties.
 ''They trained you,'' he said. ''You worked hard, you played hard and you advanced.''
So it was for Mr. Papke over the next three decades, as he rose from an accountant to a series of management and marketing jobs. ''You would never leave -- you had a cradle-to-grave mentality,'' said Mr. Papke, 63, who took a buyout package and did leave I.B.M. in the early 1990's, when the company was struggling and cutting its payroll. 
 Steven Cohn, 29, came to I.B.M. earlier this year with a very different mentality. He worked previously at an investment bank and an Internet advertising company, and then got an M.B.A., before signing up with I.B.M. as a software salesman. 
 Mr. Cohn has a checklist of things he looks for in an employer. He should be excited, he said, by the vision and strategy of the company, its management and by the opportunities he will have to make contributions, add to his skills and further his long-range career goals. Compensation, he said, should be based on merit and his market value.
 The two men can be seen as bookends that illuminate how much the corporate social contract has been transformed for managerial and skilled professional workers in America. Clearly, the old loyalty-for-security bargain that underscored Mr. Papke's career is fading in corporate America. But what is the new social contract? What are the reasonable expectations of the rights and responsibilities of companies and workers these days?
 There is no simple answer, according to human resources experts. But they agree that certain elements of the new company-employee deal are evident. For companies, the emphasis is no longer on ''happy'' workers who have a lasting commitment to a company. Instead, the new mantra is to have employees who are ''productive'' and ''engaged,'' human resources experts say. Pay and bonuses are based on performance measures instead of seniority.
 ''It's an, 'If you give, you'll get' model,'' said David Ulrich, a professor at the University of Michigan business school. ''That's kind of the productive contract.''
 For Mr. Cohn's generation, Professor Ulrich said, corporate loyalty is seen as a market transaction -- a bond that will last as long as it clearly benefits both the employee and the company. ''It's very much at-will employment,'' he said.
 This transformation is a byproduct of rapid technological change, the globalization of business and faster-moving markets in industry after industry. The result of these changes is that it is far more difficult for corporations to provide an institutional buffer to protect either themselves or their employees from market disruptions. 
 I.B.M., one of the nation's largest employers of managerial and skilled professional workers, like scientists and engineers, has undergone a sweeping transition. After being battered in the late 1980's and early 1990's when it failed to adapt to the challenge of innovative, fleet-footed rivals, the company recovered first by cutting costs, and then becoming less a manufacturing company and more a supplier of sophisticated technology services. Today, the company employs about 330,000 people worldwide (40 percent of them in the United States), up from 220,000 worldwide in 1994, though below its peak of more than 405,000 in 1985. 
 I.B.M., like many other companies, has rewritten the implied social contract with its employees. Cutbacks and controversy have been part of the process. I.B.M. placed a cap on medical benefits for retirees, and eliminated the traditional pension plan for new hires. And a federal judge ruled in 2003 that changes I.B.M. made in its pension plan amounted to discrimination against older workers. 
 In the modern workplace, most managers and skilled professionals accept, even embrace, the market-oriented productive model, human resources experts say. Yet, according to Mr. Ulrich, these workers also want to be inspired by the vision of the company, its reputation, and be confident they can have an impact on the work of the company -- a litany that echoes the checklist of the young I.B.M. software salesman, Mr. Cohn.
 ''Work is about more than productivity,'' Professor Ulrich said. ''For all our emphasis on individualistic, market competition, people still want to find meaning in their work and in the institutions that employ them.''
 A career at one company will be a rarity, given how quickly markets shift these days. ''The best a company can honestly do is give workers a glimpse of where the company is headed and how they might fit into it,'' said Peter Cappelli, the director of the Center for Human Resources at the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School.
 I.B.M. has tried to do that systematically, especially recently. The company identifies about a dozen ''hot'' skills, or skills are most likely to be in demand over the next three years. The list is updated yearly. The hot skills list for this year includes expertise in the life sciences, wireless networks, digital media databases and Linux programming.
 I.B.M. spends $750 million a year on employee education, and $400 million of that is earmarked for training its workers in the skills that the company is betting it will need soon.
 ''Corporations in general have done a lousy job of understanding what are the emerging skill sets that will be needed,'' said J. Randall MacDonald, who joined I.B.M. as a senior vice president for human resources five years ago.
 Identifying the new skills valued in the marketplace, Mr. MacDonald said, will become an increasingly important competence for corporations. Employees, he added, must gain trust in a company's calls on emerging skills. And employees must take on the responsibility -- on their own and assisted by company education programs -- to equip themselves with new skills. 
 ''It's very much a trust-responsibility equation,'' Mr. MacDonald said. ''It's something that can drive a sense of trust back into the workplace.''
 Compensation, of course, is a prime motivator in the workplace. And the pay system at I.B.M. has been overhauled to try to foster a more entrepreneurial culture. Under Louis V. Gerstner Jr., the outsider who took over as chief executive in 1993, I.B.M. executives were not only granted stock options but also required to buy I.B.M. shares on their own. About 75,000 employees now hold stock options or grants.
 With the accounting-rule change this year to treat options as an expense, I.B.M. sharply reduced its share grants. But Mr. MacDonald said that bonuses, ranging up to 30 percent of annual salary, would ensure that the most productive employees were rewarded. ''There are wide swings in variable pay,'' he said. ''What we're really trying to drive here is a performance-based company.''
 To achieve that goal, I.B.M. employees have had to adopt a more flexible, self-reliant style of work. Lynn Yarbrough, a former intensive care nurse, was hired by I.B.M. in 1988. At the time, she worked out of the Atlanta office and used her nursing and health care expertise to help design software and sell hardware tailored for use in hospitals. She routinely went to her Atlanta office, worked with the same people and talked to her boss most days.
 Now, I.B.M. has pulled out of making hardware and software products for individual industries. Ms. Yarbrough, 51, is now a consultant in the I.B.M. services unit that advises health care providers on how to use technology to improve care and reduce costs. Over the years, she has taken courses from a few days to a few weeks on topics like project management and genomics.
 Ms. Yarbrough has a home office in Panama City Beach, Fla., but she is mostly on the road accompanied by her laptop, cellphone and suitcase. She typically works on assignments that last from a few weeks to several months as a member of teams of I.B.M. consultants and technologists, ranging in size from a handful of people to more than a hundred.
 Ms. Yarbrough says she enjoys her job at I.B.M., yet her real enthusiasm and commitment seem to be reserved for her field of expertise more than a single company. ''There is this wave of technology that is washing over health care and it will totally change how medical care is provided and consumed,'' Ms. Yarbrough said. ''I feel I'm working on the leading edge of both technology and health care.'' 
 Big companies and startups alike wooed Jia Chen when she left Yale University in 2000 with a Ph.D. in physics and a portfolio of published research on nanotechnology. She chose I.B.M., she recalled, with the notion ''let's start with a couple of years and see how it goes.''
 Things have gone well so far, said Ms. Chen, a 33-year-old researcher at Watson Labs, where she has been for the last two years. Before that, she worked at I.B.M.'s advanced microchip plant in East Fishkill, N.Y., which was invaluable firsthand experience for someone trying to develop molecular-scale circuitry to eventually replace silicon semiconductors.
 In the old days, the I.B.M. bureaucracy was infamous for slowing the progress of innovative ideas into the marketplace. ''Swimming through peanut butter'' was the description of frustrated technologists at I.B.M. These days, Ms. Chen appears to have no such qualms. Small companies, she said, may be quicker at times. But I.B.M., she said, has ''a lot of experience in how to transform a scientific idea into a technology.''
 Whether Ms. Chen stays or leaves someday, I.B.M. has afforded the young scientist opportunities that will help her wherever she works. Beyond her research programs, Ms. Chen has taken courses on communications and leadership skills. She speaks at about 10 scientific conferences a year. M.I.T.'s Technology Review magazine selected Ms. Chen this year as one of the 35 top technology innovators under the age of 35.
 Those are steps to success, said Robert B. Reich, a professor of economic and social policy at Brandeis University. ''The most important community for an individual will not necessarily be a company, but a looser community of people with similar skills and social connections,'' said Mr. Reich, a former Secretary of Labor in the Clinton administration. ''Continually building up those skills and connections is what a career is today.'' 

Rewriting The Social Contract
 Articles in this series will periodically examine the challenges for business, government and society as corporate support for health care, pensions and other social benefits has eroded under economic pressures. For previous articles in the series, go to nytimes.com/business.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Jia Chen, 33, above, says her employer, I.B.M., offers her many opportunities to work in the field of nanotechnology. Steven Cohn, 29, left, joined I.B.M. earlier this year as a software salesman. He believes his salary should be set based on merit and his market value, rather than seniority. Lynn Yarbrough, 51, used her experience as an intensive care nurse to help design I.B.M. software for hospitals. (Photo by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)
(Photo by Jessica McGowan for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Frank Curry for The New York Times)(pg. C8)Drawing (Illustration by The New York Times)(pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); HUMAN RESOURCES (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); SOFTBALL (72%); BASKETBALL (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); CHRISTMAS (56%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2005



96 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 600 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Bills Set For This Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financing this week included today's regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills and an auction of four-week bills tomorrow. 
 According to traders, at the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was at 3.98 percent, while the rate on the six-month issue was at 4.30 percent and the rate on the four-week issue was 3.98 percent.
The following tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week: 

TUESDAY
 New Hampshire, $75 million of debt securities. Competitive.
 Washoe County, Nev., $65 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.

WEDNESDAY
 California, $532.5 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive. 
 California, various purpose, $500 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 Columbus, Ohio, various purpose, $237.5 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive. 
 Connecticut Transportation Infrastructure, $250 million of special tax revenue bonds. Competitive.
 Virginia Beach Improvement, $80 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.

THURSDAY
 Henderson, Nev., $56 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive. 
 Loudoun County, Va., $60 million of debt securities. Competitive. 
 Mississippi, $150.2 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive. 

ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
 Camden County Improvement Authority, N.J., $134.3 million of fixed rate revenue bonds for health care redevelopment project. Goldman, Sachs.
 City of Atlanta and Fulton County Recreation Authority, $86 million of park improvement revenue bonds. M.R. Beal & Co.
 City of Carmel, Ind., Redevelopment Authority, $80 million of performing arts center project lease revenue bonds. J.P. Morgan Securities.
 City of Detroit, $92.9 million of general obligation bonds. J.P. Morgan Securities.
 Fullerton Public Finance Authority, Calif., $76 million of tax allocation bonds. RBC Capital Markets. 
 Highlands County Health Facilities Authority, Fla., $185.2 million of long term adjustable rate bonds. Ziegler Capital Markets Group. 
 Maryland Health and Higher Educational Facilities Authority, $62.5 million of revenue bonds for Loyola College. Wachovia Bank. 
 Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority, $95.5 million of senior sales tax bonds. Siebert Brandford Shank & Co.
 Massachusetts Health & Educational Facilities Authority, $130 million of revenue bonds for Harvard University. J.P. Morgan Securities. 
 Nassau County Interim Finance Authority, N.Y., $134.2 million of sales tax secured bonds. Goldman, Sachs.
 New Jersey Economic Development Authority, $175 million of school facilities construction bonds. Wachovia Bank.
 New Jersey Economic Development Authority, $51.3 million of motor vehicle surcharges revenue bonds for special needs housing program. Goldman, Sachs.
 Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District, $65 million of revenue bonds. Morgan Stanley.
 Northstar Community School District, Calif., $55.9 million of special tax revenue bonds. UBS Financial Services.
 Northwest Parkway Public Highway Authority, Colo., $428 million of revenue refunding bonds. Bear, Stearns & Co. 
 Pennsylvania Housing Finance Agency, $64.1 million of single family mortgage revenue bonds. Goldman, Sachs. 
 Sherman, Texas, Independent School District, $85 million of school building bonds. UBS Financial Services.
 Sweetwater County, Wyo., $90 million of solid waste disposal refunding revenue bonds for FMC corporation project. Banc of America Securities.
 Tacoma School District #10 Pierce County, Wash., $55 million of general obligation bonds. Banc of America Securities.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (93%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); DEBT FINANCING (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); SALES TAX (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (88%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (88%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); SCHOOL BONDS (85%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (74%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (73%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (73%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); SANITATION DISTRICTS (73%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (70%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (70%); TAX LAW (70%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (69%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (67%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (65%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (65%); INFRASTRUCTURE (54%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); M R BEAL & CO (66%); NEW JERSEY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (64%); RBC DOMINION SECURITIES INC (53%); ZIEGLER CAPITAL MARKETS GROUP (53%); WELLS FARGO & CO (53%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (53%); BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (50%); UBS FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (50%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%); WFC (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (53%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (76%); VIRGINIA BEACH, VA, USA (55%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (92%); WYOMING, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2005



97 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Political Memo; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1522 words

HEADLINE: A Restive G.O.P. Confronts Pataki In His Final Lap 

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER; Danny Hakim contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: ALBANY, Dec. 2 

 BODY:
As Gov. George E. Pataki prepares to enter his 12th and final year in office in New York, he is finding out the perils of being a lame duck, with his power under attack as never before -- even from within his own party. 
 The Republican Party in New York is at war with itself, with some factions embracing a governor's race by Mr. Pataki's longtime nemesis, Tom Golisano, and others trying to force Mr. Pataki's pick for the United States Senate, Jeanine F. Pirro, out of the race. In New York City, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, a Republican, is trying to seize more control of the rebuilding of the World Trade Center site, one of Mr. Pataki's signature projects. And Republicans in the State Senate blocked several of his appointments here this week.
Mr. Pataki is about to begin his final legislative session next month after a summer and fall that were punctuated by many out-of-state trips, from Iowa and New Hampshire to China and Finland. Back at the fractious State Capitol, where governors rule through a combination of rewards and retribution, his announcement in July that he would not seek a fourth term was considered by some as an act of unilateral disarmament, and an opportunity. 
 For several years, Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, a Democrat, and Senate Majority Leader Joseph L. Bruno, a Republican, have bucked Mr. Pataki on everything from budgets to new stadiums to new laws, and some lawmakers and strategists in both parties are already writing off the governor.
 ''I think this year you're going to see a Silver-Bruno alliance running the government,'' said a Democratic assemblyman who was granted anonymity because he felt that publicly questioning the governor's power could jeopardize his chances of getting legislation enacted.
 When Mr. Pataki, facing poor poll ratings, took himself out of contention for the 2006 governor's race, he became the first lame duck governor with a full legislative session ahead of him since Hugh L. Carey in 1982. That year, Mr. Carey found himself the subject of headlines like ''Carey Announces He's Doing His Job'' and ''Carey, Not Yet Gone, Is Sometimes Forgotten'' in The New York Times. 
 If the Legislature smells blood next year, it will probably be emboldened to try to increase spending even more than usual, as all 212 seats are up for election. Mr. Pataki, though, is considering a run for president and making the rounds among more conservative Republicans elsewhere, and he will face pressure not to let spending grow much more than he already has. The ingredients are ripe for a classic standoff, and, if no one blinks, for something familiar to students of state government: gridlock.
 But Mr. Pataki still has a few cards up his sleeve, in both the rewards and the retribution departments. On the carrot side of the ledger, there is more than $1 billion in economic development money sitting in state coffers that cannot be spent without his say-so. That gives quite a bit of leverage over lawmakers, facing re-election, who are keen to begin funneling that money to their districts. 
 As for the stick side, he still runs the state, which means that lawmakers rely on his cooperation whenever they need anything from state agencies. And the lawmakers and state party officials with friends and relatives on the state payroll, which is not an inconsiderable group, will think twice before crossing him. And last week there was a small reminder of the potential for the perks he doles out to suddenly disappear.
 Senator Bruno, whom Mr. Pataki helped install as majority leader more than a decade ago, spent last week as a thorn in the governor's side, calling on Mrs. Pirro to drop out of the Senate race, playing havoc with some of the governor's appointments and continuing his long flirtation with Mr. Golisano. On Thursday, he signed up for a trip on a state helicopter. He was told to make other arrangements. 
 ''Yesterday, I had a helicopter,'' Senator Bruno told a local chamber of commerce on Friday. ''But yesterday, I had a disagreement with the governor, and the first thing that disappears is the helicopter. The governor's office says that is not so. O.K., so I believe it's not so. I believe there are several helicopters, and they are all tied up. O.K.?''
 Aides to the governor said that the only helicopters available that day were for medical emergencies, noting that none were available for the governor, either.
 Associates of Mr. Pataki insist that he remains upbeat, despite the griping in the Republican Party. They say that he has been energized by his recent political trips to states that play large roles in presidential politics, like Iowa and New Hampshire, and claim that the tumult in his party is part of the cyclical nature of state politics.
 His aides point to state voters' overwhelming rejection last month of a constitutional amendment to overhaul the budget process. The proposal would have given the Legislature, which is also not winning popularity contests these days, more power in the budget process; the governor's aides claim the vote was an affirmation of his leadership. And the governor's recent decision to order some convicted sex offenders to be held in mental hospitals after their prison terms expired -- which a court deemed illegal -- put pressure on the Democratic-led Assembly, which is expected to pass some form of civil confinement legislation early next year.
 And last week the governor showed he still has patronage to dole out. He helped arrange a leadership change for the Republican minority in the Assembly by appointing its former leader, Charles Nesbitt, to an eight-year post on the State Tax Tribunal -- even though he is not a lawyer and has no professional tax experience outside the Legislature. 
 But the scope of the growing civil war in his party, which was once known for its discipline, is deeply worrying to many Republicans. Some party leaders have said privately that Mr. Pataki should do more to try to end it. Aides to the governor say that he believes the debate is healthy and is pleased that so many good candidates have come forward. But the fact that Senator Bruno and other Republicans have publicly heaped praise on Mr. Golisano, who spent tens of millions of dollars attacking Mr. Pataki during three runs as a third-party candidate for governor, has been met with disbelief in some quarters of the party.
 It was viewed as a sign of Mr. Pataki's strength in October when his endorsement of Mrs. Pirro's candidacy for the Senate led one of her main rivals, Edward F. Cox, to drop out of the race. But any party unity he had hoped to foster crumbled less than a month and a half later when several Republican officials, led by Senator Bruno, called on Mrs. Pirro to drop out of the Senate race and run for attorney general. Instead of unity, he found his authority challenged and his party at odds with itself. 
 Many Republicans are stunned, noting that it is the Democratic Party that is usually known for internal squabbles and backbiting. 
 One Republican with ties to the Pataki administration joked that the transformation was the logical extension of the Republican Party's leftward drift in recent years. ''The transition is complete,'' said the Republican, who demanded anonymity because he did not want to be seen as publicly disloyal to the party. ''First, they legislate and govern like Democrats. Now they fight like Democrats.'' 
 At a special session of the State Senate last week, several skirmishes broke out between the governor and his fellow Republicans. The Senate blocked Mr. Pataki's attempt to make Bernadette Castro, his parks commissioner, chairman of the State Racing and Wagering Board. 
 The governor responded by withdrawing his nomination of one of Senator Bruno's appointees to an employment relations board. The Senate confirmed the man anyway, leading the governor's office to write the man, telling him he has ''no legal right to the office.'' 
 Officials in both parties consider the battle as a bit of muscle-flexing on both sides, and said it could presage a contentious session. 
 And one of the governor's most important projects, the rebuilding of the World Trade Center site, has been delayed by embarrassing setbacks. This fall, Mr. Bloomberg, who had taken a back seat in discussions about the site, indicated that he would be assuming a greater role, and began questioning some of the elements of the master plan that the governor had shepherded through. 
 Some current and former state officials in both parties and political analysts said the governor still has lots of leverage. 
 Maurice Carroll, the director of the Quinnipiac University Polling Institute, said: ''Pataki's power has lessened, but he's still the governor. Anyone who decides they can ignore him had better watch their back.''
 Senator Bruno denied a rift, and said he does not view Mr. Pataki as a lame duck. ''He's got 13 months to serve, so I don't see him as lame anything,'' he told reporters on Friday. ''Again, I know you love a fight because I like to fight, appropriately, at the right time. But if there's no fight, there's no fight.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. George E. Pataki leaving his office in July for a news conference in Albany. (Photo by Stewart Cairns for The New York Times)(pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); MAYORS (73%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (69%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2005



98 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2380 words

HEADLINE: In Today's India, Status Comes With Four Wheels

BYLINE: By AMY WALDMAN

DATELINE: VISHAKHAPATNAM, India 

 BODY:
On the dark highway, the car showroom glowed in the night like an American drive-in. Inside, it looked more like a game-show set: bright lights, white floors, huge windows, high ceilings and ad posters of beaming consumers far paler than most Indians. For 36-year-old Ram Reddy, the price was right enough to make a down payment on his fifth family car. 
 He and his brother already had one car ''for the children,'' two ''for the ladies,'' and so on. Now they were buying the Toyota Innova, a big-as-a-boat luxury van that retails for a minimum of $23,000, 46 times India's per capita income of about $500.
The Innova is a new plaything of the moneyed here, one being peddled, like so many products in India today, by a Bollywood star. It is yet another symbol of the kid-in-a-candy-store psyche that has seized India's growing consuming class, once denied capitalism's choices and now flooded with them. 
 Fifteen years after India began its transition from a state-run to a free-market economy, a new culture of money -- making it, and even more, spending it -- is afoot. 
 This domestic hunger for goods has become an important engine for an economy that still lags in exports. So intense is the advertising onslaught, so giddy the media coverage of the new affluence, that it is almost easy to forget that India remains home to the world's largest number of poor people, according to the World Bank. 
 Still, India's middle class has grown to an estimated 250 million in the past decade, and the number of super-rich has grown sharply as well.
 And, after more decades of socialist deprivation, when consumer goods were so limited that refrigerators were given pride of place in living rooms, they have ever more wares to spend it on: cellphones, air-conditioners and washing machines; Botox, sushi and Louis Vuitton bags; and, perhaps the biggest status symbol of all, cars. 
 India has become one of the world's fastest-growing car markets, with about a million being sold each year. It once had only two kinds, Fiats and Ambassadors. Now dozens of models ride the roads, from the humble, Indian-made Maruti to the Rolls-Royce, which has re-entered India's market some 50 years after leaving in the British wake. 
 Indians are discovering in cars everything Americans did: control and freedom, privacy and privilege, speed and status. Car showrooms, the bigger the better, are the new temples here, and cars the icons of a new individualism taking root. Foreign car companies, meanwhile, have discovered the Indian consumer -- not to mention the country's engineering brain power -- and are setting up plants across India. 
 The growing lust for cars also reflects India finally having roads decent enough to drive them on. It is making a historic effort to upgrade its dismal, mostly two-lane national highway system into four- or six-lane interstates, its largest infrastructure project since independence in 1947. 
 A New York Times reporter and a photographer drove one portion of the project, the so-called Golden Quadrilateral, which passes through New Delhi, Calcutta, Madras, officially known as Chennai, and Mumbai, formerly Bombay, earlier this year.
 The revamped highways mean that, for the first time in India, cars can go fast; thus the new appetite for fast cars. The middle and upper classes, already being lured by one of the world's fastest-growing domestic airline industries, are discovering driving for pleasure as much as need.
 ''This is the American 1950's happening in India now,'' said Padma Chandrasekaran, a Madras resident marveling at the new ease of driving the 205 miles to Bangalore. 
 The new highways have seduced well-off consumers like Mr. Reddy, who plans to use the Innova for family road trips to places like the temple at Tirupati, about 400 miles south of here, a trip he would previously have made by train. The highway's smoother surfaces and additional lanes have also enriched him, by reducing fuel and maintenance costs for his trucking company. 
 ''If the roads were not good, we would not have this many cars,'' said the bearded Mr. Reddy, whose 9-year-old son already knows how to steer an automobile.

Consumers' Appetites Grow
 The 8,300-square-foot Toyota showroom had been open only a few months, and its location just outside town on the silky new highway had already turned out to be a prime sales aid. The general manager chuckled, saying that if he gave a test drive on the road, it would be ''a happy ride.''
 That many of the city's one million residents are what Sastry V. Prakky, the dealership's senior sales and marketing manager, calls ''filthy rich'' also does not hurt. 
 Named for Visakha, the god of valor, Vishakhapatnam faces the Bay of Bengal, in the state of Andhra Pradesh. The city is home to one of India's largest ports and the country's oldest shipyard. It is also squarely in India's booming south.
 Some residents have prospered by going to work in the United States in information technology, others by opening ''business process outsourcing'' centers. Many work in pharmaceutical production, or export carpets or shellfish.
 Pricy hotels line the beachfront, and driving schools the side streets, although Indian driving habits raise questions about the quality of their instruction. Almost every beauty salon also has a ''body weight reduction'' center, reflecting the upper-middle-class's new obsession, and plumpness: people are still starving in India, but people are overeating, too.
 In a historical blink, capitalism, which postcolonial analysis once labeled poverty's cause, is now seen as its solution. Debt, once anathema for the middle class, is now an acceptable means to an end.
 For a sliver of Indians, the go-go years are here. The same sentiment has permeated the countryside, where young men drive bright yellow motorbikes with names like Ambition and dream of becoming crorepatis, or multimillionaires. 
 America, of course, went through a similar evolution: the making of a postwar consumerist economy; the introduction of credit cards and growing comfort with, and dependence on, debt; the rise of an advertising culture. India today offers the chance to watch it in real time, at a hyper, almost-out-of-control, pace. 
 ''Now the people want to spend and enjoy,'' Mr. Prakky said. ''Everyone wants upgradation'': the scooter owner wants a motorbike, the motorbike owner a car, the car owner a more expensive one. 
 He was checking the paperwork on another new purchase, including a deposit of 180,000 rupees, or about $4,000. He took it upstairs to the general manager, C. Sudhaker, whose glass-walled office overlooked the showroom floor. In modern times, as Mr. Sudhaker put it, a good car was a business necessity, not just about showing off, although he conceded an appetite for ''recognition in society.''
 That appetite was on display in other showrooms along the highway. 
 ''Life is short, madam,'' said Sanganagouda Patil, a politician and landowner, explaining why he had to buy a new car model every two years. He was at another Toyota showroom, about 600 miles away in the state of Karnataka, inspecting the Innova even though he already owned four cars. Proper vehicles were expected of V.I.P.'s, he said, even if the roads near his home district were not yet good enough to drive them. 
 He wore gold jewelry, Ray-Ban sunglasses and an expensive-looking white kurta of the hand-woven fabric that Mohandas K. Gandhi popularized as a symbol of swadeshi, or homegrown, in an era when all things foreign were mistrusted. 
 Many Indian politicians today see the state merely as an object of plunder, and they are not shy about displaying their spoils. Car salesmen say that when a new model comes in, politicians call and demand to have the first vehicle delivered to them, with a discount.

A Shifting Value System
 India's state-run rail network may have been built by the British, but it came to represent a certain egalitarianism. Powerful and voiceless, rich and poor -- all navigated the same chaotic, crowded stations and rode the same jam-packed trains, if not in the same class. 
 Cars, in contrast, reflect the atomization prosperity brings. 
 This is a far bigger change for Indian society than it was for America, which in many ways was founded around the notion of the individual. Indian society has always been more about duty, or dharma, than drive, more about responsibility to others than the realization of individual desire. 
 That ethos is changing. ''Twenty years back one car was an achievement,'' said Maj. Gen. B. C. Khanduri, who as minister of roads from 2000 to 2004 helped shepherd the new highway into being. ''Now every child needs their own car.''
 To him and others who grew up in a different society, that change bespeaks a larger, and troubling, shift. ''The value system is finishing now,'' he said. ''We are gradually increasing everyone for himself.''
 Luxuries are now necessities, he said, and children are focused more on earning for themselves than on caring for their parents. Indians have always been critical of what they see as American selfishness, the way children relegate parents to retirement homes so they can pursue their own lives. Now, suddenly, they are hearing such stories among themselves. 
 Spreading affluence also has brought new competitive anxiety. Where once everyone in a neighborhood had an Ambassador or a Fiat, the hierarchy of livelihoods, of success, now can be parsed easily through cars. 
 P. V. J. Mohanrao, 48, an assistant college professor, who came to the Toyota showroom to look at the Innova, could afford only cheaper cars: the Indian-made Maruti and Tata Sumo. 
 A neighbor who was with him, P. Srinivas, 41, a businessman dealing in glass, could afford larger monthly installments, and thus the more luxurious Chevrolet Tavera. 
 Another neighbor, a software entrepreneur who, Mr. Mohanrao pointed out, had ''spent time in the United States,'' outclassed them both: at any given time, he had three or four cars, none of them cheap. 
 ''He has booked this car, I heard,'' Mr. Mohanrao said of his neighbor and the Innova. 
 The car fever here is in part a triumph of marketing to people who did not grow up being marketed to. Advertising in India has succeeded in making, as Mr. Khanduri said, luxuries into necessities, in portraying persuasion as knowledge. 
 The Toyota salesmen here market aggressively, singling out beach walkers and mall shoppers. They aim at people who bought cars in 2002 and convince them they already need an upgrade. Helped by record-low car-loan rates, they have learned to manufacture desire. ''If that fellow has a burning zeal we will add to the fire, we will tempt him,'' said Mr. Prakky, the sales manager.

The Dangers of the Boom
 ''Please do not drive in the wrong direction,'' a flashing sign implores over the redone highway. 
 The feeble exhortation underscores one of the many downsides of India's auto boom. The country already has one of the world's highest accident rates, with more than 80,000 traffic-related deaths a year. Few police officers patrol its roads, which ensures that pretty much anything goes, even at times on the fancy new highway.
 With India reveling in its rising global profile, there has been little planning for the traffic, environmental or economic consequences of millions more Indians acquiring new cars. India's economic boom has outpaced any planning for the resources, like oil for auto fuel, it will demand. Urban planning is so poor that in Bangalore and other cities traffic congestion is threatening investment and business expansion. 
 At the same time, the focus on cars threatens to obscure the needs of the many more without them. There are still only about eight million passenger vehicles on Indian roads, in a country of more than one billion people. By the late 1920's, in comparison, the United States had 23 million registered car owners. 
 Poor Indians rely, in addition to their feet, on an extraordinary array of contraptions for transport. They pile on top of buses in the Indian version of the double-decker. They ride tractors and bullock carts and pack 13 strong into Tempo taxis made for 6.
 What they cannot regularly rely on is public transport. While New Delhi and Calcutta have built subways, most cities have not, and they face severe bus shortages as well. Cars speed by waiting bus riders, who stand like spectators. 
 The rise of the auto, and the investment in highways, dovetails with a larger trend of privatization in Indian life, in which the ''haves'' are those who can afford to pay for services the government does not provide: efficient transport, clean water, good schools, decent health care. 
 Most Indians cannot afford the tolls along the Golden Quadrilateral, let alone the cars to drive on it. Gandhi, whose foot marches for social justice defined an era of Indian history, now has an expressway named for him. Its toll of $1.33 is more than about 300 million Indians earn in a day.
 India's growing material hunger has another downside: it is largely being sated by credit and debt. 
 With borrowing comes the danger of overstretching, and pricy cars purchased in Vishakhapatnam's Toyota showroom can always be taken back. 
 That is where the repo man comes in. He waits at a tollbooth in Rajasthan, cater-corner from Vishakhapatnam on the Quadrilateral, armed with a long list of deadbeats' license plate numbers.
 In a beat-up Maruti van, with a stick inside, Anil Kumar Vyas, 34, was chasing down Toyota owners behind in their payments. Befitting his upper-caste Brahmin status, he was also a local village head, but that brought more prestige than profit.
 His may be one of the few lines of work that has benefited from traffic jams and potholes. Bad roads made for easy captures, since no one could drive over 22 miles an hour. On the new, smooth four-lane highway, he has already given chase at more than 60 miles an hour. 
 ''It is harder for us to catch them,'' he said. ''We're still working it out.'' 

India Accelerating
 Articles in this series are examining India's highway modernization, a vast undertaking reflecting the country's overall transformation. The previous article, audio of Amy Waldman, additional photographs and maps are at nytimes.com/asia.


GRAPHIC: Photos: THE NEW AFFLUENCE -- The Leela Krishna Toyota dealership along the national highway in Vishakhapatnam, near the Bay of Bengal.
THE FAST LANE -- The national highway in Rajasthan State, India. The revamped highways are feeding a new appetite for fast cars.
THE ROAD MORE TRAVELED -- Car owners are still a small portion of India's population. More people ride buses, like this one in Mohania. (Photographs by TYLER HICKS/The New York Times)(pg. A14)
India has become one of the world's fastest-growing car markets. A salesman, left, talks with shoppers at a dealership in Vishakhapatnam. (Photo by Tyler Hicks/The New York Times)(pg. A1)Chart/Map: ''India on the Move''In recent years India has become one of the world's fastest-growing car markets. Improved highways have meant better driving conditions.Graph tracks India's annual car sales in thousands since 1980.2004: 802,792Graph tracks registered cars as a percentage of population ages 15-64 since 1996.Map of India highlighting National highways in 1981, and 2001.(Sources by ML Infomap
Geographic Enterprises
www.geo-e.com
The World Bank
Ward's Communications
 Government of India, Ministry of Road Transport and Highways)(pg. A14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LUXURY GOODS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (63%)

TICKER: MC (PAR) (63%); LVMH (BIT) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (63%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RAJASTHAN, INDIA (58%); INDIAN OCEAN (56%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2005



99 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Longmont Journal; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: A Program for Immigrants Stirs Worries on Both Sides 

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

DATELINE: LONGMONT, Colo., Dec. 1 

 BODY:
It might be tempting to think that tackling the tangled issue of immigration would be easier here in Boulder County, which has a reputation, sometimes said with a sneer in other corners of Colorado, of tolerating diverse and divergent views on just about everything. 
 Sometimes the public discourse even on mundane matters is so good, local officials brag, that it becomes almost a tourist attraction, drawing outsiders who just want to stand up and be heard. Owners of the Java Stop, a coffee bar on Main Street, say they have resisted adding wireless Internet access for fear it could dampen the quality of conversation.
But the hard lesson being learned in this city some 35 miles north of Denver is that immigration's thorns spare no one. The problems of economics, culture and identity that so many other parts of the nation are grappling with are no easier in the land of the open mike, residents and politicians say -- and may even be harder because people here are so used to having their say. 
 The event that set off the lesson was a decision in October by the Longmont City Council to approve the hiring of a full-time ''immigrant integration coordinator,'' whose salary would be paid by a grant from a private foundation and whose job it would be to help the county's immigrants, who are mostly from Mexico, mesh more fully into society. 
 City officials say they have been on the defensive ever since, trying to explain what the coordinator would do and not do, what the word ''integration'' means and does not mean, and whether illegal immigrants would be treated differently from other immigrants. The job has not been filled.
 ''From the reaction so far, this has the capacity to be one of the most controversial, complex and passionate topics that we've ever taken on as a community,'' said Karen Roney, Longmont's director of community services. ''It could be the best thing we ever did, or it could be the worst.'' 
 Some residents, in interviews around town, said they worried that integration meant assimilation, and that immigrants would be pressured to give up their native culture or language as the price of full community participation. Others said they feared that the program would be the opposite and become a wedge to force Longmont and Boulder County to accommodate people who are here illegally and will not adapt. 
 The effort also got off on the wrong foot, Ms. Roney acknowledges, when some members of the county steering committee overseeing the project suggested in the planning meetings that hiring an illegal immigrant to fill the job would be a good idea. Who better, they said, to know the problems and issues? 
 Ms. Roney, one of the committee's 21 members, said she had to point out that knowingly hiring an illegal immigrant would violate federal labor law. But word of the discussion filtered out anyway, and she wrote a letter this week to the local newspaper, The Daily Times-Call, disavowing the idea all over again.
 Fred Schotte, a 58-year-old retired banker who goes to the Java Stop most mornings for coffee and talk, said the idea of an illegal worker in City Hall was partly what intensified his opposition. Mr. Schotte said he thought the coordinator position would be a Trojan horse that seemed to be one thing -- a feel-good effort to bring people together -- but was really another, a way to provide more services to people who Mr. Schotte thinks are already taking advantage of the system.
 About 20 percent of Longmont's 80,000 residents, not counting illegal immigrants whose numbers are not known, is Latino, according to the Census Bureau, and 10.6 percent of the population was counted as foreign-born in the 2000 census. 
 ''It's the ones coming here who don't want to fit in, who don't want to live the American dream, that bother me,'' Mr. Schotte said. ''I feel like someone has come into my house, and now I have to accommodate to them.''
 Other people say that sort of thinking is exactly the problem that the coordinator position should address and combat. Wanting people to ''fit in,'' they say, is the same impulse that once led teachers to punish American Indians for speaking their native languages in reservation schools.
 ''Integration means I will participate fully in American culture,'' said Marietta Vigil Gonzales, who teaches English as a second language and volunteers among Longmont's Latino residents. Ms. Gonzales, whose ancestors first came to the American Southwest from Spain in the late 1500's, said she was proud that after so many generations she still spoke Spanish. ''Assimilation means that I will have become like the stereotypical American, with no culture, no ethnic background and no roots,'' she said.
 Longmont's mayor, Julia Pirnack, said in an interview that she hoped the coordinator would steer a middle course. 
 ''Whether you call it assimilation or integration, we all have to be able to live together,'' Ms. Pirnack said. ''I believe, over time, that we need all to be able to speak English, but I don't believe people need to leave their culture behind.'' 
 She said that the coordinator would not, however, distinguish between whether an immigrant was here legally or not.
 ''The fact is, people are here, they exist in the community, and ignoring them, I think, would be a worse mistake,'' she said.
 The integration program is being financed in 10 counties across the state -- $75,000 a year for four years -- by a group called the Colorado Trust, which gives grants to projects that advance the ''health and well-being of Colorado,'' according to its mission statement. Trust officials said that one lesson they had already learned was how communities within the same state could have very different immigration issues. 
 In some places where the program is also gearing up -- like Pueblo, in southeast Colorado -- newcomers are faced with adjusting to an older Hispanic culture that has been there since the 1800's or earlier. In other places, like Gunnison, in the center of the state, Mexican immigrants, some of whom speak tribal languages rather than Spanish, are the issue.
 A spokeswoman for the trust said the goal was not to solve the larger national questions of immigration, but rather to work on its local consequences.
 ''We're not about changing policy; that is the federal government's job,'' said the spokeswoman, Susan Downs-Karkos, a senior program officer. ''But we're realizing that our communities have changed demographically and it's important that we bring people together.''
 Doug Brown, a City Council member in Longmont who supports the integration plan, said he worried that the controversy over the coordinator position could ultimately make the job harder by deepening the divisions even before anyone is hired. Mr. Brown said that in recent days he had asked some of his more liberal friends to tone down their comments, so as not to fan the flames.
 ''We want people to come together,'' he said, ''not fall apart.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Karen Roney says a decision to hire an ''immigrant integration coordinator'' has the potential for good or bad. (Photo by Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITIES (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (71%); APPROVALS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); INTERVIEWS (66%); FOUNDATIONS (65%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (79%) COLORADO, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2005



100 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: Signs of Big Win for Kazakhstan President in Peaceful Election

BYLINE: By C. J. CHIVERS

DATELINE: ASTANA, Kazakhstan, Dec. 4 

 BODY:
The election for president in Kazakhstan passed peacefully on Sunday, and early signs indicated that President Nursultan Nazarbayev, the former Communist boss who has governed this country since it declared independence from the Soviet Union, was heading to a landslide victory over four opponents.
 Opposition candidates contended that there was vote fraud, but suggested that they would not hold public protests or mass actions in this enormous Central Asian state, underscoring the strength of Mr. Nazarbayev, whom they have tried to portray as authoritarian and unfailingly corrupt. The opposition said it would prepare legal challenges instead. 
 Mr. Nazarbayev, 65, has dominated Kazakh political life since the last years of the Soviet Union. 
 He has been accused in federal court documents in New York of receiving millions of dollars in bribes from an intermediary representing American oil companies seeking rights to Kazakhstan's oil fields, in a case against an American businessman under the corrupt practices act. But he has also maintained popular support even as his critics have struggled to circulate word of the accusations in a nation in which the independent news media are severely restricted. 
 The president's supporters say he has tightly managed Kazakhstan's politics and oil-dominated economy, moving it from the dysfunction of the Soviet period to relative prosperity in recent years, and without the war, ethnic strife, disorder and outright dictatorships that have marked Central Asia since Communism's collapse. 
 Preliminary election results were expected to be released Monday; early data of a survey of voters leaving the polls indicated that Mr. Nazarbayev had received nearly 85 percent of the vote. Although the reliability of the poll could not be immediately determined, it seemed roughly consistent with the sentiment in the capital, where a preponderance of voters interviewed Sunday expressed eagerness to keep him in office. 
 ''I trust him, because I see the changes in our country, and they are positive,'' said Arai Ospanova, 19, a university student, after casting her ballot here in the capital on the Asian steppe.
 Kazakhstan, however, has never held a free and fair vote, and there have been ample signs that the latest presidential campaign was marred by abuses of state resources, restrictions on freedom of assembly and speech, and election-day fraud.
 The Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, which has provided the principal election observation mission, was scheduled to release its preliminary report on the election on Monday. 
 The organization's pre-election reports have noted, among other shortfalls, that Kazakh newspapers have been shut down or seized, television coverage has favored the president, and there have been complaints of intimidation and beatings of opposition supporters.
 Perceptions of the election have also been undermined by the fatal shooting last month of a former Nazarbayev loyalist who had become a prominent opposition figure. He was found dead at his home in Almaty with two gunshot wounds in the chest and one in the head. The police officials have suggested that the death was a suicide.
 Kazakh officials, while acknowledging that the country is still developing and civil society remains nascent, were lobbying for a favorable election report from the monitors, hoping to enhance the nation's credibility as it seeks tighter integration with the West.
 ''I hope that the final report will be objective and without any double standards,'' Onalsin I. Zhumabekov, chairman of the Central Election Commission, said in an interview.
 Voter turnout was high, exceeding 75 percent of Kazakhstan's nearly nine million voters, according to the election commission's preliminary results.
 But there were suggestions that turnout was manipulated, as voters were seen by observers and journalists receiving gifts from poll workers, including theater tickets, electric teapots, mixers and hair dryers. Mr. Zhumabekov said Kazakh law did not prohibit such practices.
 ''I do not see this as any attempt at interference,'' he said, adding that it helped lure voters to polling places. ''Let them do it. It is good.''
 The opposition also claimed that there were organized efforts at multiple voting, with the result of inflating the turnout.


GRAPHIC: Photo: In Kazakhstan yesterday, a woman received an electric kettle after voting in the presidential election. (Photo by Joseph Sywenkyj/Redux, for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORRUPTION (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTION FRAUD (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (77%); BRIBERY (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); FREEDOM OF ASSEMBLY & ASSOCIATION (68%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (68%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (65%); SHOOTINGS (61%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (60%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (60%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) KAZAKHSTAN (96%); CENTRAL ASIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (91%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2005



101 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; OUTLOOK ON THE WORKPLACE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 616 words

HEADLINE: At Google, Cube Culture Has New Rules

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
Google, like I.B.M., says that it is forging a corporate culture in which success depends on performance. 
 But while I.B.M. is an old company that has revamped the social contract with its workers, Google is writing a new one from scratch.
Some of Google's benefit and compensation practices resemble I.B.M.'s. The retirement plan is a tax-deferred 401(k) program with employee savings matched by company contributions, as it is for new employees at I.B.M. starting this year. Annual bonuses at Google range up to 25 or 30 percent, as they do at I.B.M. 
 Yet Google portrays itself as a special place, starting with its company motto, ''Don't Be Evil.'' And its programs and perks for employees are unusual, even by the often-generous standards of young Silicon Valley companies in good times. 
 Meals of all kinds, painstakingly prepared by company chefs, are free at the company's headquarters in Mountain View, Calif., a modern corporate campus known as the Googleplex. Other amenities there include children's day care, doctors, dry cleaning, laundry, a gym, and basketball and volleyball courts. Maternity or paternity leave is 12 weeks at 75 percent of full pay. There is also up to $500 available for takeout meals for the entire family after a newborn arrives, courtesy of Google. Shuttle buses (with wireless Internet access for working while commuting) ferry employees to the Googleplex from throughout the Bay area.
 And the big perk: the company's engineers are given 20 percent of their time to pursue their own ideas instead of company assignments.
 The company is currently hiring about 10 people a day, adding to a workforce of more than 5,000. The essence of the Google pitch, said Shona L. Brown, vice president of operations, is: ''Hey, come join us doing really exciting things. We're trying to change the world.''
 That prospect proved appealing to Paul Rademacher, 31, who came to Google in September from DreamWorks, where he worked on the software behind movies like ''Shrek 2'' and ''Madagascar.'' Mr. Rademacher caught the attention of Google executives with a Web site he built on his own, www.housingmaps.com, which links Google's mapping software with property listings on Craigslist, the online bulletin board, to display houses and neighborhoods.
 After talking to Google engineers and executives, Mr. Rademacher came away impressed that the company was a place that gave people ''room to do great things.'' At Google, he is working on new products that remain secret. 
 In previous jobs, Mr. Rademacher rarely thought beyond a year or two, but he said he could see himself staying at Google for a long time. ''If you really feel that you're part of the larger effort, that you have both opportunity and ownership, loyalty does follow,'' he said.
 To encourage a sense of ownership, all Google employees receive stock grants or options. With revenues growing at nearly 100 percent and profit rising faster, Google's stock price has more than doubled so far this year. So there are a lot of happy owners these days. The company also doles out cash payments, including Founders' Awards of millions of dollars, for innovations that add value to the Google franchise.
 But what happens to all this corporate largesse when, someday, the laws of economic gravity are felt at Google and growth slows sharply or worse? The thinking seems to be that any slowdown will be a soft landing that can be managed by easing the pace of hiring. Real belt-tightening, apparently, is unimaginable.
 ''We will not pull back on our commitments to employees,'' Ms. Brown said. ''The last thing we would do is take it out of the hide of our employees. That is a path to a downward spiral.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (90%); CORPORATE CULTURE (90%); US 401K PLANS (77%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); MATERNITY LEAVE (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); MEN (73%); INTERNET & WWW (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (72%); PATERNITY LEAVE (72%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (69%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (68%); BASKETBALL (66%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (64%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (64%); FERRIES (64%); CHILD CARE (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (98%); CRAIGSLIST INC (51%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (98%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2005



102 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; OUTLOOK ON THE ECONOMY; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1537 words

HEADLINE: When Even Supply-Siders Say Taxes Must Rise, an Unpopular Policy Looks Inevitable

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
As the end of the year approaches, tax bills loom. That may not seem particularly pleasurable, but enjoy it while you can -- taxes are going up. Not right away, economists say, but almost certainly in the coming years. 
 And not just liberals are saying such things.
While the Bush administration and its Republican supporters in Congress still contend that they can deal with fiscal imbalances by clamping down on unnecessary spending, some of their close allies are beginning to argue that the budgetary circle cannot be squared with spending cuts alone.
 ''The current trend points to tax increases in the long run,'' said Brian M. Riedl, lead budget analyst at the Heritage Foundation, a conservative research group opposed to raising taxes. ''The political will to make the difficult decisions on spending is lacking.'' 
 Some in big business also seem ready to bite the bullet. The Committee for Economic Development, a research group that often represents the views of Wall Street and major corporate figures in public policy debates, issued reports this year arguing for tax increases plus spending restraints to avert what it called a fiscal crisis in the offing. 
 Unhappiness over the projected budget deficit is eroding conservative support for the White House. Bruce Bartlett, a leader of the supply-side tax revolution who worked as an economic aide to President Reagan and the first President Bush, has turned on the current president in a coming book, ''The Impostor: How George W. Bush Bankrupted America and Betrayed the Reagan Legacy,'' excoriating what he sees as the government's spending spree over the last five years.
 Mr. Bartlett, a conservative economic thinker who for years argued that cutting taxes was the best way to ''starve the beast'' and restrain government's growth, now recommends the introduction of a value-added tax -- a kind of sales tax used in Europe and most other advanced industrial nations -- to bring in the large amounts of new revenue he deems necessary to close the enormous budget gap.
 ''I do believe tax increases are absolutely inevitable,'' Mr. Bartlett said. 
 Taxes have never been popular with Americans, and President Bush has promised to avoid following the example of his father, who lost his re-election bid after reversing his ''read my lips'' pledge to help narrow a previous budget deficit. 
 That is one reason taxes are not going to rise just yet. Indeed, Mr. Bush is trying to extend a package of tax cuts passed by Congress in his first term that, under current law, would expire over coming years. 
 And with money pouring in from China and other creditor nations helping to keep interest rates low, the government has faced no problem in recent years in sustaining its extensive borrowing.
 Nonetheless, even the president's allies are growing worried that the current dynamics cannot continue indefinitely. ''The fiscal situation will probably have to worsen and cause some economic pain before it becomes a priority,'' Mr. Riedl said.
 Projections beyond the next year or so look increasingly ominous. 
 While a spurt of tax revenue from a strong economy is expected to reduce the budget deficit to $317 billion this year from $413 billion last year, after that the imbalance is likely to swell again as revenue is outpaced by new spending obligations like the Medicare drug program. These will pile up on top of the costs of the war in Iraq and reconstruction along the Gulf Coast. 
 The Congressional Budget Office estimates that the cumulative deficit over the next 10 years will reach $2.1 trillion even if the tax cuts enacted since 2001 are phased out by 2010, as provided for under current law.
 But if the tax cuts are extended, as Mr. Bush and Republican leaders in Congress want, the 10-year budget gap would swell to about $5.7 trillion, according to projections by the Concord Coalition, a bipartisan group lobbying for fiscal restraint.
 And all this red ink flows even before the nation is expected to face some truly daunting fiscal challenges. Spending on Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid are expected to take off as the baby-boom generation reaches retirement age. Left unchecked, according to the C.B.O.'s projections, the cost of these programs could soar to the equivalent of 17 percent of the nation's total production of goods and services -- the gross domestic product -- from 8 percent today.
 Since the 1960's, federal spending has averaged about 20 percent of the gross domestic product, while revenue has averaged 18.4 percent. The difference has been covered by borrowing, using such vehicles as the Treasury bonds, notes and bills purchased by American, Asian and other investors. 
 In the last few years, the imbalance has worsened drastically. Last year, federal budget revenue fell to 16.8 percent of gross domestic product, the lowest level since 1959, before recovering to some 17.5 percent this year. The Committee for Economic Development's report estimated that if the Bush tax cuts of 2001-3 are extended, it will be 30 years before federal revenue reaches the 18.4 percent average again.
 Based on current trends, meanwhile, spending will grow to 22.7 percent of output by 2015 and 28.3 percent by 2025, according to the committee's report, widening the deficit until it would reach about 10 percent the size of the total economy, a level not previously experienced except in wartime. 
 ''We have never seen a big developed economy in the circumstances we seem to be headed toward,'' said W. Bowman Cutter, a former economic adviser to President Bill Clinton who is co-chairman of the Committee for Economic Development.
 The immediate challenge is finding the money to plug the hole. Robert L. Bixby, executive director of the Concord Coalition, says that addressing the long-term fiscal imbalances caused by the aging of the population will require the trimming of entitlement programs to reduce spending, ''but in the short term, there is room to come up on the tax side.''
 Even the most stalwart opponents of tax increases agree that there are not many easy places to reduce spending. 
 Beyond the arithmetic difficulties, political complications cloud the prospects for closing the budget deficit with spending cuts. The resistance encountered by the Republican leadership in Congress when it tried to pass a package of spending cuts in November underscored how politically difficult it has become to reduce spending and extend tax cuts at the same time.
 Peter R. Orszag, a fellow in economic studies at the liberal-leaning Brookings Institution, said the tax cuts enacted since 2001 have produced a loss in revenue equivalent to a full 2 percent of all economic activity, or about $250 billion a year in today's dollars. Ending them would fill much of the near-term budget deficit.
 ''Doing all the deficit reduction on the spending side is implausible,'' Mr. Orszag said. ''Like most things in life, a balance is required.''
 So, how to raise the revenue? Increasing marginal income tax rates significantly could hurt the economy, encouraging tax avoidance and reducing incentives to invest. Some people contend that with adequate warning, allowing the 2001-3 tax cuts to expire would do little economic damage, and simply return rates to where they were in the booming 1990's. Others have argued for a tax on energy use, which would create incentives for conservation.
 Eliminating tax deductions on mortgage interest and company-paid health insurance, as recommended by Mr. Bush's tax commission, could also generate substantial new revenue. 
 Yet the idea that is gaining most traction among economists is moving to a European-style value-added tax. While it would tend to fall more heavily on low and middle-income Americans who spend much of what they earn, a V.A.T. -- which imposes an incremental tax at each stage of production and distribution -- would not distort incentives as much as an increase in income taxes, economists say. Because it is levied on consumption, it might encourage more saving. 
 William G. Gale of Brookings and C. Eugene Steuerle of the Urban Institute estimated that a 5 percent V.A.T. could generate revenue equivalent to 2 percent of the gross domestic product. In its fiscal proposal, the Committee for Economic Development relied mainly on a 10 percent V.A.T. to increase tax revenue to 21.6 percent of the gross domestic product by 2025 and 22.1 percent by 2035. Accompanied by spending restraint, mainly a reduction in the growth rate of Medicare and Medicaid spending, that should manage to eliminate the deficit.
 Mr. Bartlett would go further. Reversing his previous stance that low taxes would force lawmakers onto a spending diet, he now says that adding a steadily increasing value-added tax is the best way to deal with what he now sees as an inevitable rise in federal spending, to as much as 30 percent of the gross domestic product, to cover expanding entitlements for baby boomers. 
 ''Whose beast was being starved?'' Mr. Bartlett asked. ''There's no evidence that it was working. We need to deal with reality.''

 NET INTEREST PAYMENTS: 8%: 
 MEDICARE: 14%
 MEDICAID: 7%
 SOCIAL SECURITY: 21%
 OTHER: 31%

(Source by Congressional Budget Office)

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Minding the Gap''With budget deficits projected and spending difficult to cut, some say that tax increases are inevitable.Graph tracks federal government spending and revenue as a percentage of G.D.P. since 1960. (Graph differentiates between what is considered surplus and deficit.)MILITARY: 19%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGETS (90%); VALUE ADDED TAX (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TAX INCENTIVES (78%); SALES TAX (78%); TRENDS (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); BUDGET FORECASTS (70%); INTEREST RATES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (56%); COMMITTEE FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (56%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2005



103 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1002 words

HEADLINE: What's Ahead: Blue Skies, Or More Forecasts of Them?

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
The nation's economic forecasters are all but unanimous in predicting that the coming year will not bring a recession. It isn't so clear, however, whether that forecast has any meaning. 
 Wall Street economists are notorious for insisting that all is fine even when a downturn is just around the corner. The few pessimists who regularly prophesize doom are only occasionally right.
 Even the actual start of a recession does not always help. Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, spent much of early 2001 saying that a recession was avoidable. In fact, one had already begun. 
 Trying to predict recessions -- an effort that drives much of forecasting -- turns out to have little practical use. The more relevant question might be whether growth is likely to speed up or slow down in the coming year, and most of the signs, like still-high energy costs and a cooling housing market, are pointing to a slowdown. 
 Slowing economies matter because they often set the stage for recessions, and they usually drag down stock prices in any event. By the time a recession begins and job losses are mounting, stocks are frequently rising again.
 ''The recession obsession is a terrible mistake,'' said Joseph H. Ellis, a former partner at Goldman Sachs who was ranked the country's top retail analyst for 18 straight years by Institutional Investor magazine. ''We need to find a way to talk about slowing rates of growth. We need new language.''
 In a new book, ''Ahead of the Curve'' (Harvard Business School Press, 2005), Mr. Ellis argues that the economy's direction is easier to divine than many people think. Cast aside the recession obsession, look beyond the torrent of confusing data each week, he says, and you can often tell what the economy's next move will be. You still won't know when the next recession is coming, but neither do Mr. Greenspan or Wall Street's prophets.
 In 2006, Mr. Ellis says, the economy will probably slow more than most forecasters predict, for the same important reason it has typically slowed at other points in the last 40 years: weak wage growth. 
 The forecasters polled in a regular survey by the Philadelphia Fed say they think that the economy will expand 3.4 percent next year, down from 3.6 this year. To Mr. Ellis -- who is also the founder of Blue Tulip, a chain of gift and paper stores in the Northeast -- 2 percent growth might be more likely.
 ''We're probably past the peak,'' he said.
 The key to his system is paying attention to people's paychecks and comparing them with inflation. These checks receive less attention than the unemployment rate or job growth, but they are far more important to the economy. 
 Only a fraction of workers lose their job in a given year. But all workers get paid, and the changes in their pay help determine consumer spending. Consumer spending, in turn, makes up about two-thirds of the $12 trillion American economy. Where it goes, industrial production, capital spending and hiring eventually follow.
 For most of the last two years, wages of rank-and-file workers -- about 80 percent of the work force -- have been growing more slowly than inflation. Upper-income households have done better, but surging energy costs this year have dented their buying power as well.
 In the 12 months ending in November, the weekly pay of rank-and-file workers fell about 0.5 percent, after taking inflation into account, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. (Annual rates of change like this are another of Mr. Ellis's fixations; the month-to-month changes that are often reported by the news media are much too noisy to be useful, he says.)
 Just about every other time that inflation-adjusted pay growth has slowed in recent decades, consumer spending eventually took a hit, too. The big exceptions came after tax cuts, such as the ones proposed by President Reagan in the early 1980's and by President Bush during his first term. But the current federal budget deficit makes another tax cut unlikely next year.
 Wage growth has not been a perfect economic predictor, of course. Nothing is. Corporate investment and international trade also matter. 
 And forms of income other than regular wages, like bonuses and stock options, are bigger than they were in past decades. They helped keep the economy growing at a surprisingly healthy pace in 2004 and 2005 despite high energy costs and lagging wages.
 The figures that Mr. Ellis tracks ''are only part of the story,'' said James O'Sullivan, an economist at UBS. ''You've had a pretty clear pattern where total wage-and-salary income has been consistently stronger.''
 It is also possible that the recent tax cuts and real-estate boom have carried the economy through its danger zone. Nominal wage growth -- that is, before accounting for inflation -- picked up this year as the job market improved. Oil prices have recently fallen, which suggests that Mr. Ellis's favorite indicator -- inflation-adjusted wages -- might be on the verge of turning around.
 Still, the economy has rarely escaped pain after years of slowing real wages, even if there is sometimes a lag. Mr. Ellis began to use his system at Goldman Sachs in the early 1970's, and it played a big role in his success as a retail analyst. 
 It also earned him needling when he strayed from Wall Street's usual sunny forecasts. Slowing wage growth started worrying him in late 1998, for instance, but friends told him that the wealth that had been created by the long bull market would keep the economy booming. 
 They did, but only temporarily. Rising house values might well have played a similar role in the last couple years. ''These things can postpone a decline'' in spending growth, he said, ''but they can't prevent it.''
 If Mr. Ellis is wrong, he will have picked a bad time to commit his ideas to paper. If he is right, Wall Street's forecasts next December will revolve around the question of whether the slowdown of 2006 will become the recession of 2007. You can guess what their answer will be. 


GRAPHIC: Photos (Photographs by [first row] Toby Talbot/Associated Press
Daniel Acker/Bloomberg News
Michael Stravato for The New York Times
Carly Calhoun for The New York Times
[second row] Librado Romero/The New York Times
Joshua Duplechian/Associated Press
Daniel Acker/Bloomberg News
Mark Wilson/Getty Images
Bradley C. Bower/Bloomberg News)(pg. C2)Chart: ''Consumer Spending? Watch This Leading Indicator''Over the last 40 years, slowing growth in inflation-adjusted wages has usually led to a slowdown in consumer spending. The two main exceptions occurred after the tax cuts of the 1980's and the tax cuts under the current Bush Administration. Inflation-adjusted wages have been falling for much of the last two years.Graph tracks real personal consumption spending and real average hourly earnings since 1965. (Graph differentiates between bear markets and recessions.)(Source by Joseph H. Ellis, "Ahead of the Curve," Harvard Business School Press)(pg. C2)Chart/Photos: ''The Wrench Effect: Economic Indicators From Everyday Life''In their work, economists look at thousands of economic statistics, like durable goods orders or jobless numbers, to help divine the state of the economy. Some economists, however, also take notice of more commonplace indicators from their lives outside the office, clues that might suggest a new way to look at what's happening in the market. Here, nine economic observers explain their everyday indicators and the thinking behind them.David BrancaccioHost of ''Now'' on PBS and author of''Squandering Aimlessly''Pawn Shop WrenchesHOW IT WORKS -- Greenville, Mich., is a Rust Belt town where a lot of the jobs have gone elsewhere and are going elsewhere. There's a pawn shop on the main drag and you look in the window and there is this huge mound of socket wrench heads. It's clear that people who have used socket wrenches for a livelihood have gone in and pawned these things.WHAT IT MEANS -- As this mound has gotten bigger or smaller, it has meant something for the economy and jobs in America. It's like that old saw that if your neighbor's out of work, it's a recession
 if you're out of work, it's a depression.Michael J. Donnelly Jr.Senior economist, Global InsightWide Price Differences for GasHOW IT WORKS -- Gasoline is a commodity, so it shouldn't have a very wide price range. When the range widens, I suspect that price sensitivity among customers has declined and convenience has become more important.WHAT IT MEANS -- When convenience becomes more important, it's a positive sign for the economy.Claudia GoldinProfessor of economics,Harvard UniversityCost of a Snow-Free DrivewayHOW IT WORKS -- The person who clears my snow increased his rates due to increased gasoline costs. He sent his clients a note that said, ''I'm sorry, I have to increase the fee from $45 to $50.'' I think he had 25 clients and he wants to cut back a bit on the number of people he does. It's truly a gasoline-intensive service.WHAT IT MEANS -- Somewhere, increased gasoline prices were going to find their way and seep into the rest of the costs of services and goods in the economy.Kevin GiddisManaging director of fixed income,Morgan Keegan & Co.Thickness of the Local Paper on ThanksgivingHOW IT WORKS -- As part of a ''Southern style'' Black Friday retail shopping index, I look at the thickness of the Memphis newspaper, The Commercial Appeal, along with some other factors, including the number of separate ad inserts and how full the mall parking lots are on my way to work at 6 am.WHAT IT MEANS -- All of these factors are analyzed and given an index number which is a probability index of whether it will be a good year for retailers as far as the Christmas season goes.Alan B. KruegerProfessor of economics,Princeton University''For Sale'' SignsHOW IT WORKS -- I pay close attention to housing sales and how long it's taking for houses to sell. I look for ''for sale'' signs. I see how long they're for sale, whether they're being marked down and what they're asking. That's going to tell me about the housing market in central New Jersey but might give a misleading picture for the whole of the U.S.WHAT IT MEANS -- One of the threats in some areas is that we might be in a bubble and I'm trying to stay attuned to whether it is a bubble. You can get good data from the energy department on gas prices, but how hard it is to sell a house -- lowering prices, that kind of information -- is beneath the kind of data we can get.Ethan HarrisChief U.S. economist, Lehman Brothers''No Vacancy'' SignsHOW IT WORKS -- Recently I went on a trip with my son and we couldn't find a hotel room in Hartford. This and other experiences at upscale business hotels in the last year, makes me suspicious that the cost of ''lodging away from home'' is up only modestly.WHAT IT MEANS -- If hotels are full, prices are rising. Airplanes also seem jam-packed these days, so the corporate sector must be doing great. This seems consistent with the idea that there is a lot of pricing power in business-to-business transactions, but not business-to-consumer.Steven D. LevittProfessor of economics, University of Chicago and co-author of ''Freakonomics''Heavy TrafficHOW IT WORKS -- My favorite offbeat indicator of the economy is traffic. The best example, I'm told, is that traffic plunged in Silicon Valley after the Internet bubble burst, but I've even noticed the ebbs and flows in Chicago.WHAT IT MEANS -- When the economy is strong, rush hour traffic tends to be worse.Nariman BehraveshChief economist, Global InsightRestaurant ServiceHOW IT WORKS -- One of our favorite indicators of labor market tightness is the quality of service at restaurants. It nosedived in the late 1990's, when it was difficult to get high-quality help, and improved thereafter.WHAT IT MEANS -- Restaurants have trouble hiring high-quality help when the unemployment rate is low. When service improves, the unemployment rate is rising.Rebecca M. BlankDean, Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy,University of MichiganRising Gas PricesHOW IT WORKS -- If the price of refrigerators goes up, you don't notice it. But gas goes up, you feel it. That's the one thing that seems to be present in everybody's consciousness. In three months, I'll tell you about the terrible price of home heating bills.WHAT IT MEANS -- I worry what will happen to employment in my local area. Travel and tourism--that whole segment of the economy is going to start feeling it. It will be very interesting to see what happens when we get into May and June.(pg. C2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (86%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); CHRISTMAS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (51%)

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (59%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (51%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (51%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); MEMPHIS, TN, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2005



104 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1497 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-14

Sunni Politicians Face Enemies From All Sides
Claiming to speak for the insurgency, Sunni politicians who committed themselves to taking part in the campaign for the elections on Dec. 15 have denounced the Shiite-led government and American forces. Yet they are hounded by zealous Sunni militants who reject any involvement in the political process and brand those politicians as traitors. A1

The taking of an abandoned youth center by marines illustrated a new approach to taming the Anbar Province area, where the military has been conducting raids for months: first sweep a town, then immediately garrison it and begin reconstruction. 
Just as important, Iraqi forces are an integral component of the strategy. A1

Ayad Allawi, at left, the former prime minister of Iraq, was attacked by a mob during a campaign visit to the Shiite holy city of Najaf. Mr. Allawi, who escaped unharmed, later characterized the attack as an assassination attempt. A8

Rice to Speak About Prisons
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice plans to offer the Bush administration's first studied defense in the controversy over reports of a network of secret prisons for terror suspects in several European countries, though a senior aide said Ms. Rice would not confirm that the prisons exist. A3

Chavez Wins Election
Venezuela's firebrand president, Hugo Chavez, took overwhelming control of the National Assembly and increased his government's majority after five major opposition parties boycotted a national election for all 167 congressional seats. A6

Protest in Hong Kong
A huge throng of pro-democracy protesters poured through the skyscraper canyons of Hong Kong, defying warnings from senior Chinese officials who refuse to set a timetable for general elections there. A6

Bomber Attacks Canadians
A suicide bomber threw himself at a convoy of passing Canadian troops in Kandahar, Afghanistan, killing himself and a passing civilian, and wounding several other civilians and a police officer. A8

U.N. Official Expects Ousting
Carina Perelli, the head of the United Nations electoral division, acknowledged that she expected to receive a dismissal notice, a move that would come barely a week before crucial elections in Iraq that her office helped organize. A8

Incumbent Leads Kazakh Vote
The election for president in Kazakhstan passed peacefully, and early signs indicated that President Nursultan Nazarbayev, the former Communist boss who has ruled this country since it declared independence from the Soviet Union, was heading to a landslide victory over four opponents. A12

NATIONAL A16-21

Medicare Drug BenefitIs Tough Sell to Elderly
Congressional Republicans are meeting with retirees around the country trying to confront confusion and apprehension surrounding the new Medicare prescription drug benefit, which Democrats feel could be a large problem for Republicans in the midterm elections. A1

White House May See Changes
The White House chief of staff, Andrew H. Card Jr., who has been mentioned as the next Treasury Secretary, is just one of the staff members whose job titles in the administration may change in the near future. A17

Immigration Plan Splits Town
Longmont, Colo., in what is probably the most liberal corner of the state, is hiring someone to help integrate the town's Mexican immigrant population into the larger community. But some residents feel the integration program would accommodate illegal immigrants and those reluctant to adapt. A16

Navy Wants to Expand
The Navy wants to increase the size of its fleet to 313 ships by 2020, reversing years of decline in shipbuilding and adding dozens of new warships designed to defeat emerging adversaries, senior Defense Department officials said. A16

Bad Luck After Jackpot
Mack W. Metcalf and his estranged second wife, Virginia G. Merida, shared the $34 million jackpot from a winning lottery ticket. Now after their good luck, both are dead. A1

Man Scales White House Fence
A man from Arkansas climbed over the fence surrounding the White House while President Bush was inside and was immediately stopped and captured by Secret Service officers. A18

Verizon Mulls Selling Directory
Verizon Communications, the country's second-largest communications carrier, said it was considering selling or spinning off its directory business to concentrate more on providing wireless, data and phone services. A16

Nominee Cites Father's Role
Judge Samuel A. Alito Jr. has cited his father, an Italian immigrant and legislative aide, as having had a large role in shaping the way he views government. A1

Hurricane Inspires Street Art
The hurricane that rocked New Orleans has inspired visual art everywhere: on canvas, T-shirts, refrigerators and tattooed arms and legs. By turns whimsical, angry, despairing and hopeful, the art explores such themes as loss, impermanence and rebirth as it seeks to find a kind of coherence from emotional and physical wreckage. A20

Kennedy Center Honors
This year's Kennedy Center Honors for lifetime achievement in the performing arts were awarded to Robert Redford, Julie Harris, Tina Turner, Tony Bennett, the ballerina Suzanne Farrell. A17

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Tardy Insurance Claim May Cost Schools Millions
The Roslyn school board that learned about an administrator's theft from the Long Island district in 2002 failed to file an insurance claim or make public disclosures about the theft. That action has jeopardized the district's chances of collecting insurance on the $11.2 million stolen by former employees. B1

Sisters Killed in Fatal Crash
Two young sisters who were killed along with a friend in a three-car crash in New Jersey over the weekend were immigrants from South Korea. The identity of the friend has not been disclosed, but law enforcement officials said she was a 20-year-old resident of Korea who was visiting the sisters. B3

Neediest Cases B4

SPORTSMONDAY D1-12

Giants Take Division Lead
The New York Giants defeated the Dallas Cowboys, 17-10, climbing to a record of 8-4 and taking the National Football Conference East lead from the 7-5 Cowboys. D1

The Cincinnati Bengals defeated the Pittsburgh Steelers, 38-31, and in the process assured themselves of their first winning season since 1990. The win gave Cincinnati a two-game lead in the A.F.C. North division with four games to play. D6

Knicks Continue to Struggle
The New York Knicks lost to the Boston Celtics at home in Madison Square Garden, 102-99. Stephon Marbury scored a season-high 35 points, but had a team-high five turnovers and missed three straight free throws late in the game. D3

Japanese Golfer on the Rise
Ai Miyazato of Japan took the tournament's medalist honors at the L.P.G.A. Qualifying School and earned her 2006 L.P.G.A. tour card with a record 12-stroke victory over Libby Smith and Lee Ann Walker Cooper. D1

Upsets in World Cup Skiing
The victory in the first slalom of the World Cup season went to Giorgio Rocca of Italy, whose combined time of 1 minute 51.72 seconds was nearly a second faster than that of second-place Stephane Tissot of France. D7

ARTS E1-8

Children's Literature Collected
The Norton Anthology of Children's Literature is planned for release this month. It is one of the first modern, comprehensive, critical collections of children's literature. And it is intended not for children, but for scholars. E1

OBITUARIES B7

Howard Gotlieb
A Boston University archivist who cajoled, charmed and wheedled to snare the papers of notables like the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and Bette Davis, he was 79. B7

BUSINESS DAY C1-22

New Deal at the Workplace
The corporate social contract has been transformed for managerial and skilled professional workers in America, with the old loyalty-for-security bargain being replaced by other, often shorter-term incentives. C1

Traditional phone companies are moving from vast and costly networks -- systems that were managed by legions of workers who received long-term job security -- to new, cheaper technologies that require fewer workers. C7

The New TV Business Model
As an era of ordering television shows at the push of a button gets under way, new challenges are clouding the landscape in the year ahead: What business models are going to work and who is going to be paid what? C1

Forecast, With a Grain of Salt
Wall Street economists are notorious for insisting that all is fine even when a downturn is just around the corner, and the few pessimists who regularly prophesy doom are only occasionally right. C1

Dim Hopes for Trade Talks
The World Trade Organization's ministers still hope to agree on a further lowering of trade barriers when they gather in Hong Kong next week. But politics and economics are pushing in the other direction. C4

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A22-23

Editorials: Fixing the game; real border security; Verlyn Klinkenborg on those year-end lists.

Columns: Bob Herbert and Paul Krugman.

Autos D11
Bridge E4
Crossword E6
Metro Diary B2
TV Listings E8
Weather B8

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (91%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (77%); TERRORISM (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (77%); BOYCOTTS (76%); ARMED FORCES (76%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); MEDICARE (72%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); ASSASSINATION (69%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (63%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (63%); AGING (63%); HEALTH INSURANCE (63%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (79%); HUGO CHAVEZ (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (71%) IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (92%); KAZAKHSTAN (92%); HONG KONG (92%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2005



105 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 5, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 168 words

HEADLINE: Raise the Minimum Wage

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Implicit in ''Union Claims Texas Victory With Janitors'' (front page, Nov. 28) is the need to raise the federal minimum wage. 
An executive of the Houston Building Owners and Managers Association is quoted as saying that the hourly pay of janitors in Houston is ''generally above the minimum wage.'' According to the article, Houston janitors typically earn $5.25 an hour, a dime above the national minimum. The article also cites a worker who says she has not had a raise in eight years. It's no coincidence that the last federal minimum wage increase was eight years ago.
 In other words, there are still employers who set the wages for adult workers in real jobs based on the minimum. 
 Unless Congress stops ignoring this reality (and in the absence of successful organizing drives), these workers -- millions of whom toil in our low-wage sectors -- will be consigned to working poverty. 

Jared Bernstein
Washington, Nov. 28, 2005

The writer is a senior economist at the Economic Policy Institute.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINIMUM WAGE (93%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) 

ORGANIZATION: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (59%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (55%) Service Employees International Union

PERSON: JARED BERNSTEIN (65%) Jared Bernstein

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%) TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2005



106 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1296 words

HEADLINE: New Caution On Spending This Year; Web Spared 

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
Leading forecasters of advertising spending have turned cautious in their predictions for most media, except -- not surprisingly -- the Internet.
 In a series of presentations yesterday, at the opening sessions of the 33rd annual UBS Global Media Conference in Midtown Manhattan, several analysts trimmed or stood pat on their growth estimates for this year and next.
Even some forecasters who were not presenting at the conference used it as a springboard to release predictions in which they also took another look at their previous growth forecasts.
 Advertising spending is considered a gauge of the health of the economy, so the widespread predictions of cutbacks may augur some softness ahead. That may be tempered, however, by the unanimously robust estimates for growth in ad spending online, a category that for many analysts also includes new technologies like video-on-demand and broadband. 
 Indeed, two presentations on ad spending in newspapers sought to temper the present gloomy outlook for the industry by shining a spotlight on the strong demand for ad space on many newspaper Web sites.
 The reasons the forecasters cited for their caution included expectations of slower spending by marketers in major categories like automobiles; increasingly unpredictable consumer behavior related to factors like the war in Iraq and the aftermath of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita; a lag in spending in local media; and the moving of dollars into the online media, with relatively lower out-of-pocket costs compared with traditional media like television.
 In a presentation, Robert J. Coen, senior vice president and forecasting director at Universal McCann, lowered his estimate of United States ad spending for 2005 to a gain of 4.6 percent from 2004. That compared with a gain of 6.4 percent he predicted in December 2004 and a gain of 5.7 percent he predicted last June. By comparison, ad spending in the United States last year rose 7.4 percent from 2003.
 Ad spending this year has ''stalled, despite a pretty good economy,'' said Mr. Coen, who has been on the job since 1948 and is considered the dean of forecasters. He attributed the shortfall to ''a pretty meager increase'' in local ad spending from 2004, projected at only 2.3 percent, along with a reluctance among big national advertisers to keep opening their wallets ever wider.
 Mr. Coen was slightly more optimistic about next year, leaving intact a prediction he made last June that United States ad spending in 2006 would rise 5.8 percent from 2005. He attributed the outlook to campaigns tied to the 2006 Winter Olympics as well as the significant spending likely to accompany the Congressional elections next fall.
 ''It should be a pretty good year for the advertising industry'' domestically, Mr. Coen said, though ''not quite as strong'' as would warrant an increase in his 2006 forecast. Universal McCann is part of the McCann Worldgroup unit of the Interpublic Group of Companies.
 Another leading forecaster, Steve King, worldwide chief executive at ZenithOptimedia, part of the Publicis Groupe, reduced his estimates for ad spending in the United States for this year and next.
 Mr. King cut his growth forecast for 2005 to 2.9 percent over 2004 from a previous estimate of 3.6 percent, citing the retarding effects of the recovery from the hurricanes along with higher oil prices. He also cut his forecast for 2006 to a gain of 5.1 percent from 2005 compared with his previous forecast for a gain of 5.7 percent.
 In the Internet category, however, Mr. King predicted a 15 percent increase in 2005 compared with 2004 and a 22 percent increase in 2006 compared with 2005.
 ''Even more conservative advertisers are starting to use it regularly,'' Mr. King said of the online medium, ''as part of their marketing mix.''
 By contrast, in the newspaper category, Mr. King forecast a gain of 3.5 percent in 2005 compared with 2004 and a gain of 3 percent in 2006 compared with 2005.
 In the newspaper presentation, James Conaghan of the Newspaper Association of America and Miles E. Groves of MG Strategic Research stressed the halo effects that ads appearing on Web sites are having on the revenue streams of the parents.
 For 2005, Mr. Conaghan, vice president for business analysis and research at the association, predicted that newspaper ad spending would increase 3.2 percent from 2004 despite a decline in national ad spending of 2 percent and slow growth in other categories like retail and classifieds. The reason would be a 29.5 percent increase in online ad spending from last year.
 There is a similar effect in his forecast for 2006. Newspaper ad spending will rise 4 percent from 2005, Mr. Conaghan said, because of a 25.1 percent gain in online ad spending from 2005.
 Online ad spending, which composes 3 percent to 5 percent of total newspaper ad spending, ''could reach 10 percent to 15 percent within the next several years,'' Mr. Conaghan predicted.
 In his presentation, Mr. Groves, president and media economist at MG Strategic Research, forecast identical 3.4 percent increases for newspaper ad spending in 2005 compared with 2004 and in 2006 compared with 2005.
 In both instances, the gains were bolstered substantially by the huge increases he predicted in ad spending on newspaper Web sites: up 40 percent in 2005 compared with 2004 and up 31.2 percent in 2006 compared with 2005.
 That said, Mr. Groves expressed concern that the growth in online ad spending being enjoyed by newspapers could be threatened by ''growth in Internet competitors in local markets'' like Google and Craigslist, as the rivals siphon classified ad revenue.
 The Craigslist Web site (craigslist.com) ''is a pretty ugly thing to look at,'' Mr. Groves said, ''but it works.'' 
 In a separate presentation, David F. Poltrack, executive vice president for research and planning at the CBS Television Network unit of Viacom, reduced a forecast he made last year for ad spending in 2005 on the four big broadcasters, including CBS.
 Mr. Poltrack trimmed his estimate for an increase of 2.5 percent compared with 2004 to an increase of 1.5 percent. His forecast for 2006, however, calls for a gain of 7 percent from 2005, partly because of the revenue being added by the Winter Games, to be broadcast by NBC.
 Mr. Poltrack also held out hope that broadcasters could derive revenue from nonadvertising sources as a result of opportunities provided by the new media.
 In an experiment CBS conducted among viewers with digital cable, satellite and broadband, 95 percent said they would be interested in buying episodes of popular TV series as video-on-demand, Mr. Poltrack said.
 And among those expressing an interest, Mr. Poltrack said, there was an even division between paying $1 an episode if commercials were omitted and paying 50 cents an episode if spots were included.
 One forecaster not presenting at the conference who also reduced ad-spending estimates was Lauren Rich Fine, an analyst at Merrill Lynch.
 Ms. Fine reduced her forecast for 2005 to a gain of 3.2 percent from 2004, compared with her previous estimate of a gain of 3.7 percent. For 2006, she lowered her forecast to an increase of 4.5 percent from 2005. That compared with her previous estimate for an increase of 5.2 percent.
 Ms. Fine attributed the changes to softness in large categories like autos and entertainment.
 Another forecaster not presenting at the conference, Leland Westerfield of Harris Nesbitt, said he would stand pat with his forecasts for a 4.4 percent increase in 2005 compared with 2004 and a 6.9 percent increase in 2006 compared with 2005.
 Fueling his predicted gains: estimates that Internet ad spending will grow 31 percent in 2005 compared with 2004 and increase 37 percent in 2006 compared with 2005.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks advertising spending (as a percentage of G.D.P.) since 1995. (2005 and 2006 are estimates)(Source by Robert J. Coen, Universal McCann)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (78%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); BROADBAND (74%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (73%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (69%); ELECTIONS (69%); VIDEO ON DEMAND (68%); IRAQ WAR (66%); HURRICANE KATRINA (65%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (64%); EXECUTIVES (64%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (60%); WINTER OLYMPICS (50%); OLYMPICS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2005



107 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: BOMBER; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1431 words

HEADLINE: Raised Catholic in Belgium, She Died a Muslim Bomber

BYLINE: By CRAIG S. SMITH

DATELINE: MONCEAU-SUR-SAMBRE, Belgium, Dec. 5 

 BODY:
Muriel Degauque, believed to be the first European Muslim woman to stage a suicide attack, started out life as a good Roman Catholic girl in this coal mining corner of Belgium known as the black country. She ended it in a grisly blast deep inside Iraq last month.
 Ms. Degauque, 38, detonated her explosive vest amid an American military patrol in the town of Baquba on Nov. 9, wounding one American soldier, according to an account received from the State Department and given to the Federal Police in Belgium.
Her unlikely journey into militant Islam stunned Europe and for many people was an incomprehensible aberration, a lost soul led astray. But her story supports fears among many law enforcement officials and academics that converts to Europe's fastest-growing religion could bring with them a disturbing new aspect in the war on terror: Caucasian women committed to one of the world's deadliest causes.
 European women who marry Muslim men are now the largest source of religious conversions in Europe, the experts say. While a vast majority of those conversions are pro forma gestures for moderately religious in-laws, a small but growing number are women who willingly adopt the conservative comportment of their fundamentalist husbands. 
 Most of those in the conservative ranks are motivated by spiritual quests or are attracted to what they regard as an exotic culture. 
 But for some, conversion is a political act, not unlike the women who joined the ranks of South American Marxist rebels in the 1960's and 1970's.
 ''They are people rebelling against a society in which they feel they don't belong,'' said Alain Grignard, a senior official in the antiterrorism division of the Belgian Police. ''They are people searching through a religion like Islam for a sense of solidarity.'' 
 He said there were many such women married to the first wave of Europe's militant Islamists a decade ago, and some of them followed their husbands to Taliban-ruled Afghanistan. But while they supported their husbands' militancy, he said, they never acted themselves. ''This was the first,'' said Mr. Grignard, ''and it's clear there could be others.''
 French antiterrorism officials have been warning for several years that female converts represent a small but increasingly important part of the terrorist threat in Europe.
 As early as May 2003, France's famed antiterrorist investigating judge, Jean-Louis Bruguiere, warned that European terrorist networks were trying to recruit Caucasian women to handle terrorist logistics because they would be less likely to raise suspicion. 
 He said then that it was only a matter of time before the women moved on to more violent acts.
 Ms. Degauque was born in the small suburb of Charleroi, a gritty coal and steel town where her father operated a crane at the sprawling smelter, according to neighbors and friends. 
 She grew up doted on by her mother, Liliane, who worked as a cleaner and monitor at the local elementary school. 
 ''Her mother spoiled her,'' said Jeannine Beghin, who has known Ms. Degauque's mother since childhood. Ms. Beghin recalled that Ms. Degauque's mother rented out a hall and gave a catered party with music and dancing to celebrate the daughter's first communion. 
 ''Muriel had the prettiest dress of all the girls,'' Ms. Beghin said.
 Her teachers remember her as a well-dressed, well-behaved young woman, even if she was a middling student. ''Muriel was more literary than scientific,'' said Rita Detraux, a retired high school teacher. Still, Ms. Degauque seemed adrift by the time she took an apprenticeship as a sales clerk at a bakery in Charleroi after her third year of high school. The local press has quoted her former boss as saying that Ms. Degauque would disappear at lunchtime, and that he soon learned she was using drugs.
 Talk that Ms. Degauque had fallen into the wrong crowd soon circulated in the neighborhood. The Belgian Police say she became known as a drug user, though she was never arrested. In her late teens, she followed her older brother in joining a local motorcycle club, the Apaches, and neighbors saw her come and go in a black leather jacket on the back of a boyfriend's motorcycle.
 By most accounts, Ms. Degauque's wayward streak took a decisive turn when her brother was killed in a motorcycle accident when she was 20. He had always been the more popular of the two, people who know the family say. One neighbor, Andrea Dorange, has told local newspapers that Ms. Degauque said she should have died instead of her brother.
 Ms. Degauque soon moved out of the house and began a troubled life in Charleroi. She married a much older Turkish man in what neighbors presumed was an arrangement to help him legalize his status in Belgium. They divorced about two years later.
 Ms. Degauque had several boyfriends after that and worked at the restaurant of one for a while. She eventually met an Algerian man who introduced her to Islam. She began appearing at her parents' home wearing a head scarf. 
 Her mother told neighbors that she was pleased because Islam had helped her daughter stop drinking and doing drugs. But her devotion became disturbing several years later after she met and married Issam Goris, the son of a Belgian man and Moroccan woman. Mr. Goris with his long beard was already known to Belgian Police as a radical Islamist. Ms. Degauque moved with him to Brussels and then to Morocco, where she learned Arabic and studied the Koran. 
 When she returned, she wore not only a head scarf but the full length robe worn by Muslim women of North Africa. She and Mr. Goris moved to a one-bedroom apartment a few blocks from his mother in the largely immigrant neighborhood near Brussels' Midi train station. The building's owner, who gave his name only as Mahmed, said she collected unemployment checks. It is not clear what her husband did. 
 As Ms. Degauque became increasingly rigid, she demanded that her parents follow Islamic customs when she and her husband visited, forbidding her father to drink alcohol or the men and women to eat together. Ms. Beghin was at the home when the couple arrived for their last visit about six months ago.
 ''Muriel came in with nothing but her eyes showing, even wearing gloves,'' Ms. Beghin said. ''When her husband saw me he went immediately through the house and into the backyard.'' She said Ms. Degauque's mother later explained that he could not bear to be in the presence of a strange non-Muslim woman.
 Ms. Degauque's parents did not know that she had left the country until she called them from Syria in August, according to Ms. Beghin. Ms. Degauque told her mother that she would be gone more than a year but the line went dead before her parents could learn more. The Degauques tried repeatedly to reach their daughter on her mobile phone but got only her voice mail.
 The Belgian Police now say that Mr. Goris had fallen in with a group of Islamists focused on recruiting European Muslims to fight with Abu Musab al-Zarqawi's terrorist network in Iraq. The police had been monitoring the group for months when they intercepted phone calls from Mr. Goris in Iraq indicating that he and his wife were already there. The Belgians didn't yet know Mr. Goris and Ms. Degauque's identities, but they notified the United States and the Iraqi government that a Belgian couple was in the country intent on carrying out attacks. They turned over information on the telephone calls that would allow the Americans to find Mr. Goris, but Ms. Degauque struck before they did.
 Little of Ms. Degauque remained after the explosion in which she died, according to the Belgian Police, though the American soldiersrecovered her passport and other papers. That same day, the Americans found Mr. Goris, who was also wrapped in explosives, apparently about to carry out an attack. They shot him before he could detonate his charges.
 The police continued to monitor the Belgian recruiting network after the deaths, hoping to gather enough information to make conclusive arrests. Those plans were interrupted last week when French radio reported Ms. Degauque's death. Belgium quickly arrested 14 people, fearing the report would send them into hiding. The Belgian authorities have released all but five of them, including the 18-year-old girlfriend of a suspect who was also being pressured to leave for Iraq. The Belgian government has asked the United States to send DNA traces that will allow it to confirm that Ms. Degauque is dead, but the Belgian Police say that neither Ms. Degauque's remains nor Mr. Goris's body will be returned.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Muriel Degauque, suicide bomber from the coal fields of Belgium, who died in Iraq in a blast that wounded an American soldier. (Photo by Virginie Lefour/AFP -- Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (94%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM (89%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); FUNDAMENTALISM (78%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (78%); COAL MINING (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); TALIBAN (78%); WAR ON TERROR (77%); POLICE FORCES (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); JUDGES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: BELGIUM (96%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%); CAUCASIAN STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2005



108 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Classified; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 114 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
MOLYNEUX, PETER E.

 BODY:
 MOLYNEUX--Peter E. Of New York City, formerly of Old Greenwich, died November 21, 2005. He was 45 years old. Mr. Molyneux attended Greenwich High School and Drew University and was a member of the Economics Honor Society. He was Chief Financial Officer of Northbridge Capital Holding Company for 20 years. Peter is survived by his mother, Donna Gorham Molyneux of West Chester, PA, his father Edward Molyneux of Rhinebeck, NY, a sister Carol Petraglia of Radnor, PA, a nephew Alexander and a niece Katie. Memorial services will be held on December 10 at 10:30AM at First Presbyterian Church, 48 Fifth Avenue, NYC. In lieu of flowers, please send contributions to Habitat for Humanity. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); EXECUTIVES (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: HABITAT FOR HUMANITY INTERNATIONAL (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2005



109 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1273 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-17

Hussein Trial Devolves Into Shouting and Chaos
The courtroom at the trial of Saddam Hussein quickly devolved into a wild scene of shouting and chaos, as Mr. Hussein and his fellow defendants exchanged insults with witnesses, lectured the judge and veered into lengthy diatribes against the tribunal. A1

Ramsey Clark, a former American attorney general, delivered a lecture on how to give his client, Saddam Hussein, a fair trial. 
Earlier, he joined in a defense walkout that brought the trial to a temporary halt. A11

Gunmen abducted a French engineer, Bernard Planche, outside his house in an upscale neighborhood of Baghdad, police officials said, in the latest in a wave of kidnappings of Westerners in Iraq. A10

Fear of European Terrorists
The story of Muriel Degauque of Belgium, believed to be the first European Muslim woman to stage a suicide attack, supports fears that female converts to Islam could bring a disturbing new wrinkle in the war on terror: European women committed to one of the world's deadliest causes. A1

Rice Defends Secret Jails
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice chastised European leaders, saying that before they complain about secret jails for terror suspects in European nations, they should realize that interrogations of these suspects have produced information that helped ''save European lives.'' A3

Suicide Bomber Kills 5 Israelis
An Israeli security guard stopped a Palestinian suicide bomber from entering a busy shopping mall in Netanya, Israel, but the bomber still detonated his explosives, killing himself and five other people and wounding dozens. A6

Kazakh Incumbent Wins Vote
President Nursultan Nazarbayev of Kazakhstan secured a third term in office, though a prominent international observer mission said the election did not meet democratic standards. A5

Rumsfeld Faults News Media
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld said media organizations were focusing too much on casualties and mistakes by the military in Iraq and were failing to provide a full picture of the progress toward stabilizing the country. A10

Lebanon Panel to Lose Leader
As United Nations investigators began questioning five Syrian officials in Vienna in connection with the assassination of a former Lebanese prime minister, Rafik Hariri, the German prosecutor leading the investigation said he would leave his post in a few weeks. A12

Transplant Concerns Scientists
American scientists are expressing increasing concerns that the world's first partial face transplant, performed in northern France on Nov. 27, may have been undertaken without adequate medical and ethical preparation. A12

NATIONAL A18-25

DeLay Case Is Upheld, Clouding Return to Post
A Texas judge declined to dismiss the criminal case against Representative Tom DeLay, complicating Mr. DeLay's hopes of regaining his post as House majority leader when Congress resumes in January. A1

Ex-Official Criticizes F.D.A.
A federal drug safety official said her career had been sidetracked and her reputation tarnished after complaints from a drug maker led the Food and Drug Administration to investigate her conduct and suspend her from reviewing a heartworm medicine for dogs. A24

Arsonist Sentenced to 20 Years
The man convicted of being the ringleader in arsons that heavily damaged a new subdivision in southern Maryland last December was sentenced to nearly 20 years in prison. A18

Bush Cites Economy's Health
President Bush traveled to a bright spot in North Carolina's manufacturing industry, a plant that makes excavators used in construction and disaster relief, to tell Americans that the economy was better than they thought and that his administration deserved some credit for it. A20

Failing Grades on Security
The members of the Sept. 11 commission gave dismal grades to the Bush administration and Congress in measuring the government's recent efforts to prevent terrorist attacks on American soil, concluding that the government deserved many more ''F's'' and ''D's'' than ''A's.'' A24

Congress is Reconvening
The House reconvenes for a critical yearend legislative push, with lawmakers trying to wrap up a series of contentious budget, tax and spending measures against a backdrop of ethics inquiries and differences over Iraq policy. A22

Justices to Define 'Retaliation'
For more than 40 years, federal law has prohibited employers from retaliating against employees who complain about discrimination on the job, but neither Congress nor the Supreme Court has ever defined ''retaliation'' until now. A23

Mortgage Aid for Storm Victims
The federal government will help an estimated 20,000 families make 12 months of mortgage payments on homes that were damaged by the Gulf Coast hurricanes, the Department of Housing and Urban Development announced. A18

SCIENCE TIMES F1-8

Answering Gates's Challenge
Scientists from around the world have responded to the Grand Challenges in Global Health that Bill Gates posed in a 2003 speech with ideas ranging from bananas that make their own vitamin A to chemicals that render mosquitoes unable to smell humans. Gates has pledged $450 million to research projects in global health. F1

Health & Fitness F5

NEW YORK/REGION B1-10

Bear Hunters Take To the New Jersey Woods
Hunters thronged to northern New Jersey to take part in the state's second bear hunt in 35 years, aimed at reducing the state's growing population of bears. Compared with the last hunt, in 2003, animal rights advocates kept a low profile. B1

Commercial School Faulted
The New York State Education Department said that it had found an array of problems at Interboro Institute, a profit-making school in New York City and Westchester, including cheating by admissions and financial aid officers intended to help enroll more students and make them eligible for financial aid. B1

Senators Are Challenged
Former Gov. Lowell P. Weicker Jr. of Connecticut criticized Senator Joseph I. Lieberman for his continued support of the war in Iraq, and said that if no candidate challenged the senator in 2006, he would consider running. B1

Neediest Cases B4

SPORTSTUESDAY D1-7

World Baseball Classic
Major League Baseball announced that 177 players from all 30 teams have agreed to participate in the first World Baseball Classic, a 16-team tournament to be held next spring in which players will compete for their home countries. D1

ARTS E1-14

OBITUARIES C19

Liu Binyan
A forceful dissident writer who repeatedly exposed official corruption and openly challenged the Chinese Communist Party, he was 80. C19

BUSINESS DAY C1-18

Verizon Cuts Some Benefits
Verizon Communications said it would stop making contributions to the guaranteed pension plan covering 50,000 of its managers and offer them 401(k) plans instead. Verizon also said that it would contribute less to the health care benefits of those managers when they retire. A1

ABC Names News Anchors
ABC News named Elizabeth Vargas and Bob Woodruff to succeed the late Peter Jennings as anchorsof ''World News Tonight,'' but only after the network failed to reach agreement with one of its biggest stars, Charles Gibson of ''Good Morning America.'' A1

Pentagon Facing Cutbacks
For the first time since the 9/11 terrorist attacks, the Pentagon is feeling pressure from the White House to rein in rapidly rising spending, and is now looking to cut billions of dollars in manpower and equipment. C1

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A26-27

Editorials: Failing on homeland security; separate and inequitable; profiles in pusillanimity; engulfed by need, the city responds.

Columns: John Tierney, Nicholas D. Kristof.

Crossword E11
TV Listings E13
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); WITNESSES (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); ASSASSINATION (76%); ETHICS (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (75%); LAWYERS (75%); INTERROGATION OF SUSPECTS (74%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (71%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); POLICE FORCES (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); RELIGION (68%); MEDICAL ETHICS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (93%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) ISRAEL (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); KAZAKHSTAN (92%); IRAQ (92%); LEBANON (92%); SYRIA (79%); BELGIUM (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2005



110 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; The Hand Turning the Spigot; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1770 words

HEADLINE: Saudis Aim for Precision, Not Surplus, in Meeting Global Oil Needs

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

DATELINE: DHAHRAN, Saudi Arabia 

 BODY:
In a room nearly as big as a football field, engineers at Saudi Aramco monitor the flow of 12 percent of the world's daily oil production.
 Facing a curved display wall 10 feet high and 220 feet long, they manage production and pipeline flows while also directing giant tankers to export terminals in the Persian Gulf or the Red Sea. Ten million barrels of oil are tracked on these screens each day.
For the secretive kingdom, this is among the most secret of all sanctuaries: it is Saudi Arabia's oil spigot. 
 But the doors to this control room at the headquarters of Saudi Aramco, in the eastern town of Dhahran, were recently flung open to a 10-member American delegation headed by Samuel W. Bodman, the energy secretary. 
 Mr. Bodman and his top-level team spent three days in Saudi Arabia, meeting with King Abdullah, visiting oil fields in the desert, touring Aramco's facilities and getting a direct peek inside the world's largest oil producer. 
 Mr. Bodman was seeking firsthand evidence of Saudi Arabia's expansion plans at a time when, analysts say, the kingdom's position in the global oil markets is slowly shifting. As the sharp rise in oil demand whittles away its spare capacity, Saudi Arabia is shunning its traditional role of the swing producer who stands by with excess oil to pour into tight markets; rather, it now aims to produce supplies just in time to ship when consumption dictates. 
 But stung by recent speculation that its fields are faltering, Saudi Arabia is also eager to prove that it will do its part to meet growing oil demand. Earlier this year, Aramco outlined a $50 billion program to increase production and refining operations, double the number of drilling rigs in the kingdom, replace declining fields, and raise capacity by 14 percent to 12.5 million barrels a day in 2009. That would be the largest expansion for the state-owned Aramco in over a quarter-century. 
 Even for a country that holds a quarter of the world's oil reserves, or an estimated 261 billion barrels of oil, this is a huge undertaking -- like adding the entire production of Venezuela or Norway in under five years. 
 On his trip last month to Aramco's control room, called the Oil Supply Planning and Scheduling Center, Mr. Bodman sought reassurance that Saudi Arabia would abide by its commitments. 
 It was the first visit to Saudi Arabia in four years by an American energy secretary, a trip that helped improve ties with the kingdom. Mr. Bodman was treated to a poolside buffet dinner of Middle Eastern food at the home of Ali al-Naimi, Saudi Arabia's influential oil minister, along with the top brass of Aramco. He spent one night at a company guest house in Dhahran and toured the Shaybah oil field in a remote corner of the country, according to Anne Womack Kolton, the director of public affairs at the Energy Department, who was with the delegation. 
 [Back in Washington, Mr. Bodman said he was convinced Saudi Arabia would stand by its promises.
 ''I was very impressed, I have to say, by the capability, by the competence, by the enthusiasm displayed,'' Mr. Bodman said in a telephone interview on Dec. 2. ''I came back with an increased level of confidence that they would do what they said they would do.'']
 Endorsements from foeign officials are important for Saudi Arabia, which has struggled to convince a small but growing number of skeptics that it is serious about expanding oil-production capacity before the decade is over. 
 Even taking into account the new investment program, the doubters say they are not convinced, claiming that the country cannot meet its expansion goals because of inadequate reserves. 
 Doubts over Saudi Arabia's reserves and production ability are not new. Similar questions surfaced even when the Saudi industry was owned by four American oil companies led by Exxon nearly three decades ago. On Dec. 25, 1977, for example, The New York Times ran a front-page story entitled ''U.S. Experts Fear Saudi Troubles in the Oilfields May Limit Output.''
 More recently, some critics, led by Matthew R. Simmons, a Houston-based investment banker, have accused Aramco of overstating oil reserves and minimizing production problems. While Mr. Simmons still represents a minority opinion, Aramco does not readily share information to disprove it.
 Saudi oil officials and executives at Aramco declined to make themselves available for interviews.
 The controversy over Saudi reserves has largely eclipsed a more significant issue: an evolution in how Saudi Arabia sees its place in the global oil market, analysts said.
 ''The reserve issue has clouded something very significant: the Saudi role has changed,'' according to Luis E. Giusti, a former president of Venezuela's national oil company, P.D.V.S.A., and a senior adviser at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. ''They are more comfortable with where the market is going.''
 For most of the 1980's and 1990's, Saudi Arabia had assumed the de facto role of swing producer because of its millions of barrels of unused daily capacity. That overhang -- which reached nearly seven million barrels a day in the mid-1980's -- gave the country the ability to moderate sharp increases in price by raising output. While the position gave Saudi Arabia some influence, it was a result of a previous overexpansion rather than a deliberate policy. It also came at a price.
 It cost the kingdom billions of dollars in lost revenue while other producers nibbled at Saudi Arabia's market share. It also brought about low oil prices for much of the last two decades.
 The position is one that Saudi Arabia does not want to find itself in again, according to David L. Goldwyn, a senior energy official in the Clinton administration and the co-editor of ''Energy and Security: Toward a New Foreign Policy Strategy.''
 ''There has been a decision on the part of Saudi Arabia to signal to the world that they will no longer be the supplier of last resort,'' Mr. Goldwyn said. ''They now say that consuming nations need to look at alternative energies and conservation and not look at Saudi Arabia to make up for the growth in demand.''
 Many analysts agree. They point out that the shift took place at a crucial moment in the last two years, when Saudi Arabia had little spare capacity left because rising demand had caught up with world supplies, and the kingdom had to decide whether to increase capacity and by how much.
 ''The Saudis have abandoned their efforts to regulate the markets to lower prices,'' said Chas. W. Freeman Jr., who was the United States ambassador to Saudi Arabia during the first gulf war and is currently the president of the Middle East Policy Council in Washington.
 ''They are now basically producing enough to meet demand, with their capacity rising slowly,'' Mr. Freeman said. ''They are not concerned anymore with higher energy prices attracting alternative sources of energy or conservation efforts. The feeling now is that there's plenty of room for it all.''
 Saudi Arabia's official policy -- set by the country's Supreme Petroleum Council, headed by the king -- calls for Aramco to keep 1.5 million to 2 million extra barrels a day of spare capacity. That would give the kingdom the ability to make up for a minor interruption in supplies from other producers. But what the Saudis want to avoid is increasing production capacity so much that they unwittingly create a new supply glut.
 ''It's not about rocks or about reserves, it's about investment policy,'' said Fatih Birol, the chief economist for the International Energy Agency.
 Mr. Naimi, during a recent news conference in Riyadh, provided what might be a definition of his nation's position.
 ''I haven't heard this term -- swing producer -- for a long time, and we do not intend to be the swing producer in the future,'' Mr. Naimi said. ''What we are doing is, as best as we can, to anticipate demand. We are building facilities to match that demand.''
 Saudi Arabia wants to be seen as a responsible actor on the global energy scene and a reliable supplier to its customers -- mainly Asian countries, but also the United States and countries in Europe. Saudi Arabia lifted its production over the last two years to make up for disruptions in Nigeria, strikes by oil workers in Venezuela and, more recently, problems in Iraq. 
 ''We want to moderate price,'' Mr. Naimi said. ''We want to diminish volatility. We know we cannot eliminate it.''
 Roger Diwan, an oil analyst at PFC Energy in Washington, said that Saudi Arabia would not seek to completely abandon a pivotal instrument of influence for the kingdom. 
 ''Saudi Arabia's strategic goal is to remain the central banker of the oil market,'' Mr. Diwan said. ''It's not a misplaced ambition. They're the only producers who can do it. But it also means spending billions on capacity that you might not use. A drop in the demand cycle might come back to bite them, just like it did in the 1980's.''
 For Rochdi Younsi, an analyst with the Eurasia Group, in Washington, ''The ambiguity Saudi Arabia maintains is to reassure the market about the availability of supplies while saying at the same time that they have little influence on world prices. 
 ''It's a contradiction,'' Mr. Younsi said, ''but at the same time, they will let no one dictate their oil policy.''
 Before his trip to Saudi Arabia, Mr. Bodman stopped for shorter visits to the United Arab Emirates, Kuwait and Qatar.
 Since he was named to his post in February, Mr. Bodman appears to have forged a smoother relationship with Mr. Naimi than did his predecessor, Spencer Abraham. Mr. Abraham visited Saudi Arabia only once during his tenure but did not spend the night there, according to the Energy Department.
 Last May, when Mr. Naimi visited the United States, Mr. Bodman invited him to dinner at his Washington home. The guests included Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, and John W. Snow, the Treasury Secretary.
 [''We're both able to deal with each other professionally,'' Mr. Bodman said in the interview. ''It's a businesslike relationship. But inherently, we have competing interests. It's also important to have enough of a relationship so that each person can be direct.'']
 Edward S. Walker Jr., the assistant secretary of state for Near Eastern affairs from 1999 to 2001, said oil remained central to relations between the United States and Saudi Arabia.
 ''We are dependent, whether we like it or not,'' said Mr. Walker, now the president of the Middle East Institute in Washington. ''Every solution we consider will have a Saudi component to it.''


CORRECTION-DATE: December 21, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Dec. 6 about Saudi Arabia's efforts to monitor daily oil production referred imprecisely to a trip to the kingdom by the energy secretary, Samuel W. Bodman. His trip last month was the first by an American energy secretary in two and a half years, not four.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Shaybah oil field, in a remote part of Saudi Arabia, was a stop on Energy Secretary Samuel W. Bodman's recent visit to the kingdom. (Photo by Bilal Qabalan/Agence France-Presse)(pg. C1)
 Ali al-Naimi, left, the Saudi oil minister, and Samuel W. Bodman, the United States energy secretary, at a meeting in Washington in May. (Photo by Yuri Gripas/Reuters)(pg. C2)Chart/Map of Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Qatar, and the United Arab Emirates highlights the following:Oil fieldsOil pipelinesGas pipelinesGas fieldOil fields slated for expansion(Source by Samba Financial Group)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); MARINE TANKERS (78%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (78%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: SAMUEL W BODMAN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (94%) SAUDI ARABIA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); GULF STATES (92%); QATAR (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); BAHRAIN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2005



111 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS DIGEST; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 809 words

 BODY:

Verizon to Alter Managers' Retirement Plans As Part of Attempt to Cut Costs by $3 Billion
Verizon Communications, one of the nation's largest phone companies, said that it would stop making contributions to the guaranteed pension plan covering 50,000 of its managers and offer them 401(k) plans instead. Verizon also said that it would contribute less to the health care benefits of those managers when they retire. Over all, the company hopes to save about $3 billion over the next decade by taking these steps. ''This restructuring reflects the realities of our changing world,'' said Verizon's chief executive, Ivan Seidenberg, above. [Page A1.] 


ABC Names Two Anchors to Succeed Peter Jennings
ABC News named Elizabeth Vargas and Bob Woodruff as anchors of ''World News Tonight'' to succeed the late Peter Jennings, but only after the network failed to reach agreement with one of its biggest and most established stars, Charles Gibson of ''Good Morning America.'' [A1.]

David Westin, the president of ABC News, got his anchors in place without being able to be accused of passing over the most respected veteran newsman in his shop, and without threatening the popularity of the network's most profitable news program, ''Good Morning America.'' [C1.]

Saudi Arabia Tries to Match Output With Consumption
As the sharp rise in oil demand whittles away its spare capacity, Saudi Arabia is shunning its traditional role of swing producer, standing by with excess oil to pour into tight markets; rather, it now aims to produce supplies just in time to ship when consumption dictates. [C1.]

Scope of Time Warner's AOL Talks Narrows
Time Warner is still in negotiations with Microsoft and Google over deals involving its AOL unit. But most of them do not involve the sale of a stake in AOL, an executive briefed on the negotiations said yesterday. Rather, they would involve cooperation on Web search, advertising sales and potentially other areas, the executive said. [C1.]

Pentagon Looks for Ways to Cut Spending
For the first time since the 9/11 terrorist attacks, the Pentagon is feeling pressure from the White House to rein in rapidly rising spending and, with its budget reaching record levels, it is now looking for ways to cut billions of dollars in manpower and equipment. [C1]

Boston Scientific Bids $25 Billion to Acquire Guidant
Boston Scientific made a surprise bid to acquire the Guidant Corporation for about $25 billion in a bold move to snatch Guidant from Johnson & Johnson, which last month agreed to buy the device maker for $21.5 billion. [C1.]

Boston Scientific's attempt to crash Johnson & Johnson's merger party with Guidant caught Wall Street by surprise, but perhaps it should not have. As they analyzed Boston Scientific's competing takeover bid, many analysts saw logic as well as genius in the $25 billion proposal. [C6]

President Bush Likely to Postpone Push for Tax Overhaul
President Bush is likely to postpone an all-out push to overhaul the tax code until 2007, administration officials said, in another sign that the president's ambitious economic agenda has become bogged down. [C3.]

Bush traveled to a bright spot in North Carolina's manufacturing industry, a plant that makes excavators used in construction and disaster relief, to tell Americans that the economy was better than they thought and that his administration deserved some credit for it. [A20.]

China Agrees to Buy 150 Jets From Airbus
Airbus and China announced an order worth 7.7 billion euros ($9.1 billion) for 150 single-aisle A320 jets, and said they would also consider building an assembly line for the aircraft in China. [C3]

Intel and Morgan Moving Some Work to India
Intel, the world's largest chip maker, and J. P. Morgan Chase, the banking company, said they would outsource significant operations to India, an indication that more complex high-value work is moving to India. [C6.]

Supreme Court to Hear Case on Job Discrimination
For more than 40 years, federal law has prohibited employers from retaliating against employees who complain about discrimination on the job. But neither Congress nor the Supreme Court has ever defined ''retaliation.'' [A23.]

A Cautious Outlook for Advertising Spending
Leading forecasters of advertising spending have turned cautious in their predictions for most media, except the Internet. In a series of presentations at the opening sessions of the 33rd annual UBS Media Week Conference in Manhattan, several analysts trimmed or stood pat on their growth estimates for this year and next. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [C1.]

Stocks Slip After Oil Prices Rise
Stocks fell, setting back a fourth-quarter rally, after oil prices rose. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 2.99 points, to 1,262.09; the Dow Jones industrial average lost 42.50 points, to 10,835.01; and the Nasdaq composite index fell 15.73 points, to 2,257.64. [C11.]

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks share prices (daily closes) of Guidant from September through November. (Sept.: $70.95 -- Nov. : $67.98)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (91%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (90%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); US 401K PLANS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TAKEOVERS (77%); DIVESTITURES (77%); EXECUTIVES (73%); MERGERS (67%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (66%); TERRORISM (60%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%); BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORP (82%); GOOGLE INC (81%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (62%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (92%); VZ (NYSE) (92%); BSX (NYSE) (82%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (81%); JNJ (NYSE) (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (82%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (82%); SIC3841 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS (82%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (81%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (62%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (62%)

PERSON: IVAN SEIDENBERG (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2005



112 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1538 words

HEADLINE: In Mongolia, an 'Extinction Crisis' Looms

BYLINE: By JOHN NOBLE WILFORD

DATELINE: ULAN BATOR, Mongolia 

 BODY:
On a highway west of this capital, roadside signs advertise marmot, fox and other wildlife, and stacks of skins stand on display. In open markets, traders conduct a gritty commerce in furs and hides, much of it illegal. Similar markets flourish elsewhere in Mongolia, especially along the border with China. 
 If the good news in Mongolia is the gradual comeback of the Przewalski wild horses, the disturbing news is the diminishing numbers of other wildlife, under relentless siege by overhunting and excessive trade in skins and other animal products.
A new study of wildlife, one of the country's most distinctive resources, has revealed alarming declines in most species, especially in the last 15 years. By some estimates, the populations of endangered species -- marmots, argali sheep, antelope, red deer, bears, Asiatic wild asses -- have plummeted by 50 to 90 percent. 
 The only other possible exception to the woeful trend, conservation experts say, is the apparent increase in wolves. That is hardly welcomed by herders. If the animals wolves prey on become scarce, these predators can be expected to become a greater menace to livestock, and there is reported evidence that this is already happening.
 ''The country is facing a quite extraordinary and unnoticed extinction crisis, or at least the threat of one,'' said Peter Zahler, assistant director for Asia at the Wildlife Conservation Society in New York.
 The conservation society, with financing from the World Bank, conducted the comprehensive study of Mongolia's wildlife and concluded, ''There is near unanimous agreement among hunters, traders and biologists in Mongolia that continued wildlife trade at the volumes reported is unsustainable.''
 In August, biologists, international conservation specialists and Mongolian government officials met here to review the study's findings. Participants, the conservation society reported, cited numerous shortcomings in the laws and the management and enforcement practices that contribute to the problem. They also said that corruption existed ''at all management levels.''
 Even though the Mongolian Constitution declares wildlife to be a common resource of the people, the society's investigators found that the government had made only feeble efforts to regulate trade and control hunting.
 A draft report of the study, ''The Silent Steppe: The Illegal Wildlife Trade Crisis in Mongolia,'' was circulated recently. It noted that the country's independence from the Soviet Union, in 1990, ''was the undoing of Mongolia's century-long effort to control wildlife trade.'' Once on its own, the country's ''economy halved, inflation skyrocketed, incomes fell to near zero and store shelves emptied.''
 Under the circumstances, the report continued, ''virtually everyone was looking for a way out of this sudden poverty and, for many, wildlife, now unprotected, provided the answer.'' Hunting for subsistence and income increased. Illegal trade in meat and other animal products proliferated.
 ''Neighboring countries, especially China, have been the happy recipients of this new stream of wildlife product, consuming millions of animals every year and generating uncounted profits,'' the report said.
 The investigators determined that more than 250,000 Mongolians, out of a population of 2.6 million, are active hunters. The wildlife trade is conservatively estimated to exceed $100 million a year, which does not include sales of game meat and traditional medicinal products derived from animals. Nearly all the trade is illegal.
 James R. Wingard, a Montana lawyer who specializes in conservation law, spent much of this year directing the study.
 He and students at the National University of Mongolia conducted more than 3,000 interviews with hunters, biologists, government officials and wildlife traders, known here as ''changers.'' With Dr. Zahler and other experts, he also examined the available research reports on animal populations, their reproduction and growth rates and the environment's carrying capacities for the individual species.
 One morning, Mr. Wingard stopped at several roadside trading establishments outside Ulan Bator. They had large warehouses behind high wooden or concrete fences, but they did not conceal the nature of their business. At one place, a sign with bold black words read like a menu: marmot, goat, cow, horse, deer and fox.
 ''They know about our project,'' Mr. Wingard said as he walked over to speak with one trader. ''They are very, very open in talking with us. The animals may be illegal to hunt, but once the animal enters the market, there's virtually no control.''
 Last year, for example, the government imposed a ban on hunting marmot, a rodent with behavior similar to that of prairie dogs and once plentiful in burrows everywhere on the plains and in the hills. Yet marmot fur still shows up on the market, fetching $10 each. The Chinese, Mr. Wingard said, stitch marmot fur in with sable in making what they sell as sable coats.
 A marmot census cited in the report showed that the animals, which once numbered 40 million, had dropped to 20 million in 1990 and fewer than 5 million in 2002, a decline of 75 percent in only 12 years.
 ''If this trend continues, soon you're going to see an ecological crash,'' Mr. Wingard said.
 The prospects are even more alarming for other species. In the last five years, the saiga antelope has declined from more than 5,000 to fewer than 800; the saiga horn is prized in China as a traditional remedy. The red deer population has fallen 92 percent in 18 years, and the argali, the wild mountain sheep with handsome spiraling horns, are down 75 percent in 16 years.
 One of the rarest animals in the Mongolian mountains is the snow leopard, and its survival is endangered. Though the trade is difficult to track, investigators said they found 17 fresh leopard skins in a small border town in China, apparently poached in Mongolia. Last summer, Russian border guards confiscated 13 Mongolian skins.
 The Gobi bear, a small animal related to the brown bear and known to exist only in a corner of the desert here, may be beyond saving. Dr. Zahler, of the conservation society, said that as few as 25 were left.
 ''The bears appear to face numerous potential threats, ranging from lack of food and water to inbreeding and fragmentation of the few remaining breeding adults,'' Dr. Zahler wrote in an earlier research report.
 At the International Asiatic Wild Ass Conference, held in August at Hustai National Park in Mongolia, biologists and conservation experts expressed concern over the diminishing numbers of the animal known here as the khulan. It is one of only three species of ass left in the wild; the others are in Africa and different parts of Asia.
 The khulan, smaller than a horse but larger than a donkey, used to be a familiar sight even in the Gobi Desert. No one knows how plentiful they were, but a 2003 census numbers them at 20,000. Scientists at the conference said that overhunting and recent bitter winters are probably causing a net loss of khulan population of 10 percent a year.
 Petra Kaczensky, a wildlife biologist at the University of Freiburg in Germany, said, ''We see signs of poaching throughout the national parks,'' which are supposedly protected lands closed to hunters.
 Christian Walzer, a biologist at the veterinary college of the University of Vienna, said the attitude of the Mongolian people, though understandable, was an impediment to regulating khulan hunting.
 ''They don't want there to be more khulan and don't want them to disappear,'' Dr. Walzer said. ''They worry about the grazing competition they givetheir livestock. If my livelihood depended on my sheep and their pastures, I wouldn't look with favor on a thousand wild ass showing up at my door.''
 The herders also hunt the khulan for meat, either to eat or to sell in town. Mr. Wingard said meat processors in Ulan Bator were doing a thriving business making sausage out of wild ass meat.
 Over dinner in Ulan Bator -- hold the sausage, please -- Mr. Wingard assessed the situation: ''This is the least populated large country in the world. So it's not habitat loss or fragmentation that is the big problem. It's unregulated wildlife trade.''
 He said the sheer size of the country made it unrealistic to police hunting strictly, and some of the rangers also are involved in poaching. He suggested that local communities must be given clear incentives to support enforcement of hunting laws and bans. Of greatest importance, he said, the government must enact and enforce tougher legislation intended to curb demand by controlling trade in animal products.
 ''There seems to be a growing political will to do something about it,'' Mr. Wingard said. ''If you could control the trade, you could have the Africa of Asia here, as far as wildlife is concerned, and then the tourism associated with wildlife, as in Africa.''
 And the problem is not confined to Mongolia. In ''The Silent Steppe,'' Elizabeth L. Bennett, director of the conservation society's hunting and wildlife program, wrote, ''The single greatest threat facing many species of wildlife across the world today is hunting for commercial wildlife trade.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: TODAY'S SPECIALS -- Gray wolf and corsac fox skins, left to right, hang outside a roadside pelt stand in Mongolia. (Photo by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. F1)
DANGER SIGNS -- A no-hunting signin Mongolia's Hustai National Park is overwhelmed by the landscape. James R. Wingard, below left, a lawyer from Montana, inspects pelts at a roadside shop as part of a nationwide study. A steppe eagle, center, can bring $200. Below right, a ranger is posted at a national park. (Photographs by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. F3)Chart/Photos: ''Mongolia's Threatened Wildlife''Overhunting and the excessive trade of animal skins and products have caused populations of endangered species in Mongolia to plummet as much as 90 percent in the last 15 years.ANIMALS MOST HUNTEDSiberian marmotNUMBER OF HUNTERS -- 160,000Gray wolfNUMBER OF HUNTERS -- 85,000Red foxNUMBER OF HUNTERS -- 50,000Mongolian gazelleNUMBER OF HUNTERS -- 40,000Roe deerNUMBER OF HUNTERS -- 35,000Corsac foxNUMBER OF HUNTERS -- 30,000Wild boarNUMBER OF HUNTERS -- 25,000Red deerNUMBER OF HUNTERS -- 9,000Red squirrelNUMBER OF HUNTERS -- 7,000Brown bearNUMBER OF HUNTERS -- 4,000ANIMALS WORTH THE MOST MONEYDalmatian pelicanDOMESTIC MARKET VALUE (U.S. DOLLARS) -- $2,000Brown bearDOMESTIC MARKET VALUE (U.S. DOLLARS) -- 1,340Red deerDOMESTIC MARKET VALUE (U.S. DOLLARS) -- 985Yakut mooseDOMESTIC MARKET VALUE (U.S. DOLLARS) -- 900ArgaliDOMESTIC MARKET VALUE (U.S. DOLLARS) -- 515Ussurian mooseDOMESTIC MARKET VALUE (U.S. DOLLARS) -- 400Gray wolfDOMESTIC MARKET VALUE (U.S. DOLLARS) -- 310Asiatic wild assDOMESTIC MARKET VALUE (U.S. DOLLARS) -- 300Snow leopardDOMESTIC MARKET VALUE (U.S. DOLLARS) -- 272Siberian ibexDOMESTIC MARKET VALUE (U.S. DOLLARS) -- 232ANIMALS KILLED THE MOST BY HUNTERSSiberian marmotESTIMATED FOR 2004 -- 3,000,000Mongolian gazelleESTIMATED FOR 2004 -- 200,000Red foxESTIMATED FOR 2004 -- 200,000Red squirrelESTIMATED FOR 2004 -- 180,000Altai marmotESTIMATED FOR 2004 -- 170,000Corsac foxESTIMATED FOR 2004 -- 150,000Roe deerESTIMATED FOR 2004 -- 100,000Wild boarESTIMATED FOR 2004 -- 30,000Red deerESTIMATED FOR 2004 -- 5,000Asiatic wild assESTIMATED FOR 2004 -- 3,000(Sources by Peter Zahler, Wildlife Conservation Society
 pictures by Art Wolfe [marmot], Kenneth W. Fink [pelican]/Photo Researchers and Jamie-Andrea Yanak/Associated Press)(pg. F3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); WILDLIFE (90%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (90%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (90%); ANIMALS (90%); MAMMALS (90%); RODENTS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); BIOLOGY (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ANIMAL POACHING & TRAFFICKING (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); SPORT HUNTING (78%); ZOOLOGY (76%); HORSES (76%); TRENDS (74%); CORRUPTION (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); MEATS (69%); LEGISLATION (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (63%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%) Animals; Endangered and Extinct Species; International Trade and World Market; Poaching; Hunting and Trapping; Fur; Law and Legislation ; Research; Animals; Finances; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry 

ORGANIZATION: WILDLIFE CONSERVATION SOCIETY (82%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%) Wildlife Conservation Society; International Bank for Reconstruction and Development

PERSON: John Noble Wilford; James R (Dr) Wingard

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) MONGOLIA (98%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Montana; Mongolia

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2005



113 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: Yen at 32-Month Low as Japan's Small Investors Look Abroad 

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

DATELINE: TOKYO, Dec. 5 

 BODY:
The Japanese yen fell to a 32-month low against the dollar on Monday, continuing an almost yearlong slide that helps Japanese exporters, but raises pressure on American producers.
 In Tokyo, the yen traded as low as 121.39 yen to the dollar, its weakest point since March 2003. It has fallen 16 percent this year, from a high of 101.68 yen to the dollar on Jan. 17. Against the euro, the yen touched a record low of 141.98. In New York, the yen weakened further to lows of 121.40 to the dollar, recovering to settle at 120.79.
Analysts said the yen has fallen as Japanese investors, particularly individuals, shift money into foreign securities to get higher returns from rising interest rates in the United States and, recently, Europe. To make such investments, Japanese investors must buy dollars and euros by selling yen, driving down the Japanese currency's value. 
 Still, analysts said it was surprising that the yen had declined so much, given the underlying strength of the improving Japanese economy, which is looking its healthiest since the early 1990's.
 Often, declines in a nation's currency reflect problems like excessive government debt or faltering growth. But in this case, analysts say, the yen's weakness reflects something different: As economic recovery raises wages and creates jobs, the Japanese are starting to feel confident enough to invest part of their savings abroad for the first time in a decade. 
 And even a small change in Japanese investing habits can be enough to move global markets. Japanese households hold some $12 trillion in financial assets, one of the world's largest pools of investment capital.
 ''With the domestic economy getting back onto a normal footing,'' said Satoru Ogasawara, a currency strategist in the Tokyo office of Credit Suisse First Boston, ''individuals are becoming less afraid of risk.''
 A lower yen helps Japanese car and electronics exporters because it makes their goods cheaper in dollars. While that might be good news for consumers in the United States, the prospect of less expensive Toyotas threatens Detroit, which is already struggling to compete with the Japanese carmakers.
 In the past, American manufacturers have asked Washington to intervene to halt slides in the yen. But at a weekend meeting in London of finance ministers of the Group of 7 industrial nations, Treasury Secretary John W. Snow made no public mention of the yen's decline, according to news reports. Japan's finance minister, Sadakazu Tanigaki, said the yen did not come up in his talks with Mr. Snow.
 ''Foreign exchange rates reflect fundamentals of economies,'' Mr. Tanigaki told reporters, according to Bloomberg News. Some traders read his statement as a sign that the government would not interfere with market-driven currency movements. Without American pressure, Japan is unlikely to intervene on its own as its economy only benefits from stronger exports. 
 A catalyst for the yen's decline has been a steady ratcheting up of interest rates by the Federal Reserve, which has made United States Treasury bonds more attractive to investors. To limit inflation in a robust American economy, the Fed has raised its base-line federal funds rate, the rate at which banks lend money to each other, 12 times since June 2004, to 4 percent from 1 percent. Last week, the European Central Bank increased rates for the first time in five years. 
 At the same time, Japan's central bank has kept interest rates effectively near zero, and fears of snuffing out economic recovery make it unlikely that the bank will raise them anytime soon. That has sent Japanese money overseas in search of higher returns. In the last two years, there has been a slow shift of savings into more aggressive investments, particularly Japanese-based mutual funds that specialize in United States and other foreign securities. 
 According to government data, Japanese purchases of foreign securities surpassed 15 trillion yen, or $124 billion, in the first eight months of this year. At that pace, purchases would pass $165 billion for the first time since 1986, according to analysts. That would be a reversal from most of the 1990's, when individuals, inhibited by Japan's long economic doldrums, kept their money in the safest possible places, either in government-guaranteed savings accounts or in cash.
 ''The economy is getting better,'' Mr. Ogasawara of First Boston said, ''so Japan is putting more of its money overseas again.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Dealers in Tokyo yesterday as the yen's value fell amid speculation that the government would not intervene. (Photo by Toru Hanai/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JAPANESE YEN (93%); CURRENCIES (91%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); EURO (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (87%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); TRENDS (75%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (74%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (74%); TECHNOLOGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); INTEREST RATES (69%); PUBLIC DEBT (69%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (68%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (66%); AUTOMAKERS (66%); JOB CREATION (65%); TALKS & MEETINGS (60%) Currency; Economic Conditions and Trends; Records and Achievements

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (53%); BLOOMBERG LP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) European Union

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (53%); CS (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (50%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (50%)

PERSON: Martin Fackler

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) Japan; Europe

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2005



114 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 691 words

HEADLINE: A Rallying Market Sputters As Oil Moves Above $60 

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks fell yesterday, setting back a fourth-quarter rally, after a rise in oil prices above $60 a barrel revived concern that higher energy costs would curtail holiday spending.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 2.99 points, or 0.2 percent, to 1,262.09. The Dow Jones industrial average lost 42.50 points, or 0.4 percent, to 10,835.01. A slump in shares of semiconductor companies weighed on the Nasdaq composite index, which fell 15.73 points, or 0.7 percent, to 2,257.64.
Both stocks and Treasury securities fell after an economic report indicated growth at service industries, reinforcing speculation that the Federal Reserve will keep raising interest rates. The price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 15/32, to 99 14/32, by late in the day. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.57 percent from 4.51 percent on Friday. 
 The Institute for Supply Management's measure of financial services, retailing, building and nonmanufacturing businesses in November was 58.5. Readings above 50 signify expansion. The index was at 60 in October. The gauge has averaged 56.9 during the last five years.
 ''We need to know what's going on with Fed policy, because that's got a lot of things in flux right now,'' said Frank Lesh, a trader and analyst at Rand Financial Services in Chicago. Stocks will not have ''any spectacular performance from here through year-end,'' he said.
 About five stocks fell for every three that rose on the New York Stock Exchange. About 1.69 billion shares changed hands on the Big Board, 1.4 percent higher volume than the three-month daily average.
 Crude oil for January delivery rose 1 percent, to $59.91 a barrel, in New York and touched $60.80 as freezing temperatures in the Midwest spurred demand.
 The higher fuel prices helped send a gauge of retailers in the S.& P. 500 down 0.9 percent. Target fell $1.25, to $52.61. Kohl's declined 84 cents, to $46.12. Gap lost 32 cents, to $17.47.
 Sears Holdings dropped $2.79, or 2.3 percent, to $116.71. The company offered to buy the portion of its Canadian unit that it does not already own for $719 million (835 million Canadian dollars).
 An S.& P. 500 index of transportation companies fell 1.6 percent. FedEx declined $2.03, to $95.79. The Norfolk Southern railroad dropped 87 cents, to $43.26.
 A measure of semiconductor companies in the S.& P. 500 slid 2 percent, with 19 of its 20 companies showing declines. Texas Instruments, the world's biggest maker of mobile-phone processors, lost 90 cents, to $33.21. Intel, the largest maker of semiconductors, declined 53 cents, to $26.90. Intel is scheduled to provide investors with a midquarter update in three days.
 Shares of medical device makers advanced after Boston Scientific topped Johnson & Johnson's offer for Guidant.
 Guidant, the maker of implantable defibrillators, surged $6.16, or 10 percent, to $67.98. Johnson & Johnson retreated 16 cents, to $61.05. Boston Scientific fell 98 cents, to $26.35.
 St. Jude Medical jumped $2.29, to $50.56. Medtronic added 51 cents, to $56.29.
 Google shares sank $11.85, or 2.8 percent, to $405.85, even as Banc of America Securities raised its forecast to $420 from $360. The shares trade for 69 times estimated earnings, compared with 16 for the S.& P. 500. 
 Here are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills:
(000 omitted in dollar figures)


	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	99.006	97.884	High Rate	 3.930	 4.185	Investment Rate	 4.025	 4.335	Low Rate	 3.890	 4.150	Median Rate	 3.915	 4.175	Total applied for	$48,706,335	$46,483,711	Accepted	$24,633,535	$22,562,007	Noncompetitive	$1,864,602	$1,491,760	

Both issues are dated December 08, 2005. The three-month bills mature on March 09, 2006 and the six-month bills mature on June 08, 2006.

 Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)

Graph: ''3-Month Treasury Bills'' shows average discounted rate of 3-month treasury bills
 in percent at weekly auction from September to November. (Source by The Bond Buyer)

Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch.
 (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); BONDS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ELECTRONICS (89%); SEMICONDUCTORS (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (89%); CURRENCIES (79%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); HOLDING COMPANIES (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); BOND MARKETS (75%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); MEASURING & CONTROL DEVICES MFG (71%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); INTEREST RATES (69%); RETAILERS (67%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Credit; Interest Rates; Finances; Government Bonds; Bankruptcies

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (69%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (57%); RAND FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (54%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); SEARS HOLDINGS CORP (52%); NORFOLK SOUTHERN CORP (51%); INTEL CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Calpine Corp

TICKER: TXN (NASDAQ) (57%); SHLD (NASDAQ) (52%); NSC (NYSE) (51%); INTC (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (57%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (57%); SIC6221 COMMODITY CONTRACTS BROKERS & DEALERS (54%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (52%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (52%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (52%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (52%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (51%); NAICS484110 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LOCAL (51%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (51%); SIC4213 TRUCKING EX. LOCAL (51%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (54%) CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2005



115 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 548 words

PERSON: Peter Edgar Haas Sr. 

HEADLINE: Peter Haas, 86, Executive During Levi Strauss Heyday 

BYLINE: By WOLFGANG SAXON

 BODY:
Peter Edgar Haas Sr., who with his brother Walter engineered the explosive growth of the family business, Levi Strauss, into the world's biggest maker of brand-name jeans, died Saturday at his home in San Francisco. He was 86. 
 His death was announced by Levi Strauss & Company, which he joined in 1945 and served as president, chairman and, finally, chairman emeritus. His chief contributions were in the company's financial and manufacturing operations and in its social and charitable activities.
 Levi Strauss had long remained the Western outfitter begun in 1853 in the wake of the California Gold Rush by Levi Strauss, an immigrant from Bavaria. Levi Strauss left a thriving manufacturing and dry goods business to his four nephews, who rebuilt it after the San Francisco earthquake and fire of 1906.
 It was only after Peter and his older brother Walter, who were descendants of a nephew of Levi Strauss, took control of the business after World War II that Levi's became an international brand and, after that, made a mark in fashion as well. Movie idols like Marlon Brando in ''The Wild One'' (1953) and James Dean helped popularize Levis. After that, denim blue jeans, by Levi Strauss and dozens of other makers, became not just work clothes but daily garb, and eventually something approaching high style. 
 In 1959, company sales totaled $40 million. The number of workers rose from about 3,000 in 1961 to more than 12,000 in 1966. When it went public in 1971, the company had almost 20,000 employees worldwide and sales of more than $400 million, with operations in 50 countries. It was taken private again in 1985. For the 2004 fiscal year, the company had sales of $4.1 billion 
 In the 1950's -- years before the civil rights legislation of the 1960's -- Peter Haas insisted that Levi Strauss would open factories in Southern towns only if their black workers were treated as equals. Through the Miriam and Peter Haas Foundation, he contributed millions of dollars to support early-childhood programs for poor families.
 Peter Haas Sr. was born in San Francisco and at first wanted to became an engineer. He switched to economics and graduated from the University of California, Berkeley, in 1940. Having been rejected for military service because of poor eyesight, he received an M.B.A. from Harvard in 1943. He spent part of the war working as a riveter at a military contractor. 
 After some reluctance, he joined the family business and with his brother assumed more and more responsibilities from their father and an uncle. Peter and Walter shared and exchanged duties along with titles. Peter was executive vice president from 1958 to 1970, president and chief executive until 1981, chairman from then to 1989, after which he became chairman of the executive committee. He was named chairman emeritus last year. Using a wheelchair, he continued to come to work until shortly before his death. 
 Walter Haas died in 1995. 
 Peter Haas Sr.'s marriage to Josephine Baum Haas ended in divorce. He is survived by his wife of 24 years, Mimi Lurie Haas; a son and a daughter from his earlier marriage, Peter E. Jr., of Novato, Calif., and Margaret Haas, of Ross, Calif.; two stepsons, Ari and Daniel Lurie, both of San Francisco; four grandchildren; and a great-granddaughter.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Peter Edgar Haas Sr. (Photo by Terrence McCarthy, 1986)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); EXECUTIVES (89%); FAMILY COMPANIES (89%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); WORLD WAR II (76%); CHARITIES (76%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); IMMIGRATION (69%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (60%); CIVIL RIGHTS (50%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

COMPANY: LEVI STRAUSS & CO (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC2325 MEN'S & BOYS' SEPARATE TROUSERS & SLACKS (94%)

Wolfgang Saxon

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); SACHSEN, GERMANY (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2005



116 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 990 words

PERSON: Liu Binyan

HEADLINE: Liu Binyan, a Fierce Insider Critic of China, Dies at 80

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

DATELINE: SHANGHAI, Dec. 5 

 BODY:
Liu Binyan, the forceful dissident writer who repeatedly exposed official corruption and openly challenged the Chinese Communist Party to reform itself before and after he was exiled to the United States in the late 1980's, died Monday.
 He was 80 years old and lived in East Windsor, N.J.
 The cause of death was believed to be complications related to colon cancer, said his wife, Zhu Hong. 
 A crusading investigative journalist and devoted Marxist, Mr. Liu became a popular figure in China for his literary exposes in the official party newspaper, People's Daily, on greed, corruption and rampant abuse of power within the Communist Party system.
 But he was eventually expelled from the party in 1987, along with two other leading dissident intellectuals, Fang Lizhi, a prominent astrophysicist, and Wang Ruowang, a poet. A year later, he visited the United States to teach and write. He was never allowed to return home.
 The expulsions came shortly after the government clamped down on pro-democracy student demonstrators in January 1987, and then fired the reform-minded party secretary, Hu Yaobang. 
 The three intellectuals were denounced by name in 1987 by Deng Xiaoping as threats to the party. But their pleas for greater reforms and democracy at a time when China was just beginning to open up its political and economic system were believed to have helped inspire a second wave of pro-democracy student demonstrations in 1989, which were touched off by Hu's death.
 Few intellectuals in modern China were so daring or so persistent as Mr. Liu in publicly attacking and exposing corruption in the party's ranks. And what was perhaps most remarkable about his career is that he did it as something of an insider, as a party member and a writer for official party publications in a country that has a history of very little public dissent.
 But for that he paid a heavy price. He was expelled from the party and denounced as a ''rightist'' in the 1950's, sent to forced labor camps, then labeled a ''class enemy,'' rehabilitated, then denounced, re-expelled from the party and eventually exiled permanently from the country. He is survived by his wife, Zhu Hong; a son, Liu Dahong, and a daughter, Liu Xiaoyan.
 Mr. Liu had a knack for saying what was on his mind, and for stubbornly insisting that the party was heading in the wrong direction, betraying the people and the country's Marxist and socialist principles.
 ''He was one of the first people to challenge the party,'' says Merle Goldman, professor emerita of history at Boston University and author of several books on Chinese intellectuals. ''He openly challenged the regime. And few people did that.''
 Liu Binyan was born in 1925, in Changchun, in the industrial northeast. He was the son of a railroad worker, from a family too poor to send him through high school.
 After completing the ninth grade, he dropped out and began reading on his own. He joined a Marxist reading group, taught himself Russian and began devouring books.
 In 1943, while China was divided by civil war and at war with Japan, he joined the underground Communist Party.
 After the Communist victory in 1949, he worked as an investigative reporter and editor at the China Youth Daily, the leading youth newspaper, where he practiced a formed of literary journalism that involved meticulous research and almost novelistic detail and description.
 Yet during the 1950's, he began writing impassioned, thinly veiled critiques of the party's bureaucracy, and lifted the veil on corruption in the system.
 In 1957 he was denounced as a ''rightist'' and expelled from the Communist Party. For the next two decades, he was in and out of forced labor camps and sometimes separated from his family. 
 In 1978, after Deng came to power, Mr. Liu was rehabilitated, readmitted to the party and given a job as a special reporter for People's Daily. Before long he was once again writing scathing attacks on the party bureaucracy. In 1979 he published his most famous work, ''People or Monsters?'', about a corruption case in northeastern China.
 Mr. Liu's articles and essays in People's Daily and elsewhere made him into one of the most admired writers on the mainland, even though his depiction of the party was ugly.
 ''The Communist Party regulated everything,'' he wrote. ''But it would not regulate the Communist Party.''
 But in 1987, after large student protests in the Yangtze River basin, the government cracked down on ''bourgeois liberalization'' and those who favored capitalism and Western values. Intellectuals and party critics like Mr. Liu were expelled.
 The party's official papers then savaged Mr. Liu and charged him with fabricating stories. Deng called him a subversive and he was banned from writing for People's Daily.
 In 1988 he was allowed to travel to the United States to teach and write at the University of California at Los Angeles and at Harvard. But after the crackdown on student protesters in June 1989, he went on national television and lashed out at the Chinese government, predicting that the Communist Party would soon collapse.
 ''He got on national television and burned his bridges,'' said Perry Link, a professor at Princeton University who translated and edited several collections of Mr. Liu's collections of writings. ''He felt the party was morally bankrupt.''
 After that, the Chinese government refused to allow Mr. Liu to return home. He became a dissident in exile. 
 In the United States he continued writing and speaking out forcefully about how corruption and greed had eaten away at the system, and about how the Chinese party had strayed from socialism and the ideals he had read about as a youth. 
 ''The problem does not lie with socialism itself,'' he once told The New York Review of Books. ''The socialism imported from the Soviet Union and implemented in China was not true socialism. From Stalin to Mao Zedong, we have had false socialism.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Liu Binyan (Photo by Associated Press, 1997)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); CORRUPTION (90%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); SCHOOL SUSPENSION & EXPULSION (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (66%); COLORECTAL CANCER (56%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

HU JINTAO (58%) David Barboza

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) EAST CHINA (79%); NORTHEAST CHINA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); JILIN, CHINA (58%) CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (93%)

CATEGORY: Social Activism

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2005



117 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 307 words

HEADLINE: Service Sector Grew Last Month But Didn't Match October Pace 

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The nation's service sector grew in November, but at a less-robust pace than in October and slightly slower than analysts expected, the Institute for Supply Management said yesterday. 
 The institute said its index of nonmanufacturing activity dropped to 58.5 in November from 60 the month before. The November reading was slightly below the 59 reading analysts had expected.
 Readings of 50 and above indicate growth, while numbers below that indicate contraction. The index reading has averaged 60.5 over the past year, the institute said, but it fell as low as 53.3 as recently as September when businesses were grappling with the spike in oil prices after Hurricane Katrina. 
 November was the 32nd consecutive month to register expansion in the services sector. 
 Scott Brown, chief economist with Raymond James & Associates in St. Petersburg, Fla., said of the report, ''The headline number was less than expected, but the details were still pretty strong.'' 
 He said that the strength in new orders and employment was ''consistent with continued economic growth and further Fed tightening.'' 
 Ralph G. Kauffman, chairman of the institute's survey committee, said in a statement that business activity and order backlogs increased at slower rates in November than in October, while new orders and employment increased at faster rates. 
 He said that comments from purchasing and supply agents surveyed each month were generally positive. 
 But, he added, ''there is still significant concern about the relatively high level of energy prices and its impact on freight costs and on the prices of other materials and services.'' 
 The institute, based in Tempe, Ariz., said its index for companies' backlogs of orders eased to 54 in November from 55 in October, while the index for prices fell to 74.2 in November from 78 the month before. 


GRAPHIC: Photo: A shopper at a Target in Seattle in November, when employment and orders for goods were strong. (Photo by Ted S. Warren/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW ORDERS (90%); SERVICE SECTOR OUTPUT (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (74%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); HURRICANE KATRINA (54%) United States Economy; Inventories (Economic Indicator); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Service Industries

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (91%); RAYMOND JAMES & ASSOCIATES INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Institute for Supply Management

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: SCOTT BROWN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (75%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2005



118 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: State Accuses A College Of Cheating

BYLINE: By KAREN W. ARENSON

 BODY:
The New York State Education Department said yesterday that it had found instances of cheating by admissions and financial aid officers at Interboro Institute in New York City that were intended to help enroll more students and make them eligible for federal and state financial aid. Interboro is one of the largest and fastest-growing proprietary colleges in the state.
 In a letter to Interboro, released yesterday along with the details of an undercover investigation of the school and a separate review by outside educators, the department also said it had found an array of other problems. They included inadequate support for students who were unprepared for college-level work and misleading students about the time needed to earn a degree. 
 The department demanded that Interboro cut enrollment and make other significant changes, or risk being closed.
 ''Interboro has failed to successfully meet its mission with its present student body and needs to downsize its operation until it can prove a reasonable level of success for its students,'' Joseph P. Frey, an assistant commissioner of education, said in the letter to the college.
 Joseph D. Alperin, general counsel and vice president for corporate affairs at Interboro's parent company, EVCI Career Colleges Holding Corporation, said yesterday that the company could not comment because it did not want to prejudice discussions with the Education Department.
 But in a response to the department, Interboro and EVCI expressed surprise at ''the extent of the negative findings.''
 They said they accepted many of the recommendations, including that admissions requirements be raised, and were ''absolutely committed'' to making significant changes. Mr. Alperin cited a report by a law firm brought in by EVCI's outside directors and paid $300,000 to review the state's findings of cheating. 
 The report, by Ritzert & Leyton, a Virginia firm, said that the problems identified by the state appeared to have occurred but seemed limited. The report also said it had not found evidence that management had ''directed, encouraged, or ignored any conduct as alleged.''
 As publicly traded higher education companies have expanded rapidly in recent years, they have come under increased scrutiny, and the Interboro reports are the latest sign of problems. Education companies like EVCI have attracted investors with their fast growth and promise of expanding revenues. In its contract with its admissions officers, Interboro specified how many prospective students the officers had to process, or risk losing their jobs. 
 Interboro, which offers associate's degrees in fields including business administration and paralegal studies, has 4,500 students in Yonkers, Midtown Manhattan, Washington Heights and Flushing, Queens. More than 20 percent of all first-time full-time students at for-profit colleges in New York are at Interboro, which is accredited by the state's Board of Regents.
 The Education Department said that in its investigation during the summer, an Interboro employee advised a state undercover agent to falsify income in order to qualify for financial aid, and that the school changed answers on a federally approved exam to qualify students for federal and state aid. Undercover agents also said that test booklets had marks around some answers and that a proctor left a testing room for an extended period.
 The peer-review study by outside educators, commissioned by the department, was similarly scathing. Although it found ''effective and knowledgeable teaching,'' it said that Interboro was admitting students who were unprepared for college-level work and not providing them with adequate support.
 Many dropped out without completing one semester while others who stayed had averages of D or below. The report said that in a sample of 100 students who enrolled in fall 2001, only 2 finished in the 16-month period Interboro advertised it would take to earn a degree. The reviewers also said attendance was too low and teaching loads too high.
 In its written response to the state, Interboro said that limiting its growth would deny opportunity to students who need the most help, since most of its students are high school dropouts.
 ''Interboro has a social mission and a moral obligation to help as many economically disadvantaged minorities as possible secure a college education,'' the school said in its written comments.
 But the Education Department said Interboro's written policy specifying how many students admissions counselors were supposed to enroll and threatening disciplinary action was ''intimidating.''
 ''It explains some of the extreme actions State Education Department operatives found admission associates taking to secure enrollments,'' the department wrote.
 Interboro is one of five commercial colleges the department is investigating this year, out of 41 in the state. In October, it moved to close another school, Taylor Business Institute. Taylor is appealing.
 The department also recently wrapped up an investigation of Briarcliffe College, owned by the Career Education Corporation -- where it said it had found educational deficiencies. Although the state's reports on Interboro were highly critical, it has not called for closing the college.
 ''We would like give them an opportunity to better serve their students, but also hold them accountable,'' said Johanna Duncan-Poitier, the department's deputy commissioner.
 But Interboro could face other problems. Ms. Duncan-Poitier said that Interboro's accreditation status would be reviewed, and that the department would share its findings with the federal and state agencies that administer student financial aid. Most Interboro students qualify for grants that cover all or most of the tuition.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (76%); PARALEGALS (74%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (73%); LAYOFFS (73%); LEGAL EDUCATION (73%); ACCREDITATION (73%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (71%); LAWYERS (71%); LEGAL SERVICES (68%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (66%); DISMISSALS (50%) Colleges and Universities; Frauds and Swindling; Admissions Standards

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (92%); EVCI CAREER COLLEGES HOLDING CORP (91%)

ORGANIZATION: Education Department (NYS); Interboro Institute

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (92%); NAICS611210 JUNIOR COLLEGES (91%); SIC8222 JUNIOR COLLEGES & TECHNICAL INSTITUTES (91%)

PERSON: Karen W Arenson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2005



119 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: Investigator in Beirut Assassination Is Leaving

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SLACKMAN and SOUAD MEKHENNET; Michael Slackman reported from Damascus for this article and Souad Mekhennet from Beirut, Lebanon.

DATELINE: DAMASCUS, Syria, Dec. 5 

 BODY:
As United Nations investigators began questioning five Syrian officials in Vienna in connection with the assassination of a former Lebanese prime minister, Rafik Hariri, the German prosecutor leading the investigation, Detlev Mehlis, said Monday that he would leave his post in two weeks. 
 Mr. Mehlis said in Beirut that he had undertaken to lead the investigation for just about seven months and that after briefing the Security Council next week he would return to his position in Germany, senior public prosecutor in Berlin. 
''I have committed myself to the U.N. until the 15th of December; that was very clear from the beginning,'' Mr. Mehlis said from his office in Beirut. ''That will be the end from my personal mandate. I have to go back and I will go back to my job that I like. I never asked for this assignment. I agreed to be available up to seven months.''
 The United States ambassador to the United Nations, John R. Bolton, and United Nations officials have said they hoped that Mr. Mehlis would stay, but acknowledged that he had agreed to a specific time frame.
 He announced his decision as the inquiry, which had appeared to be shaking the foundations of the Syrian government, seems to have lost momentum. A witness who Mr. Mehlis said was important has publicly recanted testimony, and the Lebanese government has said it plans to ask the Security Council to extend the investigation for six months. 
 Mr. Mehlis said the investigation would ''need months, if not years, to be completed.''
 For Mr. Mehlis, it has been a grueling time, as he faced the challenge of investigating a crime that occurred months before his work began and was intertwined with many of the social and political currents roiling the region. He was also subjected to tight security, and that limited his personal activities. 
 Syrian supporters went after Mr. Mehlis personally at times, and even produced a critical pop tune by Ali al-Deek, a well-known singer here. In the lyrics, the aim of Mr. Mehlis's inquiry is ''to displace, kill and jail people -- you! Mehlis!''
 In October, Mr. Mehlis presented the Security Council with an interim report that included testimony that accused senior Syrian officials of planning the attack, in February. Although Mr. Mehlis said he had not intended to identify the officials publicly, the United Nations released a version of the draft that mentioned names, including that of President Bashar al-Assad's brother Maher and the president's brother-in-law, Asef Shawkat. 
 At the same time, Mr. Mehlis accused the Syrians of not cooperating with his investigation. That led the Security Council to pass a resolution commanding Syria to cooperate or face the prospect of further actions, which was taken to mean economic sanctions.
 With recent developments, including the witness who recanted his testimony in an hours-long televised news conference, there is a widespread sense of relief in Syria, where people say they feel that the pressure has eased up. 
 Mr. Assad expressed optimism in an interview with French television broadcast Monday night, in which he said: ''We are confident of our innocence. No criminal proof, and it is not in the interest of Syria to commit such an act.'' 
 Conversely, in Lebanon there are signs of growing concern that the investigation has stalled and that Mr. Mehlis is leaving because he is frustrated. ''The decision to quit is surely Mehlis's expression of personal disappointment,'' Sateh Noureddin wrote in As Safir, the Lebanese newspaper.
 Mr. Mehlis said the investigation had hit a critical point -- finally having a chance to interview Syrian officials. Syria had initially balked at allowing officials to leave the country, but agreed to let them go to Vienna after receiving an assurance that the officials would be allowed to return to Syria. 
 ''Again, we are pretty much at the beginning, at the start of the Syrian picture, as I put it in the report,'' he said. ''So I can not predict anything. First we have to do the interviews, and then we will see.''
 Mr. Mehlis said he did not believe that his decision to leave would undermine the investigation, in which he has questioned 500 people. He said that the team of investigators who have worked on the case since its inception would stay and that he would be available to consult or provide guidance to help with an orderly transition. But, he said, he plans to be back in Germany by Dec. 19. 
 In Syria, where the very name Mehlis had become the butt of jokes, there was a sense that the enemy had been defeated, a political analyst said. ''For the Syrians,'' Fayez Sarah, a liberal Syrian political analyst and writer, said, ''it has become almost personal, as though Mehlis has become the enemy.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Detlev Mehlis, who is investigating the killing of former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri, at a Security Council meeting in October. (Photo by Seth Wenig/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); WITNESSES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); POP & ROCK (61%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (61%) 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (58%) Rafik Hariri; Michael Slackman; Souad Mekhennet; Detlev Mehlis

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (94%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) SYRIA (96%); LEBANON (94%); GERMANY (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); UNITED STATES (79%) Lebanon; Syria

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2005



120 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: Divisions Over Money Await Congress in Year-End Push 

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 5 

 BODY:
The House reconvenes on Tuesday for a critical year-end legislative push, with lawmakers trying to wrap up a series of contentious budget, tax and spending measures against a backdrop of ethics inquiries and differences over Iraq policy.
 Returning from a Thanksgiving recess that followed an acrimonious debate over withdrawing from Iraq, House members will try to resolve differences with the Senate over a five-year budget reduction plan, enact a package of tax cuts, wrap up two spending bills and consider immigration legislation.
 Speaker J. Dennis Hastert of Illinois and Senator Bill Frist of Tennessee, the majority leader, have said they intend for the House and the Senate, which will be back next week, to strike an agreement on billions of dollars in spending cuts before adjourning for the year. 
 ''That is our goal,'' Ron Bonjean, a spokesman for Mr. Hastert, said Monday.
 But to reach that goal, the Republican leadership will have to overcome the reservations of moderate Republicans and united resistance from Democrats, who indicated on Monday that they remained opposed to the spending cuts and much of the Republican tax agenda.
 ''They are pushing a reconciliation package that actually increases the deficit while at the same time cutting programs that are important to the most vulnerable among us,'' said Representative David E. Price of North Carolina, who joined other House Democrats in assailing the Republican approach on fiscal policy.
 Mr. Hastert, in a statement issued Monday by his office, indicated that House Republicans intended to forge ahead this week with an estimated $56 billion in tax cuts and a separate measure meant to soften the blow of the alternative minimum tax, which will reach more middle-class taxpayers next year if no action is taken. 
 ''The worst thing that we can do at this time of the year is play Scrooge and hike taxes on American families like some Democrats are suggesting,'' he said. ''Republicans in Congress will continue to do all we can to make sure we pass sound, fiscally responsible economic policies to create jobs for every American who wants one.''
 The year-end rush comes as Republicans find themselves facing mounting questions about relations with lobbyists because of a widening federal inquiry and two recent bribery-related guilty pleas. In one of those cases, the House on Tuesday is to formally receive the resignation of Representative Randy Cunningham, the California Republican who pleaded guilty last week to taking more than $2 million from defense contractors in return for helping them secure Pentagon work.
 Citing a loss of public confidence in Congress because of such misconduct, Mr. Price and three other Democrats on Monday proposed changes in House rules intended to curb the influence of lobbyists and eliminate such practices as permitting floor votes to extend well past the 15-minute time limit, which allows arm-twisting of lawmakers. Other similar packages of changes are also circulating.
 ''These reforms are meant to restore checks and balances to the legislative process and to make it harder for lobbyists to put their fingers on the legislative scales,'' said Representative David R. Obey of Wisconsin, ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee.
 The Republican leadership has made it clear that its chief objective for the remaining weeks is to reach agreement on the spending cuts, a top priority of Congressional conservatives. Lawmakers will have to reconcile the difference between about $35 billion in cuts approved by the Senate and $50 billion narrowly accepted by the House.
 But perhaps more important than the amounts are stark policy differences, particularly that the House proposal does not clear the way for oil drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge and the Senate plan does. More than a dozen moderate House Republicans have made it clear that they will not approve any final plan that includes Arctic drilling. They want other concessions as well, including further changes in Medicaid health care policy for the poor. Some Northeastern moderates also want dairy subsidies. 
 The House and Senate also have wide differences on tax policy, making it unlikely that they can come to terms on a final set of tax cuts before the end of the year even if the House approves its plan this week.
 Lawmakers also still need to act on two important spending bills, one covering the Pentagon and the other a wide variety of health and education programs. The military bill is tied up in a fight over the treatment of terrorism detainees, a subject being negotiated between Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, and the White House. The spending on social programs was rejected by the House, and senior lawmakers are trying to determine how to ease the opposition and move ahead with the bill.
 House Republican leaders also hope to pass major immigration legislation next week before breaking for the year, though the Senate is not expected to act until February.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Speaker J. Dennis Hastert has indicated that House Republicans want $56 billion in tax cuts. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LOBBYING (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ETHICS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); MISCONDUCT (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (73%); JOB CREATION (70%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (66%); BRIBERY (60%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (60%); GUILTY PLEAS (60%); IMMIGRATION (55%) 

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives (US)

PERSON: DAVID E PRICE (58%) Carl Hulse; J Dennis (Speaker) Hastert; Bill (Sen) Frist; Randy (Repr) Cunningham

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (91%) United States

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2005



121 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 517 words

HEADLINE: Airbus Jet Deal May Put An Assembly Line in China 

BYLINE: By DON PHILLIPS and DAVID LAGUE; Don Phillips reported from Paris and David Lague from Beijing.

DATELINE: PARIS, Dec. 5 

 BODY:
Airbus and China announced an order worth 7.7 billion euros Monday for 150 single-aisle A320 jets, and said they would also consider building an assembly line for the aircraft in China. 
 The long-expected Airbus order, worth $9 billion, surpasses recent orders in China for Boeing aircraft. Both manufacturers regard China and India as the two top markets for aircraft sales in the next decade, and China is already hotly contested.
So far this year, Boeing has won orders from China for 122 aircraft, valued at $11.7 billion. Before Monday's announcement, Airbus had secured Chinese orders for 66 aircraft worth $8.3 billion. The A320, with a seating capacity around 140 built around a single aisle, is Airbus's best-selling plane.
 An assembly line in China would give Airbus an important edge. Airbus, whose headquarters are in Toulouse, France, and the Chinese government signed a cooperation pact Sunday that commits Airbus to buy at least $60 million in parts a year from China by 2007, rising to $120 million a year by 2010. In July, Airbus also set up the Airbus Engineering Center in Beijing, which has so far recruited 54 of a planned 200 Chinese engineers. 
 Boeing signed an agreement for a 70-plane order during a visit to Beijing last month by President Bush. Boeing has since said it is in negotiations with the Chinese for 80 more planes. The company won an agreement in January from six Chinese airlines for the purchase of 60 of its 787 Dreamliners, which are scheduled to enter service in 2008.
 China often tries to maximize the diplomatic advantage of big commercial aircraft orders by timing them to coincide with top-level official visits. Industry analysts expected China to sign a big contract with Airbus during Prime Minister Wen Jiabao's visit to Toulouse on Sunday.
 Boeing forecasts that Chinese airlines will order as many as 2,300 aircraft worth about $183 billion in the next two decades. By 2023, Boeing, which is based in Chicago, expects Chinese carriers to be flying more than 2,800 aircraft, making China the biggest commercial aviation market outside the United States.
 Despite the large purchases, analysts have warned that China's airlines and civil aviation infrastructure are struggling to keep up with growth in demand. Unless China can sharply increase the number of air crews it trains, a shortage of pilots is likely to hamper airlines' efforts to make full use of the new aircraft. 
 Some say the shortage could also raise safety problems. Air traffic management is under pressure as more flights are added to busy commercial routes, including the east corridor that serves Hong Kong, Shanghai and Beijing.
 ''China is to be applauded for the growth and ambition of its airlines, but there needs to be a reality check on how fast all this can come together,'' said Martin Craigs, president of the industry lobby group Aerospace Forum Asia.
 Experts say China will need to solve many of these problems before the 2008 Olympic Games in Beijing to avoid serious problems then. ''There could be a loss of face over aviation infrastructure,'' Mr. Craigs said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Gustav Humbert, right, Airbus president, and Li Hai, president of China's aviation supply group, at a Paris ceremony with the prime ministers of China, Wen Jiabao, left rear, and France, Dominique de Villepin. (Photo by Charles Platiau/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRCRAFT ORDERS (89%); CIVIL AVIATION (89%); AIRLINES (89%); AIRCRAFT MFG (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (89%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (79%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (79%); NEW ORDERS (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%) Airlines and Airplanes; Factories and Industrial Plants; Sales

COMPANY: AIRBUS SAS (96%); BOEING CO (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Airbus; Boeing Co

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (92%); BAB (BRU) (92%); BA (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (96%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (92%)

PERSON: WEN JIABAO (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (52%); DOMINIQUE DE VILLEPIN (52%) David Lague; Don Phillips

GEOGRAPHIC: TOULOUSE, FRANCE (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); EAST CHINA (79%); MIDI-PYRENEES, FRANCE (79%) CHINA (99%); INDIA (92%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); HONG KONG (79%) China; India

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2005



122 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 525 words

HEADLINE: Bush Expected To Postpone Tax Overhaul Until 2007

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 5 

 BODY:
President Bush is likely to postpone an all-out push to overhaul the tax code until 2007, administration officials said Monday, in another sign that the president's ambitious economic agenda for his second term has become bogged down. 
 Mr. Bush has already effectively given up hope for pushing through a sweeping overhaul of Social Security, which he identified as the first of his two major domestic goals as soon as he was re-elected last year. Tax overhaul was the second big goal, and Mr. Bush had laid out a broad but vague vision to make the income tax simpler, fairer and more conducive to economic growth.
On Monday, administration officials said that Mr. Bush remained committed to overhauling the tax code. But they asserted that they had ''no timetable'' for specific recommendations. And some officials acknowledged that such an effort next year would require scores of grueling battles at a time when all members of the House and many senators would be running for re-election.
 Administration officials essentially confirmed reports in Time magazine and The Wall Street Journal that Mr. Bush would not put tax overhaul at the top of his agenda for next year. 
 ''We don't have a timetable,'' said Tony Fratto, a spokesman for the Treasury Department, which has been ordered to come up with a comprehensive proposal after examining recommendations submitted by Mr. Bush's advisory panel on tax reform. 
 The panel offered two basic proposals, neither of which would be a radical overhaul. Both would slightly adjust today's tax brackets, but essentially retain the basic structure. The proposals would eliminate the alternative minimum tax, a parallel tax that is set to affect about 15 million new households in 2006 if the current law remains unchanged.
 To pay for that, the tax overhaul panel would cut back on several major tax breaks. The most controversial proposal, which has already come under attack from lawmakers in both parties, would reduce the tax deduction homeowners receive for paying interest on their mortgages.
 Administration officials said Mr. Bush is focusing right now on the struggle to get Congress to extend his tax cuts from 2001 and 2003. Rather than making the tax cuts permanent, Mr. Bush's primary goal, House Republicans hope to pass a simple two-year extension of his tax cut on stock dividends; the Senate just passed a bill with no extension. Earlier this fall, Senate Republicans indefinitely postponed a separate effort to repeal permanently the tax on inherited property.
 Separately, House Republicans are contemplating a one-year measure to prevent an expansion of the alternative minimum tax. A year ago, the Bush administration said that it would address problems with that tax through legislation in 2006. 
 Mr. Bush, in a trip to North Carolina, hammered away at the need to extend his tax cuts and other issues. But a White House news release on Mr. Bush's ''economic agenda,'' issued in tandem with the president's speech, focused on tax cuts, spending cuts, opening up the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge for oil and gas production and expanding American exports. Tax reform was not mentioned.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (95%); TAX REFORM (94%); TAX LAW (92%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); ELECTIONS (79%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); LEGISLATION (72%); DIVIDENDS (62%) Taxation; Alternative Minimum Tax; Tax Credits, Deductions and Exemptions

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%) George W (Pres) Bush; Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2005



123 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: For Economy Talk, Bush Visits Bright Spot

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER

DATELINE: KERNERSVILLE, N.C., Dec. 5 

 BODY:
President Bush traveled to a bright spot in North Carolina's manufacturing industry on Monday, a plant that makes excavators used in construction and disaster relief, to tell Americans that the economy was better than they thought and that his administration deserved some credit for it.
 The trip was part of a White House offensive to try to pull Americans out of their gloom about the nation's economy, which has improved in the past two years even though polls show that most people think it has gotten worse. 
''This economy of ours is on the move,'' Mr. Bush said in a warehouse of the Deere-Hitachi Construction Machinery Corporation here, where he appeared before two gleaming orange and yellow hydraulic excavators and a White House backdrop that said ''Foundation for Growth.''
 Mr. Bush's speech, to about 600 Deere-Hitachi employees, closely followed his sunny remarks in the Rose Garden last week, after the Labor Department reported that employers had added 215,000 jobs in November and the government said that the economy had grown at a hearty 4.3 percent annual rate in the third quarter.
 Mr. Bush also used the event in Kernersville, which lies between Greensboro and Winston-Salem, to press Congress to toughen pension-overhaul legislation now moving through the Senate and the House. The president threatened to veto the measure in its current form.
 ''My message to corporate America is 'You need to fulfill your promises,' '' Mr. Bush said. ''When you say to a worker this is what they're going to get when they retire, you better put enough money in the account to make sure the worker gets that which you said.''
 Mr. Bush, who was alluding to United Airlines' record default on its pensions in May, called the current pension rules confusing and misleading. ''They allow companies to technically play by the rules and yet still not fund the promises they've made to their employees,'' he said.
 Mr. Bush's remarks were among his most pointed on corporate governance since the Enron scandal and reflected the desire of the White House to act aggressively on an issue of concern to many American workers. Some analysts have warned that if nothing is done, the entire pension system could eventually collapse.
 On Capitol Hill, both houses have been trying for months to correct loopholes in the current law to make sure companies set aside enough money to pay workers the benefits they are owed. 
 A bill passed by the Senate last month, for example, requires most companies to close shortfalls in their pension funds within seven years. But the bill also gives the troubled major airlines 20 years to do the same, a provision that the White House has called unacceptable.
 In calling for tougher legislation, Mr. Bush has found himself at odds with an unusual pairing: business executives, who have warned that companies could stop offering pensions altogether if the plans become too expensive for them, and organized labor, which fears the same thing.
 In his remarks in Kernersville, Mr. Bush again laid blame on ''too many politicians back in Washington who preach fiscal discipline while voting against spending cuts.''
 The remark drew strong criticism from Representative Steny H. Hoyer, Democrat of Maryland, who said in a statement that the president was chastising '' 'Washington' for creating record deficits and debt and allowing spending to run out of control'' while ''conveniently ignoring that he and his party have had total control of our nation's capital for the last five years.''
 Mr. Bush's speech to the Deere-Hitachi workers received friendly applause, but some in the audience said afterward that the president had chosen to present his message of economic cheer at one of North Carolina's big success stories, and not at one of the state's hard-hit textile mills or furniture manufacturers.
 ''It's not a Deere-Hitachi economy everywhere,'' said Bryan Watson, 39, a welder at the plant. ''I'd like to see everybody doing this well.''
 Deere-Hitachi, which employs about 1,000 people, was created in 1988 as a joint venture between Deere & Company, an American manufacturer of heavy equipment, and the Hitachi Construction Machinery Company of Japan. The venture has prospered as construction and disaster recovery has created demand for its hydraulic excavators.
 At a time of outsourcing, Deere-Hitachi has moved some of its production lines to Kernersville from plants in Japan and Mexico.
 White House officials say that Mr. Bush will continue to make speeches in coming weeks promoting financial good news and will try to change Americans' perceptions of him as the steward of the economy.
 Last month, Mr. Bush's approval rating for his handling of the economy was 37 percent in an Associated Press/Ipsos poll. An ABC News/Washington Post poll last month found that 52 percent of Americans believed the economy was getting worse, compared with 18 percent who thought it was getting better.


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush took a tour yesterday of the Deere-Hitachi plant in Kernersville, N.C., and urged Congress to toughen bills on pension plans. (Photo by Pablo Martinez Monsivais/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); VETO (79%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (73%); PENSION FUNDS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); SCANDALS (71%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (69%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (68%); AIRLINES (62%) 

COMPANY: DEERE-HITACHI CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY CORP (83%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (53%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Deere-Hitachi Construction Machinery Corp

INDUSTRY: SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (83%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%) George W (Pres) Bush; Elisabeth Bumiller; Steny (Repr) Hoyer

GEOGRAPHIC: WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (73%); GREENSBORO, NC, USA (58%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%) Kernersville (NC); North Carolina

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2005



124 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 6, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 588 words

HEADLINE: Winning Office Cost Mayor $4 Million More in 2005

BYLINE: By JONATHAN P. HICKS; Mike McIntire contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's spending to get re-elected this year exceeded the extraordinary amount he spent four years ago, according to campaign records released yesterday.
 Mr. Bloomberg's campaign said that the mayor spent $77.8 million on his re-election campaign, compared with the nearly $74 million during the mayor's first campaign in 2001. Those figures surpass the amount spent by anyone who has sought the mayor's office and, may set a mark for spending on a nonpresidential campaign.
 Throughout the campaign, which resulted in a landslide victory for the Republican mayor, Mr. Bloomberg's spending has been the subject of fierce criticism, particularly by Democrats. And the money spent by the Bloomberg campaign stood in stark contrast to the expenses of his Democratic rival, Fernando Ferrer. 
 Mr. Ferrer's campaign reported yesterday that it spent about $9.5 million.
 Many Democrats, most prominently Mr. Ferrer, complained that the spending by Mr. Bloomberg, whose wealth is estimated at $6 billion, distorted the democratic process because of the mayor's huge advantage in advertising and in focusing his message toward certain voters. In the general election last month, Mr. Bloomberg won with 59 percent of the vote, with 39 percent for Mr. Ferrer.
 Yesterday, Mr. Bloomberg denied that his spending unfairly tilted the election his way. ''I think it is difficult to get a message out,'' the Mayor told reporters. ''The law says I can spend my own money. What I tried to do is talk about what this administration had done for the last four years, and what we would do going forward.''
 But Democratic leaders disagreed with the mayor's portrayal of his spending.
 ''It doesn't just distort the democratic process, it throws the whole political system out of whack,'' said Assemblyman Herman D. Farrell Jr., the state's Democratic Party chairman. Mr. Farrell said that the high spending of the Bloomberg campaign underscored the need to change the rules set by the New York City Campaign Finance Board. The board sets limits on contributions and spending by candidates, while providing them with public matching funds. But Mr. Bloomberg was not bound by those rules because he did not take part in the program and financed his own campaign.
 Mr. Farrell said that Mr. Ferrer and any future candidate who run against wealthy, self-financed candidates should be able to raise as much money as they can and spend it without restrictions. 
 The Bloomberg campaign's records show lavish amounts were spent, from $34 million on television and radio advertising, $14 million consulting fees and $8 million on mailings to $12,000 on MetroCards for campaign workers.
 Harry Kresky, a lawyer who has represented Lenora B. Fulani, the Independence Party leader, was paid $6,900 as a subcontractor by Jeff Buley, a lobbyist and general counsel to the state's Republican party, who did legal work for the campaign.
 The report released yesterday did not represent the final figures regarding the 2005 campaign. Another filing is due next month and a final report is due when the mayor's campaign committee ends its activity, which is likely to be early next year.
 In the 2001 campaign, the final report was not submitted until March 2002. In that report, Mr. Bloomberg reported spending $3 million more on top of the more than $70 million he reported previously.
 Stu Loeser, a Bloomberg campaign spokesman, said that the figures, when adjusted for inflation, do not represent an increase from the level of expenses in 2001. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); POLITICS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (66%); RADIO ADVERTISING (66%); LAWYERS (66%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (64%) Finances

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (92%) Jonathan P Hicks; Mike Mcintire; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Fernando Ferrer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2005



125 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1479 words

HEADLINE: New Optimism About the Japanese Economy After a Bleak Decade

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

DATELINE: TOKYO, Dec. 6 

 BODY:
College graduates face the best job market in a decade, and wages are rising again. The lead stock market index has doubled in value in two years. Corporate profits are the highest in recent memory. And for the first time since 1990, land prices in Tokyo are up.
 Could it be that Japan, long the sick man among major global economies, has finally recovered?
This is, after all, the country where the words ''gloom'' and ''malaise'' have been used for so long that many Japanese have come to view them as facts of life. Even the upturns, such as they were, proved to be short-lived as Japan was unable to shake off the doldrums it fell into in the early 1990's, when its stock and real estate bubbles burst.
 But this time, most economists and analysts agree, the recovery seems to be real, its roots extending through the Japanese economy. After more than a decade of working off excessive debt, bloated payrolls and overbuilt factory capacity, Japan seems to have addressed its bubble-era problems and emerged leaner and more competitive, the economists say. In fact, the economy here is projected to be growing at a faster rate than Europe's this year. 
 That is good news both for Japan, which even in its weakest years in the 90's had the world's second-largest output, and for the global economy, which has depended on growth in the United States and China.
 A healthy Japan would be a bigger consumer and could invest more overseas, helping to pick up the slack if the American economy slows or China's falters. It would also provide a broader underpinning to Asian regional economies. 
 In Tokyo, Japan's commercial heart, a growing feeling of prosperity is palpable. Restaurants are full, empty taxis can be scarce and a construction boom is filling the long-drab skyline with new skyscrapers.
 ''The economy has finally crawled out of its 1990's misery,'' said Richard Jerram, chief economist in Tokyo for Macquarie Securities. ''This is the first time since the late 1980's that I've seen signs of a broad domestic revival.'' 
 No one factor is behind the new mood. Analysts point to a gradual peeling away of layers of regulations that choked new businesses and growth. They credit Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi with restoring banks to health over the four years since he took office, forcing them to cut in half the amount of bad debt left on their books from the 1980's. In 2002, that debt totaled $440 billion.
 Even more important, they say, has been a slow but steady revolution in Japan's clubby business culture, as hard times forced companies to become leaner and more aggressive. Japanese managers have been discarding their traditional distaste for confrontation and ending lifetime job guarantees. And the companies are investing heavily in new technology.
 Nowhere are the reasons for this economic rebound more apparent than at NKK, a once-downtrodden steel maker that in the 1990's struggled to stay afloat, cutting payrolls, closing furnaces and merging with a rival. But it also kept doing something else: spending on new research to find cheaper and better ways to make its products.
 Now, the merged company, JFE Holdings, is one of the most profitable steel makers in the world, forecasting a $2.6 billion net profit this fiscal year. 
 Its sprawling Keihin Works, on a man-made island in Kawasaki, an industrial city next to Tokyo, has a highly productive new $200 million furnace that makes up to 12,500 tons of steel a day. The furnace, a 12-story-tall caldron that turns black iron ore into orange molten steel, achieves its productivity with a novel method of speeding combustion: adding natural gas, coal dust and even scraps of plastic to the traditional fuel, coke.
 Elsewhere in the plant, JFE has introduced a method for rapidly cooling red-hot steel plates that makes them harder and less likely to crack -- desirable qualities for shipbuilders and other manufacturers. The improvements have helped JFE stay ahead of rivals in South Korea and China, where labor costs are cheaper. In fact, China is one of JFE's fastest-growing markets, buying about 8 percent of its steel.
 ''During the darkest years, we focused on raising the level of our technology,'' said Kazuo Omata, the plant's assistant superintendent. ''That is now paying off.''
 Other Japanese companies never stopped investing money in research into new products and greater efficiency, even as they were cutting back elsewhere. For the last 12 years, Japan has spent more on research and development as a percentage of the economy than any other major industrial nation, according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in Paris, a grouping of 30 of the world's relatively prosperous countries.
 Analysts call this a major reason for the rebound in corporate profit. In the fiscal year that ended in March, the combined operating profit of the 1,689 companies on the first section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange, which includes Japan's largest corporations, reached a record $270 billion, according to Merrill Lynch. That was almost double its highest level in the late 1980's.
 This stepped-up investment has contributed to turnarounds at many companies. The best known is Nissan Motor, which faced bankruptcy before the French carmaker Renault turned it into one of the world's most profitable auto companies, with innovative designs and technology.
 ''The private sector is innovating like crazy,'' said Atsushi Nakajima, chief economist at the research arm of Mizuho Financial Group. ''Japan is back to healthy growth.''
 To be sure, not all economists are convinced that Japan is out of the woods. Some warn of huge problems the country has yet to fix, like soaring public debt and an underfinanced pension system to care for a rapidly aging population. Such concerns could make consumers reluctant to keep spending, they say. 
 ''Japan will eventually hit a speed limit,'' said Anil Kashyap, an economics professor at the University of Chicago.
 Even the optimists do not see a return to the late 1980's, when Japan appeared ready to eclipse the economic dominance of the United States. They say Japan will look much like other healthy developed economies, posting solid but not red-hot growth rates.
 Last week, the O.E.C.D. released a new forecast, predicting that Japan's $4.5 trillion economy would grow 2.4 percent this year, below the 3.6 percent seen in the United States but almost twice the rate for Europe. 
 Other figures are also pointing up. In September, the government reported that commercial land prices in Tokyo rose 0.6 percent in the 12 months ended in June, the first gain since 1990. Prices elsewhere, though, are still falling.
 Companies are more optimistic, as is evident from a surge in spending on factories and equipment. According to a survey published last week by Japan's largest business daily, Nihon Keizai Shimbun, such spending will rise 15.2 percent this year, the first double-digit gain since 1991.
 There is also increased enthusiasm for Japan among American and other overseas investors. In mid-November, Goldman Sachs held a hedge fund conference in Tokyo; 700 fund managers attended, mostly from the United States and Europe. That was seven times the turnout at the first such conference six years ago, participants said.
 Foreigners now account for almost half of all trading on Japanese equity markets, according to the Tokyo Stock Exchange. They have helped spur a rally in the benchmark index, the Nikkei 225, which touched a two-decade low of 7,607.88 in April 2003. On Monday, it reached a five-year high; most of the gains have come since July. 
 The changes in corporate Japan have also transformed other parts of the economy. With the decline in old-school corporate attitudes, there has been a rise in hostile-takeover attempts in recent years. Another is in the labor market, where unemployment has fallen to 4.2 percent in September from 5.5 percent in 2003. 
 Around the same time, average monthly wages rose 0.5 percent in October from a year earlier, the seventh consecutive monthly gain. Specialists say the job market has become dynamic here as cost-conscious companies end job guarantees. That has allowed talented, somewhat younger employees to start changing companies, and to move more quickly upward.
 One is Koichi Maruyama, who is 47. In September, he left a comfortable spot as a department head at Japan Telecom, the established long-distance phone company, to take the No. 2 job at IP Mobile, a three-year-old start-up with just 20 employees and hopes of blanketing the country with wireless Internet access. He admits that joining IP Mobile was a risk, but calls the job more exciting, and potentially more lucrative if the company takes off.
 ''Ten years ago, someone like me wouldn't have imagined doing this,'' Mr. Maruyama said. ''This is not the Japan of 10 years ago.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Shoppers in the Ginza district of Tokyo are considered more likely to spend money if they see the country's economic prospects as promising. (Photo by Andy Rain/Bloomberg News)(pg. C1)
A huge steel furnace at the Keihin Works of JFE near Tokyo helps the company supply China. It is among the world's most productive. (Photo by Charles Pertwee for The New York Times)(pg. C4)Chart: ''Turning the Corner?''Japan, long unable to escape economic doldrums, seems to be showing signs of a real recovery.Graphs tracks the following from 1986-2005:Nikkei 225 (Year-end index levels) Dec. 6, 2005: 15,423Unemployment rate (Annual average) Oct. 2005: 4.5%Real G.D.P. (Annual growth) 2005 (est.): +2.4%(Sources by Bloomberg Financial Markets
Japan's Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare
 O.E.C.D.)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); CORPORATE CULTURE (77%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); EMPLOYMENT (75%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (71%); CONSTRUCTION (68%); PLANT CAPACITY (67%); RESTAURANTS (62%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (93%) JAPAN (99%); CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2005



126 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1698 words

HEADLINE: Lines Drawn For Big Suit Over Sodas 

BYLINE: By MELANIE WARNER; Brian Libby contributed reporting from Portland, Ore., for this article.

 BODY:
It is lunchtime at Grover Cleveland High School in Portland, Ore. A steady stream of thirsty teenagers poke dollars into the three Coca-Cola machines in the hallway. By the end of lunch period, the Coke With Lime, Cherry Coke and Vanilla Coke are sold out.
 Elsa Peterson, a senior at Grover Cleveland and the student body president, said she knew she could bring healthier juices from home. ''But it's easy to walk up with a dollar and just get a pop.''
That, says Stephen Gardner, staff lawyer for the Center for Science in the Public Interest, is exactly the problem. In an age of soaring obesity rates among children, he argues that soda and other sugary beverages are harmful to students' health and that selling those drinks in schools sends a message that their regular consumption is perfectly fine. 
 In a lawsuit they plan to file in the next few months, Mr. Gardner and half a dozen other lawyers, several of them veterans of successful tobacco litigation, will seek to ban sales of sugary beverages in schools. 
 The lawsuit is to be filed in Massachusetts, which has strong consumer protection laws and happens to be where some of the lawyers are based, and will name Coca-Cola, PepsiCo and their local bottlers, the lawyers say. It will be the first of many such state lawsuits, they say. 
 The $92 billion beverage industry, dominated by Coca-Cola and PepsiCo, is gearing up for a counterattack. Last week, the American Beverage Association, the lobbying group for the beverage industry, released a study arguing that soda sales in schools are not a significant contributor to rising childhood obesity rates. 
 The study, which was paid for by the association but conducted by an outside economist, concluded that school vending machine sales of non-diet soda declined by 24 percent from 2002 to 2004 and that the average high school student consumes just one 12-ounce nondiet soda a week from school vending machines. 
 ''This study confirms what previous studies have shown: that consumption of full-calorie sodas purchased from school vending machines during normal school hours is a very minor source of calories in the diets of American youth,'' said Susan K. Neely, president of the American Beverage Association, which last year changed its name from the National Soft Drink Association.
 Across America, almost half of all public schools have exclusive contracts with beverage companies. According to a report published in August by the Government Accountability Office, the investigative arm of Congress, 75 percent of all high schools, 65 percent of all middle schools and 30 percent of elementary schools have beverage contracts. 
 Such contracts have been promoted as a continuing source of revenue for schools needing cash. The deals often give schools a large upfront payment and a share of the collected revenue. But a study of public school contracts in Oregon concluded that the amount of money received by schools is not that significant and that by far, most of the revenue goes to the companies, not the schools. 
 The study, done by the Community Health Partnership, a public health advocacy group in Oregon, found that school districts received just $12 to $24 per student annually. ''Some people have the perception that there is a huge amount of money in this for schools,'' said Nicola Pinson, a lawyer who was hired by the Community Health Partnership to do the study, the most extensive analysis done on school contracts to date. ''But we need to put it in perspective with overall budgets and how much money the companies are getting.''
 For the 2005-6 school year, for instance, Portland's school district has projected that it will receive $250,000 from vending sales at its 15 high schools, an amount representing 0.06 percent of a total district budget of $396 million, according to school budget documents. 
 Ms. Pinson contends that while schools certainly earn some money, Coke and Pepsi bottlers get the better end of the deal. She says that the Hillsboro school district's 12-year contract with the Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Oregon, for instance, requires the district to buy 420,000 beverage cases over the life of the contract; that translates into students spending a total of $10 million. Of that, $3 million will go to the district and $7 million will go to the bottler.
 ''This is all coming from the community's pockets,'' Ms. Pinson said. ''You have to ask whether this is really an effective way to do fund-raising for schools.''
 According to the Oregon study, which analyzed 19 contracts covering 186,000 students, some contracts even reward schools when students purchase the most caloric and unhealthiest of options. The Portland school district's contract with the Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Oregon stipulates that schools get 50 percent from every 20-ounce bottle of Coke, but only 35 percent for a 12-ounce can and 30 percent for a bottle of water or juice. 
 Ms. Neely of the American Beverage Association said that contracts involve ''two willing parties'' and that schools have the ability to negotiate what they want to sell in vending machines. More broadly, Ms. Neely said that the beverage industry had taken steps to address concerns over soda sales in school. 
 In August, the beverage association announced that beverage companies would stop selling soda and other drinks with added sugar in elementary schools and would restrict the sale of regular, full-calorie soda in middle schools to after-school hours only. Next month, the association is planning to run an ad campaign about the new policy. 
 Mr. Gardner of the Center for Science in the Public Interest, a nutrition advocacy group, said that the beverage association's policy did not adequately address the sales of beverages in high schools, which is where the majority of purchases occur. 
 The Massachusetts lawsuit will focus specifically on sales of what it terms unhealthy beverages (likely to mean full-calorie sodas, sports drinks, iced tea drinks and juice drinks without much juice) in high schools and will argue that such sales constitute unfair and deceptive marketing. The suit will also cite the ways in which the large illuminated Coke and Pepsi machines lining school halls and cafeterias are an ''attractive nuisance.'' 
 ''They're selling to a captive audience that isn't really in a position to fully evaluate all the health risks,'' said Andrew A. Ranier, a partner at McRoberts, Roberts & Ranier in Boston and one lawyer involved in the suit. ''And they're not telling people about the risks.'' 
 Three tobacco litigation experts are also involved in the suit: Tim Howard, a Florida lawyer who helped the state win a $17 billion settlement against tobacco companies in 1997; Stephen A. Sheller, a partner at Sheller Ludwig & Badey in Philadelphia, who was involved in a successful $10 billion tobacco class action in Illinois state court that is currently under appeal; and Richard A. Daynard, an associate dean at the Northeastern University School of Law who has served as an adviser to many of the state tobacco lawsuits that led to a $246 billion settlement in 1998. 
 Mr. Gardner and the rest of the Massachusetts coalition say they think the scientific research linking soda and obesity is strong. Numerous studies have shown, for instance, that people do not compensate for liquid calories in the way they would for, say, a slice of pizza or a handful of cookies because drinks do not create the same sense of fullness.
 In a study published in the medical journal Lancet in 2001, Dr. David S. Ludwig, director of the obesity program at Children's Hospital Boston and an associate professor of pediatrics at Harvard Medical School, found that each additional daily serving of a sugar-sweetened beverage increased the risk of obesity by 60 percent.
 The American Beverage Association says that there are also studies that show no link between consumption of soft drinks and obesity. 
 The Massachusetts lawyers say they think that their legal foray is likely to get greater public support than the much-publicized suit against McDonald's by two obese New York teenagers. 
 ''This is different from the fat kid who goes to McDonald's,'' said Mr. Gardner, speaking at an obesity lawsuit conference organized by Professor Daynard in September. ''This is a captive audience and they're using schools to get their brands into the hearts and minds of students.''
 One detail yet to be decided is whether the group will seek financial damages. Under Massachusetts's consumer protection law, successful plaintiffs are entitled to $25 per violation, which could mean $25 for every time a student has purchased a soda in a public high school in Massachusetts over the past four years. 
 Mr. Gardner said he and the other lawyers realize that damages could run into the billions. ''We haven't decided about this yet,'' he said. ''We don't want this to come off looking like a greedy-lawyer lawsuit.''

 TOTAL: $10,080,000

SCHOOL DISTRICT, STUDENTS COVERED: Salem/Keizer, 37,137
VENDOR, CONTRACT LENGTH: Pepsi Bottling Group, 11 years
PROJECTED SALES DURING CONTRACT
VENDOR'S SHARE: 5,815,200 (67%)
DISTRICT'S SHARE: 2,862,000 (33%)
TOTAL: 8,677,200

SCHOOL DISTRICT, STUDENTS COVERED: Tigard/Tualatin, 11,981
VENDOR, CONTRACT LENGTH: Coca-Cola Bottling of Oregon, 15 years
PROJECTED SALES DURING CONTRACT
VENDOR'S SHARE: 4,997,100 (64)
DISTRICT'S SHARE: 2,838,900 (36%)
TOTAL: 7,836,000

SCHOOL DISTRICT, STUDENTS COVERED: Eugene, 5,700
VENDOR, CONTRACT LENGTH: Pepsi Bottling of Eugene, 8 years
PROJECTED SALES DURING CONTRACT
VENDOR'S SHARE: 1,454,900 (75%)
DISTRICT'S SHARE: 485,000 (25%)
TOTAL: 1,939,900

SCHOOL DISTRICT, STUDENTS COVERED: Coos Bay, 2,424
VENDOR, CONTRACT LENGTH: Vend West Services, 8 years
PROJECTED SALES DURING CONTRACT
VENDOR'S SHARE: 516,000 (72%)
DISTRICT'S SHARE: 204,000 (28)
TOTAL: 720,000

SCHOOL DISTRICT, STUDENTS COVERED: Greater Albany, 3,081
VENDOR, CONTRACT LENGTH: Pepsi-Cola of Corvalis, 3 years
PROJECTED SALES DURING CONTRACT
VENDOR'S SHARE: 178,560 (60%)
DISTRICT'S SHARE: 119,040 (40%)
TOTAL: 297,600

Map of Oregon highlighting the locations of the aforementioned cities/towns.

(Source by Community Health Partnership)(pg. C4)

GRAPHIC: Photo: At Cleveland High School in Portland, Ore. A study found Oregon school districts got $12 to $24 per student a year from drink sales. (Photo by Melanie Conner for The New York Times)(pg. C4)Chart: ''Where the Money Goes''A study of school districts in Oregonfound that most of the money students spend on beverages from vending machines would to go to the bottling companies.SCHOOL DISTRICT, STUDENTS COVERED: Hillsboro, 18,850VENDOR, CONTRACT LENGTH: Coca-Cola Bottling of Oregon, 12 yearsPROJECTED SALES DURING CONTRACTVENDOR'S SHARE: $7,056,000 (70%)DISTRICT'S SHARE: $3,024,000 (30%)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (89%); NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); BEVERAGE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BEVERAGE MFG (89%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (89%); SOFT DRINKS (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); VENDING MACHINES (88%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); CHILDHOOD OBESITY (78%); CHILDREN (78%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (78%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (78%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (77%); OBESITY (74%); LOBBYING (74%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); CONSUMER LAW (70%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (70%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (65%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (63%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (90%); PEPSICO INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR SCIENCE IN THE PUBLIC INTEREST (57%)

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (90%); PEP (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (90%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (88%) OREGON, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2005



127 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; LETTER FROM MALAWI; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1055 words

HEADLINE: Amid Squalor, an Aid Army Marches to No Drum at All

BYLINE: By Michael Wines

DATELINE: BLANTYRE, Malawi 

 BODY:
Here in Malawi's second city and in the capital, Lilongwe, it is hard to find an office building without some benevolent organization come to help Malawi's throngs of poor. 
 The United Nations is here in force. The British are omnipresent in this, their former colony. Some major charities occupy two floors in Lilongwe office blocks. Malawi may be destitute -- in 2001, the average earnings were less than 50 cents a day -- but commercial real estate is thriving.
It makes one wonder why, with so many experts here to do good, the rest of the country not only isn't thriving, but is slipping backward. 
 Since 1981, the United States Agency for International Development said in a troubling report in September, outsiders have sought to fix Malawi's ills through more than 20 economic adjustment programs devised by the World Bank and eight related loans from the International Monetary Fund. International charities poured in countless private dollars. Overseas development assistance -- foreign aid -- totals about $35 per person, and makes up $8 of every $10 spent on economic development.
 Yet despite that, the report states, only Yemen, Ethiopia and Burundi have worse rates of chronic malnutrition than does Malawi, where 49 percent of all children are stunted. Moreover, that rate has not improved for 15 years.
 Malawi is now suffering through one of the worst hunger emergencies in Africa. The ostensible cause is drought. The real reason, however, is worsening poverty. Many of the 12 million or so people are now so poor that they have nothing to fall back on in good times, much less bad ones.
 By most appearances, neither legions of charity workers nor phalanxes of money-toting economic structural adjusters have done much except, perhaps, to prevent stunting among even more malnourished children.
 Why?
 Malawi's decline is a long and tangled story. The British set up tea and tobacco plantations in what was then called Nyasaland, taking peasants off their own land to grow more profitable crops. After the British left in 1964, an avaricious dictatorship expanded the plantations, leaving farmers with ever-smaller plots. By 1988, 8 in 10 farmers cultivated less than three acres of land -- hardly enough to live on, much less make a profit.
 A major drought ravaged those small farmers in 1992, and every effort to revive them has failed or, often, backfired. Families have increasingly resorted to casual labor to survive, further reducing the time they have to tend their own tiny fields, forcing them to sell off crucial assets like cattle to buy food.
 In theory, all this is reversible. ''Technically, we know what to do,'' Suresh Babu, a senior researcher at the Washington-based International Food Policy Research Institute, said in an interview. ''We know how to prevent this crisis, to put them on a long-term path of development.'' 
 Mr. Babu knows: from 1989 to 1994, he advised Malawi's government and the United Nations on food issues. But practically, Mr. Babu says, Malawi's problems are intractable. International organizations and Malawi leaders disagree over anti-poverty strategies.
 Government corruption siphons money and will. Global charities compete for their own pet projects, rather than cooperating on an integrated plan. Malawi hasn't the money or political consensus to do what is needed on its own.
 Take irrigation: Amid drought, a gigantic freshwater lake runs virtually the entire length of eastern Malawi, enough water to saturate millions of now-parched acres. Yet only 2 percent of Malawi's arable land is irrigated. Virtually all of that grows cash crops like tobacco and sugar cane, not the corn that all Malawians eat.
 The government wants to extend water to small farmers, but lacks money. So charities build local irrigation projects, but when they finish and leave, the projects fall apart for lack of maintenance and expertise.
 Why doesn't Malawi train its own experts to improve agriculture? It did: Mr. Babu says he trained 450 experts in food policy and nutrition during his five years there. But ''when I go back, I don't see them,'' he says: about 150 have died, many victims of AIDS. Others left the government for better-paying jobs in global charities or the United Nations.
 That, say Mr. Babu and others, is central to the problem.
 Malawi and its kin lack the capacity -- skilled managers and policy makers, good roads and machinery, investors and entrepreneurs -- to sustain any effort to climb out of poverty. So outsiders take up the task, often with conflicting aims and shortterm success, often to the government's dismay.
 Such examples barely describe the difficulties attending African poverty. Books have been written on this topic. Many, with titles like ''The Road to Hell'' and ''Lords of Poverty,'' lay the blame for third-world squalor at the feet of foreigners who want to end it.
 There is even a hilarious poem demonizing ''the development set'':
 We bring in consultants whose circumlocution
 Raises difficulties for every solution
 Thus guaranteeing continued good eating
 By showing the need for another meeting.
 If only the solution to Malawi's agony were as simple as punishing craven charities, however. Most people here want to do good, and succeed in the short run. But to many, this is a Salvation Army without a general, marching in different directions while poverty and pestilence pillage the civilians.
 Seed is available, but without irrigation. Irrigation ditches are dug, but without fertilizer. Water, seed and fertilizer are donated, but the farmer is dying of AIDS. A healthy farmer raises a crop, but government grain policies make him sell his corn for a pittance. 
 A farmer sells his crop, but thousands in this densely populated country face similar hurdles, and stumble.
 ''The money being poured into Malawi is huge,'' said Sylvester Kalonge, the Malawi coordinator for food security and emergencies for CARE International. ''But it's not holistic. CARE has holistic programs, but how much geographic coverage can they have? So the impact is localized, and maybe the impact will be washed away in a few years' time, and things will be worse.''
 And so Mr. Kalonge and his fellow saviors in the global aid network labor against the latest hunger crisis.
 ''That's what we do,'' he said. ''We keep people alive.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: In Mulanje district of Malawi, where food is scarce, a woman loads corn to carry home from a food distribution center. (Photo by Nusca Antonello/Gamma)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); CHARITIES (89%); CHILDREN (88%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (74%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (73%); FAMILY (73%); MALNUTRITION (72%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); FARM LABOR (64%); INTERVIEWS (64%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (63%); TOBACCO FARMING (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MALAWI (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); ETHIOPIA (79%); BURUNDI (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2005



128 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: German Held In Afghan Jail Files Lawsuit

BYLINE: By SCOTT SHANE; Souad Mekhennet contributed reporting from Germany for this article.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 6 

 BODY:
A German citizen who says he was abducted in 2003, beaten and taken to Afghanistan by American agents in what was apparently a case of mistaken identity filed a lawsuit in federal court on Tuesday against George J. Tenet, the former C.I.A. director, and three companies suspected of being involved in secret C.I.A. flights.
 The plaintiff, Khaled el-Masri, 42, a German of Lebanese descent, was refused entry to the United States after arriving Saturday in Atlanta on a flight from Germany to appear at the news conference Tuesday in Washington where the lawsuit was announced. Instead, Mr. Masri addressed the conference from Germany by video link, describing how he was seized on the Serbian-Macedonian border, kicked and hit, photographed nude and injected with drugs during five months in detention in Macedonia and in Afghanistan. 
''I want to know why they did this to me,'' said Mr. Masri, whose German was translated into English by an interpreter. Now living with his wife and children in Germany, Mr. Masri, who has worked as a car salesman and carpenter but is currently unemployed, said he had not fully recovered from the trauma of his experience.
 ''I don't think I'm the human being I used to be,'' he said.
 In an interview on Tuesday in Germany, Mr. Masri said his weekend encounter with immigration officers in Atlanta made him briefly fear that his ordeal in 2003 and 2004 might be repeated. 
 ''My heart was beating very fast,'' he said. ''I have remembered that time, what has happened to me, when they kidnapped me to Afghanistan. I have remembered and was afraid.''
 A spokeswoman for United States Customs and Border Protection, Kristi Clemens, confirmed that Mr. Masri was denied entry. She said he was turned away based on information received from other American agencies, but she declined to describe the information or to say whether Mr. Masri's name had again been confused with that of a wanted operative of Al Qaeda, the reason officials have given for his mistaken detention in 2003. 
 The lawsuit was filed in Federal District Court in Alexandria, Va., by lawyers for the American Civil Liberties Union.
 Since it was first reported in January by The New York Times, the Masri case has often been cited as an example of tough American counterterrorism policies gone awry.
 Mr. Masri's lawyers allege in the lawsuit that Mr. Tenet learned of the mistake but left Mr. Masri in detention for two more months before having him set free at night on a hillside in Albania in May 2004. 
 The lawyers argue that even though he is not an American citizen, the treatment of Mr. Masri violated his right to due process under the Fifth Amendment as well as the Geneva Conventions and other bans on torture. He is suing under the Alien Tort Statute, adopted in 1789, which permits noncitizens to sue in the United States for violations of international norms. The suit seeks unspecified monetary damages ''in an amount over $75,000.'' 
 His lawsuit is the latest development in a legal assault by human rights groups on the Central Intelligence Agency's clandestine operations to detain, transport and interrogate suspected terrorists since the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.
 The lawsuit appears to be the first to single out a web of companies that operate a fleet of aircraft believed to be used by the C.I.A. The companies identified in the suit were Aero Contractors, a Smithfield, N.C., company that provides crews and maintenance; Premier Executive Transport Services of Dedham, Mass., which in 2003 owned the Boeing business jet that the lawsuit says was used to take Mr. Masri from Macedonia to Afghanistan; and Keeler and Tate Management L.L.C., of Reno, Nev., which owns the jet now.
 The lawsuit could force the C.I.A. to acknowledge its secret relationship with the companies, said Anthony D. Romero, executive director of the A.C.L.U. He said the A.C.L.U. took the case to penetrate what he called the ''culture of impunity'' in the Bush administration for human rights violations and to force the C.I.A. to abandon practices in conflict with American values.
 A spokesman for Mr. Tenet, who served as C.I.A. director from 1997 to 2004, said he had no comment, as did a spokesman for the C.I.A. 
 Robert W. Blowers, an executive at Aero Contractors, said, ''I don't have anything to say about it.'' Attempts to reach representatives of the other two air companies were unsuccessful.
 Michael Greenberger, a law professor at the University of Maryland who teaches a course on the law of counterterrorism, said Mr. Masri's lawyers faced ''a steep uphill climb'' in making their case in the Eastern District of Virginia and the conservative United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit in Richmond, Va. But Mr. Greenberger said the Supreme Court, in a ruling last year, suggested the Alien Tort Statute might apply to claims of torture.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Khaled el-Masri, a German, discussed his abduction and announced his lawsuit by video link yesterday. He filed suit against George J. Tenet, the former C.I.A. director, and three companies said to work for the agency. (Photo by Paul J. Richards/Agence France-Presse--Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITIGATION (94%); SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); LAWYERS (89%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (78%); DUE PROCESS (77%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (77%); IMMIGRATION LAW (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); IMMIGRATION (74%); BORDER CONTROL (74%); TORTS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (69%); COUNTERTERRORISM (68%); AL-QAEDA (61%); TERRORISM (61%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (61%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (95%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); ALBANIA (76%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2005



129 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Op-Chart; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 319 words

HEADLINE: The State of New Orleans

BYLINE: By BRUCE KATZ, MATT FELLOWES AND NIGEL HOLMES. 
Bruce Katz and Matt Fellowes are, respectively, director of the metropolitan policy program and a senior research associate at the Brookings Institution in Washington. Nigel Holmes is a graphic designer.

 BODY:
HOW will we know when New Orleans is rebuilt? Will it be when all the jobs and public services are back in place? Will it have to do with the amount of money spent? Or will it be when the number of displaced families receiving federal housing aid dwindles from 600,000 to just a few? 
 In truth, no consensus exists. But that has not stopped rebuilding from going forward, as government agencies, businesses and New Orleanians all struggle to start over. Now, 100 days after Hurricane Katrina made landfall, it is worth asking: Just who is benefiting from this rebuilding? And how much has actually been accomplished?
 Data is scarce, but there are enough indicators to illustrate what the residents of New Orleans are discovering upon their returns. To start with, the job market is significantly smaller. Fast-food chains may be passing out signing bonuses, but the metropolitan area has still lost more than 220,000 jobs. Vital public services are functioning selectively, which has a tremendous effect on what type of people can return. Before the storm, more than a quarter of residents relied on city bus lines; with only 10 percent of the fleet now in service, returnees need to have cars to get to jobs and shopping. 
 Fortunately, tourists may also be coming back. Numbers here are even scarcer, but we do know that nearly one out of every two hotels and one out of every three restaurants have reopened. It is not clear how many paying customers are actually visiting, but the growing number of ''open for business'' placards have been a welcome sign for everyone in the bankrupt city.
 In effect, New Orleans remains in a state of emergency more than three months after it was officially declared. While some people -- particularly those with their own transportation and children in private schools -- have been able to start remaking their homes and lives, most everyone else remains in a holding pattern.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''REBUILDING PROGRESS''Unemployment Rate (Metropolitan area)NEW ORLEANS BEFORE HURRICANE KATRINA: 5.8%NEW ORLEANS NOW: 15.5%Number in the Labor Force (Metropolitan area)NEW ORLEANS BEFORE HURRICANE KATRINA: 633,654NEW ORLEANS NOW: 465,801Percentage of Operational Buses (City)NEW ORLEANS BEFORE HURRICANE KATRINA: 100%NEW ORLEANS NOW: 10%Percentage of Homes With Gas Service (City)NEW ORLEANS BEFORE HURRICANE KATRINA: 100%NEW ORLEANS NOW: 50%Percentage of Fully Operational Hotels (Metropolitan area)NEW ORLEANS BEFORE HURRICANE KATRINA: 100%NEW ORLEANS NOW: 46%Percentage of Restaurants Open (Metropolitan area)NEW ORLEANS BEFORE HURRICANE KATRINA: 100%NEW ORLEANS NOW: 30%Percentage of Public Libraries Open (Metropolitan area)NEW ORLEANS BEFORE HURRICANE KATRINA: 100%NEW ORLEANS NOW: 58%Number of Public Schools Open (City)NEW ORLEANS BEFORE HURRICANE KATRINA: 116NEW ORLEANS NOW: 1Number of Occupied Emergency Trailers and Mobile Homes (U.S.)*NEW ORLEANS NOW: 38,440Number of Evacuated Families in Hotels (U.S.)*NEW ORLEANS NOW: 41,953*Pre-hurricane statistics not available.FEDERAL EMERGENCY SPENDING PRIORITIES -- MILLIONS OF DOLLARSTOTAL ALLOCATED: $21,370TOTAL SPENT: $19,253Administration (salaries, transportation, etc.)TOTAL ALLOCATED: $5,320TOTAL SPENT: $4,697General Operations (debris removal, technical help to states, etc.)TOTAL ALLOCATED: $4,662TOTAL SPENT: $4,354Manufactured Housing (trailers, mobile homes, etc.)TOTAL ALLOCATED: $3,977TOTAL SPENT: $2,938Housing Assistance (hotels, rental aid, etc.)TOTAL ALLOCATED: $3,848TOTAL SPENT: $3,838Infrastructure (inspections, rebuilding public services, etc.)TOTAL ALLOCATED: $2,290TOTAL SPENT: $2,188Human Services (unemployment payments, legal services, etc.)TOTAL ALLOCATED: $1,210TOTAL SPENT: $1,199Crisis Counseling (crisis call lines, etc.)TOTAL ALLOCATED: $45TOTAL SPENT: $24Environmental Cleanup (inspections, hazard mitigation, etc.)TOTAL ALLOCATED: $19TOTAL SPENT: $15

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); HURRICANE KATRINA (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); FAMILY (78%); CHILDREN (77%); DISASTER RELIEF (77%); HURRICANES (76%); EMPLOYMENT (75%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (74%); DISPLACED PERSONS (72%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (68%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (68%); CITIES (68%); RESTAURANTS (68%); FAST FOOD (68%); MOTOR VEHICLES (66%); HOTELS & MOTELS (65%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (95%) LOUISIANA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2005



130 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 106 words

HEADLINE: National Briefing South: Louisiana: First Big Gulf Coast Housing Plan 

BYLINE: AP

 BODY:
The first major housing investment in the New Orleans region since Hurricane Katrina is coming from a California company that is planning a community with up to 20,000 houses. The builder, KB Home, formed a joint venture with the Shaw Group of Baton Rouge to buy a 3,000-acre tract near Avondale, in Jefferson Parish. The venture, called KB Home/Shaw Louisiana, plans to build houses ''with the goal of providing permanent housing and increased economic development,'' the companies said in a statement. Bruce Karatz, the chief executive officer of KB Home, did not offer a completion date, and the company would not discuss house prices. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); HURRICANES (88%); HURRICANE KATRINA (88%); REAL ESTATE (88%); HOUSING MARKET (88%); CONSTRUCTION (88%); JOINT VENTURES (87%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (87%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (86%); HOME PRICES (86%); EXECUTIVES (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: KB HOME CORP (90%); SHAW GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: KBH (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236117 NEW HOUSING OPERATIVE BUILDERS (90%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (90%); NAICS541620 ENVIRONMENTAL CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (58%); NAICS332996 FABRICATED PIPE & PIPE FITTING MANUFACTURING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (92%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2005



131 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Classified; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 171 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
DRIMMER, HAROLD

 BODY:
 DRIMMER - Harold. The Board of Trustees, the Foundation's Board of Directors, and the grateful student body of Westchester Community College grieve for their distinguished friend, benefactor, and leader. For more than two decades, Harold Drimmer served devotedly and successfully as Chairman of the Board of Trustees and as an organizing founder of the college's Foundation. This period brought enormous progress including economic stability and innovative academic programs. He received respectful admiration for his vital role in positioning the institution among the elite of community colleges not only in New York State but throughout the country. His unswerving belief in the value of higher education for all who seek it was consistent and constant and his intelligent leadership helped achieve his lofty goals. Gratefully, we extend our heartfelt sympathy to the Drimmer family. Hon. Timothy S. Carey Chairman, Board of Trustees Dr. Joseph N. Hankin President Betsy Stern, Chair Westchester Community College Foundation 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (91%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (88%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (88%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (85%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2005



132 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS DIGEST; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 826 words

 BODY:

Johnson & Johnson Defends Its Bid for Guidant In Response to Challenge From Boston Scientific
Johnson & Johnson, in response to Boston Scientific's surprising bid of $25 billion for Guidant, the medical device maker, said that the $21.5 billion merger agreement it had reached with Guidant on Nov. 15 represented ''full and fair value,'' an indication that it does not plan to enter a bidding war. [Page C1.] 


Japanese Economy Growing After a Decade of Problems
After more than a decade of working off excessive debt, bloated payrolls and overbuilt factory capacity, Japan seems to have addressed its problems and emerged leaner and more competitive, economists say. Japan's economy is projected to be growing at a faster rate than Europe's this year. [C1.]

Gap, the Troubled Retailer, Faces Mounting Problems
Gap, the nation's largest specialty apparel retailer, has largely written off the holiday selling season, cutting its forecast for full year earnings after finding that the number of shoppers walking into its stores has fallen by 8 percent. Sales are slumping across all three divisions, a string of executives have left in recent months and Wall Street analysts are openly questioning whether the company's leadership is up to the job. [C1.]

General Motors Selects a New Chief Financial Officer
General Motors, which is battling to reverse losses in North America and energize its sagging market share, replaced its chief financial officer with a longtime company executive who has experience in cost-cutting. G.M. said Frederick A. Henderson, 47, left, the chairman of GM Europe, would become its chief financial officer, succeeding John M. Devine, a former executive with the Ford Motor Company who joined G.M. in 2001. [C5.]

Group Plans Lawsuit to Restrict Soda Sales in High Schools
The Center for Science in the Public Interest, arguing that soda and other sugary beverages are harmful to students' health and that selling those drinks in schools sends a message that their regular consumption is perfectly fine, plans to file a lawsuit seeking to ban sales of the beverage in high schools. [C1.]

A federal advisory group said that there was compelling evidence that linked food advertising on television and the increase in childhood obesity. The group, the Institute of Medicine of the National Academies, based its report on 120 studies examining the connection between television advertising and overweight children. [C4.]

N.Y.S.E. Members No More, but Happy as Shareholders
Many of the 1,366 seat holders of the New York Stock Exchange will introduce themselves by saying, ''I have been a member since'' That oft-repeated phrase was put to rest when the members overwhelmingly voted to approve the exchange's merger with Archipelago Holdings, an all-electronic exchange. The deal will transform the 213-year old New York exchange, previously a not-for-profit entity, into a publicly traded company. [C3.]

A Time Warner Director Gives Up Board Seat at Lazard
Robert C. Clark, who was a director of Time Warner and of Lazard, the investment bank advising Carl C. Icahn in his attempt to get control of a majority of Time Warner's board seats, said that being on both sides was untenable and resigned from Lazard. [C5.]

Mel Gibson Developing a TV Mini-Series on the Holocaust
Mel Gibson, whose ''The Passion of the Christ'' was criticized by some as anti-Semitic, is developing a nonfiction miniseries about the Holocaust. Mr. Gibson's television production company will base the four-hour miniseries for ABC on the self-published memoir of Flory A. Van Beek, a Dutch Jew whose gentile neighbors hid her from the Nazis but who lost several relatives in concentration camps. [C1.]

NBC Universal to Sell TV Shows at iTunes Music Store
NBC Universal said it would start to sell downloadable versions of 11 of its current and older television shows through Apple Computer's iTunes Music Store. NBC is the second major television network to distribute programming through Apple. In October, Apple started to sell episodes from five programs on the ABC network. Those programs can be watched both on Apple's latest generation of iPod portable players and on Apple and Windows-based personal computers running Apple's iTunes software. [C2.]

Sears's Chairman Urges Skepticism on Critics' Views
The chairman of Sears Holdings, Edward S. Lampert, defended his reticent approach to analysts and in a letter accompanying Sears's quarterly results urged shareholders to view his critics with skepticism.[C3.]

Economic Productivity Rose in the Third Quarter
Productivity rose at its fastest pace in two years in the third quarter, far more quickly than was earlier estimated, as output rose and labor costs fell, the government reported. [C3.]

An increase in productivity lifted stocks. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 21.85, to 10,856.86; the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 1.61, percent, to 1,263.70; and the Nasdaq composite index rose 3.12, to 2,260.76. [C10.]

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks share prices (daily closes) of Apple Computer from September through November. (Sept.: $46.26: Nov.: $74.05)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (90%); RETAILERS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); MERGERS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (87%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); MEDICAL DEVICES (72%); PLANT CAPACITY (72%); APPROVALS (72%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (71%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (71%); MARKET SHARE (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (69%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (69%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (68%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (67%); OBESITY (67%); HIGH SCHOOLS (67%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%); LITIGATION (63%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (62%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (62%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (62%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (60%); CHILDHOOD OBESITY (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: JOHNSON & JOHNSON (93%); BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORP (92%); FORD MOTOR CO (84%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%)

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (93%); BSX (NYSE) (92%); FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%); GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (93%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (92%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (92%); SIC3841 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%)

PERSON: FREDERICK HENDERSON (74%); JOHN M DEVINE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) JAPAN (93%); EUROPE (91%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2005



133 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: Moscow's Empty Red Square

BYLINE: By John Edwards and Jack Kemp. 
John Edwards and Jack Kemp are co-chairmen of a Council on Foreign Relations task force on United States policy toward Russia.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
WHEN we visited Moscow earlier this fall, almost everyone we talked to agreed that Russia is becoming steadily less democratic. Yet Russia's society and economy are in many ways freer than ever. Our visit convinced us of the vitality and potential of Russian civic groups and nongovernmental organizations, much like the ones Western Europeans and Americans know in their own countries. Unfortunately this sector -- human rights monitors, environmental groups, policy research institutions, even public health advocates -- is now at risk. 
 The latest challenge to civil society comes from legislation introduced by members of President Vladimir Putin's party and other factions in the Duma, the lower house of Parliament. This legislation would, among other things, keep foreign nonprofit organizations from having offices in Russia and deny foreign funds to Russian organizations that are suspected of engaging in undefined ''political'' activities. Even the limited grants permitted under the new law would be taxed as though they were corporate profits, at rates exceeding 40 percent. Virtually all nonprofit groups would be affected. 
The Duma has passed this bill by an overwhelming margin of 370 to 18. Two further votes are required before it comes into force; the next is scheduled for December 16. 
 If this measure becomes law, it will roll back pluralism in Russia and curtail contact between our societies. It will flagrantly breach the commitment that President Putin has made to numerous Western leaders to strengthen such ties.
 Its passage also raises the bizarre prospect that the president of Russia will play host to next summer's Group of 8 summit meeting even as his country's laws choke off contacts with global society. If this happens, the contrast with last summer's meeting at Gleneagles, Scotland -- at which nongovernmental organizations from around the world led the effort to ''make poverty history'' -- could not be starker. It will unfortunately bolster the arguments of those who say that Russia has no place in the G-8 at all. 
 Russian officials and legislators have responded to criticism of the legislation by saying that they are trying only to prevent outside interference in internal political affairs. Though this response carries unsettling echoes of Soviet times, the Russian government has a legitimate interest in protecting the integrity of the electoral process and political campaigns. After all, other nations, ours included, have the same goal -- but they accomplish it without encroaching on fundamental freedoms or cutting off their country from the outside world.
 In truth, the aim of the proposed legislation is much broader. Senior Russian officials have described nongovernmental organizations as a ''fifth column'' in Russian society and even as fronts for foreign intelligence services. If this proposal comes into force, the government will have in its hands the authority to close down nonprofit groups simply because it finds their views and activities inconvenient. 
 The Kremlin's initiative reflects the unwillingness of those who wield the power of the Russian state to accept the idea that civil society is not theirs to control. For Europeans and Americans, this principle is fundamental. You can't claim to be a modern country without it.
 Those of us who strongly support greater partnership with Russia and believe that it can build modern political, economic and social institutions need to send an unambiguous message: such laws put this goal out of reach. President Bush apparently raised this issue when he met with President Putin in South Korea last month, and we expect him and his administration to continue to do so. 
 But President Putin should not hear only from the United States. European leaders, both in and out of government, have as great an interest in this matter as Americans do. European organizations have built active and successful partnerships with independent organizations in Russian society. Indeed, Europe's relations with Russia would not really be ''normal'' if such partnerships did not exist.
 President Putin has said he'll consider modifications of the bill, because ''civil society in Russia should not suffer.'' But what's wrong with the bill is not this or that offensive provision. The real problem is its underlying purpose, and that cannot be fixed. 
 Russia faces a choice between entering the mainstream of the modern world, or trapping itself in an eddy of reaction and isolation. For Europeans and Americans who want to welcome Russia into the mainstream -- and who believe we have many reasons to work together -- the legislation before the Duma is a serious warning about how that choice is being made. The right advice for Mr. Putin is obvious: shelve the bill and start over.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (92%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (76%); ELECTIONS (75%); ELECTION LAW (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); SCOTLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2005



134 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 421 words

HEADLINE: Productivity Rises, Wages Fall And Inflation Seems in Retreat 

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
Productivity rose at its fastest pace in two years in the third quarter, far more quickly than was earlier estimated, as output rose and labor costs fell, the government reported yesterday. The report eased some economists' fears of rising inflation. 
 Productivity, a measure of how much the economy produced per hour of work, rose 4.7 percent outside the farming sector from July to September, compared with an earlier reading of 4.1 percent, the Labor Department said. Real hourly compensation, which adjusts wages and benefits for inflation, fell 1.4 percent.
Also yesterday, the Commerce Department said factory orders bounced back in October, rising 2.2 percent, from a decline of 1.4 percent the month before. And the National Association of Realtors said an index that measures pending sales of existing homes fell 3.2 percent after a decrease of 1 percent in September, providing more evidence of a housing slowdown.
 Unit labor costs, which gauge the compensation required to produce one unit of output, fell 1 percent in the quarter, twice as much as previously expected.
 The Labor Department's report indicates that the productivity boom of the last several years may have more steam remaining than Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, and other economists believed. Typically, productivity tends to slow in the latter part of an economic expansion because businesses have realized most of the efficiencies from their operations. 
 For workers, however, the report shows that the rise in energy costs has wiped away any advantage they received in the form of higher wages, at least for a time. Before adjusting for inflation, hourly compensation rose 3.7 percent.
 Compared with the third quarter of 2004, productivity in the most recent quarter grew at a rate of 3.1 percent, real hourly compensation rose 1.2 percent and unit labor costs were up 1.8 percent.
 Some economists said the report allayed concerns about broader inflation outside of the recent spike in energy prices, which, at least in the case of gasoline, have started coming back down. 
 ''What this tells us in terms of the fundamentals is the road looks fine,'' said Brian Bethune, an economist at Global Insight, a research firm.
 Mr. Bethune said a tamer inflation outlook should prompt the Fed to stop raising short-term rates soon after Ben S. Bernanke takes over as chairman in February. The benchmark federal funds rate on overnight bank loans is now 4 percent, and analysts expect it will reach 4.75 before the Fed stops its increases.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRODUCTIVITY (92%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INFLATION (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); EXISTING HOME SALES (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); INTEREST RATES (63%) United States Economy; Labor; Wages and Salaries; Productivity; Factories and Industrial Plants; Housing; Sales; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%) Labor Department (US); Commerce Department; National Association of Realtors

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%); ALAN GREENSPAN (57%) Vikas Bajaj

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2005



135 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1274 words

HEADLINE: It's Traditional. It's Religious. It's Poison.

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA

 BODY:
When Venice Levy had a problem with roaches, she looked for the strongest insecticide she could find. A friend told her about a mystery powder called Tempo.
 ''When it first came out I bought it. Sure,'' said Ms. Levy, who runs Botanica Oggun in East Harlem and sells herbs and ornaments used in Hispanic spiritual and religious ceremonies.
She applied Tempo and the pests disappeared. But then her dog, a Shih Tzu named Chi Chi, sniffed the powder and began to foam at the mouth. Tempo contains cyfluthrin, a potent insecticide that can be lethal to dogs, cats and humans. It is legal for licensed applicators to use but illegal when sold on the streets in part because people use it at 200 to 400 times the recommended quantity, figuring that if using a little works well, using a lot will work better.
 After a visit to the animal hospital, Chi Chi recovered and went on to live to a ripe old age. Ms. Levy stopped using Tempo. 
 But Tempo can still be found in parts of New York, despite efforts by city officials to go after the peddlers who sell it. And despite numerous health warnings, surveys done by the city show that Hispanics are much more likely than any other group to use it. 
 Getting people in the city's ethnic and immigrant communities to reject harmful products like Tempo is a complex and delicate task, touching on culture, language and sometimes religion. 
 Officials try to balance the benefits of strict enforcement against the danger of offending a large group that is already under economic and social pressures. Sometimes, a ban simply drives hazardous products underground, where they can be even harder to regulate.
 Part of what makes this such a daunting environmental and health problem is that the people who are most affected are those who are introducing the hazardous materials into their own homes, usually because they believe that using them will take care of a visible and immediate problem. 
 That is why Miguel Gomez's family followed a peculiar ritual before sitting down to supper in their basement apartment in the Bronx. His mother, Myrtha, would crawl under the dinner table and draw a line around its underside with a piece of special white chalk. 
 ''She wanted to make sure that cockroaches didn't crawl up the table while we were eating,'' said Mr. Gomez, now 18. ''It worked.'' It sure did. Although it looked like ordinary blackboard chalk, Mrs. Gomez was actually using a powerful unlicensed insecticide called Chinese Chalk or Miraculous Chalk. Imported in small orange boxes, it sold for about a dollar in Chinatown, East Harlem and the South Bronx. 
 It was toxic to bugs that crossed it, and was widely used in China and Latin America because it was so effective. But it was not approved for use in homes here because it contained deltamethrin, which is highly toxic. Two years ago the New York police arrested a number of people for selling Chinese Chalk and warnings about its dangers went up throughout the city. 
 The efforts appear to have been successful. Mr. Gomez has not seen Chinese Chalk in his neighborhood for a few years, and a recent afternoon spent looking for it in Chinatown proved futile. 
 But many other hazardous products are still out there. Warnings have gone out in recent years about a pesticide from Mexico called Tres Pasitos, which means three little steps in Spanish. It contains aldicard, which is highly toxic to pests and humans. Rats that nibble on it are said to take three steps and die.
 Nine cases of Tres Pasitos poisoning were reported to the New York City Poison Control Center in the last year. Most of the incidents are believed to involve young children who touched the powder on the floor of their homes and then ingested it.
 Families living in substandard housing are tempted to use the strongest product they can find. Jessica Leighton, deputy commissioner of New York's Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, said the city often has to enlist a local group that has already established special bonds with a community to help get the word out about risky products. 
 A few years ago, small plastic bags containing a peach-colored powder called litargirio began showing up on city streets. It was made in the Dominican Republic, where it has been used for years as an underarm deodorant and burn remedy. Samples of it contained up to 80 percent lead. It cannot be absorbed through the skin, but any that gets on the hands can be ingested.
 City officials asked the Alianza Dominicana, a large advocacy and social services group representing Dominicans, to spread the word about the risks of using litargirio. But Moises Perez, executive director of the Alianza, said getting people to stop using it took a lot of effort, even among his own staff. 
 ''They said to me, 'Moises, I grew up with that stuff. My mother used it all the time,' '' Mr. Perez said. The organization's workers had to be convinced that something as familiar to them as litargirio was dangerous before they would tell other people not to use it. 
 No hazard has stirred more sustained controversy than the ritualistic use of mercury in some Afro-Caribbean religions. The practice was first publicized by Arnold P. Wendroff, a former public school teacher, who in 1989 asked his junior high school students in Brooklyn how mercury was used. 
 One student answered that his mother sprinkled mercury on their apartment floor to ward off bad spirits. Mercury vapors can cause developmental problems.
 ''The government has known about this for a long time,'' said Dr. Wendroff, 64, who has a Ph.D. in the sociology of medicine. ''There needs to be a response plan and there isn't one.''
 It is not illegal to sell mercury in New York, but packages have to be properly labeled. In response to Dr. Wendroff's urging, the city has monitored mercury sales in botanicas, conducted air sampling in the shops, and distributed pamphlets about the dangers of mercury, known on the street as azogue (ah-ZOH-gay). 
 No one knows with certainty how great a threat ritual mercury represents. In one of the most comprehensive investigations, Dr. Philip O. Ozuah of Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx found that 38 of 41 botanicas he checked in 1995 sold mercury in small vials without warning labels, suggesting that the metal was widely available in the borough. 
 But tests on a large group of children from the Bronx a few years later showed that only 3 percent of them had elevated mercury levels in their urine, where elemental mercury exposure would be detected. 
 Dr. Ozuah, now interim chairman of pediatrics at the Children's Hospital at Montefiore, said he had to conclude at this point that ritual mercury was not a serious problem. He said the most common way it was used -- contained in a good luck amulet -- posed no harm. 
 Mercury can be hard to find now. Ms. Levy, the botanica owner in East Harlem, said she had never sold mercury, but she is certain that those who use it can find other places to buy it, or bring it in from another country. 
 Eric Canales, an ordained Santeria priest, said that even if some sects used mercury in rituals, their numbers were too small to warrant the aggressive crackdown that Dr. Wendroff advocated. 
 ''To blatantly say that because you have a huge Latino population you think there is a huge problem with mercury is prejudiced, inflammatory and ignorant,'' Mr. Canales said. 
 Dr. Wendroff says there is nothing pejorative about making sure that mercury is sold with the proper labeling. Leaders in the Latino community reject his ideas, he says, ''because they are embarrassed about the bad name it gives to the community.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Mercury, which can injure children, is used in Santeria and has been sold in botanicas. Some products long used in other countries are considered hazardous here. (Photo by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Religious objects are sold at botanicas, along with herbs and ornaments for use in spiritual ceremonies. Sometimes toxic mercury is included. (Photo by Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSECTICIDES (90%); RELIGION (90%); DOGS (90%); PESTICIDES (78%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (76%); PRODUCT SAFETY (75%); CITIES (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); VETERINARY SERVICES (70%); IMMIGRATION (70%); CATS (70%); APPROVALS (66%); REFUGEES (66%) Pesticides; Santeria Faith; Immigration and Refugees; Hispanic-Americans

PERSON: Anthony Depalma

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); CHINA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2005



136 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: Most Mexican Immigrants in New Study Gave Up Jobs to Take Their Chances in U.S.

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
A report about the work lives of recent Mexican immigrants in seven cities across the United States suggests that they typically traded jobs in Mexico for the prospect of work here, despite serious bouts of unemployment, job instability and poor wages.
 The report, released Tuesday by the Pew Hispanic Center, was based on surveys of nearly 5,000 Mexicans, most of them here illegally. 
Those surveyed were seeking identity documents at Mexican consulates in New York, Atlanta and Raleigh, N.C., where recent arrivals have gravitated toward construction, hotel and restaurant jobs, and in Dallas, Chicago, Los Angeles, and Fresno, Calif., where they have been more likely to work in agriculture and manufacturing.
 Unlike the stereotype of jobless Mexicans heading north, most of the immigrants had been employed in Mexico, the report found. 
 Once in the United States, they soon found that their illegal status was no barrier to being hired here. And though the jobs they landed, typically with help from relatives, were often unstable and their median earnings only $300 a week, that was enough to keep drawing newcomers because wages here far exceeded those in Mexico. 
 ''We're getting a peek at a segment of the U.S. labor force that is large, that is growing by illegal migration, and that is bringing an entirely new set of issues into the U.S. labor market,'' said Rakesh Kochhar, associate director for research at the Pew Hispanic Center and author of the study. 
 The report suggested that policies intended to reduce migration pressures by improving the Mexican economy would have to look beyond employment to wages and perceptions of opportunity. 
 The survey found that the most recent to arrive were more likely to have worked in construction or commerce, rather than agriculture, in Mexico. Only 5 percent had been unemployed there; they were ''drawn not from the fringes, but from the heart of Mexico's labor force,'' the report said. 
 After a difficult transition in their first six months in the United States -- about 15 percent of the respondents said they did not work during that time -- the rate of unemployment plummeted, to an average of 5 percent. 
 But in one of the most striking findings, 38 percent reported an unemployment spell lasting a month or more in the previous year, regardless of their location, legal status or length of time in the United States. 
 ''These are workers with no safety net,'' Mr. Kochhar said. ''The long-run implication is a generation of workers without health or pension benefits, without any meaningful asset accumulation.''
 On the other hand, Mr. Kochhar and Roberto Suro, director of the Pew Hispanic Center, said the flexibility of this work force was a boon to certain industries like home construction, an important part of the nation's economic growth since the last recession. 
 Among respondents to the survey, those who settled in Atlanta and Dallas were the best off, with 56 percent in each city receiving a weekly wage higher than the $300-a-week median. The worst off were in Fresno, where more than half of the survey respondents worked in agriculture and 60 percent reported earning less than $300 a week. The lowest wages were reported by women, people who spoke little or no English, and those without identification. 
 To some scholars of immigration, the report underlines the lack of incentives for employers to turn to a guest worker program like the one proposed by President Bush because their needs are met cheaply by illegal workers -- and all without paperwork or long-term commitment.
 Guest workers might instead appeal to corporations like Wal-Mart, the scholars said, where service jobs are now the target of union organizing drives.
 ''You can't plausibly argue that immigrant-dominated sectors have a labor shortage,'' said Robert Courtney Smith, a sociologist and author of ''Mexican New York: Transnational Lives of New Immigrants.'' Instead, he said, the report and evidence of falling wages among Mexican immigrants over time point to an oversupply of vulnerable workers competing with each other.
 But Brendan Flanagan, a spokesman for the National Restaurant Association, which supports a guest worker program, disagreed. ''In many places it is difficult to fill jobs with domestic workers,'' Mr. Flanagan said. ''We've seen a simple lack of applicants, regardless of what wage is offered.''
 Although the survey, conducted from July 2004 to January 2005, was not random or weighted to represent all Mexican immigrants, it offers a close look at a usually elusive population. 
 Those surveyed were not questioned directly about their immigration status, but they were asked whether they had any photo identification issued by a government agency in the United States. Slightly more than half over all, and 75 percent in New York, said they did not.
 The migration is part of a historic restructuring of the Mexican economy comparable to America's industrial revolution, said Kathleen Newland, director of the Migration Policy Institute, a research organization based in Washington. 
 The institute released its own report on Tuesday, arguing that border enforcement efforts have failed. Workplace enforcement, which has been neglected, would be a crucial part of making a guest worker program successful.
 For now, Mexicans keep arriving illegally.
 ''It doesn't matter if it's winter,'' said Ricardo Cortes, 23, a construction worker waiting for a friend outside the Mexican consulate in New York on Tuesday. ''People are still coming because there's no money over there.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH REPORTS (91%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LABOR FORCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (73%); CONSTRUCTION (70%); RESTAURANTS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (56%) 

ORGANIZATION: Pew Hispanic Center

PERSON: Nina Bernstein

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (79%); FRESNO, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); MEXICO (95%) Mexico

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2005



137 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1173 words

HEADLINE: Poetic Justice for a Feared Immigrant Stop 

BYLINE: By PATRICIA LEIGH BROWN

DATELINE: ANGEL ISLAND, Calif., Dec. 1 

 BODY:
It was known, simply, as ''the wooden building.'' For 30 years, from 1910 to 1940, the barren walls of the Angel Island Immigration Station gave mute testimony to the experiences of roughly 175,000 Chinese immigrants who were detained and exhaustively interrogated on this island in San Francisco Bay, the West Coast's insidious version of Ellis Island.
 ''Today is the last day of winter,'' begins one of nearly 300 poems surreptitiously carved in Chinese characters by detainees on the walls.
''Tomorrow morning is the vernal equinox/ One year's prospects have changed to another/ Sadness kills the person in the wooden building.'' 
 On Thursday, this little-spoken-about place, the physical embodiment of the Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882, which was intended to prevent Chinese laborers from entering the country, received long-awaited recognition when President Bush signed into law the Angel Island Immigration Station Restoration and Preservation Act. 
 The legislation, a result of a 35-year effort by the nonprofit Angel Island Immigration Foundation, authorizes up to $15 million to establish a museum and genealogical research center on the island and to help preserve two original structures, including barracks with chicken-wire clerestories and melancholy graffiti -- eloquent poems carved on wooden walls and routinely puttied and painted over by the authorities. The immigration station, nestled in a eucalyptus grove on the largest island in the bay, is a national historic landmark, though it is closed to the public.
 The facility was the point of entry for roughly 75 percent of Chinese immigrants to the West Coast, and its preservation has underscored the story of the ''paper sons and daughters'' who used false identities to circumvent the Exclusion Act, the first legislation in United States history to ban a specific ethnic group. For Chinese-Americans like Li Keng Wong, now 79, who was detained with her family as a 7-year-old in 1933, it has been an emotional journey.
 Even today, she can ruefully recite from memory the description from her investigation file assembled by the authorities: ''Female of the Chinese race. Faint pit near outer corner right eye. Height, in socks, 2 ft 11 1/2 in.'' The faint pit, a scar from a childhood infection, is still visible beneath her bangs. The artifice and fear with which Mrs. Wong and her family lived, even as they prospered, was repeated by thousands of immigrants. In contrast to Ellis Island, where millions of European immigrants were processed largely with swift industrial efficiency, the Angel Island station was designed for exclusion. 
 Upon a ship's arrival, officials would separate the immigrants on board, with those bearing first-class paperwork allowed to disembark in San Francisco, while those remaining -- mostly Chinese, but also a smattering of Japanese, Filipino, Indian, Russian and other groups -- ferried to Angel Island. 
 ''Ellis Island was created to let Europeans in,'' said Robert E. Barde, deputy director of the Institute of Business and Economic Research at the University of California, Berkeley, who is writing a book on immigration. ''Angel Island was created to keep the Chinese out.'' The Exclusion Act, repealed in 1943 when China became America's ally in World War II, was the culmination of decades of anti-Chinese sentiment in the aftermath of an economic depression that resulted in mob violence and lynching. 
 Chinese laborers had been coming to America since the Gold Rush, bearing ''a harsh purse with a reverence for copper coins,'' in the words of one poem on the barracks walls. They worked for 12 cents an hour laying the tracks of the Central Pacific Railroad and erecting levees in the swamps of the Sacramento-San Joaquin delta. The law was intended to end the arrival of Chinese laborers and to bar Chinese from becoming citizens. At Angel Island, this meant grueling interrogations and humiliating physical examinations. 
 In 1906, the San Francisco earthquake and fire destroyed municipal and birth records, creating an opportunity for the city's Chinese residents to claim citizenship and to try to bring friends, family and fellow villagers, often with false identities, to ''Gam Saan'' -- the Gold Mountain -- or America.
 Like the poems on the walls, Mrs. Wong's five days on the island as a little girl remain deeply etched. Her father, or ''Baba, '' Soew Hong Gee, came to the United States from a small village in the Pearl River delta as a 16-year-old in 1912, presumably as a ''paper son.'' 
 Sipping green tea in her kitchen in a suburb overlooking the bay, Mrs. Wong recalled the ruse that brought her family to San Francisco. Because wives were prohibited from entering, it was decided that her mother, Suey Ting Gee, then 28, Mr. Gee's second wife, would pose as her ''yee,'' or aunt. Blood relatives were allowed to emigrate.
 ''Baba could not bring Mama as his wife, only as his sister,'' she recalled. ''He gave us coaching papers. Mama and Baba said if we made a mistake, the white officers would deport us.''
 Even her 3-year-old sister, Lai Wah, was required to remember. ''She was always saying, 'Yee, yee, yee, yee,''' Mrs. Wong, a retired teacher, said. ''But whenever we were in a corner together, we would whisper 'Mama.' ''
 In a recently completed memoir, ''Good Fortune: My Journey to Gold Mountain,'' to be published later this month by Peachtree Publishers, Mrs. Wong recalls the intense interrogations, to be corroborated by family members -- questions like ''What is your living room floor made of?'' and ''What direction does your house in China face?'' ''I was praying 'Don't let me trip up, 'Don't let me trip up,' '' Mrs. Wong recalled, her girlhood anxiety palpable 72 years later. 
 Until recently, Mrs. Wong refused to set foot on the island and never spoke about her experience, even to her own children. Her parents, like many of their generation, never mentioned Angel Island. She eventually made the trip, a mile's ferry ride from Tiburon, in neighboring Marin County, at the encouragement of a writing teacher. 
 ''I saw the place where I was incarcerated,'' she said. ''It was just like a liberation. At last I could talk about it.''
 The station closed in 1940. Its history was largely swept aside until 1970, when a park ranger noticed Chinese characters chiseled on the vacant barracks walls, which were scheduled for demolition. Since then, the revitalization has been a grass-roots movement, aided by $15 million in state bond money as well as support from Asian-American politicians.
 The site, to be opened on a limited basis in 2007, will include refurbished barracks in which the poems on the walls will literally be brought to light.
 Their presence has already given young people like Erika Gee, 33, the foundation's educational director, whose grandparents came through Angel Island, a chance to retrieve their own powerful, not-so-distant history.
 ''It is just a wooden building,'' Ms. Gee said, softly. ''Yet there are so many voices that still speak.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A room in the main barracks at the Angel Island immigration station.
 Roy McNamee of Angel Island State Park in San Francisco Bay pointing out poetry on the wall of a barracks. (Photographs by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)Map of California highlighting Angel Island: Angel Island was Chinese immigrants' main West Coast gateway.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); LEGISLATION (88%); ASIAN AMERICANS (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); ETHNIC GROUPS (73%); BUILDING RENOVATION (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); HISTORIC SITES (72%); GENEALOGY (71%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (66%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (62%); ETHNICITY (50%) 

PERSON: Patricia Leigh Brown; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); WEST USA (94%) UNITED STATES (96%) Angel Island (Calif); United States

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2005



138 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 891 words

HEADLINE: Gesture From Venezuela Heats the Bronx

BYLINE: By MANNY FERNANDEZ and JUAN FORERO

 BODY:
About all that Belkis Bejaran had ever heard about the firebrand leader of faraway Venezuela was that he had often hurled verbal insults at President Bush. Then this week, with a sort of bemused gratitude, she heard that Hugo Chavez, the president of Venezuela, which sits on the Western Hemisphere's largest oil supply, would provide discounted heating fuel to her landlord. In turn, the landlord will pass on the savings, reducing her monthly rent this winter by more than $100.
 ''I find it weird, because he's always talking about the administration,'' said Ms. Bejaran, 38, referring to Mr. Chavez's attacks on the Bush administration. ''Then, all of a sudden I heard he was going to provide oil for the South Bronx. I was surprised.'' 
 In a gesture combining generosity and high theater, officials from an American subsidiary of Venezuela's state-owned oil company announced yesterday from a chilly corner of the Mount Hope neighborhood that they would sell heating fuel at a 40 percent discount to 75 apartment buildings in the Bronx, benefiting 8,000 low-income residents. 
 Representative Jose E. Serrano, Democrat of the Bronx, and Mr. Chavez brokered a deal with Citgo, a subsidiary of Petroleos de Venezuela, that will provide eight million gallons of fuel to properties owned by three Bronx nonprofit housing corporations, the Mount Hope Housing Company, the Fordham Bedford Housing Corporation and VIP Community Services. As officials huddled to keep warm, 500 gallons of heating fuel were pumped from a green Citgo truck into a pipe on the sidewalk outside a 56-unit building at East 176th Street and Townsend Avenue operated by the Mount Hope group.
 The offer, though, is much more than Christmas largesse: It was the latest maneuver by Mr. Chavez to upstage his government's longtime adversary, the Bush administration, which he has accused of supporting a failed coup against him in 2002.
 Venezuela's leader has become a fervent antagonist of the Bush administration, criticizing the United States for the war in Iraq and its free-market policies in Latin America. Now, Mr. Chavez's leftist government, which is providing cut-rate oil across Latin America, has focused its sights on poor neighborhoods in the Northeast.
 After delivering the first of 12 million gallons of heating fuel to 40,000 Massachusetts households last month, Venezuela trumpeted its new policy last week in full-page ads in The New York Times and other newspapers with the headline ''How Venezuela Is Keeping the Home Fires Burning in Massachusetts.''
 ''The oil price spike gave Chavez the ability to be innovative and mischievous, to come forward with amusing gestures and rhetoric,'' said Larry Birns, a frequent critic of the Bush administration and director of the Council on Hemispheric Affairs in Washington, a policy analysis group that tracks Venezuelan policies. ''This also had the spice of a poor country delivering aid to a rich country and registered a tangy blow against Bush. It was irresistible.'' The White House has deferred comment on the issue.
 Citgo's delivery of discounted fuel came after 12 Democratic senators, including Hillary Rodham Clinton, wrote a letter in October asking the chief executives of nine major oil companies to use some of their profits -- oil is selling at record prices because of tight supplies -- for government fuel assistance programs. The only company to respond, said Senator Jack Reed of Rhode Island, who came up with the idea to write the letter, was Citgo, the nation's fourth-largest gasoline retailer.
 ''It's humanitarian,'' said Felix Rodriguez, the chief executive of Citgo, who added that the discounted heating fuel amounts to a savings of about $7 million. ''The poor people need heating oil.''
 However, Larry Goldstein, the president of the Petroleum Industry Research Foundation, an industry-supported analysis group in New York, called the program a policy ''designed to embarrass us.''
 Mr. Goldstein added: ''It's not designed to help poor people. Chavez is astute, clever, with a major political agenda, largely to get under our skin, and he does that everywhere and anywhere he can.''
 Mr. Serrano, who led Mr. Chavez on a tour of the Bronx in September, said that he is not bothered by criticisms. ''If people think that the Venezuelan government and Chavez are trying to score points in my district, as a congressman from the district I welcome that,'' he said. ''And I welcome any other American corporation that wants to come here and score points.''
 The tan-brick building on East 176th Street sits in the poorest Congressional district in the city and is usually far removed from geopolitical affairs. 
 Shaun M. Belle, the president of the Mount Hope group, said residents have little use for diplomatic spats. Instead, they want to save on the rent. 
 ''This allows us to save, depending on how the weather fares, $400,000 to $500,000 for the winter,'' Mr. Belle said. ''We can save and then pass some of that on to our tenants.''
 Those awaiting the savings are people like Lenice Footman, who with her husband pays $600 a month for a three-bedroom apartment. With five children, Mrs. Footman said, she welcomes any help she can get.
 ''I think that's wonderful,'' Mrs. Footman said, standing on East 176th Street with her 5-month-old son, Kyle, bundled up in a stroller.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Jose E. Serrano, second from right, and Felix Rodriguez, right, the chief executive of Citgo, positioned an oil pump over a pipe yesterday at an apartment building for low-income residents in the Bronx. (Photo by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); HEATING OIL (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); LIBERALISM (71%); CHRISTMAS (71%); POOR POPULATION (71%); COUPS (69%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (68%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (67%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (65%); IRAQ WAR (61%); ECONOMIC POLICY (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); PRICE INCREASES (60%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; United States International Relations; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Heating Oil 

COMPANY: PETROLEOS DE VENEZUELA SA (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Citgo Petroleum Corp

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (55%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); HUGO CHAVEZ (79%); JOSE E SERRANO (72%) Manny Fernandez; Juan Forero; Hugo (Pres) Chavez; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); IRAQ (79%) Venezuela; New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2005



139 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1029 words

HEADLINE: Builder Under Growing Pressure To Cede Part of Trade Center Site

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
State, city and Port Authority officials are increasing pressure on Larry A. Silverstein, the developer who controls the World Trade Center site, to relinquish at least a portion of the 16-acre property so that the rebuilding effort can proceed more quickly.
 In recent weeks, Anthony R. Coscia, the chairman of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, has proposed to Mr. Silverstein that he proceed with the Freedom Tower -- by far the most visible symbol of the redevelopment -- and a second building, while ceding much of the site back to the authority, which owns the 16-acre property. The Port Authority, in turn, would reduce Mr. Silverstein's rent, which rises to almost $12 million a month in January. 
State officials also broached the idea with Mr. Silverstein.
 Mr. Coscia confirmed that he had spoken to Mr. Silverstein on the matter, but declined to discuss it. John N. Lieber, senior vice president at Silverstein Properties, declined to comment on talks with Mr. Coscia.
 The proposal comes as Mr. Silverstein is in heated negotiations with the city over his request for the remaining $3.35 billion in tax-exempt Liberty Bonds, which he needs to finance the office towers, and the conditions the city wants to impose on their use. A public hearing on the matter is set for tomorrow, and the city's Industrial Development Agency is scheduled to vote Dec. 13, if the two sides reach an agreement.
 In what some see as one of several efforts to pressure Mr. Silverstein, the city has sought to impose a strict construction schedule to ensure that the bonds are used before they expire at the end of 2009. 
 City officials have also questioned why Mr. Silverstein wants to use two-thirds of the bonds for the Freedom Tower, which accounts for only a quarter of the proposed commercial space on the site. They have also questioned Mr. Silverstein's proposal that he get a 5 percent development fee, which could add $100 million to the cost of the Freedom Tower.
 Mr. Silverstein has complained to business leaders that the city's conditions are so onerous that they may prevent him from obtaining construction financing. He has lined up United States Senators Charles E. Schumer and Hillary Rodham Clinton to support his application for the bonds and asked business leaders to speak on his behalf at the hearing.
 The unfolding drama comes at a time when there is a growing public perception that progress downtown has been slow, although the administration of Gov. George E. Pataki has repeatedly tried to counter that impression with press conferences highlighting construction of the new PATH terminal and the groundbreaking for the Goldman Sachs headquarters.
 ''Four years after the fact, we're still discussing who is building what on the site,'' said Madelyn G. Wils, who lives downtown and is a member of the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation. ''It's time to get to the end game.''
 The effort to split the site has been in the air for some months. Under the current proposal, the right to build two other towers at the southeastern corner of the site, near the new PATH terminal, would revert to the Port Authority, which owns the property. Officials are eager to begin work on a multistory shopping complex on Church Street, which they say would enliven the area, serving local residents, tourists and office workers, as well as the smaller buildings.
 State, city and Port Authority officials say that the authority itself, and possibly a federal agency, could anchor one of the office buildings, while the other could include a hotel, commercial space, and, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has suggested, apartments. 
 Officials have concluded that they cannot dislodge Mr. Silverstein legally, because his lease for the site grants him the right to rebuild the complex. And any effort to oust the developer would almost certainly spark a legal battle that would only enhance a sense of chaos downtown.
 For his part, Mr. Silverstein has steadfastly maintained that he is best suited to rebuild the entire complex because, unlike any other potential developer, he has billions of dollars in insurance proceeds. But under the current schedule, the last of five commercial buildings would not be completed for at least a decade.
 The developer's supporters note that Mr. Silverstein has nearly completed rebuilding the 1.7 million-square-foot tower at 7 World Trade Center, while government officials debated what to do on the trade center site itself. 
 ''If you really want to get this project done, sweep away all the obstacles,'' said Mr. Lieber, the Silverstein Properties official. ''Once that happens, Larry will build the rest of the buildings as quickly as he has built 7 World Trade Center.''
 The debate over the conditions placed on the Liberty Bonds is only one way in which City Hall and the Port Authority have sought leverage with Mr. Silverstein. Mayor Bloomberg has also mused publicly that the rebuilding effort might be better off without Mr. Silverstein. And the plans for the shopping mall on Church and Cortlandt Streets clash with Mr. Silverstein's plans: city and Port Authority officials say Mr. Silverstein opposes building the multistory shopping mall because it would force him to build the office lobbies on the third or fourth floors of the office towers overhead.
 But even among the various government agencies there is disagreement about the shopping mall.
 The Port Authority wants to build a multilevel, glass-walled retail galleria on Cortlandt Street, between Church and Greenwich Streets, while Deputy Mayor Daniel L. Doctoroff disagrees, saying the street should be an open thoroughfare, providing views to and from the 9/11 memorial. 
 Mr. Doctoroff also wants to provide potential developers with as much as $400 million in Liberty Bonds to build the shopping mall, although state officials contend that retail development is so lucrative that government does not need to provide subsidies.
 ''Anything that can be done to expedite the retail, particularly along Church Street, is particularly important to the community,'' said Julie Menin, chairperson of Community Board 1, the neighborhood advisory group.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PORT AUTHORITIES (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (73%); CITIES (73%); TAX LAW (71%); EXECUTIVES (67%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (66%); TERRORISM (59%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%) Terrorism; World Trade Center (NYC); Freedom Tower (NYC); Area Planning and Renewal; Renting and Leasing 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (72%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Port Authority of New York and New Jersey

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (72%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (72%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); CHARLES SCHUMER (56%) Charles V Bagli; Larry A Silverstein

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City; New York State; New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2005



140 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 7, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 943 words

HEADLINE: Governor's Relative Is Big Contract Winner 

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON; Ron Nixon contributed reporting from New York for this article.

DATELINE: PASS CHRISTIAN, Miss., Dec. 6 

 BODY:
Rosemary Barbour happens to be married to a nephew of Mississippi's governor, Haley Barbour. Since the Reagan administration, when Mrs. Barbour worked as a White House volunteer as a college student, she has been active in the Republican Party. 
 She also happens to be one of the biggest Mississippi-based winners of federal contracts for Hurricane Katrina recovery efforts. 
To some contract watchdogs, this could be an example of how the federal government responsibly reached out to give a piece of the billions of dollars in federal hurricane-recovery work to a small Mississippi-based company owned by a Latina. Mrs. Barbour, 39, who was born in Guatemala but now lives in Jackson, Miss., is certified by the United States Small Business Administration as a disadvantaged small-business owner. 
 But the $6.4 million in contracts received by her company, Alcatec L.L.C., have also elicited questions about possible favoritism.
 Federal records show that the company has won at least 10 separate contracts from the Federal Emergency Management Agency or the General Services Administration to install and maintain showers for relief workers and evacuees, to deliver tents, and to provide laundry equipment. The most valuable were awarded in September and October without competitive bidding, the records show.
 According to a review of federal contracts awarded since Hurricane Katrina, her company ranks seventh in total contracts out of 88 Mississippi-based concerns that have received deals worth $100,000 or more.
 ''This case should be scrutinized to ensure those awards were based on merits and ability to return value to the American taxpayer rather than favoritism to a politically connected contractor,'' said Scott Amey, general counsel at the Project on Government Oversight, a nonprofit watchdog group in Washington.
 Mrs. Barbour, as well as spokesmen for FEMA and for Governor Barbour, all said in interviews Tuesday that Mrs. Barbour's family and political links to the Republican Party and the governor, as well as President Bush, did not play a role in her selection for the work.
 ''The governor had no knowledge whatsoever of Rosemary even receiving that contract,'' said Pete Smith, Mr. Barbour's press secretary.
 Mrs. Barbour's husband, Charles Barbour, who is a member of the Hinds County Board of Supervisors in Jackson, is the son of Governor Barbour's oldest brother. Governor Barbour, a former lobbyist in Washington and chairman of the Republican National Committee and a long-time ally of President Bush, is part of the extended family, Mrs. Barbour said. And the two families see each other on social occasions.
 Mrs. Barbour said she was a delegate to the Republican National Convention in New York in 2004 and served as the Hispanic coordinator for President Bush's re-election campaign in Mississippi.
 Her company, named after her two children, Allen and Camille, was started in 2000 after she had run a laundry service for students at University of Mississippi. Last year, she won two contracts worth $675,750 from the United States military to provide washers, driers and showers at Camp Shelby in Mississippi, where her husband also works as a spokesman and director for special services.
 Lt. Col. Doril Sanders, a spokesman for Camp Shelby, whose supervisor is Mr. Barbour, said he could not provide any information about the circumstances of the contract award to Alcatec. 
 Mrs. Barbour said any business she had secured, with Camp Shelby or FEMA, had been based on merit. ''We are just a normal business trying to build my American dream,'' Mrs. Barbour said. 
 Nicol Andrews, a FEMA spokeswoman, said Alcatec had been hired based on a recommendation from the G.S.A., which tries to award disaster relief work to businesses owned locally or by socially or economically disadvantaged executives.
 ''The health of the community has a lot to do with how actively involved local businesses are,'' Ms. Andrews said. To date, she said, Alcatec has been paid about $750,000 for services, none of which to her knowledge has drawn any complaints.
 The showers are at camps set up along the Mississippi coast, in communities devastated by Hurricane Katrina. The sign at the entrance of the Pass Christian camp says ''The Village, Est. 2005,'' but residents say it is more informally known as ''Tent City.'' 
 Besides providing the showers themselves, which are set up in an old tractor trailer, the contract with the federal government also involves providing water and power to the showers, which operate each day from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m.
 Several residents interviewed on Tuesday said the showers -- half designated for women and half for men -- seemed fine.
 ''Get up and get to work, every day,'' said Anthony Jones, 43, who has been cleaning up debris. ''Those showers, you can't beat them.''
 Mrs. Barbour would not give a specific reply on Tuesday to the question of how many employees her company has, saying the number was less than 50 and perhaps fewer than 10. The telephone at her office was answered as QuikInternet, a business that Mrs. Barbour says she operates as a franchise out of Jackson, Miss. 
 Tommy Quattlebaum and Ron Fears, who were helping to maintain the shower operation at Pass Christian, said that as far as they knew, none of the staff at the site actually worked for Alcatec, but rather were contractors.
 Mrs. Barbour said anyone was welcome to examine her contracts for signs of favoritism. ''None of my contracts, none of my status, none of my certifications from the federal government have been a result of me asking for their help,'' she said, referring to her husband and the governor. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONTRACT AWARDS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (90%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (90%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); HURRICANES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); FAMILY (89%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (77%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); DISASTER RELIEF (76%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (74%); LOBBYING (73%); CHILDREN (66%); DRY CLEANERS & LAUNDRIES (66%); LAWYERS (63%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (60%) 

ORGANIZATION: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (83%); FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (55%); GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION (55%) Small Business Administration; Alcatec LLC

PERSON: HALEY BARBOUR (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%) Eric Lipton; Rosemary Barbour; Haley (Gov) Barbour

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSON, MS, USA (79%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); GUATEMALA (79%) Mississippi

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2005



141 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: Running Out of Steam

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
Conservatives are in power but out of sorts. Fifty years after the founding of the modern right, conservatives hold just about every important government job, yet the conservative agenda has stalled. Federal spending has surged. Social Security reform is dead. And when voters are asked which party they trust on key issues, they decisively reject conservative ideas. 
 On the economy, Democrats are trusted more, 56 to 34. On education, it's Democrats 55 to 32. On taxes, Democrats 48 to 38. On health care, Democrats 54 to 29. 
 For members of a movement that is supposed to be winning the battle of ideas, conservatives are in a mess.
 So what's gone wrong? First, most of the issues that propelled conservatives to power have been addressed. Modern American conservatism was formed by people who wanted to defeat the Soviet Union, reduce crime, reform welfare, cut taxes, deregulate the economy and reintroduce traditional social values. All those problems are less salient today. 
 Second, conservatism has been semi-absorbed into the Republican Party. When conservatism was in its most creative phase, there was a sharp distinction between conservatives and Republicans. Conservatives chased ideas, while Republicans were the corporate hacks who sold out. Now that conservative Republicans are in power, that distinction is obliterated. 
 There are a number of consequences. A lot of the energy that used to go into ideas is now devoted to defending Republican politicians. Many former conservative activists have become Republican lobbyists. (When conservatism was a movement of ideas, it attracted oddballs; now that it's a movement with power, it attracts sleazeballs.)
 Most important, there is greater social pressure to conform to the party's needs. Even writers and wonks are supposed to stay on message. In the 1970's, supply-siders mounted an insurgency against the Republican House leadership and against some sitting G.O.P. senators. If any group tried that today, it would be crushed by the party establishment.
 Third, conservative media success means intellectual flabbiness. Conservatives used to live in a media world created by people who thought differently than they did. Reading certain publications and watching the evening news was like intellectual calisthenics. Now conservatives can be just as insular as liberals, retreating to their own media sources to be told how right they are. 
 Fourth, conservatives have lost their governing philosophy. In 1994, the Republicans thought their purpose was to reduce the size of government. But when the government shutdown failed, they never developed a new set of guiding principles to clarify which things government should do and which things it shouldn't. George Bush came up with a philosophy of compassionate conservatism, but it remains fuzzy and incomplete.
 Fifth, conservative Republicans have lost touch with their base. To win, Republicans depend on white rural and suburban working-class voters making $30,000 to $50,000 a year. Conservative Republicans offer almost no policies that directly benefit these people. Americans at that income level tend to be financially risk-averse. But the out-of-touch Republicans offered a Social Security plan that increased risk. 
 Sixth, conservatives have not effectively addressed the second-generation issues. Technological change has really changed the economy, introducing new stratifications. Inequality is rising. Wage stagnation is a problem. Social mobility is lagging, and globalization hurts hard-working people. Global warming is real (conservatives secretly know this). The health care system is ridiculous. Welfare reform is unfinished. Conservatives have not addressed these second-generation issues as effectively as their forebears addressed the first-generation ones.
 The good news is that we are about to enter a political season with no obvious conservative standard bearer, leaving plenty of room for innovation. Also, the current conservative crisis has produced some new thinking. A few weeks ago, two young writers, Ross Douthat and Reihan Salam (my former assistant), unveiled a fresh conservative agenda in a Weekly Standard essay called ''The Party of Sam's Club.'' These writers, 26 and 25 years old, are closer to the future than the party leaders.
 And the final bit of good news for the right is the left. No matter how serious the conservative crisis is, liberals remain surpassingly effective at making themselves unelectable. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (98%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (79%); LIBERALISM (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); LOBBYING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); POLITICS (77%); TAX RELIEF (76%); TAX LAW (71%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2005



142 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 487 words

HEADLINE: Protecting the French Farmer

 BODY:
Next week, the World Trade Organization will hold its big meeting in Hong Kong to discuss an agreement that was supposed to free up trade in farm products and manufactured goods around the world. Liberalizing farm trade helps poor countries; liberalizing trade in manufactured goods and services helps rich countries. 
 That's why it's no surprise that for the past 50 years, the world trading system has done a whole lot of the latter -- helping the industrialized nations -- without doing so much to help poorer countries. This trade pact had its beginnings in Doha, Qatar, in 2001, when the rich were reeling from Sept. 11 and talking about getting more of the world onto the global economic prosperity ladder; it was supposed to fix that distorted system.
Given that grand design, it is pathetic to see how this pact has been stalled by the intransigence of the European Union, which has allowed itself to become hostage to France's refusal to take its farmers off the government dole. In the past few weeks, the finger-pointing and posturing have reached new extremes. The British actor Colin Firth, of ''Bridget Jones's Diary'' fame, even presented the European Union's trade commissioner, Peter Mandelson, with a petition asking that the rich world make trade rules work for the poor; the petition was said to have 10 million signatures. And Tony Blair, running on the fumes of his expiring E.U. presidency, hatched a proposal to help revive the trade talks, but it was quickly slapped down by France et al.
 Yesterday, Brazil's president, Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, called President Bush to propose a meeting of world leaders in January to take up the issue. 
 That's not a bad idea because at the rate things are going, the big meeting in Hong Kong will be a bust. And that's just sad, particularly because this is the year when the big industrialized countries promised to finally do something about making poverty history. Helping poor countries is not just about debt relief and aid. It also means ending the trade-distorting giveaways that rich countries have sustained for years to coddle special interests, particularly farmers.
 The developed world funnels nearly $1 billion a day in subsidies to its farmers, encouraging overproduction. That drives down prices and leaves farmers in poor nations unable to compete with subsidized products, even within their own countries. In recent years, farmers from America, Europe and Japan have dumped products on world markets at prices that do not begin to cover their cost of production. Europe's system is particularly odious; the United States' farm subsidies are only a third of Europe's. What's more, tariffs in agricultural products are obscenely high, in another attempt to keep the farm products of poor countries out of the supermarkets of Paris, Frankfurt and Chicago.
 It's past time to fix this broken system, and make trade rules work for the world's poor. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL TRADE (93%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); ANTIDUMPING LAWS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); PETITIONS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); AGRICULTURE (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%)

PERSON: COLIN FIRTH (65%); PETER MANDELSON (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%); TONY BLAIR (51%); LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (76%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (71%) EUROPE (94%); HONG KONG (93%); QATAR (92%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); BRAZIL (79%); GERMANY (71%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2005



143 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 835 words

HEADLINE: Notorious or Unknown? A Little of Both

BYLINE: By KELEFA SANNEH

 BODY:
A few weeks ago, two very different post-punk albums appeared on either side of the Atlantic Ocean. 
 The one available in Britain came from one of that country's best-known rock stars, and it arrived after years of tabloid speculation. In print and in blogs and (no doubt) in bars, listeners debated whether it was a triumph or an embarrassment.
The one available in America came from a decidedly underground singer; it sneaked into stores with little fanfare and never showed up on the Billboard charts. It was embraced, when it was embraced at all, by a small cult of fans. 
 Still, these albums do have a few things in common. They both bear the imprint of the British indie-rock label Rough Trade. They are both named ''Down in Albion.'' They are both credited to Babyshambles, a group led by Pete Doherty, who has spent the past few years redefining rock 'n' roll decadence. And, come to think of it, they both contain the same 64 minutes of music. But that music probably sounds different if you live in London.
 In that, maybe we should envy the British. All we get is a CD. (And not a cheap one, either: in shops and online, ''Down in Albion'' costs upwards of $25.) Mr. Doherty's compatriots, on the other hand, get a multimedia circus. He first became a British rock star with the scrappy and often great punkish band the Libertines. But by last year, when the band released its self-titled second album, Mr. Doherty had already spent a few months in jail for burglary, which might have been a bad omen even if the victim hadn't been a bandmate.
 Mr. Doherty split with the Libertines to concentrate on his other band, Babyshambles. He spoke in interviews about his struggles with crack cocaine and heroin, and chaotic Babyshambles concerts were routinely overshadowed by reports of even more chaotic behavior offstage. His sporadic relationship with the supermodel Kate Moss only made him more notorious, especially when video surfaced that showed her in a music studio, seemingly snorting cocaine. But he continues to outdo her: a week ago yesterday, Mr. Doherty was arrested yet again in London, on suspicion of possessing Class A drugs. (That's the category that in Britain includes cocaine and heroin.)
 Given all that, it was inevitable that the debut Babyshambles album would be scrutinized for evidence of Mr. Doherty's sordid life, and in fact he makes that easy. He hasn't even finished the first stanza of the first song, ''La Belle et la Bete,'' before he announces, ''It's a story of a coked-up pansy/ Who spends his nights in flights of fancy.'' And if, near the song's end, that voice singing backup sounds suspiciously nonprofessional, that's because it belongs to Ms. Moss. 
 It's a messy, sometimes insane CD, and it includes a few songs that seem designed to provoke angry reactions from skeptical listeners. The most infamous is ''Pentonville,'' named after a London prison and sung by the General, a reggae singer who is said to have met Mr. Doherty there. When the album was released, the impetuous British music magazine NME awarded it the mildly disappointing score of 7 out of 10. (On one message board, the album earned a brilliant, if inscrutable, three-word review: ''Lousy but alright.'') A couple of weeks later, when NME announced its list of the year's 50 best CD's, ''Down in Albion'' was comfortably installed at No. 9, between Kanye West and Gorillaz.
 Yet it's not hard to see, too, how the British might envy us. While their Babyshambles CD arrived amid a ruckus, ours arrived almost secretly. And that might make it easier to enjoy the music, which turns out to be mysterious and subtly seductive. Even the lyric booklet takes a while to decipher, but eventually the ripped-up images and crossed-out, rearranged words start to tell a story, though not one it would be easy to retell.
 Mr. Doherty is obsessed with myths: with myths of Britain and with myths of rock 'n' roll. In ''Albion,'' a half-disintegrated ballad that he has been playing live for years, he sings of a miscellaneous country: ''Coffee-wallahs and pith helmets and an English sun/ Reebok Classics, cannons at dawn.'' His unsteady, slurred voice helps make these lyrics seem less grandiloquent. 
 Similarly, the rock songs are rousing precisely because they're so unlikely. In ''Forever'' (that's not the full title) and ''Pipedown'' (as in, ''Put that '') and ''Killamangiro'' (which is, in part, an extended pun about desperation: apparently they'll kill a man for his giro, or unemployment check), it seems impossible that this washed-out singer will ever hit upon a hummable refrain. Until he does.
 ''Down in Albion'' isn't likely to turn Mr. Doherty into an American rock star. So far, Rough Trade hasn't announced an American release date. No matter. We've got plenty of our own stars to gossip about. And for the next few months, we also have something that the British don't: an obscure and somewhat mysterious and ultimately lovable album, as well as the chance to explore it in peace.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Pete Doherty of the band Babyshambles is as well known in Britain for his drug problems, his arrest record and his relationship with the model Kate Moss as for his music. In this country it's a different story. (Photo by Kieran Doherty/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (90%); POP & ROCK (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); CELEBRITIES (89%); COCAINE (85%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); ARRESTS (68%); HEROIN (67%); BURGLARY (63%); JAIL SENTENCING (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: KATE MOSS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (73%) UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2005



144 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Old Media Collide With New Math; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1081 words

HEADLINE: Weighing Knight Ridder Against Stubborn Worries

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
In the next day or two, the world will get a glimpse of how desirable, or not, newspapers are, when preliminary bidding begins for Knight Ridder.
 The fate of the company, the second-largest newspaper publisher in the United States in terms of circulation, behind Gannett, is being closely watched as a signpost for the future of other newspapers at a time of great transformation, anxiety and uncertainty within the industry. The newspaper industry is on the defensive, with circulation stagnant, advertising dollars migrating to the Internet and newsrooms reducing their work forces to save costs.
Given all that, it may be hard to believe that newspapers are actually profitable, but they are. And Knight Ridder is among the most profitable. 
 Of Knight Ridder's 32 daily newspapers, only four -- one in San Jose, Calif.; one in St. Paul; and two in Philadelphia -- have profit margins lower than 18 percent, according to an analysis by Morgan Stanley. Most of them are thriving. The Kansas City Star's estimated profit margin for this year is 24 percent. The Miami Herald's is 22 percent. The smaller papers averaged more than 26 percent.
 The four less-profitable papers have specific problems peculiar to their markets. In San Jose, in the heart of Silicon Valley, The Mercury News is still trying to recover from the bursting of the tech bubble and the sharp loss of help-wanted ads that resulted. At its peak of profitability, in 1999-2000, the paper made more than $100 million. (Morgan Stanley estimates that it now has operating profit of $19 million to $20 million on revenue of $235 million.)
 In Philadelphia, The Inquirer and The Daily News, an afternoon paper, have unions and high labor costs in a city with a still-lagging business climate, and they face strong competition from a ring of healthy suburban papers.
 In St. Paul, The Pioneer Press is the smaller paper in direct competition with the aggressive Minneapolis Star Tribune in close geographic proximity. 
 And yet, even these papers are making profits. Their margins are just not as high as those in the rest of the chain. San Jose's margin, according to Morgan Stanley, is 8 percent; St. Paul's is 10 percent. Morgan Stanley said Philadelphia's margin is 9 percent, but company executives said it was somewhat higher, even with severance payments made this year.
 Over all, Knight Ridder's profit margin in 2004 was 19.3 percent, about average for the industry. The average for Fortune 500 companies was about half that. But newspapers have traditionally had high margins, and so investors expect higher margins, said Conrad Fink, who teaches newspaper management at the University of Georgia. ''The rising tide of shareholder expectation has reached unreasonable proportions,'' he said. ''And the market is panicked about newspaper stock in an unreasonable way.''
 Professor Fink added: ''There's a fear that this is a dying industry, when in fact it's an industry that has an unrivaled mandate, a franchise, in hundreds of cities across the country and in local news, and it has some of the strongest brand names in the country.''
 The potential sale of Knight Ridder was set in motion a month ago by the company's three largest shareholders, who perceived the company's stock as undervalued and demanded that the company be put up for sale. 
 Unlike many public newspaper companies, Knight Ridder has just one class of stock, so the founding families do not have a controlling interest that would allow them to block a takeover.
 Knight Ridder quickly agreed to consult with Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley to explore its ''strategic alternatives.'' As P. Anthony Ridder, the chairman and chief executive of Knight Ridder, said in a recent memo to his employees, the company is being singled out because Bruce S. Sherman, a founder of Private Capital Management, the largest shareholder, wants ''to show strongly positive results'' in his investment portfolios. His portfolio is heavy on newspapers, and Knight Ridder is the only one where his holdings have leverage.
 Mr. Sherman has started a process that Mr. Ridder said had left his company in a state of uncertainty and has media insiders buzzing over possible outcomes.
 The Morgan Stanley analysis said that the reasons to buy the company were the ability to cut costs further and ''gain a larger foothold in the online world,'' from which analysts expect strong revenue in the future. 
 Its digital operation, combined with its investment portfolio, is valued at more than $2 billion. In addition, the company owns one third of CareerBuilder.com, a large and successful online recruitment site.
 But the risks are potentially as great. They include the inability of some of the biggest markets, like Philadelphia, to recover; a further slowdown in the company's growth because of continued migration of readers and advertisers to the Web; and the difficulty in cutting costs further because of union protections. 
 Many argue that the papers have already trimmed most of their fat. 
 ''Publishers have been making their numbers, meeting their profit objectives, through cost-cutting rather than revenue growth,'' Professor Fink said. ''There's very little fat left in most of these markets.''
 The bigger papers have done away with most of their prestigious foreign bureaus. A dozen years ago, The Philadelphia Inquirer had bureaus in Moscow, London, Rome, Jerusalem, South Africa, New Delhi and Berlin. Today, it has one correspondent in Jerusalem, having closed its only other bureau, in Rome, this month. 
 The Miami Herald had bureaus in Beijing, Berlin, Jerusalem, Rio de Janeiro and El Salvador (later moved to Nicaragua). Today, it has a correspondent based in Bogota, and two based in Miami who cover Cuba and the Caribbean. Knight Ridder has correspondents in nine cities, including Baghdad, who serve all 32 papers.
 Colby Atwood, vice president of Borrell Associates, a media research firm, said that what was happening to Knight Ridder was a symptom of any company in a maturing industry. He said he would not be surprised if another media company acquired it.
 ''When growth in revenue has flattened out, the best way to increase profits is to attack costs,'' he said. ''By consolidating operations, you can reduce costs by spreading them out across more properties. That's generally what happens in a maturing industry, and this may be the beginning of more consolidation. We'll see more of this, in various forms. It's a normal thing.''


CORRECTION-DATE: December 10, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day yesterday about the future of Knight Ridder Newspapers incorrectly described The Daily News in Philadelphia. It is published in the morning, not the afternoon.

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (90%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (90%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (78%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (78%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (77%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (71%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (70%); EXECUTIVES (61%); SEVERANCE PAY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (56%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (78%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (76%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); MINNESOTA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2005



145 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1724 words

HEADLINE: Sometimes a Bumper Crop Is Too Much of a Good Thing 

BYLINE: By ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO and KEITH BRADSHER; Alexei Barrionuevo reported from Illinois for this article and Keith Bradsher from Hong Kong.

DATELINE: WARSAW, Ill. 

 BODY:
The first architects of agricultural subsidies aimed to bail out farmers during bad harvests so that they would not abandon the vital task of producing food for the nation. 
 But these days, not only are farmers overcoming droughts and floods, agricultural technologies are ushering them into an era of surging production that is likely to outstrip global demand for years to come.
This season's parched-earth conditions were supposed to spell doom here for the Illinois corn crop. Instead, the country's second-biggest corn-growing state harvested 16 percent more per acre than expected, helping the United States produce its second-largest crop ever. 
 The bountiful harvest, much of it likely to end up on world markets, has only added to a fundamental problem facing the sector: too much success for its own good. Despite the worst Midwest drought in 17 years, seed technology allowed farmers to continue their relentless increase in production. 
 That presages a challenge that will continue to dog farmers across the industrialized world and bureaucrats negotiating global trade agreements: how to sell ever-larger bumper crops, often increased by the latest genetic advancement, without causing too much economic pain in farm regions. 
 Even as businesses have cut employee benefits and have limited job security in the face of more intense global competition, governments in rich countries have clung to one of the oldest forms of trade protectionism: farm subsidies. 
 Manufacturers like Delphi and airlines like United and Northwest can and do file for bankruptcy and scale back their operations in a process that often enhances economic efficiency. But Washington, Tokyo and Brussels have spent heavily on subsidies for decades and have erected numerous other trade barriers to slow the demise of their farmers facing similar competitive pressures.
 Some of these farm subsidies have reached extraordinary levels. Mark Vaile, Australia's trade minister, recently calculated that European Union subsidies work out to $2.20 per cow per day; more than a billion people around the world live on less than that each day. 
 The subsidies have not retarded the advance of farm productivity, but food prices in poor countries tend to be much lower than in affluent countries. That is because the United States and European Union keep large quantities of food off the market at home each year to support prices for their farmers and sell the food instead at subsidized prices overseas or donate it as foreign aid.
 These trade practices have prevented people in poor countries with rich soil from trying to export their way to prosperity with farm goods the way countries like South Korea and Japan have exported their way to prosperity with industrial goods. The current round of global trade talks, which will include a ministerial conference in Hong Kong from Dec. 13 to 18 is supposed to address the problem but has stalled, mainly over French opposition to sharper curbs on European Union subsidies.
 But the current system of subsidies faces another challenge: increasing yields from crop strains emerging from the laboratories at seed companies like Monsanto and the Pioneer Hi-Bred International unit of DuPont.
 New crops, some produced through the breeding and grafting of existing strains and others through genetic manipulation, are increasing corn production in the United States and Europe every year. This is adding to surpluses, depressing global prices and driving up the costs of subsidies, which have already hit $20 billion a year for trade-related subsidies alone in the United States, and almost $85 billion a year in the European Union.
 Individually, farmers welcome the new varieties of grain.
 ''As a grower I hate to admit it, but the people in the labs really helped us out this year,'' said Joe Zumwalt, a third-generation farmer here in western Illinois, near the Mississippi River. ''If it weren't for the seed genetics they have been offering us the last few years, our yields and our outcome wouldn't have been nearly what they were.''
 But for farming communities as a whole, bumper crops can be bad news.
 ''Farmers really shoot themselves in the foot when they have a better crop,'' said Neal E. Harle, an agricultural economist at Iowa State University. ''An increase in yield rewards the producer with a disproportionate drop in price and profitability; farmers would be better off if the whole crop got a haircut of 15 percent or so.''
 The difficulty in trying to obtain a deal limiting agricultural subsidies at the World Trade Organization ministerial conference in January in Hong Kong is that countries as varied as Japan, Switzerland, France and even the United States are each worried that their farmers of certain crops would be among the first to fail if subsidies were reduced.
 Developing-country exporters of agricultural commodities like Brazil, Guatemala and Malaysia, meanwhile, are clamoring for the W.T.O. to halt moves by the United States and especially the European Union to limit the cost of their subsidies by dumping the excess food on world markets at low prices. Since 1996, American farmers have been encouraged by farm subsidy programs to produce flat out, knowing that government payments would cushion a severe drop in prices.
 But lately, with large increases in corn yields becoming the norm rather than an aberration, corn prices have dropped to their lowest level since the late 1990's. Low prices, tepid exports and ample subsidy protections for farmers mean this could end up being the most expensive harvest ever for American taxpayers.
 Groups like the National Corn Growers Association argue that the answer to overproduction lies in creating more demand through greater exports, which have proved elusive lately, and through building more plants that use corn to produce bio-diesel and ethanol fuels.
 ''We can provide this nation with a renewable source of energy all the time,'' said Jonathan Hofmeister, 35, a corn and soybean farmer who lives a few miles from Mr. Zumwalt.
 But even as critics of the current system like Dr. Harle are pushing for limits on domestic subsidy payments to encourage farmers to curb their overproducing ways, they must contend with university researchers and big seed companies working feverishly to increase corn yields. The push the last 15 years has also been to make seeds able to retain more moisture so they can better withstand severe droughts. This past summer was the first real test of the newer drought-resistant seeds since the Midwest drought of 1988, seed company officials said. 
 That the seeds passed with high marks -- coming after the record 2004 American corn crop -- shows that corn production may have entered an era of even higher production.
 As a result, the Green Revolution, including most recently the use of genetically engineered plants, is colliding with the international trade system. Rising crop yields in affluent countries, even in years with poor growing conditions, are producing more food than these countries' populations can eat. 
 Rather than let the market sort out the winners from the losers, condemning some less-efficient farmers to go broke or forcing them to switch to other crops, governments continue to subsidize them heavily. And the cost of these subsidies has spiraled higher with increasing yields.
 Here in western Illinois, Mr. Zumwalt had expected corn yields of 120 to 130 bushels an acre because of the drought, but he ended up averaging 175 bushels. The cost to produce corn, meanwhile, has risen, he said, with fuel costs double what they were in 2004 and fertilizer 40 percent more expensive, in large part because of higher natural gas prices. 
 While Mr. Zumwalt, 26, gives plenty of credit to advancements in seed genetics, he is a modern-day example of how farmers have also increased efficiency through use of better equipment and water-management practices. He uses combines that rely on a global-positioning system to map exactly how much corn each acre of land is yielding, giving him critical information on how much fertilizer, seed and chemicals are needed for the next harvest. 
 Even with this year's Farm Belt drought, American corn yields have increased by 31 percent since 1995, and by 72 percent since 1975. In recent years, Europe, where much less corn is produced, has followed suit as the big companies have introduced newer seed varieties there as well.
 Lately the development of new seeds has accelerated considerably. After two severe droughts in the 1980's, companies began pouring billions of dollars into seed research, particularly in corn, with the goal of developing hybrids that could more effectively capture moisture from the root system. The challenge was to create that tolerance without sacrificing yield.
 In the 1990's corn breeders also began directing genetic technology developed in the human health industry into plant breeding. Breeders can now use DNA markers to study individual contributions from pieces of chromosome in the seed, allowing them to leverage multiple years of data.
 Monsanto, DuPont and the Swiss company Syngenta, three of the largest seed players, have established multiseason nurseries in places like Hawaii, Chile and Argentina, where they can test up to four generations of a seed variety in one year. 
 ''We can work 365 days a year without having an off-season,'' said William S. Niebur, DuPont's vice president for crop genetics research.
 Syngenta has recently reorganized its scientific teams to keep up with the advances in genomics and other disciplines, said Ray Riley, head of global corn and soybean product development for Syngenta. 
 The result is that seed companies today are doubling the rate of genetic yield improvement in corn every year. Most recently, Monsanto, for example, claims its genetically modified seeds that limit the amount of corn root worm, a common problem in Illinois, have added at least nine bushels an acre.
 ''We don't see any signs that our ability to improve the yield of corn is diminishing,'' said Marlin Edwards, global head of breeding technology for Monsanto.
 Those kinds of predictions make farmers like Mr. Zumwalt nervous about the prices their crops will fetch once conditions improve. 
 ''We have just gotten too good at what we do, I guess,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A silo in a harvested corn field in Ursa, Ill. Despite concerns about the effects of a summer drought, this year's crop was the second largest ever. (Photo by Dilip Vishwanat for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
Corn sits in a 26,000-bushel storage bin on Jonathan Hofmeister's farm in Ursa, Ill.
 Warren Speckhart at his 6,000-bushel grain bin in Ursa, Ill. Some farmers worry that the growing surpluses will drive prices down. (Photographs by Dilip Vishwanat for The New York Times)(pg. C5)Chart: ''More Productive''The genetic engineering of seeds and improvements in growing techniques have led to a substantial rise in domestic corn yields.Graph tracks bushels of corn per acre since 1975.(Source by Agriculture Department)(pg. C5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (87%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (86%); EUROPEAN UNION (85%); FOOD PRICES (78%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); CORN FARMING (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (72%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); EMPLOYMENT (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (67%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (67%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); EXPORT PRICES (65%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (65%); AIRLINES (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (75%); TOKYO, JAPAN (70%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); FRANCE (79%); BELGIUM (75%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2005



146 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2317 words

HEADLINE: Rift at A.C.L.U., On Fund-Raising And Leadership

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

 BODY:
Anthony D. Romero, executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union, departed the war crimes trials at Guantanamo Bay with an e-mail message to members saying he was headed home to New York to defend the First Amendment and the right to protest.
 But another matter was more urgent: smoothing out a soured relationship with one of the organization's biggest donors, Peter B. Lewis, the insurance magnate, who was unhappy with Mr. Romero and the board and was threatening to suspend his contributions.
 After a red-eye detour to Los Angeles and a breakfast with Mr. Lewis at the Beverly Hills Hotel in August 2004 , Mr. Romero assuaged his concerns and persuaded him to continue his financial support, including an $8.5 million gift largely to buy a new office building in Washington.
 Mr. Romero has had less success winning over his critics within the organization itself. Among issues big and small, they have fumed over his commitment to name the new building the Peter B. Lewis Center for Civil Liberties -- without consulting the board or its executive committee. 
 ''I don't think it's appropriate for us to name anything after anyone other than a founder or leader of the organization,'' Marjorie Esman, a lawyer who represents the Louisiana affiliate on the board, wrote afterward in an e-mail message.''We are not for sale, and I don't like to convey the impression that we might be.''
 Mr. Romero's operating style, as shown in the building dispute, has led to a rift in the organization, with some applauding his winning ways and others fretting that fund-raising has become too much of a priority. 
 Since Mr. Romero stepped into the job just four days before the Sept. 11 attacks, the A.C.L.U. has been transformed. Under his watch, membership and revenues have risen sharply. The use of data to maximize contributions has become more sophisticated. Big donors have been wooed and won. At the group's first membership conference in Washington in 2003, 1,500 members descended on Congressional offices. 
 But Mr. Romero has also become a lightning rod, with a band of vociferous internal critics saying that civil liberties are not his top concern. They have seized on his failure to inform the board about a settlement with the New York attorney general over privacy breaches on its Web site and his signing of a government fund-raising agreement that the organization later renounced. In both cases, they say, Mr. Romero was not entirely forthcoming even after those controversies came to light. 
 There have been heated boardroom exchanges and an unusual number of resignations from the board. Dissidents say Mr. Romero is ignoring the A.C.L.U.'s traditions, of encouraging dissent; threatening its core principles, like free speech, and too often acting without the full knowledge and support of the board, which is supposed to guide him. 
 ''I think there is an ideological difference among board members having to do with pure principle versus the pragmatism of money,'' Ms. Esman said, echoing current and past board members.
 The internal friction has roiled the organization, which is unaccustomed to scrutiny of its operations, and prompted members of the executive committee to try to limit access to recordings of board meetings.
 Several critics of Mr. Romero's leadership have left the board. Michael Meyers, his fiercest opponent, was voted off the board in September after 24 years of membership.
 Citing a need for efficiency, the organization now often insists that board members who want to question Mr. Romero or other senior staff members first get approval from the executive committee.
 The restriction is similar to one the A.C.L.U.'s Michigan affiliate is challenging on behalf of a board member at a small university.
 Several staff members are complaining about a new requirement that they sign an agreement by Jan. 6 never to disclose information broadly defined by the group as confidential. They contrast it with the A.C.L.U.'s record of defending whistle-blowers, most recently an F.B.I. analyst who complained about faulty translations. 
 Some critics wonder whether Mr. Romero would today defend the right of neo-Nazis to march through the heavily Jewish city of Skokie, Ill. -- a 1997 action that strained the A.C.L.U.'s financial resources. 
 When asked, Mr. Romero said he would make the same decision. 
 ''The reason why today we have credibility to argue for the rights of antiwar protesters or choice protesters is the fact that we have argued for those same rights on behalf of Nazis and antichoice protesters,'' he wrote in an e-mail message.
 Mr. Romero and Nadine Strossen, the board president, say none of the A.C.L.U.'s principles have been ignored in the interest of luring money or new members. They point to highly publicized efforts to ensure the rights of detainees at Guantanamo Bay, to keep educators from being required to teach intelligent design and to a suit filed this week by A.C.L.U. lawyers on behalf of Khaled el-Masri, a German who says he was beaten and taken to Afghanistan by American agents. 
 They dispute the critics, like Ms. Esman, who argue that the organization must be beyond reproach but has come up short. ''We do hold ourselves to a different standard,'' Mr. Romero said. ''We always want to understand what the larger community of nonprofits does, but we are different. This is the A.C.L.U. This is an organization that prides itself on a core set of principles across the board.''
 The current clash is partly driven by the transition from a longtime activist leader to a polished outsider. Mr. Romero succeeded Ira Glasser, a veteran civil rights activist who oversaw the national organization from 1978 through mid-2001. Mr. Glasser and the other A.C.L.U. stalwarts of his generation were scrappy and combative, jumping to take unpopular stances at the mere hint of a threat to principle. 
 Mr. Romero, who came from the Ford Foundation, conveys the diplomacy and charm of a veteran foundation executive. A Hispanic and openly gay man with an up-by-the-bootstraps biography, Mr. Romero bespeaks the power of affirmative action, racial justice, antidiscrimination and other principles championed by the A.C.L.U. His vision of his job is to raise money and add members in support of those principles, not just to mount crusades.
 He also injects a certain pragmatism into the idealism that drives the organization to protect civil liberties. He dropped the organization's long reliance on advertisements featuring issues in favor of those featuring celebrities like Tim Robbins and Martin Sheen who are A.C.L.U. members, and he approved news releases pledging to work with the government in the wake of Sept. 11 rather than confront it. 
 ''It's important for an organization like ours that could easily be irrelevant in a very difficult political environment to walk that fine line between being true to its principles and being cognizant of the political and social realities in which we live,'' Mr. Romero said. 
 In interviews, Mr. Romero and Ms. Strossen repeatedly dismissed the criticism as the work of two people, Mr. Meyers and Wendy Kaminer, on an 83-member board that is without doubt contentious, fractious and stubborn. Mr. Meyers and Ms. Kaminer have said that Mr. Romero withheld vital information from the board and made ill-advised, unilateral decisions that at the least embarrassed the organization and at the worst heightened regulatory scrutiny. 
 In interviews, six more board members generally echoed Mr. Meyers's and Ms. Kaminer's concerns, and eight others have posted e-mail messages that agree with much of their criticism, though they did not consent to interviews. (Board members have been asked to refer all news media calls to the A.C.L.U.'s public relations managers.) Three more board members who resigned in the last year said they did so because of concerns about Mr. Romero's leadership, and one member who expressed concerns was voted off the board last fall. 
 As the critics depart, Mr. Romero is consolidating his support on the board. All but one of the 11 voting members on the board's executive committee are consistently supportive of Mr. Romero, as are at least eight more board members. 
 ''This is a boisterous orchestra that I'm the head of, and sometimes the horns go off off cue and sometimes the drums beat louder than they should, but that's the beauty of an organization that believes in these core values,'' Mr. Romero said.
 The organization is working on such weighty civil liberties issues as Supreme Court nominations, issues arising from the antiterrorism law known as the USA Patriot Act and the release of potentially explosive torture videos, he wrote, adding, ''Those are the larger institutional issues that we confront.'' 
 He has also criticized the coverage in The New York Times. After one article recounted complaints by the group's former archivist about the use of shredders, he invited the staff to a ''shred-in'' and suggested they bring copies of that article and others to run through his own shredder. He later apologized to the reporter.
 In an interview, Mr. Romero acknowledged that some of his decisions had been flawed and said that he had been working to consult more with board members. ''Have I made mistakes along the way?'' he said. ''You bet. Are there things you would do differently? You bet.''
 While the previous leaders of the A.C.L.U. looked for battles to jump into, Mr. Romero seeks to chart a sustainable course. About six months after he arrived, he gave the board and major donors a 20-page paper outlining his goals, strengthening the affiliates to make the organization more cohesive and increasing use of the membership as a political constituency. 
 The organization, he said, had lacked a long-term plan. ''I was told that, 'You know, we don't have a strategic plan. This is an American emergency room for civil liberties,' '' Mr. Romero recalled. ''And I remember thinking to myself that even emergency rooms have plans.''
 Even Mr. Romero's critics attest to his fund-raising prowess. As of July, A.C.L.U. membership had jumped 81 percent, to 558,000, since Mr. Romero took over. Likewise, annual revenue rose 34 percent, to $59 million, in the year ended March 31. 
 Until Mr. Romero arrived, affiliates in conservative states had lived hand-to-mouth. State leaders say they now receive more money from the national office, and they enthusiastically support his leadership. The affiliates had long sought a national staff member devoted to them, so when Mr. Romero gave them an entire department, they were ecstatic. 
 ''Anthony Romero was the first A.C.L.U. national executive director to come visit us, and I can't tell you how encouraging that is,'' said Tim Butz, the executive director of the Nebraska affiliate.
 Mr. Butz scoffed at assertions that Mr. Romero's generosity to the states was a form of patronage.
 Some board members, though, say they are deliberately being kept in the dark. ''I had the feeling that Anthony was doing a great job financially, but I also had a feeling he was endangering the organization's integrity,'' said Sheldon Schaffer, an economist who resigned from the board because he was unhappy with the direction of the organization. ''There was an insufficient openness between those on the executive committee and in the top leadership with the full board.''
 Mr. Schaffer and others pointed to the handling of the 2002 inquiry by the New York attorney general. Mr. Romero negotiated a resolution without the advice of an outside lawyer and without consulting the executive committee or the board. The agreement required him to disclose the terms to the entire board within 30 days. He waited five months. 
 He proposed naming the Washington building for Mr. Lewis without the board's counsel. And the board was unaware that another major donor, Woody Kaplan, a Boston real estate developer and longtime A.C.L.U. contributor, had wanted to make a gift to buy the building in hopes of naming the building for Mr. Romero's predecessor.
 Mr. Lewis said he balked at giving the money for the building primarily because of Mr. Romero's decision to sign a federal charity drive agreement that legal experts advised obliged the A.C.L.U. to check its employees' names against terrorist watch lists, which the organization has criticized as black lists.
 ''I told him I'm not going to pay any of my commitments until I get an explanation, and Anthony therefore came out to California in a great hurry and at great physical cost to him,'' Mr. Lewis said in a phone interview arranged by Mr. Romero. ''He explained his view of what happened, acknowledged his shortcomings in the situation and described what he was doing to fix that. To me, that's what I'd call a big man.''
 The A.C.L.U. ultimately withdrew from the fund-raising agreement and decided to challenge the terms. The government recently amended the requirement. 
 Ms. Kaminer, a writer who represents the Massachusetts affiliate on the national board and is married to Mr. Kaplan, criticized Mr. Romero's handling of that matter and the attorney general's pact, among other things. ''I believe Anthony has routinely withheld information and misled the board, as well as donors and members, about matters large and small,'' she said. ''I also believe that many board members are aware they have been misled and denied information, but they choose not to acknowledge that they have an executive director and executive committee who are often less than candid.''
 Ms. Strossen said the issues raised by Ms. Kaminer and other critics were picayune and confused strategy with principles.
 ''Do we do more harm than good for civil liberties post-9/11 by turning down that money that can help us continue the aggressive advocacy when we have John Ashcroft and others accusing us of aiding terrorists?'' Ms. Strossen asked.


CORRECTION-DATE: December 29, 2005

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a front-page article yesterday about a rift in the American Civil Liberties Union over fund-raising and leadership misstated the year that the organization defended the right of neo-Nazis to march through Skokie, Ill. It was 1977, not 1997.
Because of an editing error, an article on Dec. 8 about internal discord in the American Civil Liberties Union referred incompletely to a commitment made by Anthony D. Romero, its executive director, to name a new building for Peter B. Lewis, a major donor. Although Mr. Romero did anger some board members by promising Mr. Lewis that his name would be on the building without first consulting with the board, Mr. Romero subsequently put the deal to the board's executive committee, which then ratified it by a vote of 6 to 1.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Anthony D. Romero, executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union, in his office in Manhattan. (Photo by Ashley Gilbertson for The New York Times)(pg. A34)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); BOARD CHANGES (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); MAJOR GIFTS (76%); LAWYERS (75%); GRANTS & GIFTS (74%); WAR CRIMES (73%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (60%); WEB SITES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: THE BEVERLY HILLS HOTEL (71%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (91%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CUBA (88%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2005



147 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 451 words

HEADLINE: Eritrea Expels U.N. Peacekeepers, Increasing Tension With Ethiopia

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY; Warren Hoge contributed reporting from the United Nations for this article.

DATELINE: NAIROBI, Kenya, Dec. 7 

 BODY:
Eritrea, a country known for thumbing its nose at the world, said Wednesday that all Westerners serving in the United Nations peacekeeping mission there must leave the country within 10 days, eliciting a strong rebuke from Secretary General Kofi Annan and the Security Council and raising tension along the country's contested border with Ethiopia. 
 ''The Security Council unequivocally demands that Eritrea immediately reverse its decision without preconditions,'' the 15-member Security Council said in a statement.
Mr. Annan made the same demand, saying the action ''contravenes Eritrea's obligation under the U.N. Charter to respect the exclusively international nature of United Nations staff.''
 The move, which involves about 160 people, came without explanation in a government notice delivered to the leadership of the United Nations Mission in Ethiopia and Eritrea, which has about 3,800 peacekeepers and support staff members, most of them from the developing world, in the two countries.
 The order said only that it represented a ''decision of the Eritrean government concerning some members of the mission.'' It spelled out that Americans, Canadians and Europeans, as well as Russians, were affected by the decision and would have 10 days to leave the country.
 The action appeared to stem from growing frustration among Eritrean officials, who contend that the world's powers have not applied sufficient pressure on Ethiopia to accept a binding decision drawing the border with Eritrea.
 A fierce border war from 1998 to 2000 claimed as many as 100,000 lives. It ended with an agreement by both governments to allow an international commission to decide where the border will be, particularly in relation to the disputed town of Badme, where the fighting began.
 In 2002, the border commission gave Badme to Eritrea, a decision that Ethiopia has refused to accept.
 Last month, after Eritrea banned United Nations helicopters from its airspace and the two countries moved troops closer to the border, the Security Council threatened economic and diplomatic sanctions if they returned to war. Eritrea denounced the resolution and criticized Security Council members for not threatening Ethiopia with sanctions if it failed to agree to the new border.
 United Nations officials said they reacted swiftly on Wednesday because they viewed the Eritrean move as a challenge to the basic concept of peacekeeping. ''The essence of a peacekeeping operation is that the international community as a whole is standing together, and that principle has wide-ranging implications that go beyond the specific Ethiopia-Eritrea mission,'' said Jean-Marie Guehenno, the under secretary general for peacekeeping. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); PEACEKEEPING (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); HELICOPTERS (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); UNITED NATIONS MISSION IN ETHIOPIA & ERITREA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAIROBI, KENYA (79%) ETHIOPIA (98%); ERITREA (95%); KENYA (92%); CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2005



148 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 430 words

HEADLINE: Japan Must Show 'Deep Remorse' For Wartime Actions, Official Says

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: TOKYO, Dec. 7 

 BODY:
With Japan facing growing international isolation over World War II history, the Japanese foreign minister urged his nation to show ''deep remorse'' for its actions in the war in a speech delivered here Wednesday. 
 ''It is necessary for Japan to maintain continuously a spirit of deep remorse as well as thoughtfulness,'' the foreign minister, Taro Aso, said in an ''Asia strategy'' speech delivered first in Japanese and then in English.
 In recent years, driven by a resurgent nationalism, Japan's leaders, including Mr. Aso, have played down the country's wartime record of atrocities in China and Korea, including massacres, forced labor and sexual slavery. To the considerable irritation of Japan's neighbors, Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi has insisted on making annual visits to a shrine that honors Japan's 2.5 million war dead, including war criminals.
 Just two weeks ago, Mr. Aso dismissed the issue of the shrine, saying in a speech, ''Korea and China are the only countries in the world that make a fuss about it.''
 But in Wednesday's speech, hours before Americans prepared to mark the anniversary of the Dec. 7, 1941, bombing of Pearl Harbor, Mr. Aso said the Japanese ''must continue to reflect deeply and with a spirit of humility,'' because Japanese militarism and nationalism ''brought great suffering to innocent people in the countries of Asia, notably the Republic of Korea and China.''
 The minister delivered his conciliatory remarks as Mr. Koizumi prepares to fly to Malaysia on Sunday to attend two regional summit meetings where he risks being isolated to a degree never experienced by a Japanese leader in recent years.
 For the first time since 1999, the leaders of China, South Korea and Japan will not engage in a separate, three-way meeting during the annual gathering on Monday of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations. On Wednesday, at the inaugural meeting of the East Asia Summit, there are to be no bilateral meetings between Mr. Koizumi and the South Korean and Chinese leaders. South Korea has also said that President Roh Moo Hyun is postponing a planned trip to Tokyo this month.
 Chinese and South Korean diplomats have bluntly ascribed the new tensions to Mr. Koizumi's visits to the Yasukuni Shrine, which has added a museum that presents Japan's military expansion as an effort to free Southeast Asia from European and American rule and to bring development to China and Korea.
 The visits are ''rubbing salt to the wounds, scratching the old wounds so they would not heal,'' said Ra Jong Yil, South Korea's ambassador to Japan. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); WORLD WAR II (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); WAR CRIMES (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); SLAVERY (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: TARO ASO (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%) JAPAN (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%); ASIA (95%); CHINA (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); MALAYSIA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2005



149 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 587 words

HEADLINE: Rice Criticizes Russia's Plan To Curb Private Rights Groups 

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY

DATELINE: KIEV, Ukraine, Dec. 7 

 BODY:
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice criticized Russia on Wednesday, saying she had serious concerns about a proposed law that could shut down private groups, including some financed by the United States, that promote democracy, human rights and related issues.
 She made her remarks during a news conference here with President Viktor A. Yushchenko, who came to power in Ukraine a year ago after a popular uprising. Many leaders of that uprising received instruction and advice from the very groups that Russia is proposing to ban or seriously restrict.
''We have concerns, and the United States government has expressed these concerns at all levels,'' she said. ''We would hope that the importance of nongovernmental organizations would be understood by Russia.'' 
 President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia has called for revisions in the proposed law, while defending its central aims. 
 Representatives of several private groups have said Russia is trying to persuade many of the former Soviet states in Central Asia to pass similar laws.
 Ms. Rice's statement was the first public criticism of Russia's plans by the United States since the lower house of Parliament voted preliminary approval last month. Until Wednesday, administration officials were noncommittal. But a senior State Department official traveling with Ms. Rice said that was because the department had hoped to convince Moscow behind the scenes that the proposed law was a bad idea. 
 ''With the Russians, it is important that we discuss it discreetly,'' said the official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity so as not to upstage the secretary.
 Two senior State Department officials -- Assistant Secretary Daniel Fried and Under Secretary R. Nicholas Burns -- were in Moscow last week talking to the government about the proposed law, the official said. At that time, he added, Russian officials professed an interest in changing the proposed law so it would not seem so onerous, though he said he did not know how seriously to take the statement.
 The proposed law would force 450,000 private organizations to register next year under tighter rules. The draft bill would require the foreign organizations to close their offices and try to re-register as purely Russian organizations, which would give the government greater control over their activities. 
 In the face of internal and international criticism, Parliament has delayed a second vote on the measure until Dec. 16. 
 Ms. Rice's statement about the bill came during a 24-hour visit to Ukraine, where she and her aides said they wanted to encourage President Yushchenko to move ahead with political and economic change. 
 The government is riddled with corruption left over from the Soviet-backed government that lost power last year, American officials say. Partly in response to that problem, Mr. Yushchenko fired his entire cabinet in September, including his popular prime minister, Yulia V. Tymoshenko. Ms. Rice met briefly with Ms. Tymoshenko on Wednesday.
 Along with the corruption and infighting in government, Ukraine's economy is stagnating; economic growth slid to 4 percent so far this year from 12 percent last year. Asked about that, Mr. Yushchenko cited a dizzying list of figures he said showed that Ukraine's economy was healthy -- especially given strong exports of ''cattle skins'' and ''nonferrous and ferrous scrap metals.''
 He blamed the former government for much of his problems, but added, ''We managed to correct all those mistakes rather promptly and speedily.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice at a news conference yesterday in Kiev with Ukraine's president, Viktor A. Yushchenko. (Photo by Sergey Dolzhenko/European Pressphoto Agency)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); CORRUPTION (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (93%); VIKTOR YUSHCHENKO (89%); YULIA TYMOSHENKO (58%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KIYEV, UKRAINE (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UKRAINE (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2005



150 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 492 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Resists New Targets For Curbing Emissions

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN

DATELINE: MONTREAL, Dec. 7 

 BODY:
The Bush administration, facing fresh criticism on several fronts in climate talks here, maintained its opposition on Wednesday not only to new targets for cutting emissions linked to global warming but also to any informal discussions that might even touch on the subject. 
 In an unusually direct rebuke, Prime Minister Paul Martin of Canada singled out the United States at a news conference for not joining international efforts to require curbs on carbon dioxide and the other greenhouse gases. ''To the reticent nations, including the United States, I say this: There is such a thing as a global conscience,'' Mr. Martin said. ''And now is the time to listen to it.''
Separately, representatives from the Eskimo native culture of the Arctic, which for 5,000 years has used sea ice as a platform for hunting and transportation, announced that they had filed a petition against the United States on Wednesday in the Washington offices of the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights, a body examining claims of rights abuses in the Americas. 
 The petition asserts that unabated American emissions of heat-trapping greenhouse gases are threatening Eskimo traditions and presses the United States to curb the gases. 
 Bush administration officials attending the conference, convened to discuss updates to a set of international agreements including the Kyoto Protocol, said they had not yet seen the petition and so declined to comment. They also rebuffed critics of their stance in the talks, saying the United States was pursuing independent actions to slow growth in emissions and conducting research with other countries on new, less polluting energy technologies.
 The meeting is the latest in a 17-year string of conferences that produced a 1992 treaty pledging, but not requiring, cuts in greenhouse gases and a 1997 addendum, the Kyoto Protocol, that has binding targets and a 2012 deadline but for only three dozen industrialized countries. 
 The United States is a party to the first pact, the Framework Convention on Climate Change. But President Bush rejected the Kyoto pact, saying that the emissions cuts would harm the economy.
 The Montreal conference has parallel discussions under way on the two pacts. Parties to Kyoto are required to consider new targets and timetables beyond 2012. 
 The American delegation has insisted repeatedly that there be no new talks to reconsider aspects of the 1992 framework treaty. It is not involved in talks related to the Kyoto treaty because it is not a party to it. 
 At a news conference on Wednesday, Paula J. Dobriansky, under secretary of state for democracy and global affairs and the top American official at the meeting, said the framework treaty allowed countries to pursue independent efforts. 
 ''We believe that the best way forward is acknowledging the fact that there are different approaches that have been represented here at this gathering, and one size does not fit all,'' she said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (91%); PETITIONS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (76%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (67%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: INTER-AMERICAN COMMISSION ON HUMAN RIGHTS (56%)

PERSON: PAUL MARTIN (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (90%) QUEBEC, CANADA (90%) UNITED STATES (99%); CANADA (92%); ARCTIC (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (51%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2005



151 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1566 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMY LIFTS BUSH'S SUPPORT IN LATEST POLL 

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER and MARJORIE CONNELLY; Megan Thee and Marina Stefan contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
After months of political erosion, President Bush's approval rating improved markedly in the latest New York Times/CBS News Poll, largely tracking Americans' more positive attitudes toward the economy.
 But his presidency is still plagued by widespread doubts about his handling of the war in Iraq, with 52 percent of poll respondents saying the Bush administration intentionally misled the public when its officials made the case for war. A majority of Americans want the United States to set some timetable for troop withdrawal; 32 percent want the number of American troops reduced, and 28 percent want a total pullout.
 The survey, conducted Dec. 2-6, showed Mr. Bush's approval rating at 40 percent, up from 35 percent a month ago, which was the low point of his presidency. His gains primarily came among men, independents, 18-to-29-year-olds and conservatives. He remains a fiercely polarizing figure, with an approval rating of 79 percent among Republicans, 12 percent among Democrats and 34 percent among independents.
 Over all, 53 percent of Americans disapprove of Mr. Bush's job performance, down from 57 percent a month ago. 
 Despite his gains, Mr. Bush's 40 percent approval rating remains among his lowest, and is still substantially lower than that of Presidents Bill Clinton (who was at 58 percent) or Ronald Reagan (who was at 68 percent) at comparable points in their second terms.
 The telephone poll of 1,155 adults nationwide had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 3 percentage points.
 As Republican strategists have hoped, Mr. Bush seems to be getting a political lift from the economy. Mr. Bush has tried hard to highlight good economic news in recent weeks, which have seen a drop in the price of gasoline and new figures showing strong growth in the third quarter. The poll showed that 56 percent describe the national economy as good, up from 47 percent a month ago.
 ''Things are not that bad,'' Susan Huru, a 47-year-old independent from Wasilla, Alaska, said in a follow-up interview after the poll was completed. ''I can still afford things except for maybe gas.''
 Mr. Bush's handling of the economy also got slightly better marks -- 38 percent approve, up from 34 percent last month. (In contrast, his overall rating on foreign policy continued to fall, to 36 percent from 38 percent in September and 42 percent in August.) 
 In another measure of national mood closely followed by political strategists, the percentage of Americans who say the country is ''seriously off on the wrong track'' has declined -- to 60 percent, from 68 percent a month ago.
 Charles Cook, who publishes an independent political newsletter tracking Congressional races, said Mr. Bush's uptick in the poll is ''consistent with everything else out there.'' He added: ''It looks like they're finally getting a little bit of credit for the economy performing as strongly as it has. We've had good economic news for a while, but Iraq so dominated things it couldn't break through.''
 Still, 11 months before the midterm elections, the poll found much that was ominous for the Republican Congressional majority. Only 33 percent of Americans said they approve of the way Congress is doing its job, while 53 percent disapprove. Such approval ratings have been registered throughout 2005, reflecting a level of discontent with Congress that rivals that of the tumultuous mid-1990's.
 The Congressional approval rate among independents in the latest poll was just 32 percent.
 If the elections were held today, 42 percent of registered voters said they would vote for the Democratic candidate in their district, while 33 percent said they would vote for the Republican. 
 Democrats had a substantial edge among independents, with 38 percent saying they would vote for the Democratic candidate, while 22 percent preferred the Republican. While the poll did not measure the races in individual districts, the findings are indicative of the two parties' relative strength. 
 The poll suggested that Republicans are not wrong to emphasize highly localized races focused on the strengths and familiarity of their incumbents. Sixty percent of all respondents said they approve of their own representative's job performance, while 24 percent disapprove.
 Anxiety and doubt over the war in Iraq still pervade the political mood. More than half of those polled -- 57 percent -- said Congress is not asking enough questions about the president's policy in Iraq. 
 The increasingly bitter debate over the justification for the war is mirrored among the public. Only 23 percent said they believe that Mr. Bush, in the run-up to the war, was telling the entire truth about the existence of weapons of mass destruction in Iraq. Forty-five percent said Mr. Bush was mostly telling the truth on the weapons but hiding something, and 25 percent said the president was mostly lying.
 Moreover, despite the Bush administration's intensive campaign in recent days to persuade the public that there is a ''strategy for victory'' in Iraq, the poll found widespread doubt. Asked if Mr. Bush has ''a clear plan for victory in Iraq,'' 68 percent said he does not, and 25 percent said he does. 
 The war continues to be the main focus of Mr. Bush's critics. When asked why they disapproved of Mr. Bush's job performance, more than half mentioned Iraq. ''We were taken in on the war,'' said Virginia Loarca, 29, a Democrat who works in customer service for an airline. ''Too many kids are dying, and it's not being reported on how many body bags are actually coming back.''
 There was some positive news for Mr. Bush on Iraq: Approval of his handling of Iraq rose to 36 percent, from 32 percent in October. And more Americans said that going to war in Iraq was the right thing to do -- 48 percent, compared with 42 percent in October. That increase in support came primarily from Republicans. 
 But even with that shift, Americans remain evenly divided on the war, with another 48 percent saying the United States should have stayed out of Iraq.
 Fifty-eight percent said they want the United States to set a timetable for troop withdrawal, an idea opposed by Mr. Bush.
 An overwhelming majority -- 81 percent -- said the Bush administration has not clearly explained how long American troops will have to remain in Iraq.
 When asked what the United States should do now in Iraq, 32 percent said it should decrease American troop levels, while 28 percent said it should completely withdraw the troops. Twenty-four percent said troop levels should stay the same, while 11 percent backed an increase.
 Not surprisingly, most Democrats and independents want troops decreased or completely withdrawn; most Republicans support maintaining or increasing the number of troops in Iraq.
 Still, there are political risks for Democrats if they move too far toward their base: 36 percent of respondents (including a third of the independents) said they would be less likely to vote for their Congressional representative if he or she advocated an immediate withdrawal, while 21 percent said they would be more likely to vote for that official. Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the Democratic leader of the House, recently embraced a call for a speedy withdrawal. 
 Moreover, many Americans remain anxious about the impact of withdrawal, with 46 percent saying it would increase the likelihood of violence in Iraq and 40 percent saying it would increase the likelihood of terrorism against the United States. 
 As the parties head into the election year, the poll found voters giving Democrats the advantage on handling Medicare, the economy, the war in Iraq and immigration. Republicans continue to have the edge as the party best able to deal with terrorism. 
 But when voters were asked which party shares their moral values, the parties were nearly even -- 43 percent said the Democrats, 41 percent said the Republicans.

How the Poll Was Conducted
 The latest New York Times/CBS News Poll is based on telephone interviews conducted Dec. 2 through Dec. 6 with 1,155 adults throughout the United States. 
 The sample of telephone exchanges called was randomly selected by a computer from a complete list of more than 42,000 active residential exchanges across the country. Within each exchange, random digits were added to form a complete telephone number, thus permitting access to listed and unlisted numbers alike.
 Within each household, one adult was designated by a random procedure to be the respondent for the survey. 
 The results have been weighted to take account of household size and number of telephone lines into the residence and to adjust for variation in the sample relating to geographic region, sex, race, marital status, age and education. 
 In theory, in 19 cases out of 20, overall results based on such samples will differ by no more than three percentage points from what would have been obtained by seeking out all American adults. 
 For smaller subgroups the margin of sampling error is larger. In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of public opinion may introduce other sources of error into the poll. Variation in the wording and order of questions, for example, may lead to somewhat different results. 
 Michael Kagay of Princeton, N.J., assisted The Times in its polling analysis.
 Complete questions and results are at nytimes.com/politics.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks President Bush's approval rating since 2001. (Source by The New York Times/CBS News Poll)(pg. A1)Chart: ''Americans on Iraq''Before the war with Iraq, when talking about the existence of weapons of mass destruction in Iraq, do you think George W. Bush was telling the entire truth, was mostly telling the truth but hiding something, or was he mostly lying?ENTIRE TRUTH -- 23%HIDING SOMETHING -- 45MOSTLY LYING -- 25DEPENDS -- 2NO OPINION -- 5Has the Bush administration clearly explained the United States's goals in Iraq, or haven't they done that?HAVE CLEARLY EXPLAINED -- 35HAVE NOT -- 61NO OPINION -- 4In making its case for the war with Iraq, did members of the Bush administration intentionally mislead the public or not?INTENTIONALLY MISLED -- 52DID NOT -- 44NO OPINION -- 4How much progress has the United States made in training Iraqi troops to take over from the U.S.?A LOT -- 14SOME -- 34NOT MUCH -- 19NONE AT ALL -- 5DON'T KNOW ENOUGH -- 28NO OPINION -- 1How much longer will the United States have to remain in Iraq?LESS THAN A YEAR -- 61-2 YEARS -- 202-5 YEARS -- 37MORE THAN 5 YEARS -- 28NO OPINION -- 9Should the United States set a timetable for the withdrawal of U.S. troops from Iraq or not?SHOULD -- 58SHOULD NOT -- 39NO OPINION -- 3Overall, is Congress asking too many questions about George W. Bush's policy toward Iraq, or isn't Congress asking enough questions?TOO MANY -- 23NOT ENOUGH -- 57ABOUT RIGHT -- 13DEPENDS -- 1NO OPINION -- 5Totals may not add to 100 because of rounding.Based on nationwide telephone interviews conducted by The New York Times and CBS News Dec. 2-6 with 1,155 adults.(pg. A36)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); STATISTICS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (62%); GASOLINE PRICES (50%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2005



152 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Thursday Styles; Physical Culture; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1333 words

HEADLINE: Workouts Are Potent Medicine for the Mentally Ill

BYLINE: By ABBY ELLIN

 BODY:
MATTHEW HASS is not sure what caused him to blow up to 300 pounds: his sedentary lifestyle, a diet devoid of fruits or vegetables or the medications he took for bipolar disorder. Not that the cause mattered. Mr. Hass knew he was at a crossroads: at 27 he said he felt like a ''heart attack waiting to happen,'' so he decided to give exercise a chance. ''I was ready to try something else that would help my moods,'' he said, ''and maybe help me lose some weight too.''
 Mr. Hass, now 28, began working out with a personal trainer on Fridays, thanks to a program in Keene, N.H., called In Shape that pairs people with severe mental illnesses with mentors to guide them through a fitness regime. For almost a year and a half he also did circuit training and played tennis with his mentor. Since he signed up for In Shape not only has he lost 30 pounds, but he said his moods are steadier. 
His experience illustrates why mental health experts increasingly recommend exercise for people with severe mental illness. It helps them stay physically healthy, which is crucial in a population that the surgeon general estimated in 1999 loses on average 15.4 years' life expectancy. And research suggests that by improving mood, exercise can be a beneficial accompaniment to other kinds of treatment for mental illness. While exercise is unlikely ever to replace medication and psychotherapy, experts say, it can increase the likelihood that those traditional strategies will be effective.
 Scientists have long known that exercise lifts the spirits of people without mental illness, and hundreds of studies have shown how it can improve the psychological health of those who suffer moderate depression, whether or not they take medication or engage in talk therapy. 
 But newer research has looked specifically at what good exercise can do for people with conditions like bipolar disorder, schizophrenia and severe anxiety disorders. In a recent study at Boston University, for example, 15 previously sedentary patients suffering from mood or psychotic disorders exercised with an instructor three times a week. After three months they reported that their symptoms of depression had lessened, and that they felt a sense of empowerment they had not known before. 
 A similar study, at the University of Florida College of Nursing at Gainesville, looked at the effects of an aerobic exercise program on 20 people with schizophrenia. After four months of working out three times a week, the patients lost weight and gained cardiovascular fitness. And compared with a control group of sedentary patients, the exercisers also had fewer psychiatric symptoms, like social withdrawal and paranoia.
 Mental health experts, already concerned about their patients' weight and inactivity, have been spurred by such research to encourage patients to work out. Many have started programs like In Shape to help people with severe mental illness get moving. 
 ''More and more people in the field are looking at this because people with mental illness are dropping dead from things that are lifestyle related,'' like a lack of exercise and poor nutrition, said Dori Hutchinson, the executive director of services at the Center for Psychiatric Rehabilitation, a research center at Boston University that recently began a four-day-a-week program. Patients walk, stretch and lift weights with a trainer and once a week play basketball or soccer. They also learn about nutrition and cooking.
 At Fountain House in Manhattan people with schizophrenia and bipolar disorder get together to do yoga or tai chi three times a week or to walk for an hour or two. Last month McLean Hospital, a psychiatric hospital in Belmont, Mass., opened a fitness center with cardiovascular and strength training equipment. Soon yoga and aerobics classes will be added. ''Ideally we'd like them to go most days for an hour,'' said Sally Jenks, the director of business development at the hospital. 
 In Shape, which began two years ago, is one of the more established exercise programs for the mentally ill. After going to a spate of funerals for relatively young patients, Ken Jue, the chief executive of Monadnock Family Services, a community mental health center in Keene, created the program to help patients lead longer and healthier lives.
 ''Their physical health is compromised,'' Mr. Jue explained, ''partly due to side effects of prescribed medications, partly due to the impact of mental illness on lifestyle choices, and in part due to economic limitations that many people with mental illness experience.''
 Initially he had hoped to attract 40 people; 65 signed up. They work out as much as they want with a personal trainer and in groups. They are also taught the basics of cooking and nutrition, as well as smoking cessation. The goal is to get patients into the habit of exercising regularly on their own, as Mr. Hass does. These days he walks an hour a day and lifts weights three times a week. 
 Ann Lapointe, 37, joined the In Shape program in May. At that time, she said, ''I was sleeping all the time, couldn't clean the house, couldn't take care of my 9-year-old son.'' Now she hikes or lifts weights with her mentor for 90 minutes once a week. Other days she takes aerobics or spinning classes. 
 ''It's really important for elevating my mood,'' said Ms. Lapointe, who suffers from bipolar, obsessive compulsive and anxiety disorders. She said she relies on her mentor's encouragement. ''To be praised for exercising really helps.'' 
 Mr. Hass is feeling so much better that he no longer takes the eight medications he took for his bipolar disorder before he started exercising. He is down to just one drug, and he attributes that to regular workouts.
 Most doctors say that exercise can never replace drugs, however, and that should never be the goal. 
 ''It would be a mistake to think exercise can be used instead of other treatments for depression,'' said Dr. Norman Sussman, a psychiatrist at New York University Medical Center.
 Although exercise can be beneficial for people with schizophrenia, these patients must still take their medications, said Dr. Ken Duckworth, the medical director of the National Alliance on Mental Illness in Boston. ''I have people with schizophrenia who swim half a mile,'' he explained. ''They sleep better, they have less anxiety and they're less depressed. Do they still hear voices? Yes. But exercise helps them cope.'' 
 In some cases, Dr. Sussman noted, exercise is impractical. ''If someone is so apathetic that they can't even change their clothes or get out of bed, which happens in severe depression, how can you tell them to go down to the health club?''
 Some personal trainers specialize in helping the mentally ill get moving. Jeff Rutstein in Boston works with many people who have schizophrenia or bipolar disorder. Over the last few years his business has grown in part because he is often sent doctor referrals from McLean Hospital. 
 ''I get them to focus on their specific muscle group instead of on their negative thoughts,'' Mr. Rutstein said. 
 Marie Cotton, who is 60 and has suffered from depression for decades, is one of his clients. When she first got on the treadmill, Mrs. Cotton, a travel agent, said she was terribly afraid of falling. ''Jeff always gave me a sense of security that he would not let me get hurt, which was a huge, huge thing.''
 Working out twice a week has helped Mrs. Cotton cope with her illness. She said she prefers Mr. Rutstein's private gym to group exercise. ''You're not on display,'' she added. 
 Part of what Mr. Hass likes about the In Shape program is its anonymity. Patients work out at the YMCA among other fitness enthusiasts, and nobody knows who is in the program and who is not. And although mentors are willing to talk about clients' medical problems, that is not their focus. 
 ''They are not their mental illness,'' said Brenda Buffum, 30, the lead health mentor for In Shape. ''I treat them like any other training client.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: WORKOUT THERAPY -- Jeff Rutstein, above left, a personal trainer works largely with mentally ill patients. Matthew Hass, photo at right, who has bipolar disorder, says exercise has helped him mentally and physically. (Photo by Rick Friedman for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Nancy Palmieri for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MENTAL ILLNESS (94%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (91%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); BIPOLAR DISORDER (90%); DEPRESSION (89%); MENTAL HEALTH (89%); SCHIZOPHRENIA (89%); PSYCHOLOGY (88%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (78%); HEART DISEASE (77%); PSYCHIATRY (77%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (76%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (74%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (73%); ANXIETY DISORDERS (72%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (71%); NURSES & NURSING (69%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (67%) Mental Health and Disorders; Exercise

ORGANIZATION: SURGEON GENERAL (55%)

PERSON: Abby Ellin

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (67%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (67%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2005



153 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: Shares Retreat on Worries About Further Rate Increases 

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks dropped yesterday amid speculation that the sales and earnings forecasts from Intel and the Federal Reserve's stance toward interest rates might derail a fourth-quarter rally.
 ''When the market is uncertain, it either drifts or goes down,'' said Cummins Catherwood Jr., who helps manage $715 million at Walnut Asset Management in Philadelphia. ''Looking at the economic figures that we're seeing, it tells you that inflation is coming. I suspect the Federal Reserve will keep beating on it gradually.''
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 6.33 points, or 0.5 percent, to 1,257.37, near its low for the day. The Dow Jones industrial average slid 45.95 points, or 0.4 percent, to 10,810.91. The Nasdaq composite index lost 8.75, or 0.4 percent, to 2,252.01. 
 Stocks had climbed this quarter on optimism that the Fed was close to ending its series of interest rate increases. A pullback in oil prices from the $70.85 a barrel reached in August also aided the gains. The S.& P. 500, after rising as much as 3.2 percent this quarter, is down 0.9 percent from its high for the period, reached on Nov. 25.
 The rally has stalled as better-than-expected reports on economic growth and durable goods last week and a five-day jump in oil prices through Tuesday reignited speculation that the Fed would keep lifting rates.
 ''A good portion is energy, but commodity price inflation is across the board,'' said Richard A. Weiss, who oversees $8 billion as chief investment officer at City National Bank in Beverly Hills, Calif.
 Crude oil for January delivery lost 1.2 percent, to $59.21 a barrel, in New York yesterday after climbing as high as $60.68. An Energy Department report showed that American inventories surged as refinery operations and imports increased.
 The Federal Reserve is expected to increase its target rate next week by a quarter point, to 4.25 percent; it would be the 13th consecutive increase. Traders see a 90 percent chance of a further increase to 4.5 percent at the Jan. 31 meeting, based on futures contracts in Fed funds at the Chicago Board of Trade.
 A gauge of financial shares slid 0.8 percent and contributed the most to the S.& P. 500's drop among 10 industry groups. Bank of America slipped 45 cents, to $45.86. Citigroup, the nation's biggest financial-services company, lost 19 cents, to $48.70.
 A measure of housing stocks in S.& P. indexes slid 3.3 percent, with 15 of 16 members declining. D. R. Horton, the largest builder by market value, fell $1.34, to $35.06. Pulte Homes, the second biggest, dropped $1.81, to $40.53. Higher borrowing costs erode the value of bonds owned by banks, brokers and insurers, and crimp demand for mortgages and loans.
 Intel, the world's biggest chip maker, slid 52 cents, to $26.15. The drop helped send an S.& P. gauge of semiconductor-related stocks down 1.1 percent. PMC-Sierra, which makes chips for telecommunications switches and routers, lost 22 cents, to $7.77.
 More than two stocks fell for every one that rose on the New York Stock Exchange. About 1.6 billion shares changed hands on the Big Board, 4.8 percent below the three-month average.
 The price of Treasury securities fell as the government sold $13 billion of five-year notes in the first of two debt auctions this week. By late in the day, the price of the benchmark 10-year note fell 7/32, to 99 29/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.51, from 4.48 percent on Tuesday.
 Here are the results of yesterday's auction of five-year notes:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.734
High Yield: 4.435
Low Yield: 4.300
Median Yield: 4.400
Total applied for: $30,891,399
Accepted: $13,000,051
Noncompetitive: $90,399
Interest set at: 4 3/8

The five-year notes mature Dec. 15, 2010.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)Chart: ''Five-Year Treasury Notes''High yields at auction.Graph tracks high yields at auction since 2004.(Source by Treasury Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SALES PROJECTIONS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INFLATION (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (79%); FUTURES (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); STATISTICS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); DURABLE GOODS (73%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); HOME PRICES (72%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (62%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Credit; Interest Rates; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (81%); INTEL CORP (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (53%); PULTEGROUP INC (50%); D R HORTON INC (50%)

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (81%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (53%); BAC (LSE) (53%); 8648 (TSE) (53%); PHM (NYSE) (50%); DHI (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (81%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (81%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (50%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (50%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (50%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2005



154 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; SMALL BUSINESS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1078 words

HEADLINE: Cost of Fuel Moves to Top of Worry List 

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON

 BODY:
As if small-business owners don't have enough to juggle, an expensive new worry hit them this fall: the rising cost of energy.
 Soaring energy prices after Hurricanes Katrina and Rita struck small businesses across the board: from gasoline to power their vehicles to natural gas for heat.
Two-thirds of small and medium-size businesses surveyed this fall by OPEN, the small-business unit of American Express, said higher energy costs had had a significant or moderate impact on their business. 
 A second survey by PNC Financial Services, released in October, showed that energy costs had surpassed spending on employee health care -- which, for several years has been at the top levels of concern -- as the single biggest worry of small-business owners. Forty percent of those surveyed expressed worry about it, followed by 21 percent who singled out interest rate increases and 18 percent who were concerned about health insurance costs.
 Last spring, concerns expressed by small-business owners were almost the mirror opposite -- with interest rate increases at 26 percent, followed closely, at 24 percent, by health care costs and with energy costs trailing at 18 percent.
 The concerns changed as ''prices for energy began going up last summer,'' said Stuart Hoffman, chief economist for Pittsburgh-based PNC Financial Services. ''Then Katrina hit.''
 While gasoline prices have been coming down from their September highs, Mr. Hoffman said that gasoline this winter is expected to be up 15 percent to 20 percent over last winter, and natural gas prices up by 40 percent to 50 percent. 
 Companies that rely heavily on fuel are reeling. Runabout Couriers, a Florida company (www.runaboutcourier.com) that delivers mail and packages in the Cocoa and Orlando areas, has experienced the greatest increase in fuel prices ''since we went into business'' 12 years ago, said Michael L. Milam, the company's vice president.
 In September, Runabout Couriers spent $4,525 on fuel -- more than twice the $2,610 it spent that month in 2004, said Mr. Milam, 
 Increased prices have forced companies to choose between passing costs on to customers or swallowing them and hoping for relief later. The survey by OPEN found that 40 percent of businesses absorbed the higher costs while 26 percent raised prices and 33 percent reduced their energy use to offset price increases. 
 Runabout Couriers, which has 10 employees and 10 vehicles, passed on some of the higher cost while reducing energy consumption. It also instituted a sliding scale of delivery fees, starting with ''economy'' service -- meaning delivery could take several hours -- to ''rush,'' where delivery is within two to three hours, to ''emergency'' where half-hour guaranteed delivery also commands the heftiest price, $34, he said. And it added a fuel surcharge to customer accounts.
 ''We haven't lost any customers,'' Mr. Milam, 31, said, though some larger accounts were unhappy.
 To conserve energy, the company reorganized its pickups and deliveries, using software to plot the routes for maximum efficiency. And to ship lighter items, it bought three Chevrolet Cavaliers, which get about 30 miles per gallon, twice what its cargo vans and pickups average.
 Metro Rooter, a commercial and residential plumbing-repair company in Jacksonville, Fla., has found a measure of relief for soaring gasoline and diesel-fuel prices in volume discounting. ''We have not been able to offset that completely so we've been eating that increase and it's coming out of our bottom line,'' said Hugh McLean, Metro Rooter's business manager. Because of a longstanding relationship with a local distributor, Mr. McLean is able to reduce fuel costs by 3 cents a gallon for the company's 30-vehicle fleet. Even so, he said the company would spend about $300,000 for gas and diesel this year, up about 25 percent from 2004.
 To reduce costs, Mr. McLean is trying to improve routing, especially for jobs like septic tank cleaning that can be scheduled in advance. He also negotiated a better contract for cleaning Metro's uniforms and trimmed some marginal costs like cellphones -- saving about 6 percent this year on the total costs.
 Still, as with many businesses surveyed by OPEN, Metro's profit margin has been squeezed, he said.
 His main worry not so long ago, health care costs, has slid down a few notches. ''We've been able to negotiate some savings in that area and our yearly increase has gone down from the double-digits to about 9 percent,'' he said. ''Fuel is the new No. 1.
 Energy costs have also affected other more unusual businesses like the C. J. Mushroom Company in Toughkenamon, Pa., about 30 miles southwest of Philadelphia, a producer of white-button mushrooms. It is an energy-intensive business because the 8,000-square-foot growing areas made of concrete blocks must be kept at a constant temperature and humidity level and must be ventilated at all times. Additional energy is needed to keep the areas sterilized.
 ''We're paying three times for natural gas what we were paying two and a half years ago,'' said Clinton Blackwell, 61, the owner. Even the peat moss he imports from Canada to use in growing the mushrooms has become more expensive because the trucks that deliver it pay more for gasoline and pass the cost on.
 Trying to control costs through the winter, Mr. Blackwell bought natural gas on the futures market to assure a better price of $10.50 per million cubic foot, significantly lower than the $15 he was paying in October.
 But his other options are limited. Like Metro Rooter, he does not want to lay off workers who are trained and familiar with the work. And he can't raise prices because the market won't allow it.
 So he has been reviewing whether to pare employee medical and retirement benefits and other costs, like cellphones. ''Of course, there's always cutting the salaries of the principals,'' he said, referring to himself and his son and daughter who work on the mushroom farm. 
 Even so, Mr. Blackwell is optimistic. ''We're going to spend the winter trying to control our energy costs and emerge in the spring with our production back up,'' he said.
 Is there any silver lining for struggling small-business owners? Mr. Milam, in Florida, found one. 
 Some businesses, including pharmacies and assisted-living centers ''got scared by the fuel price volatility,'' he said, ''and they decided that rather than making deliveries themselves, they would hand them over to us.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael L. Milam said Runabout Couriers in Cocoa, Fla., bought three Chevrolet Cavaliers, which get about 30 miles per gallon, twice what its cargo vans and pickups average. (Photo by Gregg Matthews for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (93%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (74%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (72%); GASOLINE MARKETS (72%); CONSUMPTION (69%); HEALTH INSURANCE (69%) Small Business; Energy and Power; Gas (Fuel); Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (57%); PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Runabout Couriers; Metro Rooter

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (57%); PNC (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%)

PERSON: Michael L Milam; Hugh McLean; Elizabeth Olson

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2005



155 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1029 words

HEADLINE: Job Satisfaction Is Not Just a Matter of Dollars

BYLINE: By Alan B. Krueger. 
Alan B. Krueger is the Bendheim professor of economics and public affairs at Princeton University. His Web site is www.krueger.princeton.edu.

 BODY:
EUROPEAN workers are united in at least one respect: they have reported declining levels of job satisfaction to pollsters over the last three decades. In Britain, for example, the proportion of workers who said they were completely satisfied with their jobs was down to 14 percent in 2001 from 23 percent in 1992. 
 American workers, too, reported a drop in job satisfaction from the mid-1970's through the early 1990's, according to the General Social Survey by the University of Chicago. But the drop was mild, and since then, reported job satisfaction in the United States has inched up. In 1990, 48 percent of American workers said they were very satisfied with their work, and 51 percent said so in 2004. 
Of course, one could question whether asking workers how satisfied they are reveals their inner feelings, or whether changes in job satisfaction have significance for anything real in the economy or business world. International comparisons are particularly problematic because of cultural differences in the propensity to gripe or gloat. 
 Yet there are reasons to pay attention to job satisfaction trends. If nothing else, a worker's job satisfaction rating is a strong predictor of the likelihood that he or she will quit or be absent from work. 
 Decades of research by psychologists and organizational behaviorists suggest that self-reported job satisfaction reflects two main factors: the feelings workers experience while actually on the job and a judgment about their employment situation, which reflects, in part, their expectations and aspirations. While job satisfaction can change if work circumstances change, a large component of reported job satisfaction also appears to be tied to workers' personality traits. 
 Job satisfaction is typically gauged by a general question that asks people how satisfied they are with their work on the whole. Feelings at work are assessed by asking workers while they are on the job about their mood at that specific moment or by asking them to record their feelings in a diary. 
 Factors like job security, pay and benefits contribute more strongly to reported job satisfaction than to the feelings experienced at work, while day-to-day features of the work environment, like the closeness of supervision, pressures to work quickly and social isolation, have a more depressing effect on feelings than on reported job satisfaction. 
 In his new book, ''Demanding Work: The Paradox of Job Quality in the Affluent Economy'' (Princeton University Press), Francis Green, an economist at the University of Kent in Canterbury, England, documents trends in job satisfaction around the world and tries to make sense of them. Professor Green points to a decline in discretion on the job as the main explanation for the drop in job satisfaction in Britain, although he suspects that other factors, like an increase in work intensity, also contributed. 
 The reasons for the rosier trend in job satisfaction in the United States than in Europe are not entirely clear. Michael J. Handel, a sociologist at the University of Wisconsin in Madison, emphasizes that ''the main reason for stable perceptions in the 1990's is a general stability in objective conditions.'' His analysis showed a slight decline in the degree of interest workers expressed in their jobs and a slight improvement in perceived relations with management and co-workers. 
 One possibility is that American employers have sought to create conditions that enhance worker satisfaction and deter unionization. Dissatisfied workers are much more likely to say they would vote for a labor union. In Europe, union coverage is often set at the industrial or regional level, so individual employers have less incentive to foster social relations at work to discourage union organizing. 
 Faced with changing technology, like the spread of computer-related monitoring, American employers might have strived to maintain good relations with workers and to keep them engaged in the company, factors that weigh heavily in job satisfaction, while European employers might have let worker satisfaction slip. 
 Many American employers certainly act as if they care about worker satisfaction. Companies spend millions of dollars surveying their workers' job satisfaction each year. 
 Emerging evidence suggests that satisfied and engaged workers are also more productive workers. A study by James K. Harter of the Gallup Organization, Frank Schmidt of the University of Iowa and Theodore L. Hayes of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, published in the Journal of Applied Psychology in 2002, provides extensive evidence, drawing on Gallup's client surveys, which covered 198,514 workers in 7,939 business units from 36 companies. 
 For each company, they related each unit's profitability, productivity, customer satisfaction, turnover and work accidents to its employees' ratings of job satisfaction and engagement. Engagement included factors like whether employees said they knew what was expected of them and whether they had received encouragement at work. 
 Business units with more satisfied or engaged workers tended to perform better in all five areas. Acknowledging that cause and effect are difficult to establish, Mr. Harter said that from comparing the timing of changes in employee engagement and business unit performance, he suspected that higher engagement and worker satisfaction led to better business unit performance. 
 Gallup is not an uninterested bystander -- about a quarter of its revenue comes from advising management on employment issues -- but scattered case studies also suggest that higher job satisfaction benefits productivity. 
 Predictions of a joyless job market in the United States are not borne out by the available data in the last decade, despite the erosion of health benefits and sluggish pay growth. 
 The reason is simple: worker satisfaction, as ordinarily measured, depends at least as much on social aspects of work, and having a sense of meaning and interest in work, as it does on material rewards. People appear to grow accustomed to changes in material rewards more easily than they do to the daily stresses of work. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); TRENDS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); EMPLOYEE ABSENTEEISM (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); PSYCHOLOGY (70%); LITERATURE (64%) Labor; Books and Literature; Wages and Salaries; Fringe Benefits; Labor

COMPANY: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (57%)

PERSON: Alan B Krueger; Francis Green

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); ENGLAND (59%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2005



156 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 273 words

HEADLINE: House Votes to Extend Terrorism Insurance Aid 

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 7 

 BODY:
The House of Representatives on Wednesday voted overwhelmingly in favor of extending a federal program that guarantees that the government will cover some losses from terrorist attacks, a measure that insurers and property owners call critical to the economy. 
 Separate legislation has been approved by the Senate, so negotiators from both chambers must now hammer out a compromise bill. The program, enacted after the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11, 2001, is scheduled to expire Dec. 31, unless extended.
 The House vote was 371 to 49.
 Both the House and Senate bills would extend for two years the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act. It created a federal program requiring insurers to make terrorism insurance available and, in return, providing a guarantee that the federal government would reimburse insurers for losses over certain thresholds.
 Insurers and property owners want an extension, saying little has changed since 2001 -- the insurance industry still cannot judge the chance of attack and so is wary about offering terrorism insurance without some kind of backstop.
 The White House, however, wants to narrow the program, and almost all of the no votes in the House were cast by Republicans.
 Both the Senate and House bills cut the program in part by raising the level of losses that would lead to federal aid. 
 The level in the first year of the extension would be $50 million, up from $5 million, and would rise to $100 million the second year.
 The Bush administration said on Wednesday that it opposed the House version because some provisions expanded rather than narrowed the program. The White House backs the Senate version.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (93%); WAR RISKS & TERRORISM INSURANCE (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); INSURANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US TERRORISM RISK INSURANCE ACT (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INSURANCE LAW (77%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); APPROVALS (72%) Terrorism; Insurance; Law and Legislation; Terrorism

PERSON: George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%) United States

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2005



157 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 271 words

HEADLINE: Borrowing Falls on Drop In Auto Loans

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 7 

 BODY:
Consumer borrowing dropped in October by a record amount, reflecting a big decline in auto loans, the Federal Reserve reported on Wednesday. 
 Americans' borrowing fell by $7.2 billion at an annual pace in October, the largest amount ever in dollar terms. That included a drop of $5.6 billion, at an annual pace, in the category that includes car loans.
 The dollar declines translated into a drop of 4 percent in borrowing over all, the biggest percentage setback in nearly 15 years, and a decline of 4.9 percent in the category that includes auto loans.
 The data took analysts by surprise. They had expected that consumer spending would rise modestly in October.
 While retailers are reporting a mixed start to the holiday shopping season, analysts cautioned against reading too much into the one-month falloff in borrowing. ''This is a payback for the aggressive discounts consumers were offered to buy cars during the summer,'' said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody's Economy.com.
 Americans are shouldering record levels of debt, but analysts said that consumer spending, which accounts for much of the economy, should continue rising even if the pace slows a bit.
 Indeed, David Wyss, chief economist at Standard & Poor's in New York, remarked, ''I have full faith in the ability of the American consumer to keep spending.'' 
 The 4 percent drop in October borrowing was in contrast to a 2.2 percent increase in September; the 4.9 percent drop in auto loans and other nonrevolving credit followed a 1.1 percent decline in September. The category had increased 6.2 percent in August as consumers responded to incentives.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER LENDING (92%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (79%); RETAILERS (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%) Credit; Automobiles; Consumer Credit; Consumer Behavior; United States Economy; Records and Achievements

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2005



158 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1502 words

HEADLINE: Yours, Mine And Heirs'

BYLINE: By MARGARET McCAFFREY

 BODY:
EVEN the best families have stories about the heirloom that got away, leaving resentment or even litigation in its wake.
 Stephan R. Leimberg, an estate lawyer, remembers a mother's $1,300 necklace setting four adult children ''at each other's throats.''
Pam McDonnell, a publicist in New York, recalls being taken aback when her brother ''just helped himself'' to one hand-painted plate from her grandmother's large collection, after they could not agree on who should get it. 
 As family therapists often point out, an object is more than an object. Something as simple as a child's book can be a vessel of memories and a symbol of the person who held it. Michele Iaia, president of the Family Institute, an association of family therapists, in Philadelphia, says when family members do not easily get along, it pays to have a third party -- a therapist, for example -- on hand, before or after a death, to help distribute the goods. 
 Yet, parents who settle things with the involvement of their heirs can turn this emotionally fraught business into a ''rich and restorative process,'' Ms. Iaia said. And that is exactly what one couple, Teeny and Don Kuhn, had in mind when they divided their possessions last year. 
 With six children, nine grandchildren and a 14-room Victorian house in Millington, N.J., the Kuhns, healthy and in their mid-70's, were sitting on more stuff than they needed. They were preparing to move to a smaller house, taking along just enough furniture, artwork and miscellany to make it feel like home. The rest of their legacy was ripe for redistribution. 
 ''It was important for the children to have a tool so they could let us know without coming to us and feeling greedy,'' Mr. Kuhn said, ''or having to say something like, 'When you die can I have that?' '' 
 The couple did not want to repeat mistakes from previous generations. When Mrs. Kuhn's widowed maternal grandfather died in the 1950's, he left no instructions. Squabbling ensued when his possessions were distributed among two sets of grown children from two different marriages. ''It was kind of ridiculous what people were fighting over,'' Mrs. Kuhn recalled. In the case of a coveted china set, one person got the bowls, another the cups.
 After that disaster, she said, her mother decided to label her personal possessions, hoping to preempt disputes over what should go where. 
 The Kuhns said they did not want only to assign items, but to do their best to honor their children's wishes too. 
 Mr. Kuhn said his interest was partly sparked about 10 years ago, when their daughter, Callie, then in her late 30's, pointed to a small French etching of a cave entrance and said, ''If you ever get rid of that, give it to me.'' 
 Mr. Kuhn said, ''This was really great to hear because I never would have connected it to Callie,'' and it made him realize how their things would resonate differently with the different children. 
 LIKE many people, the Kuhns had enjoyed a lifetime of acquisition, swinging by a favorite shop on Saturdays with the kids packed in the car to search for a lamp, coaxing Mrs. Kuhn's maternal grandmother's bed back to life with a new finish, lugging home a painting from abroad, hunting down the perfect silk to reupholster a French loveseat picked up in Greenwich Village in the 50's for a song. Now they wanted to let these things go with the same care, underscored by the belief that if they could handle distribution fairly, it would be the most valuable part of their legacy. 
 The Kuhns came to the project especially well prepared. As a former director of employee development at AT&T and now the executive director of an international consortium of major business schools, Mr. Kuhn is something of a specialist in group problem solving, and, as his wife put it, a master organizer. 
 Mr. Kuhn's first step was to compile an annotated inventory: a list of everything except jewelry, dishes, silverware and the like (which they decided to keep), which soon took the form of a 207-item, 17-page spreadsheet. A somewhat compulsive keeper of records, he included details like the names of the items' previous owners or the date and the place of their purchase, and each item's estimated value. An armoire, for example, was not just an armoire but an ''1840 Louisiana armoire that was 'run through' by a Yankee soldier at the time of the Battle of Mansura -- passed down through Teeny's aunt Josephine Roy Lemoine's family.''
 The list, with dollar values removed, lest they overly influence decisions, was then mailed to all six children with instructions to put a letter after every item to indicate level of interest. An A meant ''I really want it.'' B meant ''I'd like to have it.'' And C meant ''If no one else wants it I'll take it.'' 
 Five of the six children went to the house to check out their favorite items firsthand. (A breeze-through in some cases, but in others multiple scourings.) 
 The Kuhns received searching letters from two daughters, filled with reminiscences and suggestions about which thing belonged where. ''We will be happy with receiving any or none,'' wrote Callie, at 49 the oldest of the siblings. ''Nothing is worth arguing over or ill feelings of any kind.'' 
 Finally, all six siblings sent back their lists. No matter who got what, one daughter, Margaret, 44, wrote to her parents, she felt comfortable knowing that ''all things near and dear will stay in the family where everyone can enjoy.'' 
 The Kuhns individually assigned things, then compared notes. After reconciling their differences, they drew up the final list, making sure everyone received a piece of artwork, something that had been in the family for a while, one bed and one good rug. It was tough deciding what to give their sons, who did not ask for much (Bert, 47, did have his heart set on the Mansura armoire), while several things seemed to fit perfectly in Callie's large house. 
 Though the Kuhns had hoped to honor first choices, other criteria, like the total value of each person's share, came into play. They agreed the hardest part was the 12 or so ''star items,'' like an oil painting of a little girl, an heirloom music box and a pair of Tiffany Studio candlesticks, but some favorites surprised them, like the daybed that the grandchildren slept on while visiting. ''They all loved that; there was just a connection,'' Mrs. Kuhn said.
 And some top picks gave them pause. One daughter, Sarah, 35, who lives on a commune in southern Oregon, requested the early 20th-century Chinese Chippendale-style china cabinet, which the Kuhns had found at a store in Greenwich Village in the 1970's. ''She remembers playing with the doors; it was like a dollhouse to her,'' Mrs. Kuhn said. As unsuitable at it sounded for a spartan commune, Mrs. Kuhn, with vivid memories of the scent of lavender and bits of lace and ribbon stuffed in her own grandmother's armoire, shipped it west.
 The final assignments were mailed with a letter from the Kuhns: ''It has been hard making all these decisions. Swap with others. If you are going to sell, let the family know and give us first right of refusal.''
 Mrs. Kuhn was visiting Sarah when the moving van came lumbering down the narrow road, and she recalled the huge kick she got out of seeing her youngest so excited as everyone from the commune helped unload. ''It was a wonderful, wonderful payment,'' she said.
 It seems, a year later, as if everything found its place. Margaret, speaking from her home in Portland, Ore., said, ''How could we be dissatisfied when they asked us what we wanted?''
 Since then, Mrs. Kuhn said, it has been gratifying visiting everyone, ''seeing where Katy hung the sheep painting,'' or enjoying a meal around their former dining room table with a son, Ted, 41, and his family. 
 The Kuhns, meanwhile, are settled in their new house, a one-floor three-bedroom on a lake in Harding Township, N.J. 
 ''As much as I've enjoyed all that kind of stuff,'' Mr. Kuhn said of their former possessions, ''it was such freedom to give it away.'' 

Grandma's Pie Plate and Other Decisions
 ESTATE experts often suggest writing a detailed will or trust to establish which family member will end up with which family heirloom. But as the Kuhns' experience suggests, a more gratifying solution is to poll family members and assign heirlooms based on their expressed wishes. 
 Marlene S. Stum, an associate professor of family economics and gerontology at the University of Minnesota, has developed workbooks for helping people through the process (available at www.yellowpieplate.umn.edu), and workshops based on her book ''Who Gets Grandma's Yellow Pie Plate?: A Guide to Passing On Personal Possessions'' (University Extension Services, 1999) are offered at university extensions in many states. The Kuhns began with a detailed inventory, compiled in a spreadsheet. For those who would like the help of an outsider, the International Society of Appraisers has a directory at www.isa-appraisers.org. MARGARET McCAFFREY


GRAPHIC: Photos: WHY WAIT? -- Don and Teeny Kuhn, seated with seven of their grandchildren, distributed their heirlooms, like the oil painting at right, with the input of their six children. (Photos by above, Marko Georgiev for The New York Times
 right, Margaret McCaffrey)(pg. F9)Drawings (Drawings by Ellen Weinstein)(pg. F1, pg. F9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY SERVICES (90%); FAMILY (90%); GRANDPARENTS (89%); WILLS (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); LITIGATION (78%) Wills and Estates; Families and Family Life

PERSON: Margaret McCaffrey; Don Kuhn; Teeny Kuhn

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (88%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2005



159 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: Cheers and Boos After Ruling

BYLINE: By JOHN LELAND; Kelli Kennedy contributed reporting from Boca Raton, Fla., for this article, and Katie Zezima from Boston.

 BODY:
In the shopping centers of Boca Raton, Fla., the Supreme Court decision that the government could withhold Social Security benefits to pay back old student debt met with overwhelming approval yesterday, but also strong dissent. Everyone had an opinion. 
 ''It's just like credit card bills,'' Mike Becker, 73, of Pittsburgh, said. Mr. Becker added that his four children had paid off their student loans.
''People run up their bill and then cancel the card and go out and get another card and do the same thing,'' he said. ''And who pays for it? You and me.'' 
 David Copeland, 69, agreed. Mr. Copeland said that he paid off his student loans and that others should do so, too. 
 ''I think it ties in with the general theme today of people should take more responsibility with things,'' he said.
 Other people identified with James Lockhart, a former postal worker who took the suit to the Supreme Court. Mr. Lockhart, now 67, lives on $874 a month in Social Security benefits and $10 a month in food stamps. After the government withheld part of his benefits to repay his nearly $80,000 in student debt, he filed court papers stating that he could no longer afford some medications for his diabetes, heart condition and other ailments, said his lawyer, Brian Wolfman.
 Mary LaVerghetta, 85, of Boca Raton, thought the government was punishing people who tried to progress through education.
 ''I think it's wrong,'' Ms. LaVerghetta said of the withholding of some Social Security money. ''Kids want to go to school. They want to learn. The government shouldn't punish them. People on Social Security should be able to keep that money.''
 Advocates for the elderly and the disabled called the court's decision a hardship for people who relied on Social Security for their main income.
 ''The whole purpose of Social Security is to give you an ability to survive,'' said Michael Burgess, executive director of the New York State Alliance for Retired Americans, which represents 525,000 New Yorkers, mostly union members. ''It's going to be counterproductive, because the government will get some money back from these people, but they'll have to apply for more federal or state benefits to make up for it.''
 Among retirees, about a third receive 90 percent or more of their incomes from Social Security. 
 The major effects of the court's ruling will be felt in the next 10 years, as the baby boom generation starts to retire, said Ruthann Dobek, director of the Brookline Council on Aging in Brookline, Mass. ''The seniors we have right now funded college with the G.I. bill,'' Ms. Dobek said. ''I think that we will be seeing a surge of that with the baby boomers' aging.''
 Americans have nearly $400 billion in student loans, according to the federal Education Department. Default rates have steadily fallen, to 4.5 percent in 2003 from 22.4 percent in 1992.
 ''As a question of social policy, I have been unable to get my head around the enmity the public has for student loan debtors,'' Mr. Wolfman, the lawyer, said. ''In American law, there's a limitation of 10 years on everything but murder and student loans.'' 
 People who default on student loans get little sympathy, said Sandy Baum, a professor of economics at Skidmore College and a senior policy analyst at the College Board. Professor Baum said recent policies toward student debtors, including making them repay even if they filed for bankruptcy protection, were punitive, but might be responsible for lowering the rate of defaults. 
 ''People are very offended that people take student loans and don't pay them back,'' she said. ''But the reality is, education doesn't pay off for everyone, and there are circumstances that prevent them repaying it.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (90%); APPEALS (90%); STUDENT LOANS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); AGING (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); CHILDREN (76%); LAWYERS (75%); RETAILERS (73%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (70%); LABOR UNIONS (67%); EXECUTIVES (61%); BABY BOOMERS (60%); DIABETES (50%) 

ORGANIZATION: Supreme Court (US)

PERSON: John Leland

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) Boca Raton (Fla)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2005



160 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 4; Sports Desk; BASEBALL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: Yanks and Williams Talk; Astros and Clemens Walk

BYLINE: By TYLER KEPNER

DATELINE: DALLAS, Dec. 7 

 BODY:
Brian Cashman does not like to speak for George Steinbrenner, the Yankees' principal owner. But Cashman was comfortable stating the obvious late Wednesday night, after the Yankees had decided to continue negotiating with center fielder Bernie Williams.
 ''He's always had a soft spot for Bernie Williams, as we all do,'' Cashman, the Yankees' general manager, said of Steinbrenner. ''He's seen a lot of special moments from Bernie, and a lot of fun he's provided for us.''
The Yankees offered salary arbitration to Williams and relievers Al Leiter and Ramiro Mendoza before the midnight deadline, allowing the Yankees to continue negotiating with them until Jan. 8. Leiter and Mendoza are likely to return on minor league contracts, and the Yankees hope to re-sign Williams for a 16th season in pinstripes. 
 The Yankees want Williams, 37, to fill the role occupied by Ruben Sierra, who was not offered arbitration Wednesday. Sierra made spot starts in the outfield and designated hitter and was a force off the bench for Manager Joe Torre.
 ''We've defined the role,'' Cashman said at the winter meetings. ''Now we have to define the economics of it. It doesn't mean we're going to go anywhere with it. It just gives us more time. I think this is a signal that we are both agreeing at some point we want to get something done to bring him back for one more year.''
 Williams, Leiter and Mendoza agreed not to accept the arbitration offers, which would saddle the Yankees with large salaries. Williams made $12 million last season and, by rule, would not be allowed to take a pay cut of more than 20 percent if he accepted arbitration.
 Williams, who came to Dallas to meet with trainers about a new conditioning program, left the hotel by midafternoon. After a morning workout, he said he wanted to come back even with a diminished role.
 ''It would be a good opportunity to finish my career here,'' Williams said. ''It doesn't happen very often anymore. But if the opportunity comes, I would like to.''
 Williams's agent, Scott Boras, said he had not seriously engaged other teams on Williams.
 ''What we've done with him is let other teams know we're going to try to exhaust the situation with the Yankees first,'' Boras said.
 Boras said Williams would compete for a starting job if he returned to the Yankees. Cashman continues to insist that Bubba Crosby could be the starter, but he added: ''You don't want to take away anybody's ability to compete. You need to encourage that.''
 Alan Hendricks, Leiter's agent, said Leiter had not decided whether he wanted to keep pitching. But Leiter, 40, wants to play for the United States in the World Baseball Classic and will probably return to the Yankees, at least for a trial in spring training.
 ''He's not retired,'' Hendricks said. ''Is he more likely to retire than to play? Probably. But is he considering still playing? Yes, he is.''
 The Yankees did not offer arbitration to eight of their free agents -- Kevin Brown, Alan Embree, John Flaherty, Matt Lawton, Tino Martinez, Felix Rodriguez, Rey Sanchez and Sierra -- effectively ending those players' tenure with the team.
 Besides their decisions on their free agents, the Yankees' top priorities at the winter meetings have been exploring options for center field and the bullpen.
 The Yankees have spoken with the agent for reliever Octavio Dotel -- as have the Mets -- but they are unsure about Dotel's elbow, which was surgically repaired last June. Dotel, who pitched for Oakland last season, expects to be ready in April, though that would be an aggressive timetable for recovery from Tommy John surgery. The Yankees had toyed with the idea of trading for Juan Pierre, but they never entered serious trade discussions with the Florida Marlins, who shipped Pierre to the Chicago Cubs on Wednesday. The veteran Nomar Garciaparra is willing to play several positions, and the Yankees met with his agent, Arn Tellem, on Wednesday. Tellem called it a good meeting, but he said Garciaparra would not sign anywhere this week.
 The most obvious target for center field is Johnny Damon of the Boston Red Sox, who is a free agent. The Yankees will not offer Damon a contract of more than four years, but Boras, his agent, insisted on Wednesday that Damon is worth seven.
 ''Johnny was always a seven-year guy,'' Boras said, adding later, ''He is the most durable player in the major leagues. That's a pristine level. That's a historic level.'' 
 Boras said he had spoken with the Red Sox and the Yankees about Damon, but would not say how many other teams were interested. Asked to characterize the Yankees' interest, Boras said, ''The Yankees need a center fielder, and Johnny Damon is a premier guy out there.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Bernie Williams said he would be willing to return to the Yankees in a diminished role and for less than the $12 million he made last season. (Photo by Barton Silverman/The New York Times)(pg. D1)
 Since his debut with the Yankees in July 1991, Bernie Williams has hit .298, with 275 home runs and 1,196 runs batted in. (Photo by Barton Silverman/The New York Times)(pg. D2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (75%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (67%) Baseball

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (94%) New York Yankees

PERSON: Tyler Kepner; Bernie Williams

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2005



161 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Thursday Styles; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1449 words

HEADLINE: A 60's Crush Lingers In Minds and Designs

BYLINE: By RUTH LA FERLA

 BODY:
MICHELLE BRAVERMAN remembers strolling down Madison Avenue on a wintry day in the early 1970's. She was all done up in a maxicoat and a cloche she had bought at Biba in London when she spied a slender figure approaching. The woman was trim and pretty, Ms. Braverman recalled, ''and she could not take her eyes off my hat.'' 
 ''She was Ali MacGraw, and she was with Bob Evans. You don't forget things like that. And you don't forget Biba.''
Ms. Braverman, a 63-year-old Houstonian, is one in a legion of style-besotted women of her generation for whom the name Biba, the fabled London shop, evokes a nimbus of glamour and decadence that was London in the waning years of the 60's and early 70's. It was an era when most young women with a purchase on cool wore, or simply longed to own, the languidly romantic designs of Biba's founder, Barbara Hulanicki, whose dimly lighted store on Abingdon Road reigned as the undisputed world headquarters of chic. 
 In the last year or so, Ms. Braverman's passion for Ms. Hulanicki's wine-stained colors, wispy fabrics, Art Nouveau- and Art Deco-inflected prints, sinuous shapes and discernibly louche aesthetic has infected a new generation: collectors, artists and designers intent on resurrecting the moody Biba style. 
 ''It's a Biba moment,'' said Karin Bereson, a celebrity stylist and an owner of No. 6, an outpost of cutting-edge style in downtown Manhattan. Ms. Bereson said she sees the influence of Biba wherever she turns. There are the 30's-inspired geometric prints; romantic floral patterns in moody tones of purple, claret and teal; the girlish, body-skimming shapes, some reminiscent of flappers; and all, to Ms. Bereson's selective eye, ''looking fresh and new and subtly styled, as opposed to just pretty, sexy or loud.'' 
 The first rumblings of a new Biba invasion could be discerned on the runways last spring. Miuccia Prada introduced a succession of floral-patterned velvet dresses in a Biba palette of deep wine and blue. By October John Galliano was vibrating to Biba, too, sending out on the catwalk a sultry blond model with crimson lips and smoke-ringed eyes, a ringer for Twiggy as captured in a onetime Biba cosmetics campaign. 
 Today the string of designers touched with Biba fever includes Alice Temperley, whose spring collection includes 60's-style dresses with bell sleeves and raised waistlines; Phoebe Philo of Chloe, whose high-neck tea dresses and diaphanous Empire-waist frocks riff on the Biba of the early 70's; and Christopher Bailey of Burberry, who showed a 30's-style wrap dress accessorized with an old-fashioned cloche. Original Biba dresses, in demand at vintage stores, command anywhere from $300 to $1,000.
 Recently Jo Wood, a designer of organic beauty products and the wife of Ron Wood of the Rolling Stones, borrowed the black and gold palette that is the Biba fashion signature for the packaging of a new bath and body line, Jo Wood Organics, which arrives in stores this month. 
 ''My brief to the packaging designers was, 'Be Biba-esque,' '' Ms. Wood told The New York Times last week, referring to the Art Deco logo splashed on every Biba shopping bag and fragrance bottle in the shop's glory days. 
 By the early 70's Biba had grown from a tiny West London boutique to a cavernous theme park of a department store. Arguably the world's first lifestyle emporium, the store showcased apparel alongside similarly themed and packaged bed linens, laundry soaps and even pet food, all the while remaining faithful to the personal vision of its founder. 
 For Americans the store's studiously old-fashioned decor, all Victorian hat stands and wallpaper, simultaneously conjured the era of London music halls and the silent films of Hollywood and figured tellingly in the Biba mystique. As did Biba's very inaccessibility. 
 England and the relentlessly documented London youthquake of the 60's ''seemed so cool at the time,'' the New York designer Anna Sui recalled. ''You thought, 'London has the Beatles, they have Twiggy and Jean Shrimpton, they have the Stones, they have Biba.' You thought, 'Oh my god, I've never seen anything like this.' '' 
 In his book ''Biba: The Biba Experience,'' a coffee-table history published in London last year, Alwyn W. Turner isolated the factors that made Biba such a magnet. 
 ''What Biba was helping to create,'' he wrote, ''was the concept of shopping as an experience, a leisure activity for the young.'' For the first time shopping broke away from the 50's pattern, Mr. Turner pointed out. ''It was no longer something that a girl did reluctantly with her mother. It was a social event in its own right to be shared with peers.'' 
 Biba devotees appeared to share Ms. Hulanicki's democratic vision. ''My whole thing was I loved disposable, affordable clothes,'' Ms. Hulanicki said this week. ''It always made me terribly happy to see a girl with $:200 worth of clothing in their shopping bags -- enough to fill their closets without feeling guilty.''
 Bergdorf Goodman was among the first American retailers to attempt to cash in on the craze, opening the first Biba shop-within-a-shop in 1971. The boutique was stocked with emblematic Biba products, including raincoats, T-shirts and lipsticks that emulated the venom-drenched shades worn by Hollywood's legendary screen sirens. As photographed by Sarah Moon, the typical Biba girl had the pallor of a Dresden doll, her chalkiness underlined by delicate rosy cheeks and inky lips. 
 ''It wasn't a romantic look,'' Ms. Moon, who shot many of the store's signature campaigns, told The Times of London this fall. ''It was more poisoned than that.''
 TO Ms. Sui, the Bergdorf Biba counter was a magical Aladdin's cave. ''I used to come into New York from Michigan every summer,'' she recalled, ''and I looked forward to the colors, the plums and teals and maroons that were murkier and more exciting than any color you had ever seen.'' Ms. Sui's current resort collection, which reaches stores this month, bears many Biba hallmarks -- among them, the decadent palette, the gossamer fabrics and a dizzying whorl of paisleys. ''You can see it really influenced me,'' she said. 
 Fittingly, Bergdorf will be among the first American stores to carry new Biba-inspired cosmetics and fashions, including Ms. Woods's line and a collection of shoes from Michael Pearce in London, who recently secured the rights to the Biba name and who plans to introduce a Biba ready-to-wear collection, designed by Bella Freud, for fall. 
 Such wares seem conceived to tap a bottomless well of nostalgia. ''To a younger generation of British designers like Stella and Christopher Bailey of Burberry, Biba and the 60's have become history,'' said Andrew Bolton, the associate curator of the Costume Institute at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. ''What they are doing now references the 60's, and, through Barbara's eye, Victorian England, Art Nouveau and the 20's, 30's and 40's, and is consistent with the new romanticism dominating fashion now.''
 Nor does it hurt that the reigning pop stars of the day shopped at Biba, a gilded cohort that included Brigitte Bardot; Mick Jagger and Marianne Faithfull; Sonny and Cher; Julie Christie, who wore a Biba wardrobe in ''Darling,'' John Schlesinger's cautionary 60's film about the London style set; and, not least, Anita Pallenberg, the honey-skinned consort to Keith Richards. 
 In Mr. Bolton's words, designers who embrace the Hulanicki aesthetic today aspire to dress ''the cool, the hip, the young, the Anita Pallenbergs of the 21st century.'' 
 In an interview, Mr. Turner said he is routinely reminded of the shop's allure. ''Young people studying fashion e-mail me several times a day, pleading, 'Can you tell me about Biba?' '' he said. 
 Paradoxically the era those fans pine for was plagued by economic woes. In those days, Mr. Turner said, London was headed for a serious recession, and people feared a replay of the Depression. ''Often you would go to the shops in the late afternoon and find that there was no electricity and that the stores were lighted by candles,'' he said. ''Still there is the feeling that actually life was better in those days, despite the worries, despite the blackouts.'' 
 Which may explain why, as Ms. Sui observed, ''we can't seem to let go of that era.'' 
 Ms. Braverman, the Biba-clad Houstonian, can relate. She now works as a sales assistant at Anthropologie, which carries fashions subtly influenced by Biba. This week she is set on acquiring a black velvet Anthropologie jacket that is short and tight through the ribs with sleeves ''very long and Bibalike -- kind of naughty Victorian.''
 ''Even now, I keep on trying to buy Biba,'' she said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: PAGES OF HISTORY -- ''Biba: The Biba Experience,'' above and right, by Alwyn W. Turner, recounts the shop's heyday and mystique. (Photos by Tony Cenicola/The New York Times, above and right)
LONDON STYLE -- A Biba-inspired outfit from No. 6, a new shop in Manhattan. (Photo by Lars Klove for The New York Times)
THE SINCEREST FLATTERY -- In the last year, designers have imitated the Biba look, including Prada, above left
Chloe, center
Burberry Prorsum, right
 and Anna Sui, top right. (Photographs by Firstview)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION & APPAREL (89%); FASHION DESIGNERS (89%); FASHION SHOWS (86%); CELEBRITIES (74%); FABRICS (70%); ART COLLECTING (70%); VISUAL ARTISTS (70%); CLOTHING LABELS (69%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (65%); COSMETICS (60%) Apparel; Dresses

ORGANIZATION: Biba (London Store) (Defunct)

PERSON: MIUCCIA PRADA (71%) Ruth La Ferla; Miuccia Prada

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%) London (Eng)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2005



162 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: South American Trade Bloc Moves to Admit Venezuela

BYLINE: By PAULO PRADA

DATELINE: RIO DE JANEIRO, Dec. 7 

 BODY:
Presidents and ministers from Mercosur, South America's biggest trade bloc, will meet Thursday and Friday to begin the process of granting membership to Venezuela, a move that business leaders fear could undermine efforts to ease regional trade and foster ties with other blocs.
 At a meeting in Montevideo, Uruguay, the four members of the trade bloc -- Brazil, Argentina, Paraguay and Uruguay -- are expected to formally begin negotiations to bring Venezuela into Mercosur, a group that seeks to standardize tariffs and trade practices throughout the region. 
The bloc, whose name is a Spanish contraction for Common Market of the South, represents well over half the continent's economy and an area of more than 230 million consumers.
 By acceding to Venezuela's petition to join -- a political decision spearheaded by the left-leaning presidents of Brazil and Argentina that the smaller Uruguay has accepted and Paraguay is expected to back -- Mercosur members say they are inviting a nation that is South America's biggest oil producer and third-biggest economy to join in fueling a sluggish, long-pursued effort to integrate the region's economies.
 The new entrant arrives at a crucial time, as high oil prices make Venezuela's promise of lower-cost energy all the more attractive. Indeed, Venezuela has already signed agreements with Brazil and Argentina to study energy integration, and is expected to sign a similar agreement with Mercosur this week. 
 But the politics of Hugo Chavez, Venezuela's fiery president, are prompting many business leaders to criticize the decision and question its effect on trade in the region and beyond -- especially with the United States, the European Union and other large partners.
 ''The business community is not happy,'' said Mario Marconini, a former foreign trade secretary for the Brazilian government and now a consultant in Sao Paulo. ''Mercosur shouldn't ally itself with a government with a radical, negative agenda.''
 Known for his fervent anti-capitalist speeches and seizures of mines, property and factories he deems unproductive, Mr. Chavez has for years aimed to align Venezuela with the continent's two biggest economies, Brazil and Argentina, as a means of advancing his goal of a unified South America, a vision of Simon Bolivar, a Latin American independence hero and an inspiration for Mr. Chavez. 
 Though Venezuela is a member of the Andean Pact, a trade bloc comprising other South American countries, Mr. Chavez has said he would abandon it to join Mercosur.
 ''Mercosur is a quantitative leap,'' said Gustavo Marquez, Venezuela's minister of integration and foreign trade, in a phone interview from Montevideo. ''It will supersede prior agreements and accelerate the process of uniting the economies of South America.''
 Mercosur negotiators dismiss concerns that Mr. Chavez could disrupt the bloc's agenda, which includes further reducing trade barriers within the group and negotiating agreements with the world. While member states are expected to give Venezuela the right to take part in Mercosur meetings, full voting membership, they argue, would be granted only after a months-long process that requires Venezuela to adopt existing policies.
 ''Venezuela can join only after accepting Mercosur's terms,'' said Eduardo Sigal, Argentina's subsecretary of economic integration.
 Politically, the two big Mercosur countries already have close ties to Venezuela and have little to lose from its entering the trade bloc. President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva of Brazil, for instance, already balances a left-leaning foreign policy focused on the developing world against his conservative economic agenda, one that angers many of his former supporters.
 And Nestor Kirchner, Argentina's president, has tapped Venezuela's oil-rich coffers as a bountiful source of funds for his economy, which is still recovering from a financial collapse early this decade. Venezuela this year agreed to buy more than $1 billion in Argentine bonds, and Argentine exports to Venezuela more than tripled after bilateral pacts were struck. 
 In trade terms, negotiators say, a link-up makes sense. Venezuela's economy is dependent on the energy sector, while the Mercosur countries are strong in agriculture and raw materials.
 But because Venezuela's economic largess is linked to the surge in oil price of recent years, the sustainability of its economic model is hotly debated. What is more, Mr. Chavez's blistering critiques of the United States and its desire for a Free Trade Area of the Americas have led many business leaders in the region to question whether short-term political affinities would hobble long-term economic interests.
 ''The private sector's interests lie in the smartest and most promising business environments,'' said Mauricio Claveri, an economist at ABECEB.com, an economic consulting firm in Buenos Aires. ''Venezuela is not an open marketplace, and that is a major concern.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); POLITICS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (72%); PETITIONS (69%); INTERVIEWS (69%); TRENDS (68%) International Trade and World Market; Economic Conditions and Trends; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; International Trade and World Market

ORGANIZATION: SOUTHERN COMMON MARKET (MERCOSUR) (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); MECOSUR (57%) Mercosur (Common Market); European Union

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (79%) Hugo (Pres) Chavez; Paulo Prada

GEOGRAPHIC: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (79%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (79%) VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (99%); BRAZIL (95%); URUGUAY (94%); SOUTH AMERICA (94%); ARGENTINA (94%); PARAGUAY (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED STATES (79%) Latin America; Venezuela; Europe

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2005



163 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 375 words

HEADLINE: Greenspan, in Letter, Opposes A Single Measure to Set Rates

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 7 

 BODY:
Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve's longtime chairman, said Wednesday that it was ''unwise'' to focus the bank's interest rate policy only on reaching a ''neutral'' level that neither spurred nor restrained economic growth. 
 The complications associated with inflation ''suggest that reliance on a single summary measure such as a neutral real interest rate would be unwise as a strategy for formulating monetary policy,'' Mr. Greenspan said in a written response on Nov. 28 to questions submitted by Representative Jim Saxton, chairman of the Joint Economic Committee of Congress, after Mr. Greenspan's testimony on Nov. 3. The panel released the responses on Wednesday.
 The Fed has raised the benchmark short-term interest rate by three percentage points in 12 quarter-point moves since June 2004, pushing the rate to 4 percent, and many economists expect another quarter-point increase when its rate-setting committee meets on Tuesday. 
 Mr. Greenspan, 79, the Fed's chairman since 1987, will retire after the meeting on Jan. 31. His nominated successor, Ben S. Bernanke, awaits Senate approval.
 While Mr. Bernanke has promised to continue Mr. Greenspan's policies, one matter on which they differ is whether the Fed should state a numerical inflation goal, a practice Mr. Bernanke says would increase the Fed's transparency. Mr. Greenspan previously said that stated rules would limit the Fed's flexibility.
 In the letter to Mr. Saxton, Mr. Greenspan wrote: ''It is impossible to know with any certainty when the neutral rate has been reached. When inflation is too high or too low aiming for a neutral funds rate in the near term would not be appropriate.''
 Current Fed practices, he said, ''strike a reasonable balance between transparency and the degree of confidentiality appropriate to support the policy process.''
 ''Excessive transparency,'' he said, ''could inhibit policy makers, making them less spontaneous in their remarks and less willing to explore new ideas.''
 Asked why long-term bond and mortgage rates had declined even as the Fed raised short-term rates, Mr. Greenspan said that lower inflation, high global savings and ''low levels of intended investment'' had pushed down long-term rates worldwide in the last 10 years.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, early last month. (Photo by David Scull/Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); INFLATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); MORTGAGE RATES (73%); BONDS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); APPROVALS (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (69%) United States Economy; Credit

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (93%); JIM SAXTON (79%); BEN BERNANKE (78%) Alan (Chmn) Greenspan; Jim (Rep) Saxton

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2005



164 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1017 words

HEADLINE: Bush Shifts Priorities in Rebuilding Iraq to Smaller Projects

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and JAMES GLANZ

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 7 

 BODY:
President Bush said Wednesday that the strategy for rebuilding Iraq was shifting to smaller, more visible projects, while he conceded that the American effort to rebuild Iraq had been ridden with early mistakes.
 ''Reconstruction has not always gone as well as we had hoped,'' Mr. Bush said, in an admission that paralleled his concession last week, in the first of four speeches laying out his Iraq strategy, that the United States had not properly armed and trained Iraqis to resist insurgents.
But he argued that the shift in rebuilding was already drawing Iraqis away from the insurgency plaguing the country. He cited, at length, examples from the rebuilding of Najaf and Mosul, two cities that have been the site of repeated battles and bombings, and that he contended are now coming to life. 
 Mr. Bush's admission was notable because the administration's critics -- and Iraqis themselves -- have long argued that the early focus on huge electricity, water and fuel projects was misguided, as was the overreliance on huge American conglomerates to run the programs, a strategy that Mr. Bush indicated was ending. 
 Within the administration, some officials acknowledged that the White House had ignored specific warnings about these flaws before the invasion in March 2003. Mr. Bush's somewhat chastened tone appeared to reflect a new White House strategy of admitting some errors to improve the chances of winning consensus on what he calls a new national ''plan for victory.''
 The atmospherics of Mr. Bush's speech were also markedly different from his recent addresses on Iraq, which have been given in front of enthusiastic audiences, often on military bases. On Wednesday he spoke at the Council on Foreign Relations, before an audience that included many who were clearly skeptical, and some highly critical, of the strategy and Mr. Bush's competency. 
 Instead of the wild cheers he got last week at the United States Naval Academy, where he described changes in military strategy, there was polite and brief applause. The White House declined a request for Mr. Bush to follow council tradition and take questions at the end of his speech. 
 Mr. Bush was introduced by Richard N. Haass, the council's president and a senior official in the State Department during the president's first term. Since leaving the government Mr. Haass has termed the invasion of Iraq a ''war of choice,'' a characterization the White House rejects. 
 Mr. Bush's words were tinged with caution, and an acknowledgment of how much remained to be done. ''Corruption is a problem at both the national and local levels of the Iraqi government,'' he said, an issue he had rarely discussed. He also spoke of how militia groups had infiltrated security forces, ''especially the Iraqi police.'' 
 Mr. Bush acknowledged that when reconstruction began, ''our focus was on repairing and building large-scale infrastructure -- such as electrical plans and large water treatment facilities.'' But, he said, ''we found our approach was not meeting the priorities of the Iraqi people.'' The new projects became targets for terrorists, and contracts did not flow to Iraqi companies. 
 Now, he said, that has changed. ''The terrorists and Saddamists have been able to slow progress, but they haven't been able to stop it,'' he said.
 The decision to make huge projects the centerpieces for rebuilding came directly from Pentagon-controlled agencies that ran Iraq after the invasion. But even before the invasion, administration officials now concede, there were warnings from the State Department that smaller, more focused reconstruction projects had worked in other war-torn countries and might be more suitable for Iraq.
 James Kunder, an assistant administrator at the United States Agency for International Development, which lost its argument for a small-is-better approach, said he did not think opposing views on reconstruction were actively stifled.
 ''That debate was a fair debate, it was an open debate, and truth be told, even though I might have gone a different way, those folks had a good argument,'' Mr. Kunder said.
 Some experts said the president's new stance could be forming too late to do much good. ''It was a much more realistic tone than I've ever seen,'' said Rick Barton, co-director of the post-conflict reconstruction project at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. ''This approach probably would have been fine when we were saying it one year ago, two years ago, but I just don't think the margins are as generous now.''
 Depending on how the president's words were parsed, it appeared that he might have been signaling an even larger shift, to a strategy in which America would focus on developing the Iraqi economy and pools of technical expertise in its ministries so Iraqis could carry on much of the reconstruction themselves.
 ''What you're seeing here is a recalibration and an additional emphasis,'' Mr. Kunder said.
 An even more basic question is where the money for reconstruction would come from if the United States stopped paying for much of it. Iraqi and American officials have repeatedly conceded that little progress is likely until Iraq reduces its crippling subsidies for food and fuel. But after fatal rioting broke out in Yemen when the government there reduced subsidies, there may be little incentive to try the experiment in violence-torn Iraq.
 Mr. Bush did not address this problem directly, saying only that the United States wanted to help ''establish the institutions of a market economy.'' With his examples of what he called reconstruction progress in Najaf and Mosul, he also hinted at another key element of American strategy: giving more authority to provincial governments at the expense of the traditional center of power in Baghdad.
 ''It can take years of hard work to build a healthy civil society,'' Mr. Bush told the council's members. But, he said, Iraqis are ''learning that democracy is the only way to build a just and peaceful society, because it's the only system that gives every citizen a voice in determining its future.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush at the Council on Foreign Relations yesterday in Washington. He conceded errors in initial plans for reconstruction in Iraq. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (91%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); IRAQ WAR (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); BOMBINGS (73%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (71%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (68%); POLICE FORCES (66%); NAVIES (63%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (63%); FOREIGN POLICY (63%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (60%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%) 

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%) David E Sanger; James Glanz; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2005



165 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1402 words

HEADLINE: Gulf Planning Roils Residents

BYLINE: By BRADFORD McKEE

DATELINE: BILOXI, Miss. 

 BODY:
EVER since the water rose over Andrea Harris's white bungalow on Elmer Street during Hurricane Katrina, Ms. Harris has been keeping a scrapbook. It holds three daily prayers, news clippings, the business cards of people who have helped her and angry letters to those who have not -- including the Federal Emergency Management Agency, which she said took two months to deliver trailers. Until then, she and her neighbors lived in tents.
 Now her scrapbook is filling with new worries. At a town meeting Nov. 30, Ms. Harris, 43, and her neighbors had gotten their first glimpse of new plans for Biloxi, developed by a state commission organized by Gov. Haley Barbour and a group of architects known as the Congress for the New Urbanism.
The plans made passing references to restoring sleepy older neighborhoods like hers, but focused heavily on remaking Biloxi as a more polished tourist magnet to rival Paradise Island. The plans proposed changing Highway 90 along Biloxi's coast, home to several of its casinos, into a new ''Beach Boulevard.'' They also envisioned recreating a fishing harbor as a ''seafood village,'' with clusters of condominiums, stores and restaurants. And it envisioned a streetcar running through town to shuttle people to new resorts and casinos. 
 ''We want to see the casino activity here go beyond gaming,'' said Elizabeth Moule, an architect in Pasadena, Calif., and a founder of the New Urbanist group. ''You're really competing with Myrtle Beach.''
 But for homeowners like Ms. Harris, golf courses and shopping promenades are not a priority. ''It's like they're making it for Casino Row,'' she said last week. Her hair was pulled back in a loose braid, and her eyes flashed from exhaustion to fury. ''Are you trying to turn this into a Sin City, or what?''
 The Commission on Recovery, Rebuilding and Renewal, established in late September, is charged with planning the reconstruction of 11 coastal towns, including Biloxi, along with issuing a broader set of recovery guidelines due at the end of December. The town plans, drawn up in about six weeks, are meant to serve as blueprints for state and local leaders. 
 The New Urbanists, who organized in 1993, have become controversial for opposing suburban sprawl, instead designing old-fashioned town centers with picturesque streets lined by traditional parks, dense housing and stores. New Urbanism's critics, mostly modernist architects and academics, consider its designs a form of nostalgia catering to developers and rich homeowners, too rigid and retrograde for contemporary needs.
 But politicians in the hurricane zone are finding New Urbanism's formulas for rebuilding persuasive. Last week, following Governor Barbour's lead in inviting New Urbanists to develop plans, the Louisiana Recovery Authority said it had hired three firms to develop ''a comprehensive regional vision,'' for areas outside New Orleans hit by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. The firms include those of the leading New Urbanists, Andres Duany and Elizabeth Plater-Zyberk of Miami and Peter Calthorpe of Berkeley, Calif.
 This week, KB Home, one of the nation's largest homebuilding companies, announced plans to build up to 20,000 houses across the Mississippi River from New Orleans, near Avondale. KB Home specializes in the type of suburban tract development that the New Urbanist movement opposes.
 Ms. Harris knew nothing of the New Urbanists. She went to the meeting hoping for answers to basic questions, such as what the new building codes and flood elevations for Biloxi will be, so she and her neighbors can begin rebuilding their houses. 
 She found the town meetings had more to do with plans for replacing her neighborhood than restoring it. Lately, she and several neighbors said, surveyors have started showing up daily on her ruined street, some taking pictures of their houses and one bearing a plan that would place a resort on her property. ''We were told by the surveyors that a golf course was going to run through my yard,'' Ms. Harris said.
 Like other people in the neighborhood, called Point Cadet, she said she wonders whether city officials will encourage her and her neighbors to stay put and rebuild the houses they own, or whether they will be run off to make the town a tourist playground. Before the storm, Point Cadet was home to several floating casinos. In October, Governor Barbour signed a law that allows casinos to be built on land within 800 feet of the water, rather than restricting them to floating barges. At least one is planned for Point Cadet.
 With their hold on Gulf Coast planning, the New Urbanists face their biggest task to date. In the past, many of their developments have been built on virgin sites, or were made to replace run-down public housing in cities. Now they have large areas of 11 badly damaged towns, from Waveland eastward to Pascagoula, to serve as blank slates. 
 ''They're approaching it as if it's raw land,'' said William Morrish, a professor of architecture at the University of Virginia. In 1993, Mr. Morrish was a founding member of the New Urbanist group but later broke away over what he believed was intolerance toward new eclectic forms of architecture and urban design. ''On the issues of transportation and transit, they've done an excellent job,'' Mr. Morrish said. But he objected to what he said was the New Urbanists' imposing particular architectural styles -- namely ''neotraditional'' styles -- in a place like Mississippi.
 ''A particular style does not promote a certain kind of sustainability or democracy,'' Mr. Morrish added. ''You can't approach building a city like it's a 30-acre development.''
 Ms. Harris left the meeting unsatisfied. ''It's like they just push us away,'' she said. She found the plans mostly ''worried about the beachfront, condominiums, the fishing harbor.'' She did not like what she heard about plans for housing. ''They said 'affordable low-income housing,' '' she recalled. ''We already own our homes.''
 Her concerns, she said, have not been alleviated by her mayor, A. J. Holloway, or by William Stallworth, her city council member, both of whom, she said, had turned away from her questions in public meetings.
 Mr. Holloway disputed her account. ''I never turned my back on anybody,'' he said. He said he did not know the precise location of Elmer Street. ''I do know that Elmer Street won't be a casino,'' Mr. Holloway said. ''But somebody might be surveying. It's not anything the city is doing.'' Mr. Stallworth was traveling and could not be reached.
 Ms. Harris's fears are resounding through Point Cadet's shattered streets as wholesale land clearing by the government rolls slowly westward from the point's eastern tip. Three blocks from the water on Oak Street, Martha Bryant, 44, a licensed contractor, said she is rebuilding her house with her friend, Richard Fredrickson, despite what she sees as resistance from the city.
 ''They've made my life a living hell since they found out I'm going to move back there,'' Ms. Bryant said, requiring permits that she found excessive.
 She noted that plans for a $400 million Golden Nugget resort with a 60,000-square-foot casino near her home were announced in late November.
 ''They want to put up an amusement park, a golf course,'' she said. ''I'm east of Oak Street. They're saying everything east of Oak is going to go.''
 Ms. Bryant, who owns a painting business, erected a multicolored plywood sign on the front of her house that reads: ''Hell No I Won't Go.''
 Her neighbor Elaine Parker, 61, with whom Ms. Bryant made a pact not to selltheir houses, hung a protest sign as well. It read: ''Now Recruiting Point Cadet Militia People vs. City.''
 Soon after she hung the sign behind her front fence, a city code enforcement officer came and took it down, she said, for being on city property.
 ''Of course, you had to be born and raised on Point Cadet to understand the humor in it,'' Ms. Parker said. Point Cadet has historically been a tough part of town. ''We've lost everything, and now are you going to take my sense of humor away from me?''
 Ms. Parker asked the enforcement officer whether she could hang the sign on her house, well within her property line. ''He said a citation will be issued and you will be put in jail for up to two days,'' she recalled.
 ''Can I get 30 days?'' she said she asked him. ''Because three hots and a cot is more than I got.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: STARTING OVER -- Andrea Harris outside her bungalow in Biloxi
inset, a blueprint for proposed rebuilding. (Photo by James Edward Bates for The New York Times)(pg. F1)
BLANK SLATE? -- In Biloxi, Richard Fredrickson stops by the house of his friend Martha Bryant, who said she will rebuild despite proposed plans to turn the area into a resort
below, renderings of Gulfport redevelopment in the New Urbanist style. (Photos by James Edward Bates for The New York Times
 renderings below, Mississippi Renewal Forum)(pg. F4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); CITIES (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); WEATHER (78%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (78%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); GOVERNORS (74%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (73%); SUBURBS (73%); CONDOMINIUMS (71%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (71%); RESTAURANTS (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); RESORTS (69%); HARBORS & PORTS (66%); RETAILERS (66%) Area Planning and Renewal; Housing; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Restoration and Rehabilitation; Travel and Vacations

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (58%) Congress of the New Urbanism

PERSON: HALEY BARBOUR (58%) Bradford Mckee

GEOGRAPHIC: BILOXI, MS, USA (95%); GULFPORT, MS, USA (79%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (95%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) Biloxi (Miss); Biloxi (Miss)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2005



166 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 673 words

HEADLINE: House Votes to Block Alternative-Tax Rise 

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 7 

 BODY:
Under pressure to prevent a big tax increase next year for millions of middle-income families, the Republican-controlled House passed a bill on Wednesday that would block an increase in the alternative minimum tax for one year at a cost of $30 billion.
 The measure, approved 414 to 4, would prevent a tax increase for 2006 that would have affected 2 million families in New York and about 15 million nationwide. 
''It's been called the stealth tax, a ticking time bomb for the middle class, and even the Darth Vader of the tax code,'' said Representative Thomas M. Reynolds, Republican of New York, who sponsored the bill. 
 But while the vote was almost unanimous, the bill's prospects remained entangled in a broader battle in Congress over extending President Bush's tax cuts. If House Republicans push through their entire agenda, those cuts could total more than $90 billion over five years.
 In addition to voting on the alternative minimum tax, the House approved $7.1 billion in tax cuts for Gulf Coast areas damaged by Hurricane Katrina. But in a split with the Senate, the House bill would prohibit any of those tax cuts from going to casinos, racetracks and country clubs.
 On Thursday, House leaders hope to win approval for their top priority this week: a $56 billion tax cut that would extend President Bush's tax cuts for stock dividends.
 House and Senate Republican leaders also edged closer on Wednesday toward an agreement to cut as much as $45 billion over the next five years from domestic programs like Medicaid, food stamps, student loans and child-support enforcement. In a rush to finish as much work as possible before Christmas, the House also passed a bill, ardently sought by lawmakers from New York and other major cities, that would extend federal subsidies for terrorism-risk insurance. 
 But the Bush administration warned that it ''strongly opposed'' the terrorism insurance bill, saying it would expand rather than reduce the federal government's role as insurer of last resort.
 The main focus on Wednesday was tax cuts, and in particular another one-year cut in the alternative minimum tax.
 The tax was originally created to stop the nation's wealthiest people from taking too much advantage of special tax breaks. But in part because it is not adjusted for inflation, the tax is set to engulf millions of families with incomes below $100,000 and the majority of families with incomes from $100,000 to $200,000.
 The battle in Congress is not over the alternative minimum tax itself, but over whether it should be included in a $70 billion package that would include an extension of Mr. Bush's 2001 tax cut for stock dividends and capital gains.
 The White House and House Republican leaders are pushing to extend that tax cut, which expires at the end of 2008, at a cost of $20 billion.
 Under the ''reconciliation'' procedures adopted this year, any tax cuts that are included in the $70-billion reconciliation tax bill can pass the Senate by a simple majority. But any more than $70 billion in tax cuts would need 60 votes -- a tougher hurdle for Republicans. 
 The Senate's reconciliation bill includes $27 billion for a one-year reprieve from the alternative minimum tax, but it would not extend Mr. Bush's tax cut for stock dividends.
 House Republicans are betting that Senate Democrats will go along with a stand-alone bill on the alternative minimum tax, even if that makes it easier to extend Mr. Bush's tax cut for stock dividends as part of the reconciliation bill.
 The calculation may well prove correct. Senator Max Baucus of Montana, the senior Democrat on the Senate Finance Committee, welcomed the House bill as a ''good first step to protect middle-income families.''
 Democratic-leaning states on the East and West Coasts would be hit the hardest by the alternative tax, mainly because they have the highest concentration of wealthy households.
 New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, Massachusetts and California have the highest percentages of families that would face the tax next year.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 17, 2005

 CORRECTION:
An article on Dec. 8 about the House's vote to block an increase in the alternative minimum tax misstated the year that taxes for stock dividends and capital gains were initially cut. It was 2003, not 2001. (The error was repeated in an article on Dec. 9 about the House's completing a vote on $95 billion in tax cuts.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX LAW (91%); TAX INCREASES (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); FAMILY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); APPROVALS (78%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); TERRORISM (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); INSURANCE (69%); MEDICAID (69%); HURRICANE KATRINA (67%); WAR RISKS & TERRORISM INSURANCE (67%); HURRICANES (67%); SPECIALTY LINES INSURANCE (67%); TROPICAL STORMS (67%); DIVIDENDS (64%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (50%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (50%) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (88%); THOMAS M REYNOLDS (58%) Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2005



167 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 8, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: Report Says States Aim Low in Science Classes

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 7 

 BODY:
Nearly half the states are doing a poor job of setting high academic standards for science in public schools, according to a new report that examined science in anticipation of 2007, when states will be required to administer tests in the subject under President Bush's signature education law.
 The report, released Wednesday by the Thomas B. Fordham Institute, suggests that the focus on reading and math as required subjects for testing under the federal law, No Child Left Behind, has turned attention away from science, contributing to a failure of American children to stay competitive in science with their counterparts abroad. 
The report also appears to support concerns raised by a growing number of university officials and corporate executives, who say that the failure to produce students well-prepared in science is undermining the country's production of scientists and engineers and putting the nation's economic future in jeopardy.
 Dozens of academic, corporate and Congressional leaders emerged from a meeting on competitiveness here on Tuesday to warn that the nation needs to expand its talent pool in science to stay ahead of countries like China and India that put vast resources into science education.
 ''Many states are not yet serious about teaching science,'' said Michael Petrilli, vice president for national programs and policy of the institute, a group that supports education reform. ''The first step is to set higher expectations, and too many states have low or a lack of expectations to respond to the new global competitiveness.''
 Education Secretary Margaret Spellings, a strong proponent of more testing to measure how effectively schools are teaching, said she was not surprised by the findings.
 ''I'm a what-gets-measured-gets-done kind of gal,'' she said in an interview. She cited the reluctance of many districts to teach algebra before high school as an illustration of the nation's problem with science and math, adding, ''If children are not taking it until the ninth grade or ever, we are in a world of hurt.''
 The report set out to identify how states set academic standards for science, asking whether their courses include suitably challenging content, whether they are properly organized and whether they incorporate ''pseudoscientific fads or politics,'' a reference to the recent drive to teach intelligent design as an alternative explanation to evolution.
 The results, a grade ranking for each state and the District of Columbia, serve as a marker for progress as the next phase of the No Child Left Behind law approaches. 
 Starting with the 2007-2008 academic year, science will become a subject that students will be tested on at least once in grades 3-5, once in grades 6-9 and once in grades 10-12 -- although the results will not be used to measure whether a school has made ''adequate yearly progress,'' as is the case with reading and math. Schools that fail to make progress are subject to sanctions. 
 Ms. Spellings said she favors using testing for additional subjects, like science, to assess progress. The authors of the report analyzed each state and awarded a numerical score that translated to a grade. Only seven states, including New York and California, got an A, with 12 receiving a B, and 8 plus the District of Columbia receiving a C. Seven states got a D, and 15 got an F. Iowa was not included in the report because it does not set standards for any subject.
 In a separate assessment of how states are currently teaching evolution, the authors awarded 22 states a D or F, with Kansas winning a special distinction, F minus, for its recent decision to redefine science so that it would not be explicitly limited to natural explanations, and allow for the teaching of alternative theories, an opening to consideration of intelligent design.
 The report cited mounting ''religious and political pressures'' over the last five years as undermining the teaching of evolution. But Paul R. Gross, its chief author, said in an interview that a willingness by schools in Kansas and elsewhere to consider alternative theories to evolution was only a small part of a ''larger cultural problem.''
 Mr. Gross said that more critical has been a retreat from an emphasis on all science instruction, which is leaving students ungrounded in basic subjects like biology, human physiology and the environment.
 ''In general,'' Mr. Gross said, ''science education is not good enough now in the context of what people need to know in a reasonably effective way in our culture.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (92%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); EDUCATION LAW (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (89%); CHILDREN (89%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATION REFORM (78%); CORE CURRICULUM (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (74%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); CREATIONISM (60%) 

ORGANIZATION: Fordham, Thomas B, Institute

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); MARGARET SPELLINGS (58%) Michael Janofsky; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (79%); INDIA (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2005



168 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; 36 HOURS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1263 words

HEADLINE: Tampa, Fla.

BYLINE: By CINDY PRICE

 BODY:
POOR Tampa. Upstaged by glitzy, sophisticated Miami and kid-frenzied Orlando, Tampa often seems like the forgotten middle child. Don't let that fool you -- this late bloomer has an easy charm and knows it. Downtown, the lazy Hillsborough River winds through a patchwork of history-filled neighborhoods, dotted with colorful cafes and museums. Visitors dive into rich cultural heritage with a Tampa Cuban sandwich (heavy on Genoa salami along with the usual ham) in Ybor City, or wander along the quaint, shop-filled streets of South Tampa. A few miles west, near St. Petersburg, powder-soft beaches lean into warm Gulf of Mexico waters. By the time night falls and the outdoor bars light up with music, you get the feeling this young urban paradise has just been biding its time. CINDY PRICE

Friday 


4 p.m.
1. Cigarville
Ybor City wasn't always a backdrop for ''Girls Gone Wild'' videos. In its first incarnation, Ybor (pronounced EE-bore) City was home to the huge cigar factories that dominated Tampa's economy at the turn of the 20th century. The Cuban and Spanish migrant workers who filled the streets have long since moved on, but much of their legacy remains. Poke your head in the Columbia Restaurant's Cigar Store (2103 East Seventh Avenue, 813-247-2469) before 5 p.m. to catch workers hand-rolling cigars. Afterward, take a stroll down brick-lined Seventh Avenue, filled with boutiques, cafes and lively outdoor bars. Bikers, suits, college kids and tourists flock to the happy hour scene for a laid-back beer before the hard partying late-night set takes to the streets.

7 p.m.
2. Tale of Two Tapas
Tampans argue fervently for their favorite tapas bar, but you can decide for yourself. At Ceviche (2109 Bayshore Boulevard, 813-250-0203), the mood is dark and sexy and the sangria (small pitcher, $16.75) spectacular. About a mile north, the family-run Sangria's (315 South Howard Avenue, 813-258-0393) puts out a homey vibe, with yellow walls and bright open windows. The Yankees stars Tino Martinez and Alex Rodriguez have been spotted here, and it's easy to see why. A flaky puff-pastry-wrapped brie with fresh berries ($9) could ease the pain of any loss.

11 p.m.
3. Rack 'n' Roll
Only the hip little neighborhood of Hyde Park would try to pull off a pool hall-cum-sushi joint. The Rack (1809 West Platt Street, 813-250-1595) nails it, though, and actually serves some of the freshest sushi in town. It's also a fantastic bar, with pool tables ($8 an hour) and faux red leather banquettes. If a late-night snack is in order (blame the tapas), split the massive Volcano roll ($11.95), an inside-out California roll with grouper, crab, salmon and lobster, drizzled in a sweet creamy sauce.

Saturday

9:30 a.m.
4. Cat Collective
Get your adrenaline going with a guided tour ($20) at Big Cat Rescue (12802 Easy Street, 813-920-4130), where a walk through the 45-acre, tree-filled sanctuary brings you almost nose to nose with more than 150 exotic cats, including African lions, black leopards, ocelots and pumas. Each cat has a story: Nikita was seized in a drug raid; Buffy has retired from Ringling Brothers. There's even a lazy housecat whose only specialty is trying the patience of the staff.

Noon
5. Ice Cream Confidential
It's likely that the 73-year-old Alfredo Naranjo and his wife, Sylvia, have never heard of the indie-food blog Chowhound.com, but their tiny, unassuming Snack City (2506 West Columbus Drive, 813-872-7502) pops up regularly on the message boards. Mr. Naranjo swears he learned to make ice cream in the library, but if this ice cream is by the book, then everyone else must be illiterate. A rich, creamy 8-ounce mango ice cream ($1.50) is so silky it defies logic. It might be the 16 percent cream he employs in his fresh, daily batches, but who's asking?

2 p.m.
6. Still Water
There's plenty to do across Tampa Bay at Fort De Soto County Park (3500 Pinellas Bayway South, Tierra Verde; 727-582-2267) by way of bike or kayak, but its rare natural beauty is best suited for doing absolutely nothing. The park's North Beach was recently named the best beach in America by Dr. Beach (Stephen Leatherman, director of the Laboratory for Coastal Research at Florida International University), but late fall finds its placid, warm waters nearly empty. Park at the northern end of North Beach and find a remote strip of sand with waters as clear as a fresh-water stream.

6 p.m.
7. A Cut Above
It's a telling sign that Bern Laxer, the late owner of the world-renowned Bern's Steak House (1208 South Howard Avenue, 813-251-2421), was once a vegetarian. You get the feeling this guy does not want you to take steak for granted. Waiters train for an entire year, part of which is spent on Bern's organic farm, before they are allowed to walk customers through the steak options -- cut, width, weight, temperature. The Chateaubriand is a customer favorite, but the 10-ounce Delmonico ($35.44) is the juiciest cut in town. Afterward, ask your waiter for a tour of the kitchen and enormous wine cellar, then mosey upstairs to the lavish dessert room.

9:30 p.m.
8. Fright Night Theater
A late movie at the Tampa Theater (711 North Franklin Street, 813-274-8286; $8), a beautifully restored 1926 movie palace, begins with a wild trill of the mighty Wurlitzer organ. Hang out long enough in the dark, gargoyle-filled theater and risk what staffers call ''getting Finked'' -- a brush with the mischievous late projectionist, Foster Finley, who was known as Fink. Later, soothe your nerves next door at the Hub (719 North Franklin Street, 813-229-1553), a smoky old dive with a fantastic jukebox.

Sunday

9 a.m.
9. Coffee and Politics
Can the fate of America really come down to a tiny lime-green coffee shop in West Tampa? It just might, if you consider Florida's power to swing national elections. Maybe that's why political luminaries like John Kerry and Tipper Gore have dropped into the West Tampa Sandwich Shop (3904 North Armenia Avenue, 813-873-7104), where a Latin progressive movement is in full effect. Sunday morning finds patrons dunking toasted Cuban bread ($.90) in steaming mugs of cafe con leche ($.95) and talking politics long into the afternoon.

1 p.m.
10. Pigskin Pirates
Sunday in Tampa means one thing -- the Bucs, baby. Raymond James Stadium, home of the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, is a monster arena: a fake pirate ship looms over one of the end zones and Big Nasty, a die-hard fan slathered in Kiss-like makeup and sporting a hard hat with rhino horn, wreaks havoc on the 20-yard line. It's a real scene, but with the team claiming a waiting list about 110,000 people deep, your best bet for getting in is craigslist (www.tampa.craigslist.org/tix). If all else fails, hard-core fans hit Barnacles (926 Providence Road, 813-653-0959) for its 457 television screens. A laid-back alternative is Tate Brothers Pizza (235 East Davis Boulevard, 813-251-2767) on Davis Islands, where Sundays require nothing more than flip-flops, a couple of big televisions and maybe a pretty smile from the bartender, Jenn.

THE BASICS

A Refuge From Winter
 Tampa is about a three-hour flight from New York, and Travelocity.com offers inexpensive last-minute vacation packages. The city is spread out; you will want a rental car.
 Grand Hyatt Tampa Bay (2900 Bayport Drive, 813-874-1234) is a big luxury hotel. Locals say a cocktail at top-floor Armani's comes with the best sunset view in town. Rooms start at $230.
 A quaint rustic cabin ($150 a night a person) at the Big Cat Rescue (12802 Easy Street, 813-920-4130) is located in the sanctuary, just steps from those fierce kitties. Sleep tight.

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photographs by Phillippe Diederich for The New York Times)Map of Florida highlighting Tampa and points of interest.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); DRINKING PLACES (76%); TOBACCO STORES (75%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); TOBACCO MFG (67%); MIGRANT WORKERS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: ALEX RODRIGUEZ (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (97%); MIAMI, FL, USA (92%) FLORIDA, USA (97%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (76%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2005



169 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 5; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1618 words

HEADLINE: Seaside At 25: Troubles In Paradise

BYLINE: By FRED A. BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
SEASIDE, Fla., which will be 25 years old in 2006, is America's most imitated town. With its pastel-colored houses and front porches overlooking narrow, brick-paved streets, it has influenced hundreds of communities, which combine a nostalgia for small-town life with a serious effort to reduce suburban sprawl -- and dependence on the auto -- by putting buildings close together.
 So popular are the ''New Urbanist'' ideas spawned at Seaside a quarter century ago that the town's designers, the Miami-based team of Andres Duany and Elizabeth Plater-Zyberk, have been called in by Gov. Haley Barbour of Mississippi to apply their principles to communities destroyed by Hurricane Katrina. An organization founded by the couple, the Congress for the New Urbanism, is taking the lead in making plans for rebuilding the coast.
But for all its influence, Seaside has problems that other towns would hardly want to imitate. 
 The town that in the film ''The Truman Show'' signified a perfect, self-contained world has to deal with an influx of tourists who have overloaded its streets with cars. It's even gotten to the point where Seaside's founder, Robert Davis, is considering valet parking. 
 Plus, detractors say, Seaside has never really proved anything about how Americans want to live, because the majority of its homeowners reside in places like Mobile and Atlanta and visit only a few weeks each summer.
 In October, when many of those homeowners arrived for the annual owners' weekend -- a convivial get-together and a chance to discuss issues facing the town -- they were greeted by a shocking sight. 
 Seaside's stately white beach pavilions overlooking the Gulf of Mexico were boarded up and festooned with ''keep out'' signs. Wooden stairways connecting the pavilions to beaches 40 feet below were missing.
 The damage occurred when Hurricane Dennis made landfall near Seaside in July, washing away about 10 feet of the dunes along the gulf. The damage to houses was minimal, a vindication of a master plan in which most buildings were kept hundreds of feet from the water. 
 Still, Mr. Davis, Seaside's developer, who now lives much of the year in San Francisco, called the sight ''a bit unnerving.'' He added, ''We thought we had set the buildings back far enough that we had a huge dune system to absorb the shock of storms.''
 Dennis left the beach far narrower than it had been, and grayer, too; much of the beach's white sand was carried off by the storm. Since the summer, two of the white-painted wooden stairways to the beach have been replaced by far less attractive metal steps that can be dismantled and stored when storms threaten the coast. 
 BUT Seaside's problems aren't just aesthetic. For the first time, the loss of so much of the dunes has left houses closest to the ocean -- one of which is on the market for nearly $6 million -- vulnerable to erosion.
 ''Something has to be done,'' said Mark DuPuis, a pathologist from Atlanta and a Seaside homeowner.
 But what has to be done isn't exactly clear. Adding jetties and seawalls, as some have proposed, may only lead to further beach erosion. ''Everything that someone says will help, someone else believes will make things worse,'' Mr. DuPuis observed. 
 Dave Schmit, a Georgia developer who built a house in Seaside in 2002, said: ''We've got to find a way to protect our most valuable asset. These are second homes, and people go there for the beach.'' 
 Mr. Davis said, ''We're talking to some of the best scientists and coastal engineers we can find, and we'll get second or third opinions.'' But, he said, ''There's no perfect solution.''
 Owners have rallied around Mr. Davis. Jacky Barker, who has sold real estate at Seaside for 25 years, said, ''People here haven't just bought into Seaside financially; they've bought into it emotionally.'' Owners post their names -- and the punning names of their houses -- on hand-lettered signs out front.
 They have been handsomely rewarded for their loyalty to Seaside. Houses that sold for $100,000 in the 1980's are now valued in the millions. The least expensive property on the market, a one-bedroom, 825-square-foot condo above a commercial building, is being offered for $825,000, about as much as a similar apartment in Manhattan. The unit is called Cork the Whine. 
 Lee Crum, a commercial photographer who has been vacationing in Seaside for more than 20 years, said that he could not believe prices would continue to increase. Then again, he acknowledged, he has been saying the same thing since the 1980's, when lots were selling for $15,000. ''Every year,'' he said, ''I stand amazed.'' 
 But there is evidence that prices have peaked. The town's official Web site, www.seasidefl.com, lists 22 houses -- and two building lots -- for sale. In the past, there were usually only 10 or 12 properties on the market, Ms. Barker said. 
 Seaside houses command a steep premium over houses in the surrounding areas. Stephen Robbins, a sales agent at Seagrove on the Beach Realty, said that before the summer, houses in Old Seagrove, an enclave immediately east of Seaside, were selling for about $700 a square foot, and houses in Seaside for about $1,300 -- practically double.
 But, he said: ''There are no buyers in the area right now. Nothing is selling.'' 
 Mr. Schmit, the Seaside homeowner, called the lack of sales activity ''a knee-jerk reaction to the hurricanes.'' But he added, ''I'm guessing that by next spring, buyers will return.''
 At the same time, Seaside's rental program -- a source of income for a large majority of Seaside's 350 owners -- has suffered its own hurricane damage. Mr. Schmit said that there were cancellations because of the storms. The Seaside Web site now offers last-minute getaways ''starting at $199 with a next-day arrival.''
 Online calendars indicated that many houses are hardly booked (though winter, when northern Florida is anything but tropical, is not Seaside's high season). Still, with the beach less appealing, Mr. DuPuis said, ''it's going to be harder for owners to earn the rental income they've come to expect.'' 
 Hurricane damage is far from Seaside's only problem. In many ways, the town is struggling against its own success. 
 Twenty-five years ago, Seaside occupied an otherwise deserted stretch of the Florida Panhandle (so far west it's in the Central time zone). The designers, Mr. Duany and Ms. Plater-Zyberk, didn't do anything to separate the town from the road that runs through it; after all, there was almost no traffic.
 Now thousands of people pass through Seaside every summer day. And many of them stop to visit its shops and restaurants. The result: cars are parked everywhere, and S.U.V.'s clog streets designed for bicycles and feet.
 The traffic and parking problems mean that Seaside's gulf-front homes -- one of which is on the market at $5,985,000 -- are stranded between a badly diminished beach on one side and, at peak times, a knot of traffic on the other. But Mr. Davis said congestion is a sign that Seaside has succeeded. ''All of the places in the world we want to visit -- New York, London, Paris, Rome -- they all have parking problems.''
 He added, ''What we're going to have to move toward is parking management, getting people to park on the far side of town, which you can do with valet parking and better signage.''
 Twenty years ago, Seaside's creators were determined to banish the auto by letting people work and shop near home. They planned to bring rich and poor together -- a possibility defeated by the dizzying appreciation in real estate prices.
 ''We failed miserably at maintaining affordable housing stock,'' Mr. Davis said. ''And we have no industry to speak of, except for tourism.''
 But Mr. Davis sees a bright side to the town's transitory nature: ''Architects come to Seaside from all over to study town planning. They couldn't do it as effectively if we didn't have the rentals.'' Earlier this month, the Seaside Institute, founded by Mr. Davis, brought hundreds of planners and developers together to discuss, as the official program put it, ''the principles of New Urbanism and their application in the marketplace today.'' Mr. Duany was a featured speaker.
 The town Mr. Duany designed at the start of his career has reached an age where preservation of buildings and landscapes is an issue. Henry F. Bissell, a Key Bank executive from Atlanta who owns a house in Seaside, said that about 18 months ago, homeowners began to notice that ''the common areas, the landscaping and lighting, had started to look run-down in some areas.'' The homeowners' representatives on the town council, he said, faced the issue ''head on,'' and ''things have improved.'' 
 Mr. Bissell said that Seaside homeowners are committed to maintaining the community -- even if the $1,600 each contributed to beach renourishment last year was washed away by Dennis. Robert Davis, he said, ''is as patient as any developer you'll ever find, and we give him the benefit of the doubt.''
 The days when Seaside was the only game around are over. It now competes for rental income with numerous other communities in the area.
 Immediately to the west of Seaside is WaterColor, which adapted much of Seaside's aesthetic while diluting its New Urbanist principles. WaterColor covers 499 acres, to Seaside's 80. Houses at WaterColor are larger than at Seaside. They are farther apart, and most have carports.
 Seaside owners are counting on Mr. Davis to find ways to bring the first New Urbanist town into the 21st century.
 ''Seaside's got competition, and it has to keep up with the Joneses,'' Mr. DuPuis said. 
 ''It would help,'' he added, ''if we get a couple of years without bad storms.''


GRAPHIC: Photos BEACHFRONT -- Seaside is installing new aluminum stairs to replace wooden ones lost in July to Hurricane Dennis. A good bit of beach was also lost. (Photo by Phil Sears for The New York Times)(pg. F1)
NEW URBANISM -- Public walkways and lots of porches contribute to Seaside's celebrated small-town atmosphere.
 BEACH REPAIR -- The wide white-sand beach at Seaside, Fla., has become grayer and narrower. (Photographs by Phil Sears for The New York Times)(pg. F6)Map of Florida highlighting Seaside. (pg. F6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMEOWNERS (89%); BEACHES (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); HURRICANES (88%); HURRICANE KATRINA (74%); SUBURBS (71%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: HALEY BARBOUR (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2005



170 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1210 words

HEADLINE: Car Plants as Chips in Big-Stakes Game 

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD; Reporting for this article was contributed by Dan Mitchell in St. Paul, Brenda Goodman in Atlanta, Ellen Harris in St. Louis and Jeremy W. Peters in Detroit.

DATELINE: WIXOM, Mich., Dec. 8 

 BODY:
A high-stakes game of poker is under way in the automobile industry, and Chuck Buchanan is one of the chips.
 Ford's big luxury-car plant here, where Mr. Buchanan has worked for 32 years, is rumored to be on a list of plants that Ford may close under its second restructuring plan in the last four years.
Michigan officials have vowed to fight to keep the Wixom plant open. But first they have to elbow their way to a table already crowded with officials from cities and states around the country making offers to Ford, General Motors and parts suppliers like Visteon and Delphi, with all of them planning to close factories in coming months and years.
 From St. Paul to suburban St. Louis, and towns outside Atlanta and Detroit, mayors, governors, civic leaders and officials of the United Automobile Workers union all hope they have the cards to walk away the winners. 
 At stake are factories that have been a part of their communities for decades, contributed millions to tax bases, created thousands of jobs and led to comfortable lives for their employees.
 For workers, ''it's troublesome,'' said Mr. Buchanan, 56, a plant engineer who maintains machinery inside the Wixom plant.
 But for state officials, the competition has become critical to keeping big investments. ''In a perfect world, government wouldn't be in the job of offering incentives and partnerships,'' said Brian McClung, a spokesman for Gov. Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota. ''But in the world we live in, we recognize that businesses are going to make their decisions based on the bottom line.''
 Speculation over Ford's plan comes just two weeks after G.M. said it would cut a total of 30,000 jobs and shut all or part of 12 factories, including assembly plants in Oklahoma City; Spring Hill, Tenn.; Lansing, Mich.; and Doraville, Ga., near Atlanta.
 Now, a report in The Detroit News on Wednesday said Ford might close up to 10 assembly and parts plants and eliminate up to 30,000 jobs, when it announces an overhaul plan on Jan. 23 that it is calling Way Forward. Factories said to be on Ford's list for a possible shutdown include ones in St. Paul; in Hazelwood, Mo., outside St. Louis; and in Hapeville, Ga., a suburb of Atlanta.
 Officially, Ford is not discussing which plants will be sacrificed. ''We have indicated that the plan will be ready to share in January, and it's not January yet,'' a Ford spokesman, Oscar Suris, said this week. He continued, ''There's a process to these things as there always is, and we need to let that process play out.''
 But industry analysts say Ford, like G.M., has to attack its slumping market share and reverse its losses in North America. On Thursday, John Casesa, a Merrill Lynch analyst, said the cutbacks were ''the very beginning of a lengthy and disruptive restructuring of Detroit.''
 A quick drive up South Wixom Road reveals why Ford's plant here is in trouble. Row upon row of brand-new Lincoln Town Car sedans, hundreds in all, sit with snow on their roofs, waiting to be shipped to buyers who are nowhere to be found. 
 The factory, which built the most recent version of the Ford Thunderbird, and whose future was so bright a few years back that Ford was mulling whether to build Jaguars here, now works only one shift a day. Cutting shifts is often a prelude to a shutdown of a plant.
 Regardless, state officials say they are convinced that the plant can survive. ''We're very hopeful on Wixom,'' said James Epolito, president of the Michigan Economic Development Commission. 
 Michigan officials are trying to make a case that Ford, based in Dearborn since the days of its founder, Henry Ford, should consolidate its production in the state and close factories elsewhere. ''This is where they came from,'' Mr. Epolito said. ''This is where they planted the seeds on this industry.'' 
 But Rob McKenzie, president of the U.A.W. local at Ford's plant in St. Paul, disagrees with that idea.
 He is livid at reports that the St. Paul plant may close, given that it is building Ranger pickup trucks with two shifts of workers, and has assurances that it will keep building them for several more years. ''It really does upset people to see so many articles on the situation, '' Mr. McKenzie said by telephone after returning from a union meeting in Detroit.
 Still, Minnesota officials are taking no chances. The speaker of the Minnesota House has proposed turning the plant's location into a tax-free zone, while the governor is offering tax breaks and, more uniquely, suggesting that Ford draw on the state's environmental expertise to help it develop energy-efficient vehicles.
 In St. Louis, word that the future of Ford's suburban Hazelwood plant is in jeopardy has reinvigorated a drive to spare it. That worked in 2003, when Ford spared the plant after an intense lobbying campaign supported by Richard A. Gephardt, then the House minority leader, and Missouri's two United States Senators.
 Instead of Hazelwood, Ford said then that it would close its plant in Lorain, Ohio, which will shut this month.
 T. R. Carr, Hazelwood's mayor, said the city would ''listen to Ford and build a sound business case so that they will be able to make the appropriate investments and retain the Hazelwood assembly plant.''
 Victories by communities are rare, but there are enough success stories to keep community leaders encouraged. One of the best-known survival battles in industry history began 14 years ago this month, when G.M., under a plan to close 21 factories and cut 75,000 jobs, said it would spare either its assembly plant in Arlington, Tex., or its Willow Run assembly plant near Ypsilanti, Mich. 
 The move touched off a strong effort led by Ann Richards, then the governor of Texas, to spare Arlington, with promises of tax breaks and other state incentives. Ultimately, Texas beat Michigan. And while Arlington was said to be among the plants G.M. could shut in this year's round of plant closings, it survived once again.
 Georgia, which has lost one G.M. plant in recent years, now faces the closing of a second and may lose its Ford plant. So, it, too, as been aggressive. In July, it offered Ford a package of incentives including tax breaks, road improvements and other public land to keep its plant open, according to confidential documents obtained by The Atlanta Journal-Constitution. Ford has filed suit to keep the documents from being made available to the public.
 U.A.W. officials say they do not believe speculation that the plant in suburban Hapeville could be among those tapped by Ford to close.
 ''We're not basing our lives or careers on rumors,'' said S. L. Stephens, the union president there.
 In Wixom, Richard and Virginia Pullen of Hartland, Mich., both face losing their jobs if the plant closes. Mr. Pullen, 54, has been there 30 years, a few months more than Mrs. Pullen, 52. 
 Mr. Pullen said he was resigned to the interstate battle over Ford's plants. Survival is ''going to go to the highest bidder,'' he said, sitting behind the steering wheel of his red Ford Explorer on a frigid afternoon this week.
 No matter the outcome, Mrs. Pullen said she would be eager to hear Wixom's fate. ''People have been walking on eggshells for years,'' she said. ''It will be nice to know what our destiny is.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Chuck Buchanan is worried Ford will close his plant in Wixom, Mich. (Photo by Fabrizio Costantini for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 Richard Pullen said he expected the fate of the Wixom plant would be decided in an interstate bidding war. (Photo by Fabrizio Costantini for The New York Times )(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (93%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); LUXURY GOODS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); POKER (78%); PLANT CLOSINGS (77%); CLOSINGS (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); GOVERNORS (75%); MAYORS (74%); JOB CREATION (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (68%); LABOR UNIONS (68%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); VISTEON CORP (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); VC (NYSE) (57%); GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336350 MOTOR VEHICLE TRANSMISSION & POWER TRAIN PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336330 MOTOR VEHICLE STEERING & SUSPENSION COMPONENTS (EXCEPT SPRING) MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336320 MOTOR VEHICLE ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS327211 FLAT GLASS MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: TIM PAWLENTY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (93%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); LANSING, MI, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) GEORGIA, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (93%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2005



171 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 219 words

HEADLINE: Jobless Claims Rise by 6,000, U.S. Reports

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 8 

 BODY:
The number of workers filing new jobless claims rose by 6,000 last week, a higher number than expected, the government said Thursday, but a more reliable barometer of labor trends fell for the second straight week. 
 Initial claims for state unemployment insurance benefits climbed to a seasonally adjusted 327,000 in the week, which ended Dec. 3, from an upwardly revised 321,000 the previous week, the Labor Department said.
 A Labor Department analyst said that historically, claims tend to rise in the week following the holiday-shortened Thanksgiving week. 
 Interest rates showed little reaction to the rise, which was higher than the 317,000 expected by Wall Street analysts. 
 ''The number was a little bit disappointing in that it was above the expected level, and it's a little bit higher than the range that we were seeing before the late summer hurricanes,'' said Patrick Fearon, senior economist for A. G. Edwards & Sons in St. Louis. 
 ''Nevertheless, it still should be considered a positive that initial claims are way down from the levels immediately after the storms,'' Mr. Fearon said. A four-week moving average of new claims, which smoothes weekly volatility to provide a better picture of labor market trends, fell for the second straight week, dropping to 322,500 from 322,750 the prior week.


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Jobless Claims''Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time.Graph tracks weekly number of people who filed for unemployment benefits for the first time since June 2005.(Source by Labor Department
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TRENDS (90%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); THANKSGIVING (70%); WEATHER (67%); INTEREST RATES (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2005



172 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2005
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1104 words

HEADLINE: HOUSE COMPLETES VOTE ON TAX CUTS FOR $95 BILLION 

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 8 

 BODY:
The House passed the last and biggest part of $95 billion in tax cuts on Thursday, a move that reflected the willingness to place tax cuts above the risk of higher deficits in years to come.
 Voting 234 to 197, almost purely along party lines, the House approved $56 billion in tax cuts over five years, one day after it passed other tax cuts totaling $39 billion over five years. The biggest provision would extend President Bush's 2001 tax cut for stock dividends and capital gains for two years at a cost of $20 billion.
That was welcome news for a president whose tax plans looked all but dead a few weeks ago. All the maverick Republican conservatives in House, who had pushed party leaders to pass $51 billion in spending cuts, voted enthusiastically for tax cuts costing nearly twice as much. 
 ''Clearly, tax relief is part of the deficit solution, not part of the problem,'' said Representative Jeb Hensarling, Republican of Texas and one of the mavericks. ''More economic growth and more jobs means more tax revenue flowing into the federal Treasury. Tax revenues are up close to 15 percent, the highest level in U.S. history, and the budget deficit has shrunk by more than $100 billion.''
 That view is not shared by all. Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, urged lawmakers last month not to approve more tax cuts unless they cut spending by at least the same amount. 
 The budget that the House passed just before Thanksgiving, would cut $51 billion over five years from programs like Medicaid, food stamps, farm subsidies and child-support enforcement. The Republican-controlled Senate passed a much more cautious tax package just before Thanksgiving. The Senate bill would cut taxes by $60 billion over five years, and it would not extend the tax cut on stock dividends.
 The conflict between the House and Senate bills is unlikely to be resolved before Congress recesses for Christmas. 
 Lawmakers made progress in another area as House and Senate negotiators reached a compromise to extend the antiterrorism law known as the USA Patriot Act. Experts expect a vote on the question early next week, but some Democrats are threatening a filibuster. [Page A20.]
 The conflict between the tax bills means that taxpayers will face uncertainty about a long list of popular tax cuts that are set to expire at the end of 2005. The biggest expiring tax cut is one that prevents the Alternative Minimum Tax from applying to millions of additional families with incomes above $100,000 a year.
 Democrats accused the Republican majority of expanding the cuts to the very richest families while cutting programs to help the poor.
 ''The choice is clear, tax relief that goes to people making a million bucks or more and cutting student loans, cutting food support for people who need it and cutting child support,'' Representative Sander M. Levin, Democrat of Michigan, said.
 The Republican majority easily defeated a Democratic alternative that would have trimmed many tax breaks for businesses and allowed the tax cut for stock dividends to expire at the end of 2008.
 ''If you vote yes for the Democratic substitute, you are increasing taxes over five years by $40 billion,'' Representative Bill Thomas of California, chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, said. ''That is the single largest tax increase since they were in the majority in 1993.''
 Three Republicans voted against the bill, all well-known centrists, Representatives Sherwood Boehlert of New York, Jim Leach of Iowa and Fred Upton of Michigan. Mr. Boehlert said that some cuts were warranted, but that the break for dividends and capital gains was ill timed.
 ''I think the argument is pretty good that it is going to the top 1 percent of wage earners at a time when we are struggling to find money,'' Mr. Boehlert said on Thursday.
 The Bush administration quickly expressed its clear preference for the House bill over the more modest Senate bill. Indeed, Mr. Bush threatened to veto the final bill if it included a provision to hit major oil companies with a windfall profits tax.
 ''I commend the House of Representatives on passage of this bill, which is critical to sustaining our economic recovery and creating jobs,'' Treasury Secretary John W. Snow said.
 Mr. Bush has made a top priority of extending the tax cut for stock dividends this year, even though it is not set to expire for three more years. Administration officials want to make the cut permanent, saying it eliminates the ''double-taxation'' of dividends at the corporate and individual levels. They also say the cut benefits middle-class families, as well as the wealthy, because half of all families own stocks.
 Tax analysts agree that the overwhelming bulk of dividends goes to the top 5 percent of income earners. The big challenge for Republican leaders in Congress will be hammering out a House-Senate accord. Both chambers would extend a long list of expiring tax breaks that include deductions for payments of college tuition, a ''savers credit'' for low-income taxpayers, corporate tax credits for research and development and tax write offs for small businesses to buy equipment.
 The House and Senate have also approved $7 billion in temporary breaks for Gulf Coast areas damaged by Hurricane Katrina. The main substantive difference is that the Senate cut is one-third smaller. 
 The Senate bill also has two provisions that Mr. Bush and House Republicans staunchly oppose, a one-year $5 billion tax on major oil companies and a $5 billion provision that would make it easier to demand higher penalties from people who employ abusive tax shelters.
 The biggest difference on tactical approaches over the total of cuts. Part of a Senate budget ''reconciliation'' bill authorizes a maximum of $70 billion in tax cuts over five years. Tax cuts of $70 billion or less can pass the Senate by a simple majority of 51 votes, rather than the 60 votes normally needed to block a filibuster.
 The House included $56 billion in cuts as part of the reconciliation process. The other cuts, including those related to the hurricane and the Alternative Minimum Tax, are separate and would need 60 votes to clear the Senate. 
 House Republicans are betting that that Democrats want those other cuts badly enough that they would not dare block them through a filibuster. If that proves correct, Senate Republicans would be able to put the cut for stock dividends in the final ''reconciliation'' bill and pass it with 51 votes.
 ''We don't need a reconciliation bill in the House,'' Mr. Thomas said Wednesday on the floor. ''We are just doing this to help the Senate.''


CORRECTION-DATE: December 17, 2005

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article yesterday about House approval of a $56 billion tax cut gave an incorrect spelling in some copies for the surname of the Republican congressman from New York who voted against the measure. He is Sherwood Boehlert, not Boehlart.
An article on Dec. 8 about the House's vote to block an increase in the alternative minimum tax misstated the year that taxes for stock dividends and capital gains were initially cut. It was 2003, not 2001. (The error was repeated in an article on Dec. 9 about the House's completing a vote on $95 billion in tax cuts.)

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Tax Cuts and Spending Cuts''The Republican-controlled House has passed four tax-cutting bills that would amount to tax cuts of about $95 million over five years.Cutting TaxesGULF OPPORTUNITY ZONE TAX INCENTIVESThe bill would provide temporary tax breaks, mostly for businesses, aimed at revitalizing the regions of Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama that were devastated by Hurricane Katrina. Cost: $7.1 billion over five years.ALTERNATIVE MINIMUM TAXExtends for one year provisions that prevent the Alternative Minimum Tax from hitting an additional 15 million households next year. Cost: $31 billion over one year.TAX RELIEF EXTENSION RECONCILIATION ACTExtends a long list of expiring tax breaks. Cost: $56.6 billion over five years. The biggest provision would extend the tax cuts on stock dividends and capital gains that are set to expire in 2009. Other extensions include deductions for college tuition, ''saver's credit'' for low-income taxpayers, tax breaks for equipment purchases by small business and tax credits for research and development.TAX REVISION ACTExtends ability of soldiers to receive the Earned Income Tax Credit while earning combat pay. Cost is $153 million over two years. The House has also passed a bill with $50 billion in spending cuts, some of which are shown below.Cutting SpendingThe House has also passed a bill with $50 billion in spending cuts, some of which are shown below.MEDICAID: $8.9 billionFOOD STAMPS: 0.7 billionFARM SUBSIDIES: 2.9 billionHIGHER EDUCATION:14.3 billionDIGITAL TELEVISION: 8.7 billion(Sources by Committee on Ways and Means
Congressional Budget Office
 House Budget Committee)(pg. A22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX LAW (91%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); FAMILY (87%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (78%); APPROVALS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); CHRISTMAS (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); FILIBUSTER (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); US PATRIOT ACT (71%); DIVIDENDS (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); CONSERVATISM (69%); THANKSGIVING (69%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (68%); HISTORY (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (66%); MEDICAID (64%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (50%); COUNTERTERRORISM (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%)

PERSON: SANDER M LEVIN (57%); JEB HENSARLING (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); ALAN GREENSPAN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2005



173 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1595 words

HEADLINE: Ogre to Slay? Outsource It To Chinese

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

DATELINE: FUZHOU, China 

 BODY:
One of China's newest factories operates here in the basement of an old warehouse. Posters of World of Warcraft and Magic Land hang above a corps of young people glued to their computer screens, pounding away at their keyboards in the latest hustle for money.
 The people working at this clandestine locale are ''gold farmers.'' Every day, in 12-hour shifts, they ''play'' computer games by killing onscreen monsters and winning battles, harvesting artificial gold coins and other virtual goods as rewards that, as it turns out, can be transformed into real cash.
That is because, from Seoul to San Francisco, affluent online gamers who lack the time and patience to work their way up to the higher levels of gamedom are willing to pay the young Chinese here to play the early rounds for them. 
 ''For 12 hours a day, 7 days a week, my colleagues and I are killing monsters,'' said a 23-year-old gamer who works here in this makeshift factory and goes by the online code name Wandering. ''I make about $250 a month, which is pretty good compared with the other jobs I've had. And I can play games all day.'' 
 He and his comrades have created yet another new business out of cheap Chinese labor. They are tapping into the fast-growing world of ''massively multiplayer online games,'' which involve role playing and often revolve around fantasy or warfare in medieval kingdoms or distant galaxies. 
 With more than 100 million people worldwide logging on every month to play interactive computer games, game companies are already generating revenues of $3.6 billion a year from subscriptions, according to DFC Intelligence, which tracks the computer gaming market. 
 For the Chinese in game-playing factories like these, though, it is not all fun and games. These workers have strict quotas and are supervised by bosses who equip them with computers, software and Internet connections to thrash online trolls, gnomes and ogres.
 As they grind through the games, they accumulate virtual currency that is valuable to game players around the world. The games allow players to trade currency to other players, who can then use it to buy better armor, amulets, magic spells and other accoutrements to climb to higher levels or create more powerful characters. 
 The Internet is now filled with classified advertisements from small companies -- many of them here in China -- auctioning for real money their powerful figures, called avatars. These ventures join individual gamers who started marketing such virtual weapons and wares a few years ago to help support their hobby. 
 ''I'm selling an account with a level-60 Shaman,'' says one ad from a player code-named Silver Fire, who uses QQ, the popular Chinese instant messaging service here in China. ''If you want to know more details, let's chat on QQ.'' 
 This virtual economy is blurring the line between fantasy and reality. A few years ago, online subscribers started competing with other players from around the world. And before long, many casual gamers started asking other people to baby-sit for their accounts, or play while they were away.
 That has spawned the creation of hundreds -- perhaps thousands -- of online gaming factories here in China. By some estimates, there are well over 100,000 young people working in China as full-time gamers, toiling away in dark Internet cafes, abandoned warehouses, small offices and private homes. 
 Most of the players here actually make less than a quarter an hour, but they often get room, board and free computer game play in these ''virtual sweatshops.''
 ''It's unimaginable how big this is,'' says Chen Yu, 27, who employs 20 full-time gamers here in Fuzhou. ''They say that in some of these popular games, 40 or 50 percent of the players are actually Chinese farmers.''
 For many online gamers, the point is no longer simply to play. Instead they hunt for the fanciest sword or the most potent charm, or seek a shortcut to the thrill of sparring at the highest level. And all of that is available -- for a price.
 ''What we're seeing here is the emergence of virtual currencies and virtual economies,'' says Peter Ludlow, a longtime gamer and a professor of philosophy at the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor. ''People are making real money here, so these games are becoming like real economies.''
 The Chinese government estimates that there are 24 million online gamers in China, meaning that nearly one in four Internet users here play online games.
 And many online gaming factories have come to resemble the thousands of textile mills and toy factories that have moved here from Taiwan, Hong Kong and other parts of the world to take advantage of China's vast pool of cheap labor.
 ''They're exploiting the wage difference between the U.S. and China for unskilled labor,'' says Edward Castronova, a professor of telecommunications at Indiana University and the author of ''Synthetic Worlds,'' a study of the economy of online games. ''The cost of someone's time is much bigger in America than in China.''
 But gold farming is controversial. Many hard-core gamers say the factories are distorting the games. What is more, the big gaming companies say the factories are violating the terms of use of the games, which forbid players to sell their virtual goods for real money. They have vowed to crack down on those suspected of being small businesses rather than individual gamers.
 ''We know that such business exists, and we are against it,'' says Guolong Jin, a spokesman for N-Sina, a Chinese joint venture with NC Soft, the Korean creator of Lineage, one of the most popular online games. ''Playing games should be fun and entertaining. It's not a way to trade and make money.''
 Blizzard Entertainment, a division of Vivendi Universal and the creator of World of Warcraft, one of the world's most popular games with more than 4.5 million online subscribers, has also called the trading illegal. 
 But little has been done to halt the mushrooming black market in virtual goods, many available for sale on eBay, Yahoo and other online sites.
 On eBay, for example, 100 grams of World of Warcraft gold is available for $9.99 or two uber characters from EverQuest for $35.50. It costs $269 to be transported to Level 60 in Warcraft, and it typically takes 15 days to get the account back at the higher level.
 In fact, the trading of virtual property is so lucrative that some big online gaming companies have jumped into the business, creating their own online marketplaces.
 Sony Online Entertainment, the creator of EverQuest, a popular medieval war and fantasy game, recently created Station Exchange. Sony calls the site an alternative to ''crooked sellers in unsanctioned auctions.''
 Other start-up companies are also rushing in, acting as international brokers to match buyers and sellers in different countries, and contracting out business to Chinese gold-farming factories. 
 ''We're like a stock exchange. You can buy and sell with us,'' says Alan Qiu, a founder of the Shanghai-based Ucdao.com. ''We farm out the different jobs. Some people say, 'I want to get from Level 1 to 60,' so we find someone to do that.''
 Now there are factories all over China. In central Henan Province, one factory has 300 computers. At another factory in western Gansu Province, the workers log up to 18 hours a day. 
 The operators are mostly young men like Luo Gang, a 28-year-old college graduate who borrowed $25,000 from his father to start an Internet cafe that morphed into a gold farm on the outskirts of Chongqing in central China.
 Mr. Luo has 23 workers, who each earn about $75 a month.
 ''If they didn't work here they'd probably be working as waiters in hot pot restaurants,'' he said, ''or go back to help their parents farm the land -- or more likely, hang out on the streets with no job at all.''
 Here in coastal Fujian Province, several gold farm operators offered access to their underground facilities recently, on the condition that their names not be disclosed because the legal and tax status of some of the operations is in question.
 One huge site here in Fuzhou has over 100 computers in a series of large, dark rooms. About 70 players could be seen playing quietly one weekday afternoon, while some players slept by the keyboard.
 ''We recruit through newspaper ads,'' said the 30-something owner, whose workers range from 18 to 25 years old. ''They all know how to play online games, but they're not willing to do hard labor.'' 
 Another operation here has about 40 computers lined up in the basement of an old dilapidated building, all playing the same game. Upstairs were unkempt, closet-size dormitory rooms where several gamers slept on bunk beds; the floors were strewn with hot pots.
 The owners concede that the risks are enormous. The global gaming companies regularly shut accounts they suspect are engaged in farming. And the government here is cracking down on Internet addiction now, monitoring more closely how much time each player spends online.
 To survive, the factories employ sophisticated gaming strategies. They hide their identities online, hire hackers to seek out new strategies, and create automatic keys to bolster winnings.
 But at some point, says Mr. Yu, the Fuzhou factory operator who started out selling computer supplies and now has an army of gamers outside his office here, he knows he will have to move on.
 ''My ultimate goal is to do Internet-based foreign trade,'' he says, sitting in a bare office with a solid steel safe under his desk. ''Online games are just my first step into the business.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Young Chinese men playing video games in an online-gaming center, one of hundreds that take fees to help players reach higher levels. (Photo by Natalie Behring for The New York Times)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER GAMES (90%); ONLINE COMPUTER GAMES (90%); TOYS & GAMES (89%); OUTSOURCING (87%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (77%); COINS & COINAGE (76%); INTERNET & WWW (74%); INSTANT MESSAGING (69%); CURRENCIES (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CHINA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%) CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2005



174 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 533 words

HEADLINE: Tax Cut Showdown

 BODY:
The House of Representatives passed two major tax-cut bills this week. One deserves to become law; the other deserves to die. It will be up to the Senate to make sure that happens. 
 On Wednesday, the House overwhelmingly passed a bill that would shield millions of taxpayers from the alternative minimum tax next year. The relief is expensive -- costing nearly $30 billion -- but it's critical. Without it, many middle-class Americans, who were never the intended target for the alternative tax, would be suddenly forced to pay higher taxes when they filed their 2005 tax returns. (The alternative tax was intended to stop rich people with lots of shelters from escaping their tax burden entirely, but it has not been changed to reflect inflation or the tax cuts passed under President Bush.)
The good news ended there. The House irresponsibly neglected to include any offsetting tax increases to help pay for the tax relief. (The Senate's tax bill includes $19 billion in offsetting tax increases.) Even more egregious, the House passed yet another tax bill a day later that would drain the Treasury of $56 billion of additional revenue over the next five years. Of that total, $21 billion would be used to extend, through 2010, special low tax rates for investors' dividends and capital gains. Those rates are set to expire at the end of 2008.
 The extension is both unaffordable and gratuitous. Most of the benefits would flow to taxpayers who make more than $1 million a year. That's morally reprehensible at a time when the House and the Senate are moving toward an agreement to cut as much as $45 billion over five years from domestic programs like Medicaid, food stamps, student loans and child-support enforcement. And it comes at a time when the government is already borrowing extensively for all manner of undertakings, like the war in Iraq and the new prescription drug benefit for Medicare. 
 The Republican House leaders are also plotting to make it easier to get the unnecessary tax cuts for investors through the somewhat more responsible Senate. To date, moderate Senate Republicans have blocked the budget-busting investor tax breaks. The Senate tax bill, passed last month, includes alternative tax relief, but does not extend the preferential rates for investment income. 
 In a cagey maneuver, the House leaders have organized their legislation so the popular measure on the alternative minimum tax can stand on its own when it gets to the Senate, while the unwise tax reductions for investors can be inserted into a fast-track tax bill, which will, under special rules, be protected against any filibusters when it comes up for a final vote in the Senate. That will make it far easier for senators to abandon all restraint and vote for the House agenda. 
 It's not certain that the Senate will go along with this plan. The right course is clear: responsible senators should approve alternative minimum tax relief, but stand firm against machinations that would tart up the tax code with additional giveaways for the wealthiest Americans. Rampant tax cutting must be stopped in the face of deficits, looming budget obligations and the painful sacrifices being demanded of the poor. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX LAW (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); FILIBUSTER (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); IRAQ WAR (70%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (68%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (63%); STUDENT LOANS (63%); MEDICARE (62%); MEDICAID (55%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (50%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2005



175 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 644 words

HEADLINE: Shares Drop After Builder Turns Cautious on 2006 

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Stocks extended their losses into a second day yesterday after investors were rattled by a cautious outlook from a home builder, Toll Brothers, and a surge in energy prices. 
 The market was pleased with revised forecasts from two chip makers, Texas Instruments and Xilinx, signals that technology spending remains healthy. But anxious traders brushed aside the news and waited for Intel's midquarter update after the closing bell.
 Without much news to guide the market, Wall Street drifted this week after a rally in November that vaulted stocks to four-year highs. Recent signs that the economy is faring better than expected renewed fears about inflation and rising interest rates, although some traders still anticipate a final run-up in stocks by the end of the year. 
 Steven Goldman, chief market strategist at Weeden & Company, said the main concern on Wall Street continues to be whether the Federal Reserve will extend its string of rate increases now that the economy appears to be doing well. Higher rates could lead to a consumer slowdown as lending costs increase, he said. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average fell 55.79 points, or 0.5 percent, to 10,755.12. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 1.53 points, or 0.1 percent, to 1,255.84, and the Nasdaq composite index slipped 5.55 points, or 0.3 percent, to 2,246.46. 
 Colder weather in the Northeast and Midwest drove expectations for greater heating fuel demand, although weekly inventory reports have indicated that oil and gas reserves continue to expand. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, natural gas surged $1.29, to $14.99 per 1,000 cubic feet, as a barrel of light crude oil jumped $1.45, to $60.66. 
 General Motors declined $1.04, to $22. The company, which plans to cut 30,000 jobs and shut 12 plants by 2008, said Wednesday that it was in talks to appoint a representative of the billionaire investor Kirk Kerkorian as a director, a move analysts said could lead to an extensive overhaul. 
 Technology stocks turned lower despite upbeat reports from two chip makers. On Wednesday, Texas Instruments lifted the low end of its quarterly earnings estimate and forecast sales near the top of a previous range, while Xilinx raised its sales target. 
 Shares of Texas Instruments fell 93 cents, to $32.63; Xilinx dropped 46 cents, to $26.02; and Intel slid 45 cents, to $25.70. 
 Intel said it expected capital spending to be lower than the midpoint it had set in a previous forecast. It also tightened the range it expects fourth-quarter revenue to hit. In after-hours trading, shares of Intel fell nearly 3 percent.
 Toll Brothers posted a 72 percent increase in fourth-quarter profit as revenue climbed 40 percent. Investors remained optimistic about the stock even though the home builder gave a disappointing forecast for next year and said it was unsure about 2007 earnings. Toll Brothers gained $1.25, to $35.55. 
 Costco Wholesale said a modest rise in sales helped lift its quarterly profit 12 percent, matching Wall Street forecasts. Sales at its warehouse clubs open at least a year jumped 9 percent. Shares of Costco sank $1.06, to $48.29. 
 The sole economic report of the day came from the Labor Department, which said new claims for unemployment grew by 6,000 last week, to 327,000. That was above the 318,000 expected but too low to cause concern about the economy. 
 In the bond market, the 10-year Treasury note rose 13/32, to a price of 10010/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, declined to 4.46 percent from 4.51 percent Wednesday.
 Here are the results of yesterday's auction of 10-year Treasury notes:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
Price
High Yield: 4.490
Low Yield: 4.400
Median Yield: 4.460
Total applied for: $17,519,432
Accepted: $8,000,068
Noncompetitive: $17,227
Interest set at: 4.5%
The 10-year notes mature Nov. 15, 2015.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)Graph: ''Freddie Mac Yields'' tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since Sept. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source by F.H.L.M.C.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ELECTRONICS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); LAYOFFS (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (77%); FUEL MARKETS (77%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); SALES PROJECTIONS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); COMPANY REVENUES (69%); INTEREST RATES (69%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (64%); SALES PLAN (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (86%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (58%); WEEDEN & CO LP (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (86%); TXN (NASDAQ) (58%); GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (58%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (54%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: KIRK KERKORIAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (54%) UNITED STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2005



176 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 955 words

HEADLINE: Small Tech-Astute Agency Wins a Small-Car Account

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott

 BODY:
THE new agency for the Mini Cooper is just the type that is remaking the way marketers approach advertising: smaller, creatively focused, independent and knowledgeable enough about technology to develop some unusual new ways to reach consumers.
 The agency is Butler, Shine, Stern & Partners in Sausalito, Calif., which Mini USA named yesterday to take over the Mini Cooper account. Mini USA spends about $40 million a year on ads for the Mini Cooper line of subcompact coupes and sedans.
Butler, Shine is known for its offbeat campaigns for marketers like Converse footwear, Leap Wireless and Ubi Soft Entertainment, which have a substantial presence in new media. For instance, a recent campaign for Converse, part of Nike, gained considerable attention for inviting consumers to enter a contest by sending video clips they created to a special Web site -- in effect, having them produce the brand's commercials. 
 ''The Converse work was something that really attracted us,'' said Jim McDowell, vice president for Mini at Mini USA in Woodcliff Lake, N.J., part of the BMW North America division of BMW.
 Butler, Shine, which was opened in 1993 by former employees of Goodby, Silverstein & Partners in San Francisco, gained the Sun Microsystems account in February. During the dot-com boom, Butler, Shine worked on brands like Business 2.0 magazine and E-Stamp. In another sign of the agency's technological bent, its blog (influxinsights.com) posted its 600th article on Wednesday. 
 ''The technology ideas they showed us were fantastic,'' said Trudy Hardy, Mini marketing manager at Mini USA. ''They did a great job showing they understand our desire for creative media solutions, online and offline.''
 The hiring of Butler, Shine is the most recent example of a major trend on Madison Avenue: smaller agencies landing assignments from larger marketers that had previously preferred to work primarily with bigger agencies. Among other marketers that have changed their habits are Anheuser-Busch, Coca-Cola, General Motors, Procter & Gamble, SABMiller and Target. 
 Butler, Shine becomes the second agency to handle the Mini Cooper account since BMW North America brought out the brand in early 2002. The first, Crispin Porter & Bogusky in Miami, part of MDC Partners, resigned the assignment in September when it was selected to become the agency for the Volkswagen of America unit of Volkswagen, which spends about 10 times what Mini USA does on ads each year.
 The resignation prompted Mini USA executives to begin a review. Butler, Shine competed against the New York offices of Mother and StrawberryFrog -- other agencies known for unconventional approaches to advertising.
 ''There's an evolution across the agency business because of client demand,'' said Hasan Ramusevic, president at Hasan & Company in Raleigh, N.C., which helped manage the review for Mini USA.
 Most larger marketers seeking agencies ''are intrigued by'' the new breed, Mr. Ramusevic said, as they increasingly demand what he called ''big brand ideas from a media-neutral point of view'' -- that is, not automatically insisting that a campaign be dominated by traditional media like TV commercials, a strategy that has been standard operating procedure for so many larger agencies.
 Although not all smaller agencies ''have the capacity to provide what the big clients want,'' Mr. Ramusevic said, the big clients are becoming ''more and more likely'' to ask him to include smaller agencies in reviews.
 Crispin Porter's campaign for Mini Cooper, which carries the upbeat, wry theme ''Let's motor,'' is considered among the most creative and successful for a car in recent years. From its introduction in March 2002 through last month, sales of the Mini Cooper totaled 135,017. That is ''about twice the number of cars that we thought we'd sell'' in that period, Mr. McDowell said.
 Among the Crispin Porter campaigns were a series of Web sites about a make-believe British scientist who assembles imaginary robots from Mini Cooper parts; ads in magazines with peel-off stickers, stencil kits and tiny cardboard car models; and a promotional tour of city streets by trucks with Mini Coopers mounted atop sport utilities, meant to demonstrate the car's urban-friendly size.
 ''Crispin has been a great partner and did a fantastic job,'' Ms. Hardy said, adding that during the review, Butler, Shine executives demonstrated that they ''really understand the Mini brand, where it is today and where it needs to be in the future.''
 The brand is now infused with a ''sense of community'' among its owners, Ms. Hardy said, which Butler, Shine will ''tap into to bring new customers to the Mini brand.''
 The goal is to convey that Mini Cooper ownership is a club, ''but not an exclusive club,'' she added, in order to make potential buyers ''feel welcome.'' 
 Crispin Porter is finishing ads that will appear into early 2006, Ms. Hardy said, with ''the complete body of work from Butler, Shine probably coming in the second quarter.''
 Appropriately, Ms. Hardy and Mr. McDowell notified Butler, Shine's employees that they won the review in a nontraditional way: A bulldog was sent into the agency's office, wearing a collar decorated with clues to the decision written on replicas of California vanity license plates.
 Some of the clues: ''W8ZOVR,'' for ''Wait's over''; ''GR8JOB,'' for ''Great job''; and ''RURED E,'' for ''Are you ready?'' -- to take on the account. The final mock license plate invited the agency's employees to join the Mini USA executives at a nearby restaurant for a party.
 ''The dog was great,'' Greg Stern, chief executive at Butler, Shine, said in a brief telephone call from the restaurant. ''Very creative, and very surprising.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: During a review for the Mini Cooper account, executives of Butler, Shine, Stern & Partners used a convertible in a live presentation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (78%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); SEDANS (76%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (73%); RESIGNATIONS (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BAYERISCHE MOTOREN WERKE AG (BMW) (85%); BUTLER SHINE STERN & PARTNERS LLC (85%); UBISOFT ENTERTAINMENT SA (71%); CRISPIN PORTER & BOGUSKY (63%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (55%); GOODBY SILVERSTEIN & PARTNERS (55%); SABMILLER PLC (52%); COCA-COLA CO (52%); ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (52%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (52%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%); MDC PARTNERS INC (51%)

TICKER: BMW (FRA) (85%); BMW (BIT) (85%); UBI (PAR) (71%); SOSAB (JSE) (52%); SAB (LSE) (52%); KO (NYSE) (52%); PGP (PAR) (52%); PG (NYSE) (52%); GM (NYSE) (52%); MDZ.A (TSX) (51%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (85%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (85%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (85%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (71%); NAICS512199 OTHER MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (71%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (71%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (55%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (55%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (55%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (52%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (52%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (52%); NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (52%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (52%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (52%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (52%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RALEIGH, NC, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2005



177 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 525 words

HEADLINE: Accord to Raise Flu Drug Output Is Seen

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

 BODY:
Roche is close to announcing agreements to allow 15 pharmaceutical companies or governments to help produce Tamiflu, the influenza drug that is being stockpiled in the event of a flu pandemic, government and industry officials say. 
 Senator Charles E. Schumer announced yesterday that Roche had reached agreement with 15 entities, including Mylan Laboratories and Teva Pharmaceuticals, two generic-drug makers, to sharply increase the supply of Tamiflu.
Roche, based in Switzerland, said it was in ''advanced discussions'' with potential partners, including Teva and Mylan. It would not identify the other companies. Roche has been under pressure to allow others to produce Tamiflu, also known as oseltamivir. It wants to avoid having governments seize its patents and make the drug on their own. 
 Aides to Mr. Schumer, a Democrat from New York, said Roche had agreed to work with the 15 companies or governments in principle, but that firm commitments would not be made until it knows how much Tamiflu is being ordered by governments. If enough orders do not materialize, they said, the outside suppliers might not be called upon. 
 The Bush administration's flu-preparedness plan calls for ordering 81 million treatments of either Tamiflu or a rival drug, Relenza from GlaxoSmithKline. Such a huge order has not been placed yet. 
 Based on statements from Roche and Mr. Schumer's office, it appears that Roche is mainly preparing to allow other companies to perform certain steps in manufacturing Tamiflu but would still control the output and the sales. It is possible, though, that some governments or companies will be allowed to produce the drug from beginning to end. 
 How much the arrangements will lift capacity is unclear. Mylan, for instance, does not manufacture its own ingredients. So it would have to buy bulk Tamiflu and make it into capsules. The agreement with Teva also apparently involves only capsules.
 Yet Roche and others in the industry have said that the main supply bottleneck is not capsule-making but producing the pharmaceutical ingredient itself. That process starts with star anise, a raw material from a Chinese tree that is in short supply. Roche says the manufacturing process is long and complex, and involves the use of potentially explosive chemicals. 
 A spokesman, Patrick Fitzgerald, said Mylan was in advanced discussions with Roche and added only that it was prepared to make significant quantities of Tamiflu. A Teva spokesman had no comment.
 Roche recently increased a commitment to supply Taiwan to try to keep the government there from making Tamiflu. It is also working to allow Vietnam to produce its own capsules, and has said that Indonesia, Thailand and the Philippines can produce the drug because it does not have patents in those countries. 

Study Cites Flu's Cost
By Bloomberg News
 Widespread bird flu in humans may cost the United States economy $675 billion, including lost work time and supply disruptions, Senator Bill Frist said yesterday, citing a pending report. The Congressional Budget Office estimated that direct and indirect costs would reduce economic production more than 5 percent.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Women in the Guangxi region of China plucking stems from star anise, a starting point in making Tamiflu. (Photo by John Ruwitch/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTIVIRALS (93%); INFLUENZA (93%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (92%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); EPIDEMICS (89%); AVIAN INFLUENZA (78%); DISASTER PLANNING (78%); GENERIC DRUGS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ROCHE HOLDING AG (92%); GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (90%); BLOOMBERG LP (50%)

TICKER: ROG (SWX) (92%); GSK (NYSE) (90%); GSK (LSE) (90%); BIOC (EGX) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (90%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (50%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (50%)

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); GUANGXI, CHINA (58%) SWITZERLAND (91%); UNITED STATES (91%); CHINA (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); TAIWAN (79%); INDONESIA (79%); THAILAND (65%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2005



178 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 1040 words

HEADLINE: Senora Presidente?

BYLINE: By Rafael Gumucio. 
Rafael Gumucio is a columnist for El Diario in New York and for newspapers in Chile. This article was translated by Kristina Cordero from the Spanish.

DATELINE: Santiago, Chile 

 BODY:
CHILE is one of the more conservative countries on a continent that is not especially renowned as tolerant, forward thinking or democratically minded. Divorce was legalized here just last year, and abortion continues to be a taboo subject even for the most progressive of politicians. Our social codes and racial prejudices are deeply engrained. We are an overwhelmingly Catholic country with a history that has been marked -- and continues to be marked -- by the power of its military.
 Given this context, it is nothing short of extraordinary -- even revolutionary -- that the clear front-runner in the presidential vote being held on Sunday is Michelle Bachelet, a divorced mother of three who is an atheist and a member of the Socialist Party. 
Polls show Ms. Bachelet, a former defense minister, far ahead of her rivals, Sebastian Pinera, one of Chile's wealthiest businessmen; Joaquin Lavin, the ultraconservative former mayor of Santiago; and Tomas Hirsch of the Communist Party. Although a runoff is likely, the prevailing opinion here is that Ms. Bachelet will be the ultimate winner. 
 If she is, she will be the first woman in the Americas to be elected president not because she was a wife of a famous politician, but because of her own record. That this is a probability is even more astonishing when one considers that nothing like it has occurred in countries like the United States or France, where the democratic tradition is far more stable and feminism's impact presumably far greater. Curiously, American television is now running a series that revolves around the ''novel'' idea of a female president. What is fiction in the United States may well become reality in Chile. 
 The twist is that the Chilean candidate is a far more interesting character than the female president portrayed on American TV: as defense minister, Ms. Bachelet oversaw the successors and subordinates of the men who killed her father and tortured her and her mother during the darkest moments of the dictatorship of Gen. Augusto Pinochet. 
 How has this happened? Chile, more than ever, is proving itself to be the polar opposite of Lampedusa's Sicily: in order for things to change, they have to stay the same -- or rather, they have to look as if they are staying the same. 
 That is the best way I can describe the spirit with which the country seems to be anticipating the elections: people are aware that no matter what the outcome an unprecedented cultural, political and social revolution is taking place. And at the same time, they seem surprisingly unfazed by it all, observing these sweeping changes with ease, aplomb, even delight.
 Perhaps this is because Chileans have by now grown accustomed to wild fluctuations in the country's political fortunes. This past year, the Chilean people saw rightist leaders -- until recently General Pinochet's staunchest allies -- renouncing all ties to him. General Pinochet is now under house arrest, held not only on human rights charges but also for his alleged role in a financial scandal involving millions of stolen dollars.
 In countless other ways, the Pandora's box of Chilean politics has been flung wide open: nowadays it isn't at all strange to see an ultraconservative Catholic candidate signing his name on a transvestite's legs as a publicity stunt, nor is it odd to hear Ms. Bachelet talk about how hard it is to find Mr. Right.
 For decades, even centuries, Chilean politics have largely been of the old-boy's-network variety, in which an all-male group of power brokers have run things on their own terms, within a select inner circle, forging alliances with one another and making deals with the press behind closed doors, far removed from the citizenry they represent. 
 Change in Chile has come at a breakneck pace in recent years, as justice is finally being delivered to dozens of dictatorship-era cronies, and the pillars of the church and the political elite have been shaken to their foundations by a wave of pedophilia scandals involving both.
 The changes are abrupt and the contradictions are evident. Thanks to the country's growing economy, Chileans have access to more creature comforts than ever before, and yet prosperity somehow hasn't dulled their sensibilities: the populace that benefits from free-market economics also turned out in droves to pay tribute to Gladys Marin, the president of the Communist Party, when her coffin was carried through the streets of Santiago in March. People may be gulping down Starbucks and coveting iPods, but they are also devouring highly irreverent political magazines like The Clinic (for which I write) and flocking to politically oriented movies like ''Machuca,'' which is about the 1973 coup led by General Pinochet. 
 Some analysts think that the free-market economy is responsible for this unprecedented change in Chile's political and social landscape. But other countries that follow that economic model (Indonesia, Malaysia and the United States), seem to be slouching in the opposite direction toward a retrograde, hard-line conservatism. Economics, then, clearly do not tell the entire story.
 Other analysts attribute the change to the current president, Ricardo Lagos, who has concentrated on reconciling Chile with its tortured past. Even so the general consensus is that nobody -- not Mr. Lagos, not the Chilean intelligentsia, and certainly not the power elite -- was prepared for the seismic social and political shift represented by Ms. Bachelet's thriving candidacy. I don't think anyone would have predicted 10 years ago that we would ever arrive at this moment, but it seems that Chile is eager to usher it in. For us, political and economic stability -- despite being so recent and so precious -- is not enough.
 Just as in 1970, when they went to the polls and elected a Socialist president, and again in 1988, when they rejected their dictator, Chileans have proved themselves to be far more daring with their vote than their lifestyles.
 Perhaps this is because when they vote -- in secret, where nobody can judge or criticize them -- they reveal their truest colors, their passion for change, for improvisation and for leadership in a world that seems hell-bent on moving in the opposite direction.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); WOMEN (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (75%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (75%); RELIGION (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (68%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: MICHELLE BACHELET (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTIAGO, CHILE (90%) CHILE (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (58%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2005



179 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: The Promiser in Chief

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Sometimes reconstruction delayed is reconstruction denied.
 A few months after the invasion of Iraq, President Bush promised to rebuild Iraq's infrastructure and economy. He -- or, at any rate, his speechwriters -- understood that reconstruction was important not just for its own sake, but as a way to deprive the growing insurgency of support. In October 2003 he declared that ''the more electricity is available, the more jobs are available, the more kids that are going to school, the more desperate these killers become.''
But for a long time, Iraqi reconstruction was more of a public relations exercise than a real effort. Remember when visiting congressmen were taken on tours of newly painted schools? 
 Both supporters and opponents of the war now argue that by moving so slowly on reconstruction, the Bush administration missed a crucial window of opportunity. By the time reconstruction spending began in earnest, it was in a losing race with a deteriorating security situation. 
 As a result, the electricity and jobs that were supposed to make the killers desperate never arrived. Iraq produced less electricity last month than in October 2003. The Iraqi government estimates the unemployment rate at 27 percent, but the real number is probably much higher.
 Now we're losing another window of opportunity for reconstruction. But this time it's at home.
 Two weeks after Hurricane Katrina, Mr. Bush made an elaborately staged appearance in New Orleans, where he promised big things. ''The work that has begun in the Gulf Coast region,'' he said, ''will be one of the largest reconstruction efforts the world has ever seen.'' 
 Such an effort would be the right thing to do. We can argue about details -- about which levees should be restored and how strong to make them -- but it's clearly in the nation's interests as well as local residents' to rebuild much of the regional economy.
 But Mr. Bush seems to have forgotten about his promise. More than three months after Katrina, a major reconstruction effort isn't even in the planning stage, let alone under way. ''To an extent almost inconceivable a few months ago,'' a Los Angeles Times report about New Orleans says, ''the only real actors in the rebuilding drama at the moment are the city's homeowners and business owners.''
 It's worth noting in passing that Mr. Bush hasn't even appointed a new team to fix the dysfunctional Federal Emergency Management Agency. Most of the agency's key positions, including the director's job -- left vacant by the departure of Michael ''heck of a job'' Brown -- are filled on an acting basis, by temporary place holders. The chief of staff is still a political loyalist with no prior disaster management experience. 
 One FEMA program has, however, been revamped. The Recovery Channel is a satellite and Internet network that used to provide practical information to disaster victims. Now it features public relations segments telling viewers what a great job FEMA and the Bush administration are doing.
 But back to reconstruction. By letting the gulf region languish, Mr. Bush is allowing a window of opportunity to close, just as he did in Iraq.
 To see why, you need to understand a point emphasized by that report in The Los Angeles Times: the private sector can't rebuild the region on its own. The reason goes beyond the need for flood protection and basic infrastructure, which only the government can provide. Rebuilding is also blocked by a vicious circle of uncertainty. Business owners are reluctant to return to the gulf region because they aren't sure whether their customers and workers will return, too. And families are reluctant to return because they aren't sure whether businesses will be there to provide jobs and basic amenities. 
 A credible reconstruction plan could turn that vicious circle into a virtuous circle, in which everyone expects a regional recovery and, by acting on that expectation, helps that recovery come to pass. But as the months go by with no plan and no money, businesses and families will make permanent decisions to relocate elsewhere, and the loss of faith in a gulf region recovery will become a self-fulfilling prophecy.
 Funny, isn't it? Back during the 2000 campaign Mr. Bush promised to avoid ''nation building.'' And so he has. He failed to rebuild Iraq because he waited too long to get started. And now he's doing the same thing here at home.

Thomas L. Friedman is on vacation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); HURRICANES (70%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (70%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2005



180 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: Hearing Yields No Accord on Liberty Bonds for Trade Center

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
The Bloomberg administration and Larry A. Silverstein, the developer who holds the rights to rebuild the World Trade Center site, remain at odds over the conditions governing his use of Liberty Bonds to finance building office towers on the site.
 Mr. Silverstein has asked for all of the remaining $3.35 billion in tax-exempt bonds to rebuild five towers on or near the site. But because the bonds expire at the end of 2009, city officials have sought to impose strict timelines on construction that would enable the city to use some of the bonds elsewhere if the developer cannot use them in time. 
City officials say they may want to use a small portion of the bonds for retail development on the trade center site and have questioned Mr. Silverstein's proposal for a 5 percent development fee, which could add $100 million to the cost of the Freedom Tower, the first skyscraper planned for the site. 
 At a public hearing yesterday concerning the bonds, Andrew M. Alper, chairman of the city's Industrial Development Agency, said that the two sides ''remain far apart.'' He said that if the matter could not be resolved in time for a vote at the agency's meeting on Tuesday, it would be postponed until January or February.
 Mr. Silverstein, who leased the trade center from the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey two months before Sept. 11, 2001, plans to start construction of the $2 billion Freedom Tower in the spring.
 In remarks after the hearing, Mr. Alper said one sticking point was the developer's request for the entire allocation of Liberty Bonds for buildings that will be erected over the next 10 years. He also said the city wanted to prevent Mr. Silverstein from taking ''excessive development fees out of the project.''
 The hearing took place as Mr. Silverstein has come under increasing pressure from the Port Authority and city and state officials to relinquish a portion of the 16-acre trade center site. The developer plans to build one tower at a time, but officials say they can accelerate development if Mr. Silverstein cedes two sites on Church Street, next to the new PATH terminal, to the Port Authority. The authority, in turn, would solicit developers for a mall and two smaller office buildings.
 But yesterday, the Silverstein camp appeared to rebuff the idea and blamed government for any delays in the rebuilding effort.
 John N. Lieber, senior vice president of Silverstein Properties, said after the hearing that the developer would build all the towers ''as soon as government provides the sites.''
 ''Larry Silverstein is not only prepared to build, but he has the ability to finance the project through the insurance proceeds,'' Mr. Lieber said. ''Liberty Bonds are essential to ensuring that this project is built as quickly as possible.''
 But there is simply not enough money. More than $1.4 billion out of a maximum of $4.6 billion in insurance proceeds has been spent to pay off the mortgage on the complex and on rent and legal and development fees. The Freedom Tower alone is expected to cost at least $2 billion, or a quarter of the total price tag, and, according to real estate executives, take years to become fully occupied.
 The debate over the bonds drew an unusually large number of people to the hearing, about three dozen, including some who favor rebuilding the twin towers at the site. 
 A number of politicians -- including Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, Representative Charles B. Rangel and Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver -- sent letters endorsing Mr. Silverstein's bond application. Senator Charles E. Schumer also supported the request, but said the allocation should require Mr. Silverstein to lease most of 7 World Trade Center, a nearly completed skyscraper on a site nearby, in the next year.
 Carl Weisbrod, a former president of the city's Economic Development Corporation, said it would not be ''wise'' to allocate all the remaining bonds to Mr. Silverstein for highly speculative buildings that would not be built for years to come.
 Jonathan Hakala, chairman of the Coalition for a New Twin Towers, said it made no sense to allow Mr. Silverstein to use $2 billion in bonds for the ''deeply unpopular and fatally flawed'' Freedom Tower.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); OFFICE & WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); PORT AUTHORITIES (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (75%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (72%); TAX LAW (71%); RETAILERS (69%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (68%) Area Planning and Renewal; World Trade Center (NYC); Liberty Bonds; Retail Stores and Trade

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (67%)

ORGANIZATION: Industrial Development Agency

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (67%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (67%)

PERSON: Larry A Silverstein; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Charles V Bagli

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2005



181 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Painful Reality TV; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: Show Reflects Urgent Push for Teenage Adoption

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

 BODY:
The shows are strikingly intimate, even in the low-cost, no-frills lineup that appears on Brooklyn's cable-access television channel: teenagers in foster care, or just out of it, talking about their lives -- the lost connections, the pain and disappointments, the perpetual desire to someday be part of a family. 
 At one recent taping, inside a church in Coney Island, several teenagers sat on plastic chairs, behind a microphone and before a video camera that recorded their stories. There was a 17-year-old girl, Marie, who spent 15 years of her life bouncing between foster homes. There was, too, Richard Wilkerson, 21, who grew up in group homes, away from his nine siblings. The testimonials are a sales pitch, and it is a legendarily hard sell: trying to generate interest in adopting one of the thousands of young people stuck in the city's welfare system.
''Finding adoptive families for teenagers is hard,'' John B. Mattingly, the city's child welfare commissioner, said last week. ''But it's doable.'' 
 For the city, the challenge has perhaps never been more acutely obvious. Half the city's roughly 17,000 children in foster care are teenagers, a percentage that has caught the attention of experts, federal officials and the state court system that helps monitor how quickly and effectively the city is moving children to adoption.
 ''We've always known that there were a lot of teenagers in care, but they were always so outnumbered by the younger kids they became sort of invisible,'' said Barbara Rincon, program director of the New York Council on Adoptable Children, one of three adoption agencies the city has hired to recruit families interested in adopting teenagers. ''Our most urgent focus right now is to find homes for teens.'' 
 The city's emphasis on teenage adoptions has been a consequence in part of the overall shrinking of the foster care population. The number of children now in the system is the lowest since the mid 1980's. And of that group, only slightly more than 8,300 children are today under the age of 11 -- down from 37,000 in 1991, when the number of children in state care peaked.
 Then, teenagers were outnumbered by a ratio of three to one, city data shows. And for the child welfare agency, looking for families willing to adopt these children was not a priority. But the difficulty of even trying was fully appreciated all the same. 
 Experts and city officials say that part of the difficulty results from the public perception that teenagers, particularly those who grow up in foster care, are too troubled, too emotionally scarred to be appealing to prospective adoptive families. 
 ''It was assumed from practice, from theory, from the experiences, that older kids, kids who were in the double-digit age brackets, were unadoptable,'' said Adam Pertman, executive director of the Evan B. Donaldson Adoption Institute, a national group that seeks to improve adoption policy. ''That left a lot of the teenagers in foster care with no choice other than to wait to age out of the system to go live on their own.''
 The results, in many cases, turned out to be disastrous, according to child welfare officials and many studies. Some teenagers who were never adopted and left the foster care system when they reached 18 eventually stumbled into poverty, became unemployed or ended up in prison or on the streets. 
 In recent years, various officials, both inside and outside the child welfare agency, began to highlight the problem of moving older children in foster care to adoption.
 In 2002, New York's chief judge, Judith S. Kaye, who has made revamping the state's Family Court system a priority, called a meeting with William C. Bell, then the city's child welfare commissioner, and the head of the New York State Office of Children and Family Services, John A. Johnson. She wanted to find out why so many children freed for adoption were languishing in foster care.
 ''About half of these children were over the age of 9 and were free to be adopted, but there was just this assumption that they would age out of foster care and move into independent living,'' Judge Kaye said. City child welfare officials that same year reviewed 3,000 cases of foster children awaiting adoption and began to develop a new strategy to recruit families that would be specifically interested in adopting older children. The old strategy -- trying to convince people who wanted to adopt a younger child to take home a teenager -- was clearly not working.
 The city then contracted with three agencies to focus on the problem. One was You Gotta Believe, which is based in Coney Island, Brooklyn, and that has been producing the cable access show ''Adopting Teens & Tweens.''
 In interviews, officials said they had begun to dig deeper into the lives of some foster teenagers, trying to find adoptive parents among those with whom the teenagers have been more involved -- teachers, coaches, neighbors and guidance counselors.
 ''You can advertise in the newspaper, you can put things on TV, you can have a billboard, an ad in the Yellow Pages,'' said Lorraine Stephens, an official with the city's Administration for Children's Services involved with adoptions. ''In other words, you can reach out to recruit strangers, just random people.'' But she added, ''We really need to hone the depths of who knows this child, who this child has spent time with.'' 
 Both New York State and the federal government have extended cash grants and bonuses to the city to promote adoptions, including teenage ones. But the infusion of money has not removed the stigma that surrounds teenagers in foster care.
 Take Virginia Daidone, a 63-year-old widow who has lived alone in Mill Basin, Brooklyn, since her three children married and moved away. She attended an adoption workshop in Coney Island in November. That workshop included the taping of an ''Adopting Teens & Tweens'' episode.
 Mrs. Daidone listened attentively as Richard Wilkerson, one of the guest speakers, told of having grown up in foster care. He said he had been blessed to move into a permanent home six months before he turned 21.
 ''I was touched by the young man's story,'' Mrs. Daidone said, ''but I'm not sure if I'm ready to take a teenager into my home. On one hand, I want to adopt an older child, but everybody I talk to is pretty much against it. It's not like a teenager is a gift you buy at Macy's that you can bring back if it doesn't fit.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Pat O'Brien, left, executive director of You Gotta Believe, an adoption agency, jokes with Marie, 17, second from right, who spent 15 years in foster homes. She is now under the care of Billy Cruz, second from left, and his wife, Barbara, right. (Photo by Shiho Fukada for The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Richard Wilkerson, who grew up in group homes, away from his nine siblings, says he was blessed to move into a permanent home six months before he turned 21. His adoptive mother is Mary Chancie. (Photo by Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)(pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ADOPTION (91%); FOSTER CARE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); ADOPTION SERVICES (89%); FAMILY (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); CHILD PROTECTIVE SERVICES (77%); CITIES (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); CHILD WELFARE (72%) Adoptions; Foster Care ; Adoptions

ORGANIZATION: You Gotta Believe (Adoption Agency)

PERSON: Fernanda Santos

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2005



182 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; The Neediest Cases; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 999 words

HEADLINE: Overcoming Health Woes to Help People With Theirs

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ

 BODY:
For all the calamities of her 22 years -- a life-threatening fever as a baby that affected her ability to learn, a cyst that threatened to prevent childbearing, hypertension, anemia, gall bladder surgery -- the thing that stymied Mariely Gonzalez the most, judging by the expression on her stunned face, was a single line on her application for United States citizenship.
 The line said she needed $400 or she could not become a citizen. 
For Ms. Gonzalez it was a major problem, because she and her family are poor.
 Currently unemployed and looking for work, Ms. Gonzalez shares a small apartment with her mother and three half-siblings in Far Rockaway, Queens. She has supported herself with low-paying jobs. She said she preferred jobs in customer service because ''I like people.''
 Her dreams of becoming a citizen involved not only patriotism but something more.
 Ms. Gonzalez wants to work with children as a pediatric nurse, preferably at a government hospital or clinic. But she needed federal financial aid for her studies, and citizenship to get that aid.
 In October, the Brooklyn Bureau of Community Service, a beneficiary of The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, paid the $400 processing fee with Neediest Cases money, as well as $40 for a medical exemption from a written examination because of Ms. Gonzalez's learning disability.
 The hearing on her prospective citizenship is scheduled for sometime after October 2006.
 ''We were all astounded at how much it cost,'' said Colette Samuels, Ms. Gonzalez's caseworker. ''But if she's not a citizen she won't be able to get that job.'' 
 Ms. Gonzalez was born in the Dominican Republic, in a town that she can no longer remember. Her father, a construction engineer, refused to support her, she said. Her mother dropped out of college and was reduced to washing cars for tips to feed Ms. Gonzalez and, later, the other children.
 It was in the Dominican Republic that a combination of poverty and disease changed her life. While still a baby, kidney disease and a high fever nearly killed her, and left permanent effects.
 ''It hurt some part of my head,'' Ms. Gonzalez said. ''I can read, but it takes time for me to understand.''
 The fever might not have damaged her so much, she said, if she had been able to go to a hospital. But her mother had no money to pay the doctors. ''The Dominican Republic is not like the United States,'' she said.
 In 1995, Ms. Gonzalez, her mother and her half-siblings moved to Far Rockaway.
 With the help of special education courses, Ms. Gonzalez was able to graduate from grammar school. In 2002, after she graduated from high school, she worked at a Queens nursing home as a wheelchair attendant.
 In 2003, she had painful gallstones removed.
 Later, a second procedure was far more debilitating.
 This year, Ms. Gonzalez got a wheelchair attendant's job at Kennedy International Airport, with disastrous results. Ms. Gonzalez, who is 5 feet 3 inches tall and weighs 150 pounds, said, ''I would push really heavy people in a wheelchair from 4:30 in the afternoon to 9 o'clock at night, helping them get in and out of the wheelchair all the time.''
 In July, ''on a Saturday afternoon,'' she recalled, ''all of a sudden my stomach started hurting me. I was vomiting. So when my mother took me to the doctor, they finally found out there was a tumor on my left ovary and the tumor popped.''
 The noncancerous ovarian cyst was spilling blood into her abdomen. ''My stomach was so big,'' she said, ''they thought I was pregnant.'' Indeed, before doctors operated on the cyst, a pregnancy test was performed to confirm that she was not pregnant.
 The surgery was a success and did not affect her ability to bear children, she said. But she must take medicines for anemia and high blood pressure.
 After more than two months of recuperation, her airport job was no longer available, and doctors discouraged her from taking a similar one. ''If I go back, I might get another tumor and it might pop, the doctor said,'' Ms. Gonzalez said.
 Still unemployed, Ms. Gonzalez is working with a job coach at the Brooklyn Bureau's supported-employment program and looking forward to studying nursing.
 Whatever job she applies for, she hopes it has something to do with meeting people. ''I liked being a wheelchair attendant because the nature of the business is customer service,'' she said. ''I'm very friendly. I've always been like that.''

Previously recorded: $2,760,461.88
Recorded Wednesday: 44,294.61
Total: $2,804,756.49
Last year to date: $3,074,008.81

HOW TO HELP

Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund should be sent to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245, or any of these organizations:

BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE
285 Schermerhorn Street
Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217

CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street
Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201

CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK
1011 First Avenue
New York, N.Y. 10022

CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY
105 East 22nd Street
New York, N.Y. 10010

COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK
105 East 22nd Street
New York, N.Y. 10010

FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES
281 Park Avenue South
New York, N.Y. 10010

UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK
Church Street Station
P.O. Box 4100
New York, N.Y. 10261-4100

No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.

Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (800) 381-0075 or online, courtesy of NYCharities.org, an Internet donations service, at www.nytimes.com/neediest or www.nycharities.org/neediest. For instructions on how to donate stock to the fund, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 556-4450.

The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor.

Contributions to the fund are deductible on federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law.

To delay may mean to forget.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Mariely Gonzalez received help to pay the application fee for citizenship, which she needs to qualify for financial aid for her studies. (Photo by Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIZENSHIP (90%); NATURALIZATION (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); PEDIATRICS (78%); HOSPITALS (77%); ANEMIA (77%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (77%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (76%); EMPLOYMENT (72%); NURSES & NURSING (72%); HYPERTENSION (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (69%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (67%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (67%); DISABLED PERSONS (65%); LEARNING DISABILITIES (65%); KIDNEY DISEASE (61%); HIGH SCHOOLS (61%) New York Times Neediest Cases Fund

ORGANIZATION: Brooklyn Bureau of Community Service

PERSON: Anthony Ramirez

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2005



183 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; PRO FOOTBALL; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 681 words

HEADLINE: As Blaylock Recuperates With the Jets, Jordan Racks Up Numbers in Oakland

BYLINE: By DAVID PICKER

DATELINE: HEMPSTEAD, N.Y., Dec. 8 

 BODY:
When LaMont Jordan left the Jets for the Oakland Raiders in the off-season, Derrick Blaylock saw an opportunity. Jordan's departure meant that the Jets needed a backup for running back Curtis Martin, and Blaylock seemed tailor-made for the job because he had spent his first four seasons in Kansas City as Priest Holmes's understudy.
 The 2005 season was still six months away when Blaylock reached a five-year deal with the Jets. But the signing might have been the highlight of his year. 
After rushing the ball 10 times for 19 yards and no touchdowns this season, he broke his right foot against the Tampa Bay Buccaneers in Week 5 and has not played since.
 Blaylock is listed as doubtful for Sunday's game against the Raiders (4-8) at Giants Stadium. Jordan, meanwhile, will be the Raiders' featured back.
 After practice on Thursday, Blaylock spoke as though there was no chance he would face the Raiders. 
 ''My biggest challenge is getting healthy and back on the field before the season is over,'' said Blaylock, who planned on practicing at full speed for the first time next week. ''It just takes time.''
 Blaylock said that if he had remained healthy, his role in the Jets' sputtering rushing attack would have increased. 
 There is ample evidence to support his position.
 Last season, Martin won the N.F.L. rushing title, and Jordan still carried 93 times for 479 yards and 2 touchdowns. 
 Blaylock has proven that he can carry an even larger load; he rushed for 539 yards and 8 touchdowns on 118 carries last season, including 186 yards against the New Orleans Saints.
 Despite a reputation as one of the most durable running backs in the league, Martin has struggled to get the 735 yards he has gained this season. He is 32 and would clearly benefit from having a veteran backup. But Cedric Houston, a rookie with 17 carries, is the Jets' other running back.
 After practice, Martin said this season might be the most physically demanding of his career. But becoming the first player in league history to rush for 1,000 yards in his first 11 seasons would probably soften the sting of so much losing.
 ''It would be a great goal to accomplish,'' said Martin, who is listed as probable for Sunday's game because of a knee injury.
 ''I know this sounds like the right thing to say right now, but I've never been a goal guy,'' Martin added. ''This is one that I think would be special.''
 While Martin said that he had not spoken to Jordan in a while, he likened him to a younger brother.
 Jordan has enjoyed success in Oakland, rushing for a team-high 844 yards, catching a team-high 61 passes for 493 yards and scoring 11 touchdowns, tied for fifth in the N.F.L.
 The Jets never wanted to let Jordan go, but they were forced to by economic reality.
 ''LaMont wanted to be a starter,'' Coach Herman Edwards said. ''He had an opportunity to be a starter. They gave him a little bit more money than we gave him.''
 Blaylock said he realized that comparisons between him and his predecessor were only natural. He and Jordan were drafted in 2001, and their former teams -- the Jets and the Chiefs -- are 35-29 in the past four seasons.
 Asked about Jordan's season, Blaylock said that he could see himself making a similar jump from backup to starter and having as much success.
 ''It was time for him to move on and do bigger things,'' Blaylock said.
 ''As for me,'' he added, ''it's still not my time yet. I'm still being patient, I'm still waiting. 
 ''So I'm happy for him and I'm happy that he went on to be a star in Oakland. He's having a good season, and I feel that my time will come.''

EXTRA POINTS
 Jay Fiedler, who began the season as the Jets' backup quarterback, will have season-ending shoulder surgery as soon as this week, Herman Edwards said on Thursday. Fiedler injured his right shoulder against the Jacksonville Jaguars on Sept. 25. ''I don't know,'' Edwards said when asked how long it would take for Fiedler to recover. Dewayne Robertson, a defensive tackle, did not practice because of a quadriceps injury, and is listed as questionable for Sunday's game .


GRAPHIC: Photo: Derrick Blaylock, the Jets' backup running back, broke his foot in Week 5 and remains doubtful for Sunday. (Photo by Tim Shaffer/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (75%); BONE FRACTURES (74%); KNEE DISORDERS & INJURIES (50%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (50%) Football

ORGANIZATION: OAKLAND RAIDERS (94%); NEW YORK JETS (94%); TAMPA BAY BUCCANEERS (56%); NEW YORK GIANTS (56%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (54%) New York Jets; Oakland Raiders

PERSON: David Picker; Derrick Blaylock; Lamont Jordan

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (88%); FLORIDA, USA (76%); MISSOURI, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2005



184 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 9, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: Verizon Unpacks at Its Restored Ancestral Headquarters 

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
Verizon, the corporate great-grandchild of the New York Telephone Company, came back yesterday to its ancestral home in Lower Manhattan -- an Art Deco landmark that was badly battered on 9/11 -- after a 33-year absence.
 The company's return of its headquarters to 140 West Street, opposite ground zero, is one step in the assemblage of an extraordinary crossroads, if all the plans materialize. By 2010, the headquarters of American Express, Goldman Sachs and Verizon are each to occupy a corner of West and Vesey Streets, with the Freedom Tower on the fourth. 
The gradual transfer of Verizon's headquarters from 1095 Avenue of the Americas, opposite Bryant Park, began in July and will continue until the middle of next year. But if the head of the table is where MacGregor sits, the true switch-over will occur on Dec. 19 when Ivan Seidenberg, the chairman and chief executive, moves his office downtown.
 Verizon's board will meet for the first time next month in the restored 29th-floor boardroom at 140 West Street, which was designed by Ralph Walker and completed in 1927 as the telephone company headquarters. In reprising this role, the building will house 1,500 employees. 
 New York Telephone moved to the Avenue of the Americas in 1972, but held on to the West Street building. In the intervening years, as Nynex and Bell Atlantic, its headquarters shifted several times but eventually returned to the 41-story Midtown tower, which it sold in March for $505 million to Equity Office Properties Trust. Verizon will continue to occupy seven floors there. 
 A ceremonial transfer occurred yesterday when Gov. George E. Pataki, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver helped splice a 12-strand fiber-optic cable -- in lieu of cutting a ribbon -- under the ornate ceiling murals of the barrel-vaulted lobby. The lobby, an official interior landmark, was meticulously restored as part of the $322 million rehabilitation of the 32-story structure, but it is closed to the public.
 Verizon is vigilant in guarding the lobby in part because there is so much telecommunications equipment in the building and also to ensure its employees' peace of mind, said Lark-Marie Anton, a company spokeswoman. Many of its workers witnessed the 2001 attack firsthand. But she said the company was trying to find a way to allow the public to view the restoration.
 Insurance payments covered some of the renovation cost, said Lee Brathwaite, Verizon's vice president of corporate real estate. No economic development incentives were sought, he said. The only government benefits Verizon received were federal historic rehabilitation tax credits worth about $10 million over three years.
 Acknowledging security concerns at such a high-profile crossroads, Mr. Brathwaite said Verizon was ''working to enhance the safety of the building.'' That may include the installation of protective sidewalk stanchions called bollards.
 ''We have not heard any concerns expressed for safety on the part of our employees,'' Mr. Brathwaite said. ''As a matter of fact, people are really looking forward to coming back to this building because many of them remember what it was like when -- like myself -- we were starting in the company.''
 That includes Mr. Seidenberg, who recalled a visual acuity exam given to him as an aspiring technician.
 ''Almost 40 years ago to the day,'' he told officials and executives gathered in the lobby of 140 West Street, ''down that corridor on the left was the employment office for then New York Telephone. I came in and applied for a job. I passed the test, failed the color test and they sent me to the Bronx.
 ''But I'm back.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, left, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and Gov. George E. Pataki welcoming Verizon to 140 West Street. (Photo by Librado Romero/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (88%); LOBBYING (85%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (75%); GRANDCHILDREN (73%); FIBER OPTICS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (72%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (72%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (68%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%) Office Buildings and Commercial Properties; Restoration and Rehabilitation; Telephones and Telecommunications

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%); VERIZON NEW YORK INC (91%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (57%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Verizon Communications Inc

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (92%); VZ (NYSE) (92%); AXP (NYSE) (57%); GS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (78%); IVAN SEIDENBERG (59%) George E (Gov) Pataki; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Sheldon (Speaker) Silver; David W Dunlap

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2005



185 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 997 words

HEADLINE: For Online Star Wars Game, It's Revenge of the Fans

BYLINE: By SETH SCHIESEL

 BODY:
For two and a half years, Emily E. LaBeff, chairwoman of the sociology department at Midwestern State University in Wichita Falls, Tex., spent 30 hours or more each week playing the online computer game Star Wars Galaxies. Not for research, but for fun.
 Logging on to the game on weekends and many nights after class, Ms. LaBeff directed Athena Wavingrider, a powerful Jedi she created, through the far corners of the Star Wars universe, fighting on behalf of the Rebel Alliance against the tyranny of the Galactic Empire. Like millions of other online gamers, Ms. LaBeff, 54, discovered a camaraderie and friendship with other players that were far more important than the play itself -- relationships that can be hard to replicate in ''real life.'' 
''It's replaced my television time, and I don't go to the movies anymore,'' she said, chuckling. ''I don't keep my car as clean as I used to. But it's not because of the game itself. It's because of the people.'' She added, ''We all had this wonderful second life together.''
 And now it's all gone, at least in any form that Ms. LaBeff and thousands of other Star Wars Galaxies veterans would recognize.
 Last month, LucasArts and Sony's online game division, which have jointly run Star Wars Galaxies since its introduction in 2003, suddenly turned the game upside down, making the most sweeping changes ever made to a persistent online game. (''Persistent'' means that the game world is constantly running, and players may log in and out as they please.) Unsatisfied with the product's merely moderate success, the companies radically revamped the game in an attempt to appeal to a younger, more trigger-happy audience.
 Previously, the game was unabashedly complicated, appealing to mature, reflex-challenged gamers with its strategic combat style and deep skill system, which allowed players to carve out profitable, powerful niches as entertainers, architects and politicians. Now the game has become self-consciously simple, with a basic point-and-click combat system that is meant to evoke the frenetic firefights of the ''Star Wars'' films. 
 To Sony and LucasArts, the changes are a necessary step to help the game appeal to a broader audience. (The companies do not release subscriber figures, but many gaming experts believe that before the changes, Star Wars Galaxies had about 200,000 subscribers, each paying about $15 a month.) But to thousands of players, the shifts have meant the destruction of online communities that they might have spent hundreds or even thousands of hours constructing. Now many Galaxies players are canceling their accounts and migrating to other online games. They are swapping tales on ''refugee'' Web sites with names like Imperial Crackdown (imperialcrackdown.com). Ms. LaBeff, for instance, said that she had canceled all three of her Galaxies accounts and had joined a new guild in World of Warcraft, another game, with her old Star Wars friends.
 ''Someone might wonder, well, it's just a game, what's the big deal?'' said Robert Kruck, 54, an engineer for Motorola who lives in Schaumburg, Ill., who said he had canceled seven of his eight Galaxies accounts. ''But for many people it is much more than a game,'' he said. ''It is a part of their lives where they have invested huge amounts of time building a community. And that community has been based on a sophisticated, mature game. So now, for them to take an adult-level combat and economics simulation and turn it into a mindless game for 10-year-olds is a violation of that community.''
 For Sony and LucasArts, the idea has been to make the game more ''Star Wars-like,'' tying it more explicitly to the films. 
 ''We really just needed to make the game a lot more accessible to a much broader player base,'' said Nancy MacIntyre, the game's senior director at LucasArts. ''There was lots of reading, much too much, in the game. There was a lot of wandering around learning about different abilities. We really needed to give people the experience of being Han Solo or Luke Skywalker rather than being Uncle Owen, the moisture farmer. We wanted more instant gratification: kill, get treasure, repeat. We needed to give people more of an opportunity to be a part of what they have seen in the movies rather than something they had created themselves.''
 Ms. MacIntyre said Galaxies had lost ''significantly more'' than the 3 to 5 percent of players who typically leave any online game every month. She said she expected the game to return to its previous subscriber levels in six months, a process she hoped would be accelerated by the introduction of a new television infomercial hawking Galaxies later this month.
 ''We knew we were taking a significant risk with our existing player base, but we felt so strongly that we needed to make these changes for the sake of the game's long-term future that we all held hands, LucasArts and Sony, and went forward,'' Ms. MacIntyre said.
 It may, however, be a rocky path, because the revamped game is receiving mostly horrible reviews from players. On Gamespot.com, a leading game Web site, about half of the more than 600 players evaluating the game have rated it ''abysmal.'' Some 14 percent have called it ''terrible,'' and 6 percent have described it as merely ''bad.'' The game is described as ''perfect'' by about 12 percent and ''other'' by 18 percent.
 ''We just feel violated,'' said Carolyn R. Hocke, 46, a marketing Web technician for Ministry Medical Group and St. Michael's Hospital in Stevens Point, Wis. Ms. Hocke said she once had as many as 10 separate Galaxies accounts but has canceled all but one in the last two weeks.
 ''For them to just come along and destroy our community has prompted a lot of death-in-the-family-type grieving,'' she said. ''They went through the astonishment and denial, then they went to the anger part of it, and now they are going through the sad and helpless part of grieving. I work in the health-care industry, and it's very similar.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Images from Star Wars Galaxies, which started as a game for mature players and has been transformed to favor clashing light sabers over cerebral strategies. (Photo by LucasArts/Sony Online Entertainment)(pg. B9)
 Carolyn R. Hocke, a player with ''death-in-the-family-type grieving.'' (Photo by Corey Schjoth for The New York Times)(pg. B18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ONLINE COMPUTER GAMES (91%); COMPUTER GAMES (90%); SOCIOLOGY (90%); TOYS & GAMES (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2005



186 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; A NEW SENATOR FOR NEW JERSEY: THE ANNOUNCEMENT; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1226 words

HEADLINE: Menendez Basks in Appointment to the Senate, if Only Briefly

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

DATELINE: JERSEY CITY, Dec. 9 

 BODY:
To introduce Robert Menendez as New Jersey's first Latino United States senator, Governor-elect Jon S. Corzine chose a setting intended to emphasize the arc of Mr. Menendez's life as the son of poor Cuban immigrants.
 He traveled to Liberty State Park to announce his choice of Mr. Menendez before an enthusiastic crowd of several hundred Democrats in the park's historic Central Railroad of New Jersey Terminal, where waves of immigrants who had just passed through Ellis Island boarded trains to take them to new lives in the United States.
Looking both happy and relieved by his decision, Mr. Corzine said that he had settled on Mr. Menendez to complete the remaining year of his Senate term because of his record as a ''fierce and articulate advocate'' for a progressive agenda. A key element of that record, Mr. Corzine said, was Mr. Menendez's vote against the war in Iraq.
 But he also said that he was inspired by Mr. Menendez's immigrant roots and willingness to battle for what was right. 
 ''I don't want anybody to lose sight in their mind of the representation of what is occurring here in Liberty State Park,'' he said. ''Symbolism meets reality with Bob Menendez.''
 After exchanging a hug with Mr. Corzine, Mr. Menendez, 51, a seven-term congressman from Hudson County, promised to work tirelessly for New Jersey's working-class families on domestic security, health care and tax policy. He also emphasized his differences with President Bush, whose popularity ratings remain low in the state.
 ''You see, I know how to say no to a Washington that betrays our trust, and I will work hard every day to say yes to the hard-working families of New Jersey,'' said Mr. Menendez, who was flanked by his daughter, Alicia, 22, a recent graduate of Harvard, and his son, Robert, a 20-year-old student at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
 Mr. Menendez also used the opportunity to introduce himself to New Jersey voters, who will probably be asked in November to choose between Mr. Menendez and the leading Republican, state Senator Thomas H. Kean Jr., the son of a popular former governor, for a full six-year term. He talked about growing up in a tenement building on Hudson Avenue in Union City, the son of an itinerant carpenter father and a seamstress mother.
 ''I have walked in the shoes of the average New Jerseyan all of my life, and I know the challenges they face,'' said Mr. Menendez, who will join the Senate after Mr. Corzine is sworn in as governor on Jan. 17.
 Mr. Menendez then concluded his remarks by doing something he generally did not do while campaigning for Mr. Corzine this fall: he spoke in Spanish.
 ''Thank you to my community for being here with us,'' he said, as the crowd roared in delight. ''This is the best state in the best nation in the world.''
 Mr. Corzine's selection, his first major decision since winning the governor's race last month, was closely watched by Democrats in Washington and in New Jersey. The national party will make another run at capturing control of the Senate next year, and Democrats have worried that Mr. Menendez could face a distracting primary challenge because two other New Jersey congressmen, Representatives Robert E. Andrews of Camden County and Frank Pallone Jr. of Monmouth County, had lobbied aggressively for the job.
 For months, Mr. Menendez had been viewed as the front-runner. He had the money, with more than $4 million in campaign funds, compared with $2 million each for Mr. Andrews and Mr. Pallone. He had the clout, as the third-ranking Democrat in the House of Representatives and the leader of a Hudson County political organization that has been crucial to Democratic turnout efforts in past elections.
 But in the fishbowl world of Trenton politics, Democrats began to have second thoughts about Mr. Menendez's bid as the process dragged on and they waited for Mr. Corzine to make an announcement. Acting Gov. Richard J. Codey was the popular choice, according to several polls, but he dropped out of the running before Thanksgiving. And the names of two African-Americans, State Senator Nia H. Gill and Cory Booker, a former Newark councilman, were mentioned.
 Meanwhile, questions bounced inside the state's political circles. Was Mr. Corzine feeling uneasy about Mr. Menendez's longstanding leadership of the Hudson County Democratic Party, where several county and municipal officials have been indicted and jailed on corruption charges in recent years? Or had Mr. Corzine come across a surprise dream candidate?
 By moving up to the Senate, Mr. Menendez becomes the state's junior senator to Senator Frank R. Lautenberg, who joined Mr. Menendez, Mr. Codey and several elected officials on stage on Friday. (Noticeably absent were Mr. Andrews and Mr. Pallone.) He also becomes the third Latino in the Senate, joining Senators Mel Martinez, a Florida Republican, and Ken Salazar, a Colorado Democrat.
 As a member of the House of Representatives, Mr. Menendez has had a generally liberal voting record, though he usually crosses party lines to vote with Republicans on issues involving Cuba. According to the most recent ratings compiled by Project Vote Smart for 2004, he supported legislation back by the A.F.L.-C.I.O. 93 percent of the time, and the League of Conservation Voters 97 percent. By contrast, he sided with the conservative National Taxpayers Union 9 percent of the time, and supported interests of the Christian Coalition 15 percent of the time.
 Predictably, Democrats and Republicans had contrasting reactions to the appointment. 
 ''With his decision, Governor-Elect Corzine is helping the U.S. Senate better reflect the diversity of America,'' Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada, and the Senate minority leader, said in a statement. ''His leadership skills and experience in public service will make him a great addition to the Senate Democratic Caucus.''
 But Assemblyman Eric Munoz, a Republican from Union County, said that Mr. Menendez did not represent the Hispanics that he knew.
 ''The Hispanic community is a group of honest, intelligent and hard-working people who want to live the American dream and choose leaders who will fight for lower taxes, better education for their children and improving the economy,'' he said. ''Mr. Menendez does not represent these values, and they will not blindly follow a leader based solely on ethnicity.''
 After Mr. Menendez leaves the House, his Congressional seat will probably remain vacant until the November election. Two Latino assemblymen already have expressed a strong interest in running for the seat in the Democratic primary in June: Albio Sires, an ally of Mr. Menendez's and the mayor of West New York, and Joseph Vas, the mayor of Perth Amboy.
 For his part, Mr. Menendez is already gearing up for a general election contest that Democrats and Republicans estimate could cost $30 million. Indeed, he is scheduled to be in Florida over the weekend for a fund-raiser.
 For the day, at least, his likely opponent in November, Mr. Kean, offered only congratulations.
 ''I look forward with anticipation to a positive campaign that will focus on the important issues facing New Jersey and America,'' Mr. Kean said. ''My campaign will be based on honesty, fairness, integrity, transparency, and responsibility. I challenge Bob Menendez to seize this opportunity and do the same.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Governor-elect Jon S. Corzine, center, announces Robert Menendez, to his immediate right, as his pick to fill Mr. Corzine's Senate seat. (Photo by Keith Meyers/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); GOVERNORS (89%); FAMILY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); STATE PARKS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); IRAQ WAR (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: BOB MENENDEZ (93%); JON CORZINE (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2005



187 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 242 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Confidence Rises For a 2nd Consecutive Month

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Consumer confidence rose in the last month, a second straight monthly increase, according to an index published yesterday by the University of Michigan. 
 The university's preliminary index of consumer sentiment rose to 88.7 from a November reading of 81.6. It reached a 13-year low of 74.2 in October after Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, and the combined two-month increase since then has been the biggest since April and May 2003.
 Treasury notes fell as investors worried that rising consumer confidence and spending may lead to faster inflation and lead Federal Reserve policy makers to keep raising interest rates. 
 The university's current conditions index, which reflects Americans' perception of their financial situation and whether it is a good time to buy big-ticket items like cars, rose to 106.6 from 100.2 last month. 
 The expectations index rose to 77.3, the highest since 85.5 in July; it had been 69.6 last month. 
 Consumers expect inflation to rise 3.1 percent in the next 12 months, down from 3.3 percent in November, the report showed. Inflation expectations for the next 5 to 10 years held at 3 percent for a second month. 
 In another report, the Commerce Department said sales at wholesalers rose 1.2 percent in October, exceeding a gain in inventories and offering a sign that production may pick up to meet demand. Inventories rose 0.2 percent in October, the smallest gain in three months, after a 0.6 percent rise a month earlier. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (97%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (97%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); INVENTORIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); TREASURY SECURITIES (71%); HURRICANE KATRINA (56%); INTEREST RATES (55%) United States Economy; Consumer Confidence (Economic Indicator); Sales; Inventories (Economic Indicator)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (82%) University of Michigan; Commerce Department

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2005



188 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; A Case of Stunted Growth; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1662 words

HEADLINE: California's Stem Cell Program Is Hobbled but Staying the Course

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Dec. 9 

 BODY:
After nearly an entire morning of sometimes heated debate the other day, the board overseeing California's $3 billion stem cell research institute took action. It asked the organization's president to draw up a plan for how to draw up a strategic plan. 
 That is the way it has been going lately for the state's closely watched foray into the frontiers of medical science. More than a year after 59 percent of Californians approved an ambitious program to harness human embryonic stem cells to treat diseases, not a single dollar has yet been spent on research.
Instead, the effort has been hobbled by litigation that has kept the project from raising money. It has been second-guessed by public interest groups and legislators. And it has been consumed by the bureaucratic minutiae required to set up rules for administering grants. While much progress has been made, the delays and sheer magnitude of the work involved have frustrated even some of the project's champions. 
 ''I liken it to the Iraq thinking -- we won the war and didn't know what to do afterward,'' said Paul Berg, a Nobel laureate from Stanford University who fills in on the institute's board when Stanford's medical school dean cannot attend. 
 What happens in California matters to the nation because the $3 billion to be spent on mainly embryonic stem cell research -- $300 million annually for 10 years -- is expected to dwarf funding from the federal government and from any other state. 
 Whether stem cells fulfill their potential for medical breakthroughs, and whether the United States can stay competitive in a new branch of biotechnology, could depend on California. And California's experience could serve as an example of what to do -- or what to avoid -- for other states trying to set up stem cell programs. Those include Connecticut, Illinois and New Jersey. And in Florida, an effort is under way to promote a ballot initiative. 
 To be sure the task at hand, often likened to setting up a state version of the National Institutes of Health, is formidable. And many of the rules and committees needed are now in place. Ultimately, backers of the effort say, a delay of half a year or even a year in a long-term scientific endeavor would not make much difference. 
 ''I have a mentor whose slogan is 'nothing great is easy,' and I think about that all the time,'' said Joan Samuelson. 
 She is a member of the institute's board and an advocate for people with Parkinson's disease, a condition that she has and which is seen as a promising target for stem cell therapy. ''Anything so important and so public is going to have a Greek chorus -- the naysayers, whiners and complainers. We just have to stay the course.'' 
 Still, there is a danger of a taxpayer revolt if promises made during the campaign in 2004 and in the immediate afterglow of the ballot victory are not upheld. Leaders of the initiative said then that they hoped to begin awarding the first research grants as early as last May. The project leaders are also backpedaling somewhat on projections made during the campaign that the state would reap sizable royalties from discoveries made with taxpayer money. 
 ''They are engaged in expectation management, both financial and scientific,'' said Jesse Reynolds of the nonprofit Center for Genetics and Society, which supports stem cell research but has been a frequent critic of the California institute. 
 The delays could also threaten the allure of California as a magnet for stem cell scientists. A husband-wife team of geneticists from the National Cancer Institute recently decided to move to Singapore instead of Stanford because of the uncertainty surrounding the stem cell program, a decision first reported by The San Jose Mercury News. 
 Several scientists in California and elsewhere said in interviews that the state was still attractive, though perhaps a bit less than before. 
 The stem cell initiative, Proposition 71, was an effort to circumvent federal restrictions on research involving human embryonic stem cells. 
 The cells can turn into any type of cell in the body. That means stem cells might one day be used to generate replacement tissue for damaged organs and treat numerous diseases. But the science is ethically controversial because the creation of stem cells involves the destruction of human embryos. 
 Proposition 71 set up the California Institute for Regenerative Medicine, governed by a 29-member board. Members, appointed by state officials, are largely patient advocates and the deans or presidents of California universities and research institutes. 
 The initiative was written to shield the institute from interference by the Legislature, in hopes of speeding its work. But that approach has not totally worked and, in fact, might have left the stem cell program vulnerable to legal challenges. 
 Two lawsuits, although filed by lawyers opposed to embryonic stem cell research on ethical grounds, challenge the legality of Proposition 71, contending that it allows state money to be spent by people not adequately under state control. 
 A trial, in a state court, is set to begin Feb. 27. Until the litigation is resolved, which could take many months, the state will not issue any of the $3 billion in bonds to pay for research. 
 So far the institute has been subsisting on a $3 million loan from the state and a $5 million gift from the audio entrepreneur Ray Dolby. But that money will run out in May and the institute, which has 19 employees, has frozen hiring. 
 Robert N. Klein, the chairman of the institute's board and chief author of Proposition 71, denied that the institute's structure left it vulnerable. ''They would have challenged us regardless of how we would have written it,'' he said.
 Mr. Klein, a real estate developer whose son has diabetes, said he hoped to raise as much as $50 million in bridge financing early next year from charities and wealthy individuals. The money would allow for grants, first to train scientists in stem cell techniques and then perhaps for actual medical research. 
 Some California legislators and public interest groups that favor stem cell research have also criticized the institute, saying it has built-in potential for conflict of interest because some board members are from universities that could receive grants. 
 Critics also say the institute's activities have not been adequately open to public scrutiny. The board and various board committees have held more than 50 public meetings so far, and many have been sparsely attended.
 At the meeting held this past Tuesday at the City of Hope medical center in Duarte, east of Los Angeles, the board members outnumbered members of the public. 
 The meeting's major topic -- one of the final issues to be ironed out before grants can be awarded -- was how to handle patents arising from research paid for by the state. A study commissioned by backers of Proposition 71 during the campaign had projected the state could earn royalties of $537 million to $1.1 billion in the next 35 years. 
 But a commission that the legislature asked to examine patent issues reported in August that such projections were ''based on unrealistic assumptions about the potential economic impact'' of the stem cell program. 
 Also dashing some prospects for royalties is a concern that if the state received too much in royalties it might be required under federal rules to issue taxable bonds instead of tax-exempt ones. That could raise the state's interest costs by several hundred million dollars during the next 30 years. 
 Mr. Klein said royalties were never expected to be a major part of the economic return from stem cell research. That return, he said, would instead come from the growth of the California biotechnology industry and from lower medical costs resulting from stem cell therapies. 
 At Tuesday's meeting board members agreed on an interim policy: let universities and other grant recipients own the patents developed from their research financed by the stem cell program and license them to companies. That would be in accord with federal policy under the Bayh-Dole Act. 
 But some board members, as well as state legislators, have said there was a promise to voters that the state would get a direct financial return and that treatments developed with taxpayer money would be made affordable to Californians. Others countered that requirements for royalties to the state or restrictions on pricing of therapies could discourage companies from developing treatments. 
 The interim policy calls for universities to share the proceeds from highly lucrative patents with the state in some still unspecified way. 
 Another item on Tuesday's agenda was a proposal to appoint a 14-member committee to develop a strategic plan for the institute. 
 Some of the academic members of the panel revolted, saying the plan should be developed by the institute's president, in consultation with individual board members. A board's job, they said, is just to approve or amend what the staff does. 
 This stance seems to reflect a sense on the part of some of the university presidents and deans that the monthly all-day board meetings, plus extra meetings if they are on committees, are more time-consuming than they had imagined. 
 But some patient advocates on the board said they wanted to be directly involved in developing the strategic plan. And Mr. Klein said a formal committee was probably necessary because it might violate the state's open-meeting law for the president to consult privately with too many board members. 
 The board decided the president, Zach W. Hall, should come up with a plan for developing the strategic plan, including how he would involve the board. Mr. Berg of Stanford objected, saying that if every plan first needed a plan on how to develop the plan ''you guys are going to be just strangled.'' 
 The question of whether there will be a strategic planning committee was left for a future meeting. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Embryonic stem cells might one day be used to generate replacement tissue for damaged organs and treat numerous diseases. (Photo by Jamie Rector for The New York Times)(pg. C1): Rudy Gonzales does research on human embryonic stem cells at the Burnham Institute in La Jolla, Calif. (Photo by Sandy Huffaker/Getty Images)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STEM CELL RESEARCH (93%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (92%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); PARKINSONS DISEASE (78%); BIOLOGY (78%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); LITIGATION (74%); GRANTS & GIFTS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); NOBEL PRIZES (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); AWARDS & PRIZES (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (66%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (57%); BALLOTS (50%) Medicine and Health; Research; Stem Cells; Finances; Suits and Litigation; Medicine and Health

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (82%)

PERSON: Andrew Pollack

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (79%) California

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2005



189 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; MARKET VALUES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: Murphy's Law And Forecasts For Next Year 

BYLINE: By Conrad de Aenlle

 BODY:
YEAR-END forecasts are arriving earlier and earlier, like holiday shopping without the inconvenient parking. Here are some otherwise unexpected events that some investment advisers predict for 2006, along with ways to profit should they come to pass.
 Barbara S. Walchli, manager of the Aquila Rocky Mountain Equity fund, warns that next year may be hazardous to your health care.
''I think the health care system is close to breaking, with doctor shortages and longer emergency room waiting times and baby boomers getting into their high-demand years,'' she said. ''Add in avian flu or something else like that, and the system breaks.'' 
 Grim developments if they happen, but they would improve the prognosis for shares of small companies that make medical products and equipment, Ms. Walchli said. Some examples she cited are Medtronic, Spectranetics and Merit Medical Systems. She also likes developers of software with medical applications, like Computer Programs and Systems Inc., Eclipsys and Emdeon.
 ''Anything that can improve the efficiency of health care delivery without increasing costs will be important,'' she said.
 The dollar's strength was a big surprise in 2005; renewed weakness could trip up investors next year, said Matthew Smith, chief executive of Smith Affiliated Capital, a New York firm that manages $1.4 billion in fixed-income instruments.
 Subdued economic performance, he said, will compel the Fed to ease up on the rate increases widely credited for the currency's double-digit percentage gains this year. ''I think you'll see the dollar cracking as Fed policy goes neutral,'' he said.
 A falling dollar should improve earnings prospects for American companies with extensive foreign sales, but the economic softening that Mr. Smith anticipates is steering him into Treasury notes with maturities of five years or less.
 Alan Brown at Schroder Investment Management also expects the dollar to fall, and he advises focusing on the yen to reap the biggest gains. With the dollar recently at a two-year high above 121 yen, the Japanese currency ''is fundamentally very undervalued,'' he said.
 ''The Japanese have been very successful at keeping the currency on the cheap side,'' he said, ''but this has now reached extremes.''
 Investors who see things his way can buy yen bank deposits, or futures and options contracts that provide a leveraged bet on the currency. If those are too exotic, ''then you could try equities,'' Mr. Brown said. ''The Japanese equity markets are attractive.''
 As the research director of the Ashmore Group, a London firm specializing in emerging-market debt, Jerome Booth is an authority on volatile assets of dubious creditworthiness. His potential surprise concerns General Motors. Look for a merger before the year is out between the enfeebled company and a Chinese car manufacturer, he advised.
 Either a ''merger or maybe a strategic alliance could be formed,'' Mr. Booth said, ''with some cross-shareholdings sufficiently complex to allow G.M. executives to refer to it as an expansion into China and, jointly, other Asian or global markets.''
 He drew from his experience with other iffy assets to advise investors to hold off buying G.M. shares before such a deal is announced. ''I can make money in Argentina after the default, but that does not mean I buy it beforehand,'' he said.
 Pete Kendall, co-editor of the Elliott Wave Financial Forecast newsletter, would hold off before buying just about anything. He expects a severe decline in the stock market.
 To show how unanticipated that is, he cited a popular indicator of market sentiment that has recorded more bulls than bears among investment advisers every month for three years, the longest such run ever.
 The fallout from a big decline will land hard on hedge funds and their investors, he predicted. One way to capitalize on their misfortune is to sell short shares in the Man Group, a large British hedge fund provider, as a proxy for the Standard & Poor's Hedge Fund index. But he warned speculators not to allow losses to run too high if the shares begin to rise.
 Mr. Kendall expects a tough year for hedge fund managers in another respect. He recalled the perp walks and news conferences that made New York's attorney general a household name in the aftermath of the tech bubble and predicted an imminent second act.
 ''When the trend reverses, the blame usually falls on the stars of the preceding advance, so we'll probably see hedge fund principals being paraded through the streets in handcuffs,'' Mr. Kendall said. ''Shorting the S.& P. hedge fund index or going long Eliot Spitzer futures should be a good bet.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (90%); MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (90%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); US DOLLAR (87%); JAPANESE YEN (86%); COMPANY EARNINGS (79%); BONDS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); AVIAN INFLUENZA (71%); LABOR SHORTAGES (71%); FUTURES (71%); BABY BOOMERS (71%); TREASURY SECURITIES (69%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (68%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (60%); AUTOMAKERS (60%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (60%) Stocks and Bonds; Two Thousand Six (Year)

COMPANY: COMPUTER PROGRAMS & SYSTEMS INC (69%); MERIT MEDICAL SYSTEMS INC (56%); MEDTRONIC INC (56%); SMITH AFFILIATED CAPITAL CORP (55%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

TICKER: CPSI (NASDAQ) (69%); MMSI (NASDAQ) (56%); MDT (NYSE) (56%); GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (69%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (69%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3841 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS (56%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (56%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (55%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: Conrad De Aenlle

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2005



190 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1224 words

HEADLINE: Killing of Ex-President's Brother Is Still a Mexican Mystery

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Dec. 9 

 BODY:
It has been a year since the brother of former President Carlos Salinas de Gortari was found suffocated, but the state and federal authorities have yet to untangle the motives for his killing, much less arrest his killers and their accomplices.
 The investigation has taken several surprising turns. Two elite federal agents have been arrested on charges of trying to extort money from the brother, Enrique Salinas de Gortari, yet they have not been tied to his killing. Two other agents have gone into hiding after being named as suspects in the extortion plot.
 Mr. Salinas's lawyer and another close friend have been arrested; investigators say they failed to mention that two days after the killing, they tried to collect $2.9 million that Mr. Salinas had arranged to borrow from a friend, perhaps to pay off blackmailers. 
 Mr. Salinas's companion has fled to the United States after learning that investigators wanted to talk to her a second time because of discrepancies in her account. To top it off, the federal government has seized control of the extortion investigation from the state of Mexico because it involves members of the Federal Investigation Agency, Mexico's equivalent of the F.B.I. 
 But so far, despite interviewing 229 witnesses and conducting more than 70 studies of forensic evidence, the Mexico state prosecutor, Alfonso Navarrete Prida, has not been able to lay his hands on Mr. Salina's killers. Nor has the federal internal affairs investigator, Ismael Gonzalez Verra, reported any progress in solving the crime. The investigation appears to be stalled.
 The Salinas inquiry is fast becoming a study in how high-profile crimes often go unsolved by the law enforcement authorities in Mexico, where investigative techniques are behind the times, the police are often involved in crimes, and indictments and trials are kept secret. 
 That a major case goes unsolved is not unusual here. It happens so often that criminologists say most Mexicans have come to expect little from the authorities. 
 ''Our apparatus has collapsed in terms of credibility,'' said Ernesto Lopez Portillo of the Institute for Security and Democracy in Mexico City, which studies criminal justice issues. ''When investigations get bogged down, the society simply has no way to understand what's happening. The institutions react to the scandal, and as time goes on, interest wanes and there is no public accounting. This case is no different.''
 Carlos Salinas led Mexico from 1988 to 1994 and remains a power broker in the Institutional Revolutionary Party, the authoritarian and corrupt machine that ran Mexico for 70 years before being defeated in the 2000 elections. He is widely reviled for the economic collapse he set in motion at the end of his term.
 Enrique Salinas, an engineer who never entered politics but became wealthy during his brother's term, was found dead on Dec. 6 of last year, inside a car he had borrowed from his companion, Hilda Deneken, state investigators say. He had been beaten and had a plastic bag over his head. The cause of death was asphyxiation. He was 52.
 A security camera in the upper-class suburban Mexico City neighborhood where his body was found recorded an armored black Jeep Cherokee leaving the scene with at least two people inside. The camera did not record the plate number, nor were the people recognizable.
 At the time, the French police were looking for Mr. Salinas to question him about several questionable financial transactions between him and another brother, Raul, in the 1990's, in which large amounts of money were laundered through real estate deals. Raul Salinas still faces charges here stemming from the discovery of millions of unexplained dollars found in his Swiss bank accounts.
 Relying on testimony from Mr. Salinas's adult children and other family members, Mr. Navarrete, the state prosecutor, has charged that federal agents were trying to use the Interpol request from France to extort $2.9 million from Mr. Salinas. He said he believed that one of the extortionists had roughed up Mr. Salinas to scare him and that he died during the torture. 
 The two federal agents in custody photographed Mr. Salinas's house, visited him and called him on the telephone, state investigators say. Family members told state investigators that the federal agents had demanded money.
 After the killing federal agents, tipped off by the local police, got to the crime scene before the state police, ostensibly to confirm the victim's identity. Later that day, a federal agent sent a document to Interpol saying Mr. Salinas was not in Mexico, which was true only in a spiritual sense, state investigators said.
 Still, Mr. Navarrete has never been able to tie the two federal agents he has in jail to the killing itself, and now he says the inquiry has been taken out of his hands by the federal internal affairs prosecutor. 
 He maintains that the two higher-ranking agents who are on the run -- Eleazar Ruben Munoz Valdez and Nahum Garcia Ortiz -- can identify the killers. So, too, he says, can Ms. Deneken, who is believed to be in the United States. All three knew whom Mr. Salinas went to meet the night of his death, Mr. Navarrete said.
 ''All of them are key pieces to find out the intellectual authors of the extortion against Enrique Salinas and, with that, to be able to identify the killers,'' he said recently. 
 A spokesman for the federal attorney general's office, Jose Luis Manjarrez, said he could not comment on the internal affairs investigation.
 There are other intriguing pieces to the puzzle. Eight months before he died, Mr. Salinas bought a life insurance policy that would pay his three children from a previous marriage $4 million if he were to die during a kidnapping or extortion attempt, investigators say. 
 And a week before the killing, a news magazine published details of Mr. Salinas's personal fortune, showing he was a multimillionaire as late as 1998, when he divorced Adriana Lagarde, the mother of his children.
 Three days before his death, Mr. Salinas visited a businessman in Monterrey, Mexico, and reached an agreement to borrow $2.9 million. A close friend, Jose Ricardo Hernandez, and his lawyer, Mariano de Jesus Flores, accompanied him on the trip, investigators say. 
 Two days after the killing, the friend and the lawyer returned to Monterrey and tried unsuccessfully to collect the money from the businessman, investigators say. The lawyer's cellphone records show numerous calls to the Federal Investigation Agency in the days leading up to the killing, they say.
 The day before his death, Mr. Salinas told Ms. Deneken that he had to go to a meeting that afternoon, state investigators say. He also asked to borrow her car, her telephone and some blue clothing, they say, but Ms. Deneken mentioned none of that to investigators.
 According to witnesses, Ms. Deneken then accompanied Mr. Salinas as he left through a rear alleyway, apparently to avoid detection, then slipped out onto the street where her car was parked, investigators say. She gave him the keys and her telephone. He drove away at 1 p.m.
 He was found dead the next morning. An unsigned note on his body said that someone had been harassing him since 1995 and that his children ''have had to confront great risk to their security, both physical and emotional.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (92%); EXTORTION (91%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ARRESTS (90%); POLITICS (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); INDICTMENTS (77%); CORRUPTION (77%); WITNESSES (77%); SCANDALS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); FORENSICS (72%); EVIDENCE (70%); CRIMINAL LAW (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (61%) Murders and Attempted Murders

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%)

PERSON: James C Jr Mckinley; Enrique Salinas De Gortari; Carlos Salinas De Gortari

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (92%) MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (79%) Mexico

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2005



191 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1234 words

HEADLINE: Wealthy Blacks Oppose Plans for Their Property

BYLINE: By GARY RIVLIN

DATELINE: BATON ROUGE, La., Dec. 9 

 BODY:
True Light Baptist Church is located in a down-and-out part of town here, but on Monday nights its parking lot fills with BMW's, Mercedes-Benzes and other late-model sedans that shine with a new-car sparkle. 
 Since September, hundreds of displaced residents from New Orleans East, the neighborhood that was home to the largest concentration of the city's black elite, gather there for a small taste of the camaraderie and community that they sorely miss. But the residents -- whose ranks include lawyers, judges and a few elected officials -- are also anxiously mobilizing to save their low-lying corner of the city, which some planners argue should revert to marshland.
So far, the group has used its clout to extract a promise that electricity will be turned on in the neighborhood next month, instead of waiting until June. It has also speeded the return of water service. Without either, many residents say, they must wait in Baton Rouge longer even if their neighborhood is open. 
 New Orleans's mayor, C. Ray Nagin, spent an evening at one of the group's meetings recently, hearing of the residents' longing to return home. But despite the group's considerable resources, the plan taking shape to remake the city lumps New Orleans East and its 90,000 residents with the Lower Ninth Ward and other deluged neighborhoods as the last priority of the city as it struggles to rebuild. The Urban Land Institute, a planning group advising the city, recommended that the city begin rebuilding less damaged neighborhoods first, provoking outrage from residents of the flood zones.
 ''It would kill the black psyche if New Orleans East wasn't rebuilt,'' said Talmadge Wall, an interior designer who for 15 years has lived with her husband and children in New Orleans East. ''Think of what it would mean if the city successfully chased off so many African-Americans who had money, its doctors and successful businesspeople and lawyers and such. People who were aspiring to attain that kind of success would no longer feel like they have a chance.''
 At last Monday's meeting, organizers handed out black, white and green lawn signs that read, ''I am coming home! I will rebuild!'' 
 The meetings, which date to mid-September, have drawn upward of 1,000 people. Organizers say they have helped inspire the formation of similar support groups for displaced New Orleans residents in cities throughout the South. 
 ''There's a real lonesomeness, a real yearning to connect with the familiar that I think everybody feels,'' said Tangeyon Wall, who with her sister Talmadge and their two other sisters and a cousin formed this neighborhood organization in exile. 
 Other, poorer neighborhoods have received more attention since the storm. The Seventh, Eighth and Ninth Wards, for example, have for decades been home to a majority of the city's blue-collar African-Americans: waiters, construction workers and custodians. New Orleans East, which barely existed in the 1970's, has been the site of most of the city's development over the past 30 years. It has become the next stop for children of blue-collar workers who moved up after securing better-paying professional jobs. 
 That has been the trajectory of Alden J. McDonald Jr.'s life. Mr. McDonald, the chief executive of Liberty Bank and Trust, New Orleans's largest black-owned bank, is the son of a waiter and grew up in the Seventh Ward. In 1974, the younger Mr. McDonald was a trailblazer when he moved his family into New Orleans East. A dozen years later, he bought a larger home there, complete with a swimming pool and an exercise room. 
 ''New Orleans East represents the first time in New Orleans history that the African-American community has seen significant wealth creation that they can hand down to the next generation,'' said Mr. McDonald, who has attended several meetings at True Light. 
 The Wall family took a path similar to the McDonalds'. The sisters' father was a contractor, and their mother was a schoolteacher. The first two Wall sisters moved to New Orleans East in the mid-1980's, the last at the start of the 90's. In the days after Hurricane Katrina, the Wall sisters hunkered down in a set of rooms at their temporary new home, a Microtel Inn and Suites along Interstate 12 on the outskirts of Baton Rouge, surfing television news in a vain search for information about New Orleans East. 
 A predominantly black community that was also prosperous, it seemed, did not fit the broad-brush story as it played out on the television. ''Our neighborhood was never talked about,'' Tangeyon Wall said. ''Never, ever, ever. We'd hear about the Ninth Ward, we'd hear about Algiers and the Quarter and Uptown, but it was as if our community didn't exist.'' 
 At the Wal-Mart, Walgreens and other stores around Baton Rouge, the sisters ran into neighbors who all expressed the same frustrations. That prompted them and their cousin Robyn Braggs to post fliers at local motels proposing a meeting for Sept. 20, an event that drew 700, they said. Most, but not all, were from New Orleans East.
 ''That first meeting was more like a reunion,'' Tangeyon Wall said. 
 The second meeting was more like a rallying cry. At that point, New Orleans East was still off limits even to residents. But a group of neighborhood residents decided to defy the restrictions, and shortly thereafter, in late September, they drove a caravan of 75 cars to their neighborhood. City officials allowed them to pass through police blockades. 
 ''It was all very civil rights and spirit of the 60's-like,'' said Ms. Braggs, prompting giggles among her four cousins. The five of them, along with Wayne Johnson and Mack Slan, two other longtime New Orleans East residents marooned in Baton Rouge, make up a seven-member steering committee that meets every Wednesday to set the next week's agenda. 
 ''We didn't know what we were getting into when we started,'' said Mr. Slan, a contractor with a barrel chest and preacher's voice who has emerged as the group's de facto master of ceremonies. ''But we're growing into it.'' 
 The focus each Monday shifts as new frustrations and worries take center stage in the lives of evacuees. Last Monday those included complaints about insurance adjusters and the foreclosure notices some are receiving three months after the storm.
 ''Let me encourage you not to panic,'' said Patricia G. Woods, who runs a real estate and mortgage company in New Orleans East.
 Ms. Woods advised the people at the meeting to respond with a hardship letter spelling out the reasons they could not make their payments. ''Make them cry,'' Ms. Woods told the group.
 Much of Monday's meeting focused on the Urban Land Institute's draft report, released on the Monday after Thanksgiving. ''It places less value on our neighborhood than other areas,'' said Terrel J. Broussard, a lawyer who took a turn at the lectern to criticize the report. ''If we don't stand up to fight this, I don't know what we would stand up for.''
 Organizers passed out stacks of preprinted postcards that they hope homeowners in New Orleans East will send to the mayor, respectfully requesting that he reject the institute's recommendation. They also urged those in attendance to spread the word about a march on New Orleans City Hall scheduled for Saturday morning. 
 ''We can't allow ourselves to be the last ones back in the city,'' one resident, Margaret Richard, said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Seven former residents of New Orleans East, where many elite blacks lived, organize weekly meetings in Baton Rouge, La., for their ex-neighbors. (Photo by Cheryl Gerber for The New York Times)
 About 1,000 displaced residents of New Orleans East gather each week for a forum at True Light Baptist Church in Baton Rouge. (Photo by Misty Keasler for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TROPICAL STORMS (90%); WEATHER (90%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); CITIES (78%); MAYORS (78%); SEDANS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); LAND USE PLANNING (75%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (74%); DISPLACED PERSONS (72%); INTERIOR DECORATING (71%); LAWYERS (71%); JUDGES (70%); HURRICANES (69%); FLOOD ZONES (68%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (68%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Blacks; Area Planning and Renewal; Floods

PERSON: Gary Rivlin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (98%); BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (94%) LOUISIANA, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2005



192 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 593 words

HEADLINE: Hong Kong Girds for Protests During World Trade Conference

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Dec. 9 

 BODY:
With the World Trade Organization ministerial conference scheduled to start here on Tuesday, Hong Kong is like a city preparing for a siege. 
 Hospitals across the territory have postponed elective surgery and staff vacations and have emptied beds and operating theaters to prepare for riot casualties. A 141-year-old jail has been readied to handle detainees, its usual prisoners sent to other jails.
 About 9,000 police officers, a third of the territory's force, have been assigned to work in shifts to provide security around the convention center where the conference will be held. Many schools are closing, and some banks may disperse computer operations to sites far from the convention center and to other countries. 
 The elaborate precautions reflect the fear here that the conference will draw the same sort of violent protests that marred the last global trade ministerial conference, two years ago in Cancun, Mexico, and cut short the Seattle conference in 1999.
 Some of the greatest worries involve protesters from South Korea. They were among the most disruptive in Cancun and are expected here in sizable numbers because Hong Kong is only a three-hour flight from Seoul and much warmer. 
 The groups planning protests say that fears are exaggerated and that the government's precautions are excessive to the point of infringing on the civil liberties of protesters. They particularly object to tight screening at Hong Kong's airport of people trying to enter the territory.
 Elizabeth Tang, chairwoman of the Hong Kong People's Alliance on the W.T.O., the group coordinating protests, said she received a call Tuesday from the airport. Immigration officials were denying entry to three out of four members of a group of would-be protesters from Thailand.
 ''I asked them to give my number to the immigration officer, and then they got in very fast,'' said Ms. Tang, who has won praise from the police for cooperating in scheduling marches.
 Hong Kong officials have refused to release details on their immigration screening procedures for the conference, except to say they are working with law enforcement agencies in other nations and will observe human rights and permit protests. 
 Peter Yam, the director of operations for the Hong Kong Police Force, said the government's risk assessment was ''medium'' for terrorist incidents during the conference but ''high'' for threats to public order, like rioting and vandalism.
 Young European and American anarchists are a serious concern. Police officials and diplomats with access to intelligence reports said there were some signs that Westerners with extreme views might have entered the territory before screening was stepped up. 
 Three large demonstrations are planned with participation from many groups, Ms. Tang said. The first, on Sunday, is expected to attract about 7,000 people, mainly local residents because most foreign protesters will not arrive until Sunday night or Monday, she said.
 The second demonstration, scheduled to coincide with the opening of the conference on Tuesday, is also expected to attract 7,000 people, mostly foreigners because local residents will be at work.
 The second demonstration is expected to include 1,600 to 2,000 South Korean rice farmers worried that the trade talks will result in more rice imports that could put them out of business. The South Korean contingent is bringing 100 volunteer parade marshals with them to keep order, Ms. Tang said.
 She said her group expected 10,000 protesters for the final march as the conference ends Dec. 18.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); HOSPITALS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); RIOTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); IMMIGRATION (86%); IMMIGRATION LAW (86%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); TRADE SHOWS (78%); PRISONS (77%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (70%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (68%); VANDALISM (50%); TERRORISM (50%) 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (93%) World Trade Organization

PERSON: Keith Bradsher

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (92%) HONG KONG (95%); MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); THAILAND (68%) Hong Kong; Cancun (Mexico); Seattle (Wash)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2005



193 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1178 words

HEADLINE: Elections Could Tilt Latin America Further to the Left 

BYLINE: By JUAN FORERO

DATELINE: MOROCHATA, Bolivia 

 BODY:
In perhaps the quirkiest, most colorful of the many presidential campaigns gathering momentum in Latin America, Evo Morales, the Aymara Indian leader turned congressman, arrived in this mountain hamlet on a recent day, got out of his car a mile up the road and strode in like a conquering hero.
 The town's fathers honored him Bolivian-style, placing a heavy wreath of potatoes, roses and green beans around his neck. Crowds of peasants amassed behind him, while a ceremonial escort of indigenous leaders led him across cobblestone streets to a field filled with thousands. There, Mr. Morales gave the kind of leftist speech that increasingly strikes a chord with Latin America's disenchanted voters, railing against privatization, liberalized trade and other economic prescriptions backed by the United States.
 ''If we win, not just Evo will be president, but the Quechua and Aymara will also be in the presidency,'' Mr. Morales said, referring to Bolivia's two largest Indian communities. ''We are a danger for the rich people who sack our resources.'' 
 Mr. Morales, 46, a former llama herder and coca farmer who has a slight lead in the polls for the election on Dec. 18, offers what may be the most radical vision in Latin America, much to the dismay of the Bush administration. 
 But the sentiment extends beyond Bolivia. Starting on Dec. 11 in Chile, voters in 11 countries will participate in a series of presidential elections over the next year that could take Latin America further to the left than it already is.
 Since a bombastic army colonel, Hugo Chavez, won office in Venezuela in 1998, three-quarters of South America has shifted to the left, though most countries are led by pragmatic presidents like Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva in Brazil and Nestor Kirchner in Argentina.
 That decisive shift has a good chance of spreading to Bolivia, Ecuador and, for the first time in recent years, north of the Panama Canal. In Nicaragua, the Sandinistas, led by Daniel Ortega, are positioning themselves to win back the presidency they lost in 1990. Farther north, in Mexico, polls show that Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, a hard-charging leftist populist, may replace the business-friendly president, Vicente Fox, who is barred from another term.
 Traditional, market-friendly politicians can still win in all these countries. But polls show a general leftward drift that could bring policies sharply deviating from longstanding American economic remedies like unfettered trade and privatization, better known as the Washington Consensus.
 ''The left is contesting in a very practical way for political power,'' said Jim Shultz, executive director of Democracy Center, a policy analysis group in Bolivia. ''There's a common thread that runs through Lula and Kirchner and Chavez and Evo, and the left in Chile to a certain degree, and that thread is a popular challenge to the market fundamentalism of the Washington Consensus.''
 The shift has not been as striking as might by preferred by leaders like Mr. Chavez, whose open antagonism toward the United States is rare. Presidents like Mr. da Silva and Tabare Vazquez in Uruguay practice the kind of fiscal restraints accepted by Wall Street.
 Still, the prospects for a further turn to the left could signal a broad, popular distancing from the Bush administration, whose focus on fighting drugs and advocating for regional free trade have failed to generate much backing.
 While the Bush administration may be pleased that its most trusted and important ally in Latin America, President Alvaro Uribe in Colombia, will probably win re-election in May, Washington's most fervent adversary, Mr. Chavez, is also expected to cruise to victory late next year.
 And the left may mount a strong challenge in market-friendly Peru. There, a fiery nationalistic cashiered army officer, Ollanta Humala, who compares himself to Mr. Chavez, is now second in the polls to a conservative congresswoman.
 No one, though, quite offers the up-by-the-bootstraps story that Mr. Morales does. He grew up poor in the frigid highlands. Four of his six siblings died young, he said. When the mining industry went bust, the family moved to Bolivia's coca-growing heartland, where Mr. Morales made his mark as a leader of the coca farmers, who cultivate a shiny green leaf that is the main component used to make cocaine.
 That made him a pariah to the United States, which has bankrolled the army's effort to eradicate the crop. But under Mr. Morales's leadership, the cocaleros have fought back, paralyzing the country with road blockades and playing a role in uprisings that toppled two presidents in 20 months.
 Now, Mr. Morales travels Bolivia's pockmarked mountain roads in a relentless campaign, blasting Andean music that heralds him (''We feel it, we feel it, Evo presidente,'' goes a standard line). 
 ''One thing few people realize is how good a politician this man is,'' said Eduardo Gamarra, a professor at Florida International University in Miami. ''Evo has a tremendous political structure that he's built up over the last 20 years.''
 Mr. Morales vows to veer Bolivia away from liberalized trade and privatizations that have marked the country's economy for a generation, tapping into the discontent of voters upset that market reforms did little to improve their lives.
 Michael Shifter, who tracks Latin American campaigns for the Washington-based Inter-American Dialogue, said, ''Evo is the expression of that frustration, that resentment and the search for answers.''
 In interviews on the campaign trail, Mr. Morales complained that open borders had brought in cheap potatoes from Argentina. He offers a range of solutions, like loans to microbusinesses and the formation of more cooperatives. He also says his government will demand a bigger take from the foreign corporations developing Bolivia's large natural gas reserves.
 Mr. Morales seems to relish talking about the United States, noting that criticisms from American officials have helped his popularity in an increasingly nationalistic country. Mr. Morales, who is close to Mr. Chavez and has called Fidel Castro's Cuba a model, says he will reject American-imposed economic principles and policies like the eradication of coca. ''The policies of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, under the direction of the United States government, which concentrate capital in few hands, is not a solution,'' he said. ''Western development is the development of death.''
 Such talk resonates with people like Herminio Lopez, a leader in the hamlet of Piusilla. ''We are sure he will not defraud or fool us, like all the others,'' he said. ''Eighty percent of us are poor, and for us to have someone like him makes us proud.''
 Mr. Morales knows well what appeals to his supporters. Aside from an economic transformation, he promises symbolic proposals like changing the Bolivian flag to include elements of the indigenous flag of the Andes.
 ''This moment is not just for Evo Morales,'' Mr. Morales told the crowd here in Morochata. ''It is for all of us.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A supporter greeting Evo Morales, an Aymara Indian leader who is running for president of Bolivia and has a slight lead in the polls. Mr. Morales has attacked the market-oriented polices that the United States supports. (Photo by Noah Friedman-Rudovsky for The New York Times)Map of Bolivia highlighting Morochata: In Morochata recently, Mr. Morales got a hero's welcome.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (88%); PRIVATIZATION (88%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%) 

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (58%); NESTOR KIRCHNER (58%); VICENTE FOX QUESADA (52%); LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (52%) Juan Forero; Evo Morales

GEOGRAPHIC: BOLIVIA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); CHILE (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); NICARAGUA (79%); PANAMA (79%); MEXICO (79%); BRAZIL (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); ECUADOR (79%) Bolivia; Morochata (Bolivia); Latin America; Bolivia

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2005



194 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; FIVE DAYS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 897 words

HEADLINE: Boston Scientific's Guidant Bid Muddies the Water

BYLINE: By Mark A. Stein

 BODY:
HOLIDAY preparations did not slow the deal makers, who were busy from the heart of Wall Street to Beijing. The economy showed some encouraging signs of health, even while some doctors were concluding that junk food ads were to blame for the lack of health in young people.

CONTRE-RIPOSTE -- A messy megamerger got a little messier when Boston Scientific stepped in front of its bitter rival, Johnson & Johnson, to make an unsolicited offer to acquire Guidant, a maker of implantable heart devices. Boston Scientific offered $25 billion, which was about what Johnson & Johnson originally bid -- before reducing its offer after Guidant recalled some defective products.
Boston Scientific's bid left Johnson & Johnson in an awkward spot: If it matches or beats the new offer, it would appear to be paying far more than it has said Guidant is worth. If it does not raise its bid, it risks losing the opportunity to acquire Guidant -- and, worse, letting it fall into the hands of its rival. Its first reaction was to stand pat. 
 Buying Guidant would strain Boston Scientific's finances, analysts said, but also put it into a new and growing business, and make it the biggest medical device company, slipping past the current No. 1, Medtronic.
 If Johnson & Johnson, which is much bigger because of its consumer products business, wins a bidding war for Guidant, Boston Scientific might buy St. Jude Medical, a smaller medical device maker, analysts said.

VAST WAISTLINE -- Food advertising works, the National Academies' Institute of Medicine has concluded, but that may not necessarily be good news for food advertisers.
 Television commercials directly influence what children under 12 want, ask for and eat, and that can explain the rise of childhood obesity in the United States, the institute said. It added that the evidence did not irrefutably prove a link, but there was enough evidence to take action.
 It recommended that food companies use their advertising budgets to teach people about healthy eating and that if the industry did not do so voluntarily Congress should compel it to.

SALES BOOM -- China ordered 150 commercial aircraft from Airbus this week, vaulting the European aerospace company ahead of Boeing in total orders worldwide this year. To secure the deal, Airbus agreed to start buying parts in China and to set up an assembly line there.
 Boeing cinched a 70-plane order last month, bringing its total sales this year in China to 122. While it has sold fewer aircraft in China than Airbus has, Boeing's sales there are worth more: $11.7 billion versus $9 billion for Airbus.
 The battle in Beijing is far from over: Boeing forecasts that Chinese airlines will order as many as 2,300 airliners during the next 20 years, making China the biggest commercial aviation market outside the United States.

GREEN LIGHTS -- Economic indicators uniformly turned positive, with productivity rising at its fastest pace in two years in the third quarter, and factory orders bouncing back in November after having dipped a month earlier.
 Combined with earlier reports of continued robust growth over all and in the number of new jobs being created, the latest figures support the view that the economy may expand without causing inflation to accelerate. One worrying sign was that real hourly wages fell in the third quarter. 
 Brian Bethune, an economist at Global Insight, said the tame inflation outlook might lead the Federal Reserve to stop raising short-term rates after Ben S. Bernanke becomes chairman in February.

BIG BOARD'S BIG DAY -- If there was ever any doubt about whether Wall Street values money over tradition, New York Stock Exchange members erased it by voting overwhelmingly to convert the 213-year-old nonprofit exchange, known as the Big Board, into a publicly traded, profit-making corporation, then agreed to merge with an electronic exchange called Archipelago.
 Exchange members were motivated to approve the change: Each seat owner will get about $5 million worth of stock in the publicly traded company, the NYSE Group, and about $300,000 in cash. Some members paid as little as $50,000 for their seats.
 Stock in the exchange may be poised to fall as many of its new owners sell all or part of their holdings to diversify their portfolios, analysts said.

DAMP SQUIB -- Speaking of the market, a group of economists at the Federal Reserve Board said they could find no evidence that halving the income tax rate on dividends had any effect on stock prices. When President Bush proposed the tax cut in 2003, the White House said it could lift stock prices by 20 percent.
 The economists looked at the stock market after the cut was proposed, while it was being debated in Congress and immediately after it passed, reasoning that investors would have factored the cut into stock prices at that time.
 The House and Senate next week will try to reconcile two bills that would extend President Bush's 2001 tax cut for stock dividends and capital gains for two years at a cost of $20 billion. 

MOST VIEWED -- Following are the most viewed articles from Dec. 3 to Dec. 9:
 1. A Camera That Has It All? Well, Almost
 2. At Impasse With Network Star, ABC Picks 2 Youthful Anchors
 3. Ogre to Slay? Outsource It to Chinese
 4. Are Lawyers Being Overbilled for Their Test Preparation?
 5. Lines Are Drawn for Big Suit Over Sodas

Links are at nytimes.com/business.


GRAPHIC: Photo: New York Stock Exchange members voted overwhelmingly this week to convert the 213-year-old nonprofit exchange into a publicly traded, profit-making corporation. (Photo by Shiho Fukada/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAL DEVICES (90%); MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); ELECTROMEDICAL APPARATUS MFG (90%); SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MFG (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CHILDREN'S MARKET (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); OBESITY (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (78%); CARDIOVASCULAR DEVICES (78%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (77%); AEROSPACE RESEARCH (76%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (72%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (71%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (71%); AIRLINES (65%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (65%); CHILDHOOD OBESITY (63%); NUTRITION (63%); CIVIL AVIATION (62%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (61%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (60%) 

COMPANY: JOHNSON & JOHNSON (93%); BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORP (92%); AIRBUS SAS (82%); BOEING CO (82%); MEDTRONIC INC (57%); ST JUDE MEDICAL INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE OF MEDICINE (59%) Boston Scientific Corp; Guidant Corp; Johnson & Johnson Inc; Institute of Medicine; Airbus; Boeing Co; Nyse Group; Archipelago Holdings Llc; Federal Reserve Board

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (93%); BSX (NYSE) (92%); BOE (LSE) (82%); BAB (BRU) (82%); BA (NYSE) (82%); MDT (NYSE) (57%); STJ (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (93%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (92%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (92%); SIC3841 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS (92%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (82%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (82%)

PERSON: George W (Pres) Bush; Mark A Stein

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (88%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%) CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (92%) China

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2005



195 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: Losing Week Puts the Dow Back to Negative for the Year 

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Falling energy prices gave stocks a modest lift yesterday as Wall Street set aside worries about interest rates and a weak forecast from the Intel Corporation. But the gains were not enough to keep the major indexes from ending the week with losses.
 The week's losses pushed the Dow Jones industrial average back down marginally for 2005. 
Stocks zigzagged through most of the session, capping off a week of jittery trading as investors searched for any news that might revive a year-end rally after a two-week break. Many are wishing for a solid holiday shopping season, with cheaper gasoline prices contributing to improving consumer confidence.
 The University of Michigan reinforced those hopes when it said its consumer sentiment index for December added 7.1 points, to 88.7, topping economists' estimates for a reading of 85.
 John Waterman, chief investment officer for Rittenhouse Asset Management, noted the upbeat Michigan number but said the market seems to be fixated on energy prices and next week's Federal Reserve meeting. Now that the economy appears to be back on track, analysts worry that the Fed might keep raising interest rates and set off a slowdown.
 Mr. Waterman expects Wall Street's idleness to persist. ''I think we're going to head into a quieter period where unless there's some big news, volume could slow and the market will move sideways,'' he said.
 Yesterday, the Dow Jones industrial average gained 23.46 points, or 0.22 percent, to 10,778.58.
 Broader stock indicators were also higher. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was up 3.53 points, or 0.28 percent, at 1,259.37, and the Nasdaq composite index added 10.27 points, or 0.46 percent, to 2,256.73.
 The major indexes finished lower this week despite the afternoon advance. For the week, the Dow dropped 0.91 percent, the S.&P. 500 fell 0.45 percent and the Nasdaq was down 0.73 percent.
 While it has been two weeks since the S.&P. 500 and the Nasdaq reached the highest levels since mid-2001, some traders are still confident the market will see one last run-up before the end of the year.
 The necessary optimism could come from recent reports showing the economy weathered record energy prices -- the gross domestic product rose 4.3 percent last quarter -- but investors now fear the better-than-expected growth could bring more rate increases from the Fed.
 ''All things being equal, if the economy continues to show strength and we don't get any major surprises geopolitically or in the oil market, I think we do have the underpinnings of taking this market higher,'' said Jay Suskind, head trader at Ryan, Beck & Company. 
 Intel trimmed $200 million from both ends of its quarterly sales estimate, narrowing its range to $10.4 billion to $10.6 billion. Intel's revision, which fell slightly below analysts' targets, followed an improved outlook from its rival, Texas Instruments, and an upgraded forecast from Xilinx. Intel nonetheless rose 38 cents, to $26.08, as Texas Instruments gained 74 cents, to $33.37, and Xilinx added 63 cents, to $26.65.
 Merck slipped 55 cents, to $29.13, after The New England Journal of Medicine said on Thursday that researchers failed to disclose that three patients in a Merck-financed 2000 study of its Vioxx painkiller.
 suffered heart attacks. The pharmaceutical sector got some good news from Eli Lilly, which said that its 2005 profit should hit the high end of its forecast and that next year's earnings were beat analysts' predictions. Eli Lilly rose $1.20, to $53.41.
 The rural telecommunications provider Alltel said it planned to become a pure wireless carrier by spinning off its fixed-line phone business and merging that unit with the Valor Communications Group in a $4.9 billion deal. Alltel climbed $1.06, to $65.88, while Valor gained 7 cents, to $12.31.
 The video game maker Electronic Arts is acquiring Jamdat Mobile, which provides games and ring tones for cellphones, in a deal worth about $680 million in cash. The bid, $27 a share, is a 19 percent premium to Jamdat's closing price on Thursday. Electronic Arts fell 61 cents, to $55.14, and Jamdat surged $4.29, to $27.06.
 Constellation Brands, the world's biggest winemaker, dropped its hostile bid for a Canadian rival, Vincor International, after shareholders passed on the $1 billion cash offer. Constellation closed down a penny at $24.82. 
 In the bond market, the 10-year Treasury note fell 16/32, to a price of 99 26/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.52 percent from 4.46 percent Thursday.

 Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)

Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch.
 (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BONDS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (72%); GASOLINE MARKETS (71%); EXECUTIVES (68%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Credit; Interest Rates; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2005



196 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 529 words

HEADLINE: The Jobs Recovery Looks Good, Until a Longer Look Is Taken

BYLINE: By Floyd Norris

 BODY:
THE Bush administration has begun an aggressive campaign to reassure Americans that the economy is doing well. It is highlighting the jobs numbers, which have shown steady gains since hitting a low in May 2003. 
 The chart shown above is part of that campaign. Released by the Treasury Department after the November employment report, the Treasury public relations office said that the chart ''illustrates the strong job growth and falling unemployment rate since the president's economic policies have come into effect.''
It added that ''the American economy has created 4.4 million new jobs and the unemployment rate has fallen to 5.0 percent -- well below the historical average -- since the president signed the jobs and growth bill into law in May of 2003.''
 ''It is vital that we keep taxes low on individuals and on capital gains and dividends and resist tax hikes that could undermine the path of economic growth.''
 By invoking historical averages, President Bush may have invited comparisons that do not make the recovery look so good. In terms of job creation, the recovery from the 2001 recession has been one of the slowest since World War II. 
 Four years after the recession ended, the unemployment rate is 5 percent, which is lower than at a similar point after all but one previous recession. But the decline has been slower than in most recoveries, and the rate remains well above the 4.2 percent rate in January 2001, when Mr. Bush took office.
 In terms of economic growth, this recovery ranks eighth for the four-year period after the official end of a recession, as measured by the National Bureau of Economic Research. It is just better than the period after the previous recession, under the first President Bush, ended in 1991, and considerably better than the period after the first recession in the Eisenhower administration. Then, a new recession began three years and three months after the first one ended.
 The recovery that began in 1991 became the longest period of uninterrupted economic growth in American history, an indication that there is nothing wrong with a slow start. But the current recovery so far is far from impressive.
 Consider jobs, the focus of the Treasury chart. A unique aspect is that the job count continued to fall for 18 months after the 2001 recession ended. The number of jobs in November was up 3.4 percent from the job low 30 months earlier.
 That measurement, which is the way the Bush administration chose to look at the data, ranks eighth among the 10 postwar recessions, a fraction ahead of the recovery after the 1990-91 recession, and better than the period after the recession that ended in July 1980, when another recession followed a year later. 
 Were job growth instead to be measured from the end of the recession, this recovery is the slowest ever, with the job count up 2.6 percent in four years. The previous low was a 4 percent gain in the four years after the 1953-54 downturn.
 Any analysis of the recovery after the 2001 recession must ask why huge tax cuts that began in 2001 had so little -- and so long delayed -- effect. That is not a discussion the Bush administration embarked upon this week.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''A Substantial Rebound . . .''The Bush administration released this chart to show how well employment has done since May 2003, when employment hit bottom after the 2001 recession.(Diagram highlights the aforementioned chart.). . . But the Economy Did Better After Earlier RecessionsUNEMPLOYMENT RATE (Graphs show rate 48 months later and the rate at recession's end)PRESIDENT: TrumanRECESSION ENDED: Oct. '49CHANGE IN PERCENTAGE POINTS: -4.8PRESIDENT: EisenhowerRECESSION ENDED: May '54*CHANGE IN PERCENTAGE POINTS: +1.5PRESIDENT: EisenhowerRECESSION ENDED: Apr. '58*CHANGE IN PERCENTAGE POINTS: -1.8PRESIDENT: KennedyRECESSION ENDED: Feb. '61CHANGE IN PERCENTAGE POINTS: -1.8PRESIDENT: NixonRECESSION ENDED: Nov. '70*CHANGE IN PERCENTAGE POINTS: +0.7PRESIDENT: FordRECESSION ENDED: Mar. '75CHANGE IN PERCENTAGE POINTS: -2.8PRESIDENT: CarterRECESSION ENDED: July '80*CHANGE IN PERCENTAGE POINTS: -0.3PRESIDENT: ReaganRECESSION ENDED: Nov. '82CHANGE IN PERCENTAGE POINTS: -3.9PRESIDENT: George H. W. BushRECESSION ENDED: Mar. '91CHANGE IN PERCENTAGE POINTS: -1.4PRESIDENT: George W. BushRECESSION ENDED: Nov. '01CHANGE IN PERCENTAGE POINTS: -0.6MEDIAN OF PREVIOUS RECOVERIESCHANGE IN PERCENTAGE POINTS: -1.8JOB GROWTH (Graph tracks gain in jobs over next 30 months)MONTH OF LOW EMPLOYMENT: Oct. '49MONTHS AFTER END OF RECESSION: 0MONTH OF LOW EMPLOYMENT: Aug. '54MONTHS AFTER END OF RECESSION: 3MONTH OF LOW EMPLOYMENT: June '58*MONTHS AFTER END OF RECESSION: 2MONTH OF LOW EMPLOYMENT: Feb. '61MONTHS AFTER END OF RECESSION: 0MONTH OF LOW EMPLOYMENT: Nov. '70MONTHS AFTER END OF RECESSION: 0MONTH OF LOW EMPLOYMENT: June '75MONTHS AFTER END OF RECESSION: 3MONTH OF LOW EMPLOYMENT: July '80*MONTHS AFTER END OF RECESSION: 0MONTH OF LOW EMPLOYMENT: Dec. '82MONTHS AFTER END OF RECESSION: 1MONTH OF LOW EMPLOYMENT: May '91MONTHS AFTER END OF RECESSION: 2MONTH OF LOW EMPLOYMENT: May '03MONTHS AFTER END OF RECESSION: 18MONTHS AFTER END OF RECESSION: 1(Sources by Treasury Department [left chart]
 Bureau of Labor Statistics, via Haver Analytics)*New recession began during the period.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); RECESSION (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); HISTORY (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); TAX INCREASES (68%); WORLD WAR II (66%) Labor; Unemployment; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%) George W (Pres) Bush; Floyd Norris

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2005



197 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1210 words

HEADLINE: U.S., UNDER FIRE, EASES ITS STANCE IN CLIMATE TALKS

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN

DATELINE: MONTREAL, Saturday, Dec. 10 

 BODY:
The United States dropped its opposition early Saturday morning to nonbinding talks on addressing global warming after a few words were adjusted in the text of statements that, 24 hours earlier, prompted a top American official to walk out on negotiations.
 At the same time, other industrialized nations that have signed on to the Kyoto Protocol, a treaty binding them to curb emissions of greenhouse gases, agreed to start meeting to set new deadlines once the existing pact's terms expire in 2012.
Such is the nature of progress in the 17-years-and-counting effort by the world's nations to act in the face of scientists' conclusions that emissions from burning essential fuels like coal and oil are raising temperatures and could potentially disrupt climate patterns and inundate coasts.
 The United States and China, the world's current and projected leaders in greenhouse gas emissions, still refused to agree to mandatory steps to curtail the emissions as the talks drew toward a close early Saturday. 
 But there was a growing sense that some longstanding barriers, particularly between developed and developing nations, were starting to erode under the weight of evidence that climate was shifting in potentially dangerous ways. 
 In a sign of its growing isolation on climate issues, the Bush administration had come under sharp criticism for walking out of informal discussions on finding new ways to reduce emissions under the United Nations' 1992 treaty on climate change.
 The walkout, by Harlan L. Watson, the chief American negotiator here, came Friday, shortly after midnight, on what was to have been the last day of the talks, during which the administration has been repeatedly assailed by the leaders of other wealthy industrialized nations for refusing to negotiate to advance the goals of that treaty, and in which former President Bill Clinton chided both sides for lack of flexibility. 
 At a closed session of about 50 delegates, Dr. Watson objected to the proposed title of a statement calling for long-term international cooperation to carry out the 1992 climate treaty, participants said. He then got up from the table and departed. 
 Environmentalists here called his actions the capstone of two weeks of American efforts to prevent any fresh initiatives from being discussed. ''This shows just how willing the U.S. administration is to walk away from a healthy planet and its responsibilities to its own people,'' said Jennifer Morgan, director of the climate change project at the World Wildlife Fund.
 In the end, though, some adjustments of wording -- including a shift from ''mechanisms'' to the softer word ''opportunities'' in one statement -- ended the dispute.
 In Washington, Adam Ereli, a State Department spokesman, said the administration was determined to achieve greenhouse-gas reductions not through binding limits but through long-term work to develop cleaner technologies.
 ''If you want to talk about global consciousness,'' he said, ''I'd say there's one country that is focused on action, that is focused on dialogue, that is focused on cooperation, and that is focused on helping the developing world, and that's the United States.''
 There were still a few more details involving Russia that were being worked on, but delegates and participants among the 9,000 people in the halls were confident the overall deal would hold. 
 The amount of progress is still achingly slow, many environmentalist say. The world's major sources of greenhouse emissions -- the United States, big developing countries like China and India, and a bloc led by Europe and Japan -- remain divided over how to proceed under both the 1992 treaty and the Kyoto Protocol, an addendum that took effect this year. 
 The original treaty -- since ratified by 189 nations, including the United States -- has no binding restrictions. The Kyoto pact does impose mandatory limits on industrialized nations, but they do not apply to developing nations, including China and India. The United States and Australia have rejected that pact.
 On Friday, countries bound by the Kyoto Protocol were close to agreeing on a plan to negotiate a new set of targets and timetables for cutting emissions after its terms expire. 
 But under pressure from some countries already having trouble meeting Kyoto targets, the language included no specific year for ending talks on next steps, instead indicating that parties would ''aim to complete'' work ''as soon as possible.''
 Early in the afternoon, Mr. Clinton gave a hastily arranged speech to the thousands of delegates in which he sketched a route around the impasse that included gentle rebukes of those seeking concrete targets and also of the Bush administration.
 Mr. Clinton said that, given the impasse over global targets for emissions, countries might do better to consider specific, smaller initiatives to advance and disseminate technologies that could greatly reduce emissions in both rich and poor countries.
 ''If you can't agree on a target, agree on a set of projects so everyone has something to do when they get up in the morning,'' he said. 
 In a comment clearly directed at the Bush administration, he declared to waves of applause that just as the United States had taken a precautionary approach in its fight against terrorism, ''there is no more important place in the world to apply the principle of precaution than the area of climate change.'' 
 ''I think it's crazy for us to play games with our children's future,'' Mr. Clinton said. ''We know what's happening to the climate, we have a highly predictable set of consequences if we continue to pour greenhouse gases into the atmosphere, and we know we have an alternative that will lead us to greater prosperity.''
 The Montreal talks have yielded significant new signs that developing countries are beginning to consider ways to promote economic growth without increasing emissions. 
 Papua New Guinea, Costa Rica and Brazil all proposed ways to add incentives for reducing destruction of rain forests to the climate agreements. China agreed to additional discussions under both the 1992 and Kyoto treaties about ways to involve big developing countries in projects that could curb the heat-trapping pollution -- as long as they did not involve binding limits.
 But even if new talks under the Kyoto treaty lead to new targets for industrial nations, some scientists said Friday that they would not be enough to stem harmful warming without broader actions by the biggest and fastest-growing polluters.
 In a statement from London, Lord Martin Rees, the new president of Britain's Royal Society, an independent national scientific academy, said the disputes among wealthy nations over how to reduce emissions were distracting them from carrying out steps to make the cuts.
 Environmental campaigners insisted that the Kyoto process would eventually force other countries, particularly the United States, to act. These advocates predicted a growing market for ''cap and trade'' credits, in which businesses acquire credits by reducing their greenhouse gas emissions below a required level, then sell those credits to other businesses or even other countries, which can then increase their output of emissions above the target level.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Bill Clinton suggested ways around concrete targets for reducing greenhouse gases, and rebuked the White House for what he called lethargy. (Photo by Normand Blouin/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. A6)Chart: ''Emission Treaties''Two international agreements on reducing emissions of greenhouse gases have been reached. The United States has signed on to the Framework Convention, but has rejected the Kyoto Protocol. Below, a timeline.1992 -- Framework Convention on Climate Change The pact is signed by 166 nations in Rio de Janeiro to work to limit harmful human interference with the climate. The treaty has goals, but not binding limits on emissions.1995 -- In Berlin, a decision by a United Nations climate conference seeks binding commitments beyond the 1992 Rio agreement. It is a precursor to Kyoto.1997 -- Kyoto Protocol An amendment to the Framework Convention, the treaty mandates that ratifying countries commit to reducing emissions of greenhouse gases.2001 -- President Bush rejects the Protocol, saying that it would be too costly to the American economy.2005 -- The Kyoto pact is ratified by 140 countries. It requires reductions in emissions by three dozen industrialized countries from 2008 to 2012. In meetings in Montreal over the last two weeks, countries bound by Kyoto plan for a new set of targets for cutting emissions after 2012. Countries bound by the 1992 pact also mull changes.(pg. A6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (92%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%) 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%); UNITED NATIONS FRAMEWORK CONVENTION ON CLIMATE CHANGE (59%) United Nations

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); BILL CLINTON (69%) Andrew C Revkin; Harlan L Watson; Bill Clinton; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (76%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (79%); CANADA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2005



198 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1519 words

HEADLINE: A la Carte? Nah, Hand Me the Remote.

BYLINE: By JOSEPH NOCERA

 BODY:
I OWN a 47-inch Samsung high-definition television. My wife and I bought it a couple of years ago, when HDTV prices were still in the stratosphere, but we've never had a moment of buyer's remorse. I love the thing: the large screen, the vivid colors, the better-than-real-life picture. I can get downright rhapsodic talking up the joys of high definition; indeed, I become annoyed now when I'm forced to watch a program on ''ordinary'' TV because it's not available on high definition. Once you've been down the high-def path, you don't want to go back. 
 Which is also why I've been so perplexed by all the hoopla surrounding the Disney-Apple deal announced a few months ago. In case you've been living in a media-deprived cave, Disney, owner of the ABC television network, agreed to allow people to download weekly episodes of two of its most popular shows, ''Desperate Housewives'' and ''Lost,'' onto an iPod, a wonderful device for music, but one whose tiny screen forces you to squint to see video images. It's not free, either. Just as Apple charges 99 cents to download a song, it is charging $1.99 for each episode of the shows.
To read the coverage of the deal, you'd think Apple's chief executive, Steven P. Jobs, and Disney's head, Robert A. Iger, had with one bold stroke overturned the established television order, rendering the big cable companies, in particular, largely irrelevant. The prevailing sentiment seems to be: Once people can download shows individually, they'll abandon old-fashioned TV viewing. ''Suddenly you could envision a world without cable,'' the ubiquitous market commentator James J. Cramer wrote recently in New York magazine. ''Just the makers of programming and us, subscribing to our favorite shows, like we now subscribe to magazines.'' 
 Really? I certainly concede that television viewers would love to be able to watch what they want when they want it, rather than be chained to the networks' prime-time schedule. And yes, teenagers, as opposed to middle-age fogies like me, are wedded to their media devices. But are television consumers really going to give up decades of ingrained viewing habits and gravitate en masse to iPods -- and computers and cellphones and all the other modern digital devices -- downloading and paying for a vastly inferior viewing experience? And do the big content providers like Disney and Viacom really want to cut out the cable companies and sell shows, one at a time, directly to consumers? Maybe I'm blinded by my love for my oversize HDTV, but I'm just not seeing it.
 IT'S not about the iPod,'' James Chanos said, with just a touch of exasperation. ''Don't get hung up on the particular device.''
 For months now, Mr. Chanos, a well-known hedge fund manager who specializes in short selling -- that is, betting against companies -- has been articulating an investment theory that he calls, rather poetically, the Twilight of the Gatekeepers. The Internet, he believes, is going to erode the value of -- if not destroy completely -- virtually all the companies that serve as intermediaries between the big content providers like Disney and you and me. 
 Blockbuster and Netflix, for instance, will go the way of the do-do bird because digital technology makes it possible for movies to be downloaded or piped directly into the home. When it comes to television, the gatekeepers are the cable companies; the biggest is Comcast, with over 20 million subscribers, and Mr. Chanos has a short position in it. Though they were once entrenched monopolies, cable companies have been under increasing competitive assault, starting with the rise of the satellite companies, DirecTV and Echostar. More recently, the cable companies have been feeling the heat from such new entrants as Verizon, the phone giant, which is just beginning to use its fiber optic network to pipe digital television into the home. 
 As Mr. Chanos sees it, the iPod deal is the next wrinkle in the assault on cable. ''The important thing here isn't the device,'' he told me recently. ''It's the fact that iTunes is a software program that allows you to download video content.'' Which means that, in time, we'll download all our television programs, via the Internet, through some piece of software. Perhaps someday we'll have a box on our TV that resembles a cable box but is actually a wireless modem made by Cisco.
 And when that happens, Mr. Chanos said: ''You pay for what you want. And you don't pay for what you don't want. I'll have my credit card on file with my service provider. I'll be able to choose a pay per view option or a monthly subscription option. The technology exists now. It's just a matter of a few pieces falling into place.'' Such as, well, content companies cutting deals with software companies that bypass the cable operators.
 On the surface, this all makes a certain intuitive sense. After all, look at what the Internet did to the music industry. Among other disruptive things, it unbundled songs from albums, so that consumers didn't have to buy 10 songs to get the 2 they liked.
 But though I don't often find myself in disagreement with Mr. Chanos, I think he's going to turn out to be wrong about the future of television.
 What you realize when you talk to people in the television business is that they don't really want to bypass the cable operators. Cable, said David Zaslav, the president of NBC Universal Cable, offers ''one of the best delivery mechanisms that is the most logical way to get programming, and people are already sitting with a clicker on the couch, where they are used to consuming content.'' 
 Mainly, the TV guys want to teach the cable guys -- and especially Comcast -- a lesson. For years, the big four networks have chafed over the fact that they alone have to give their content to the cable companies free -- even as cable has had to pay for every other network, from CNN to ESPN to HBO.
 In the last few years, Comcast especially has tried to use video-on-demand as a big selling point to its subscribers. Its chief executive, Brian Roberts, has made inroads with cable networks like the Discovery Channel, but his efforts to persuade the major networks, that is, the ones with the content most people want to watch, to put their shows ''on demand'' has gotten nowhere. 
 Why? Because his core position has long been that Comcast should be given the rebroadcast rights free. His argument is that video on demand will help build loyal audiences, and is thus good for the networks. In truth, the content guys don't necessarily disagree with that position, but they absolutely insist on being paid. As they see it, if their content is available to Comcast subscribers, that will be worth billions of dollars to Comcast. And they want some of those billions. 
 Seen in that light, the iPod deal looks a little more prosaic, doesn't it? What Disney proved is that somebody, in this case, Apple, was willing to pay for what amounts to video-on-demand content. And there is not much doubt that Mr. Roberts got the message. Shortly after the iPod deal, Comcast and CBS did a video-on-demand deal for ''CSI: Crime Scene Investigation.'' Although it is full of limitations, and is clearly an experiment, the bottom line is that viewers will have to pay 99 cents an episode. Mr. Roberts folded.
 There is a second reason I don't think the Internet is going to drive us to a ''pay only for what you want'' world. For all parties involved, the economics stink. ''The average American family watches 57 hours of television a week,'' said Craig Moffett, an analyst at Sanford Bernstein. ''At $1.99 for shows like 'Desperate Housewives,' you're talking about a cable bill of $500 a month.'' 
 In addition, he said, it would be disastrous for the small cable networks, many of which would disappear, and even the big boys like Disney, which would see its mass audience further fragmented, which would cost it a great deal in lost advertising. Unlike the music business, television bundling -- of hundreds of networks beamed into homes via a cable company -- makes sense for everyone concerned. ''The last thing the content providers want is a model that breaks apart the bundle,'' Mr. Moffett said.
 Let me toss out one final reason, less economic than societal. Life in America has become increasingly complex. Things that used to be easy -- retirement planning, or figuring out your phone service -- have become bewilderingly complicated. Despite the proliferation of cable channels, television is still pretty simple. You sit down, pick up the remote control, and you're off.
 Will there eventually be broadly available video-on-demand? Of course. Will people use media devices to watch news clips or N.B.A. highlights -- or even ''Desperate Housewives?'' Undoubtedly. But does it mean that television as we know it is coming to an end? Not likely.
 My teenage boys are as media- and computer-savvy as any others. But I notice that every evening at 11 p.m., they both emerge from their rooms, sit on a couch, and for the next half-hour, laugh at Jon Stewart's jokes. Sometimes, there's a reason old habits die hard.


GRAPHIC: Photo: James Chanos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (91%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (88%); CABLE INDUSTRY (87%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (67%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Television; Television; Television; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (85%); WALT DISNEY CO (70%); VIACOM INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Disney, Walt, Co; Apple Computer Inc; Abc Inc

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (85%); DIS (NYSE) (70%); VIA (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (85%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (85%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (85%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (85%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (70%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (70%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (70%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (70%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (50%)

PERSON: JIM CRAMER (78%); STEVEN JOBS (53%); ROBERT A IGER (53%) James Chanos; Joseph Nocera

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2005



199 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2507 words

HEADLINE: 10 Hotels for Under $250 a Night

BYLINE: By DENNY LEE. 
DENNY LEE is a frequent contributor to the Travel section.

 BODY:
SANDWICHED between an Indian and a Chinese restaurant, the new Holiday Inn Express near Times Square is the brand's first foray into Manhattan. Opened two months ago, the 125-room hotel is on a busy stretch of West 45th Street where trucks double-park, sidewalk peddlers hawk old magazines and office smokers huddle. 
 But it's a different world inside. With its low-grade veneered plywood furniture and its vending machines, there is little distinguishing this property, between Fifth Avenue and the Avenue of the Americas, from the 1,400 other Holiday Inn Expresses found along highways and nameless suburbs. Muffins are baked by the food conglomerate Sysco. Floral prints are bolted to the wall. The bathrooms are a study in beige.
You could be in Anywhere, U.S.A. That is, until the bill arrives. The price for a standard room, with a broom-size closet and views of a grimy alley: $299, not including taxes. 
 New York is no bargain. Its portfolio of luxury hotels rivals that of any major city; the penthouse suite to open this spring at the Four Seasons, for example, will cost around $30,000 a night (yes, that's four zeros). But the sticker shock these days is no longer confined to the high end. During the first nine months of this year, according to PKF Consulting, which specializes in hotels, the average price of a hotel shot up to $225.07, from $194.73 last year, and, by year's end, is likely to break the all-time high of $239.90 in 2000. 
 ''Without question, New York is the most expensive venue in the United States,'' said John A. Fox, a senior vice president of PKF Consulting. ''In the rest of the country, $225 will get you a very good four- to five-star hotel room. But in New York, for $225, you'll get a small room in a low-quality three-star hotel that was not necessarily recently renovated.''
 And the view? ''You'll get a brick wall.'' 
 That's assuming you can get a room. Hotel occupancy rates have risen to 85.4 percent, up from 81.4 last September, according to PKF. ''New York is essentially sold-out until the end of the year,'' Mr. Fox said. 
 Tourists can thank themselves. NYC & Company, the city's visitors and convention bureau, estimates that a record-setting 41 million people will visit the city this year. Meanwhile, the city's supply of hotel beds -- 63,000 now -- fell slightly during the past two years, with marquee properties like the Plaza Hotel and Regent Wall Street going the way of yet another luxury condominium. 
 So what's a budget traveler to do when budget hotels like the Holiday Inn Express cost more than the Ritz-Carlton in St. Louis ($259 a night)? Airport hotels are tempting, as long as you don't mind the long adventure to and from Manhattan. Flophouses are another option, but penny pinchers should first poke around tripadvisor.com, the online travel forum: it's creepy how often mice -- even rats -- are spotted scurrying inside the city's moderately priced rooms. 
 If that doesn't keep you homebound, take heart. A wide-ranging search of Manhattan's 230 or so hotels uncovered places that are not only easy on the wallet but also clean, well maintained and even homey. With some digging, you can get a good night's sleep, a hot shower and a place to secure your shopping bags -- all for under $250. Just don't expect deluxe accommodations and top-notch service. At most of these places, amenities are limited to fresh towels, clean sheets and a room key. And don't expect to do much entertaining. Think of your shoebox as a taste of how some New Yorkers really live. 

HOTEL QT
 Not long ago, a low-budget bed in Times Square meant only one thing. But there's nothing sleazy about Andre Balazs's hip version of a Super 8. Situated on a touristy block within screaming distance of MTV's studios, Hotel QT keeps prices low by masking the lack of frills (and good service) with lots of designer touches. 
 The smallest room, labeled an ''F'' (perhaps for ''frugal''), starts at $125. For that price, you get roughly 200 square feet that barely fits a queen-size bed. Those units sell out fast, so when I stayed there several weeks ago, I booked a larger ''B'' class for $225. Check-in was confusing: the front desk looks like a newsstand (complete with magazines, candy and beer), the clerk couldn't work the computer, and the room I was assigned, 701, was under construction -- 10 months after the hotel had opened.
 The delay was hard to appreciate. None of the polish that went into the lobby swimming pool (seen in countless design magazines) was evident in my eventual room, 1606. Walls had a single coat of putty-gray paint, tiles were misaligned, and the floors were warped. The open shower in the doorless bathroom may appeal to exhibitionists, but that doesn't explain the absence of towel racks, hooks, alarm clocks and chairs. It was clear where the money had been spent, and it wasn't in the spartan rooms. 
 Nevertheless, there are enough unexpected frills to recommend the hotel. The platform king was plush, the Egyptian cotton bedding soft and the closet spacious. The room was also equipped with free WiFi and a large flat-screen television. There were free coffee and bagels in the morning, as well as a tiny gym. The views aren't bad either. As night fell, and I got bored spying on the offices across 45th Street, slivers of Times Square reflected off the glassy canyon like a mile-long pinball machine. 
 For the first time in years, I felt like a tourist in my own city. Maybe I should catch a Broadway show. Or check out the new Teri Hatcher wax figure at Madame Tussaud's. But alas, QT does not have a concierge. And it started pouring. So I joined a group of guests in their 20's and 30's in the lounge, next to the pool and sauna, as the nightly party got under way. 

GERSHWIN HOTEL
 Those seeking cookie-cutter comfort should opt for the Hampton Inn in nearby Chelsea. But if you want to mingle with bohemians, friendly weirdos and lots of European backpackers, look no further than the Gershwin, on East 27th Street. Despite the bumbling staff and stag party vibe, I found myself lulled by the Gershwin's carefree and unpretentious air. 
 Decorated with funky artwork and mismatched furniture, the Gershwin feels like a throwback from that East Village touchstone, ''Rent.'' But it's off Fifth Avenue, in the shadows of the Empire State Building, and within easy walking distance to Midtown and Lower Manhattan.
 The 13-story Greek Revival building is splattered with huge podlike sconces that suggest a haunted playhouse. Inside, Andy Warhol is the resident spirit, with each floor given to a different artist. The wannabe-Factory aesthetic might have seemed contrived in the 1980's, but it feels charmingly dated today. 
 Standard rooms (starting at $119) are homey and even spacious, in a first-apartment-after-college kind of way. (For those on a tighter budget, a bunk in the hostel dorm rooms on the lower floors starts at $33.) There are hardwood floors (rare among the city's hotels), rusty radiators that clank (i.e., no thermostat) and windows that look directly into other people's apartments, furthering the tenement effect. 
 Basic amenities are extended, but only half-heartedly. Cable reception is fuzzy, calls to the front desk take 10 rings to answer, and the WiFi is spotty at best. Luckily, the full-service neighborhood makes up for the shortcomings. There's a terrific 24-hour deli around the corner, Cafe 28, where you can get anything from sushi to e-mail. For $20, guests have full use of the Gym, a health club across the street. And around the corner is Madison Square, a great park for writing postcards and people watching. 
 The nightclub-style lobby, however, does have a concierge desk, staffed with young transplants who will happily answer questions about nearby places to buy skateboarding gear and video games. 

AFFINIA DUMONT
 This is a hotel that few New Yorkers know about. There is no trendy designer to name drop, no rooftop pool to pose around, and its biggest offense: it's in a sleepy neighborhood with no claims of hipsterdom. And that's a shame, because the Affinia Dumont may be one of the city's best-kept hotel secrets. 
 Set on East 34th Street, near one of the entrances to the Queens Midtown Tunnel, the Affinia is designed for jock-minded business travelers. There are a well-appointed 24-hour gym, a spa and minibars stocked with energy bars and the like. But cost-conscious tourists will find that it suits their needs as well, especially on weekends, when rates drop significantly. The all-suite, pet-friendly hotel typically starts at $329, but rates this holiday season can be found for as low as $199. 
 For that price, you get a roomy ''studio suite'' that could be described as urban contemporary: tan leather headboard, dark-wood-veneered mirror and stainless-steel sconces. It is equipped with a kitchenette (full-size by Manhattan standards), an extremely comfy bed with high-thread-count sheets and lots of residential touches like dimmer switches and throw pillows. Today's wired traveler will also appreciate the number of electrical outlets, easy Internet hookup ($9.95 a day) and Aeron ergonomic chair. My south-facing suite on the 24th floor offered clear views of Lower Manhattan and the East River. 
 But where the Affinia shines is its service. Guests are greeted by name, housekeeping calls (for a dead light bulb) were addressed promptly, and the morning paper arrived before I finished brushing my teeth. And instead of the hodgepodge of takeout menus typical of most cheaper hotels, the Barking Dog restaurant downstairs offers room service. But don't except a silver trolley: breakfast, ordered the night before, arrived in a plastic ''I Love New York'' bag. 
 I enjoyed the stay so much that I asked for a late checkout. The request was eagerly accommodated.

CHELSEA HOTEL
 With its decrepit beauty, ornate bones and storied ghosts, the Chelsea Hotel still casts a long shadow on Gotham's cultural psyche, long after Nancy Spungen was stabbed to death in Room 100 by Sid Vicious. After eyeing it from afar since my clubbing days, it was time to check in.
 The shabby-chic lobby is a beehive of nervous creativity. Art portfolios whiz back and forth. Laptops are sprawled across couches. Party invitations spill from mail cubbies. After a quick check-in -- the avuncular manager uses a pencil and eraser -- the bellhop escorted me to my room, 915. Ethan Hawke, looking disheveled, joined us part of the way up. (About half of the 400 units are occupied long-term by artists, writers and other creative people.)
 The marble hallways are wide, like a schoolhouse's. The lacy ironwork that graces the Victorian Gothic facade also creeps up the grand spiral staircase. Like the Guggenheim Museum, the corkscrew is lined lobby to rooftop with original artworks, some of them once contributed in exchange for rent. 
 In terms of space, the single (starting at $195) was not bad. It had new, though poorly arranged, furniture including a desk, matching nightstands and a dresser. The white-tiled bathroom was large, the ceilings high and airy. But the place could have used a good scrub. The mint-green carpeting was frayed. The molding was badly scuffed. The window was caked in soot, darkening the views of King Kong's former perch. 
 Knowing that each room is different, I asked about other vacancies. I took the elevator to 622, a junior suite. There was a fireplace, hardwood floors and a Chippendale-style sofa. In other words, it was drop-dead gorgeous -- the type of place you instantly imagine yourself living in, if only to provoke apartment envy among friends. It is also twice as large and, unfortunately, nearly twice as expensive as my single, to which I skulked back, and began rearranging the furniture. 
 For a hotel that turned 100 this year, the Chelsea could use a refresher course on hospitality. There are bare bulbs, little security and no information about the hotel inside the room (unless you pay $7 a day to get Web access in your room). Even the television remote lacked a battery cover. But if the choice were between the Chelsea's grungy elegance and the soulless architecture of a Holiday Inn, I would choose the Chelsea any night. And if an apartment were to open up, perhaps 622, I'd check in permanently.

Light Wallet, Big City
 To find an affordable hotel room in Manhattan, do your research and book early. Rates vary wildly, depending on the season and availability. Prices tend to be highest in the fall, when conventioneers converge on the city, and again in December, when holiday shoppers bump elbows. Special events like a United Nations meeting or the New York City Marathon can also jack up prices dramatically. Like air fare, a room that goes for $199 one night can jump to $399 the next. 
 Deals can sometimes be found through Web discounters like Hotels.com, Expedia.com and Tablethotels.com. If rooms are sold out online, call the hotels directly and ask about last-minute cancellations. 
 Travelers should also budget for city, state and occupancy taxes, which come to 13.625 percent, plus $3.50 a night. The rates below -- some from the hotels, some from online reservation services -- were for fall, before higher holiday rates kicked in, and were for the least expensive room, single or double. 
 Affinia Dumont, 150 East 34th Street (Lexington and Third Avenues), 212-481-7600; www.affinia.com. From $199. A business and pet-friendly spot with gym and spa.
 Chelsea Hotel, 222 West 23rd Street (Seventh and Eighth Avenues), 212-243-3700; www.hotelchelsea.com. From $195. The storied bohemian landmark.
 Doubletree Metropolitan, 569 Lexington Avenue (51st Street), 212-752-7000; www.metropolitanhotelnyc.com. From $159. A recently renovated Morris Lapidus landmark. 
 Excelsior Hotel, 45 West 81st Street (Central Park West and Columbus Avenue), 212-362-9200; www.excelsiorhotelny.com. From $229. Cozy Upper West Side elegance, steps from Central Park. 
 Gershwin Hotel, 7 East 27th Street (Fifth and Madison Avenues), 212-545-8000; www.gershwinhotel.com. From $119. Hotel-cum-hostel popular with young Europeans.
 Hotel QT, 125 West 45th Street (Avenue of the Americas and Seventh Avenue), 212-354-2323; www.hotelqt.com. From $125. A cheap chic hotel by Andre Balazs.
 Hotel Stanford, 43 West 32nd Street (Broadway and Fifth Avenue), 800-365-1114; www.hotelstanford.com. From $189. The staff at this Koreatown hotel speaks Korean and English (and Spanish).
 Hudson Hotel, 356 West 58th Street (Eighth and Ninth Avenues), 212-554-6000; www.hudsonhotel.com. From $199. A former Y.W.C.A. redesigned by Philippe Starck.
 Off SoHo Suites Hotel, 11 Rivington Street (Bowery and Chrystie Streets), 800-633-7646; www.offsoho.com. Economy rooms from $199 (sharing kitchen and bath with another room); suites from $189. Euro-style suites between SoHo and the Lower East Side.
 The Time, 224 West 49th Street (Broadway and Eighth Avenue), 877-846-3692; www.thetimeny.com. From $189. Another hip, high-concept hotel in Times Square. DENNY LEE


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Hudson, a former Y.W.C.A. on West 58th Street. The Gershwin on East 27th. The stairway of the Chelsea, on West 23rd Street, is lined lobby to rooftop with artwork. (Photographs by Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
The QT on West 45th Street, near Times Square, Andre Balazs's hip version of a Super 8.
 The Gershwin, on East 27th Street, features funky artwork and mismatched furniture. The front desk of the Chelsea, on West 23rd. A suite at the Chelsea. Bathroom at the Gershwin. (Photographs by Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pgs. 10,11)Map of Manhattan highlighting New York hotels. (pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (78%); FULL SERVICE HOTELS (78%); HOTEL CHAINS (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (74%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (73%); BUDGETS (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2005



200 of 607 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2005 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2005
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1397 words

HEADLINE: The Tricks Of the Trade In Coping With Slower Sales

BYLINE: By ANNA BAHNEY

 BODY:
WAITING for an apartment to sell is surprisingly vexing, and the wait is growing longer. In Manhattan, properties are taking a month longer to sell than they did a year ago at this time, 133 days on average, according to third-quarter data from the appraisal and consulting firm Miller Samuel. As agonizingly long as that may sound to a seller, it is still within the norm for the last 20 years, which was 120 to 150 days. 
 Dottie Herman, chief executive of Prudential Douglas Elliman, said that for buyers and sellers, the current market feels like being on an expressway going 100 miles an hour and suddenly dropping to the speed limit when a state trooper appears. ''Now the speed limit feels like you're not even driving, it feels so slow,'' she said. ''But it is a healthy pace.''
 Still, while brokers have begun to bring back the time-honored tactic of offering incentives and gifts to increase interest in their sluggish listings, and restless owners are scrambling to have their underachieving apartments staged for sale, the most critical indicator of time on the market is the most obvious: the price. 
 An apartment needs a price adjustment, according to Jonathan J. Miller, president of Miller Samuel, if it has been on the market at its current price longer than the average selling time. The current problem in the market, Mr. Miller said, is a spread between list price and actual value. 
 ''When you have market conditions that change, quite often there is a delayed reaction time for sellers, of two to three quarters, after the actual change,'' he said.
 ''If things stay subdued for the next couple of quarters, you're going to see sellers getting the message next spring or summer.''
 The wild card, in this scenario, is the annual Wall Street bonus money. Typically infused into the real estate economy during the first and second quarter, this money may reduce the average time on the market and increase prices because it will create greater demand at the beginning of next year.
 Sometimes price is only a part of a larger collection of issues -- ranging from furnishing an empty apartment to firing an ineffective broker.
 Christine Graifman realized a month and a half into a three-month exclusive agreement with her agent that her two-bedroom co-op was getting overlooked, in part because of a less-than-impressive appearance on the brokerage firm's Web site. 
 ''There was only one photograph of the exterior of the building and an outdated floor plan,'' Ms. Graifman said, and it vaguely referred to a Carnegie Hill location when it could have trumpeted its location on Museum Mile. 
 ''The apartment was empty and I felt like staging would be helpful,'' she said. ''I suggested that to the broker, but he was against it, saying it would cost too much and take too long.''
 Her agent's solution to the lack of traffic and a single -- very low -- offer was to cut the price. Again and again. 
 It went on the market in October 2004 at $925,000 and was cut to $915,000 before landing at $899,000. After three months she did not renew the agent's contract.
 When Ms. Graifman had Andrew Phillips and Amelia S. Gewirtz, both senior vice presidents and agents at Halstead Property, look at it, they thought it was not just a good apartment but a great apartment. It did not need a price cut, they decided, but some furniture, marketing and a price increase.
 Three weeks and $3,000 later the empty apartment was filled with rental furniture as well as accents like coffee-table books and candlesticks pulled from the agents' own homes. They put the apartment back on the market in March for $1.05 million and received three offers the first week, including the one the owner accepted, an all-cash bid at the asking price. 
 For sellers who feel that their apartment is accurately priced, Mr. Phillips suggested thinking like a buyer. By going to look at other apartments in the same area and price range, owners can gauge how their apartment measures up.
 Another thing to remember is to pick the most suitable season for the apartment.
 ''If you're not crazed to sell something with great outdoor space you might as well wait until the spring and put it on in March or April,'' Mr. Phillips said. ''You might sell it before that, but not at full value.''
 Ground-floor apartments that are dark, he said, should be put on the market in the warmer months when the sun is higher and comes in directly, while an apartment with a partial river view should go on in the winter, when there are no leaves on the trees. 
 And in general, Mr. Phillips said, during the summer, ''if it is over $1 million, those buyers tend to be thinking about the beach or the mountains, not the city.''
 Many sellers, restless and wanting to feel as if they are doing something, hire a stylist to stage their apartment for sale. 
 Ellen Reilly, 70, an artist, has had only fair to middling interest in her two-bedroom Upper East Side apartment since putting it on the market in July. Although her agent, Katherine Slattery, a senior vice president with the Corcoran Group, did not think the apartment needed staging, she put Ms. Reilly, who wanted to be proactive, in touch with Barbara Brock, a home stager based in Manhattan.
 Ms. Reilly was advised by Ms. Brock to remove several paintings that were at eye level to create more blank wall space. ''We just left three little pictures over the sofa,'' Ms. Reilly said. A table and little pine sideboard in the bedroom were removed, creating more space, and 90 percent of the books were put into storage.
 ''It looks clean and fresh and welcoming,'' Ms. Reilly said of her staged home. ''It looks livable but without my personality.'' 
 Whether this will help her find a buyer (or simply helps her to feel more involved) is unclear, but the first showings after it was staged have been positive, Ms. Slattery said. One couple expressed relief at the serenity of the space. ''I hadn't had that happen before,'' Ms. Slattery said. 
 Brokers, meanwhile, have their hands full getting clients and other agents to view properties. Last Wednesday, Dolly Lenz, an executive vice president at Prudential Douglas Elliman, and her colleague, Sandy Papale, a senior vice president, held a ''Women in Showbiz'' panel discussion for Variety and New York Women in Film and Television at an $18.5 million town house at 37 Beekman Place. The month before, Ms. Lenz also had an event for Yves Saint Laurent and Bergdorf Goodman at the penthouse of the Trump Park Avenue building, which she has listed for $31.5 million.
 Ms. Herman said that these events are a way to attract a group of buyers who may not know they are in the market for a high end property. 
 ''These are people who have something and stumble upon a property and realize that they love it,'' she said. ''They do not have a need for it, they want the lifestyle.'' 
 Even brokers for new construction are providing incentives. Rob Gross, a senior vice president at Prudential Douglas Elliman, recently offered a Vespa motor scooter to the buyers and their agents for the last seven units at a luxury condominium he is marketing on Attorney Street on the Lower East Side. ''Brokers and developers are spending more money than before to accelerate the process,'' he said.
 Sometimes, the inducements brokers use need to be addressed to a power greater than clients or even other brokers. 
 When a beautifully renovated apartment at 80th Street and Madison Avenue lingered on the market earlier this year, Katie Rosenberg, an agent with Warburg Realty, decided to try the St. Joseph approach. 
 This custom involves burying a statue of the saint to hasten the sale. Ms. Rosenberg recalled phoning her client and telling her, ''I know we're both Jewish, but I'm taking St. Joseph in there.''
 The Manhattan version of this custom, Ms. Rosenberg said, requires leaving a statue of the saint in its plastic wrapping and wedging it into a house plant. 
 A couple of days later, however, the plant was all but dead. ''I thought, 'Oh no! St. Joseph has done his work on the plant,' '' Ms. Rosenberg said. ''He's gotten rid of the plant, not the apartment.'' 
 She watered it, and the plant came back to life. The next day the apartment sold.
 ''I think owners, unless they have no sense of humor, are open to it,'' Ms. Rosenberg said, adding, ''I've got another place in mind to take him next.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: LOOKING FOR LUCK -- Some brokers have resorted to planting statues of St. Joseph. (Photo by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 A FRESH EYE -- Andrew Phillips and Amelia S. Gewirtz found a different approach to selling. (Photo by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)(pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); SPEED LIMITS (75%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); PRICE CHANGES (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (65%) Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Sales; Housing

COMPANY: DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (57%)

PERSON: Anna Bahney

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2005

 
