

1 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1616 words

HEADLINE: Fewer New York Teen-Agers Have Their First Job

BYLINE: By RICHARD LEVINE

 BODY:
Only one in four of New York City's older teen-agers is in the labor force, less than half the rate in the nation as a whole and lower than that of other big cities, Federal statistics show.
Economists and social scientists differ over why so few 16- to 19-year-olds have jobs or are looking for them, though they generally cite an increasingly white-collar economy that is generating fewer opportunities for young people, the dropout rate and rising competition from immigrants and other adults.
The trend appears to largely cut across racial lines, with the work-force participation rate only slightly higher for white youths than for all young people in the city.
 
At Risk of Alienation
Experts warn that the unusually low level of young people in the labor force, a level that has dropped in recent years even as the city's economy has surged, means that many New Yorkers are not getting their first exposure to work at an appropriately early age. That may put them at risk of prolonged or even permanent alienation from the labor market, which may already be the fate of some of the half-million people the boom of the 1980's is thought to have left behind. 
With some employers worrying about New York's supply of qualified workers - and the declining number of young people - the low participation rate could also contribute to a labor shortage in the 1990's, tamping down economic growth.
''When you look at the New York City economy and the job situation of its youth,'' said the regional commissioner of the Federal Bureau of Labor Statistics, Samuel M. Ehrenhalt, who compiled the statistics on work-force participation, ''they are substantially out of synch.''
Emanuel Tobier, a professor at the Robert F. Wagner Graduate School of Public Service at New York University, said the figures were ''astoundingly low.''
''They're so low,'' he added, ''they're hard to believe.''
Why are so many estranged from the city's labor market? Experts offer an array of theories. They cite the dropout rate and what some say is the school system's failure to help students move from classroom to job; an economy that generates positions for those with skills but has fewer and fewer opportunities for people without training; the decline of retail businesses in many neighborhoods; increasing competition from immigrants, and even the city's relative lack of fast-food restaurants, a major employer of the young.
 
'Growing Puzzlement to Me'
New York City, Mr. Ehrenhalt said, has not traditionally produced many part-time jobs, the introduction to work for many young people. Even so, he acknowledged that the gap in teen-age work-force participation between the city and the nation ''has been a source of continued and growing puzzlement to me.''
Only 24.8 percent of the 400,000 New Yorkers ages 16 to 19 either had or were looking for jobs - which economists define as participation in the labor force - in 1988, the last year for which statistics were available. In comparison, the rate was 55.3 percent for the nation as a whole and 51.5 percent for the nation's cities.
The rate was 57.4 percent in Houston, 48.3 percent in Los Angeles, 44.6 percent in Washington, 39.7 percent in Detroit and 39.4 percent in Chicago.
Over the last two decades labor-force participation by the young has risen in the nation but declined in New York City. It has dropped about 10 percentage points since 1979, a decade when the city had its sharpest economic resurgence since World War II.
That has led some to conclude that ''white-collarization'' - the city's shift from a manufacturing to a service economy that is generating jobs requiring more skills - greatly diminished opportunities for the young. Even some blue-collar jobs have been upgraded.
''Before you go to a lathe, you have to go to a blueprint to know how to set it up,'' said Daniel Sandy Bayer, vice president for economic and commercial development for the New York City Partnership, a business and civic group.
 
Better Jobs, but Not for Young
Roger Waldinger, associate professor of sociology at City College, says he believes the erosion of the city's manufacturing, a trend that dates to the late 1940's, has hurt adults more than young people, since he says it employs relatively few young people.
He agreed that there had been an upgrading of jobs in the city as a resurgent economy produced more professional and managerial positions. He also said that industries that experienced substantial job growth were ones that lost ''a lot of youth employment.''
As the financial-services industry expanded, for example, it was eliminating many lower-level positions. As a result, he said, opportunities for young people had actually been reduced.
Professor Waldinger said he was interviewing a personnel officer at a bank for an article he wrote on youth employment several years ago when he observed a small example of this trend: a robot delivering the mail.
Professor Tobier of the Robert Wagner School also cited other possible factors, including the decline of small retail stores in some poor city neighborhoods that typically employed young people from the area.
 
Immigrants Hiring Immigrants
In some instances, immigrants have taken over such stores, and they tend to hire other immigrants to work in them.
''You would think now that with the tightening of the labor market they would have a better crack,'' Professor Tobier said of young New Yorkers, ''but the volume of immigration has provided alternative sources of employees.''
In addition to immigrants, young New Yorkers face competition from people who come to the city from other parts of the country to work in specialized fields, like the actors who support themselves as waiters.
In any event, Professor Tobier, echoing others, said, ''it's harder for a black or Hispanic kid from the ghetto to get a job.''
 
Low Rate for Whites, Too
With fewer opportunities for employment in their neighborhoods, more competition and a greater dependence on a public school system that some say fails to prepare many students for the more demanding jobs the economy is creating, black and Hispanic young people would seem at greater risk of missing the experience of working early in life and would seem more likely to suffer later because of it.
But statistically, the work-force participation rate for young whites, 26.1 percent, is hardly better than the overall rate for young people, though many white teen-agers are undoubtedly under less economic pressure to work and have more educational opportunities than their black and Hispanic counterparts.
The statistics are drawn from a national household survey conducted each month by the Census Bureau for the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Officials said there was too small a sample of black and Hispanic youths in the city to make reliable projections for those two groups.
Part-time jobs are counted along with full-time positions, and the responses are averaged to make the yearly figure.
New York City's labor participation rate for adults is relatively low, too -57.7 percent - but is much closer to the national average of 66 percent than is the corresponding figure for older teen-agers.
 
That Crucial Early Job
Similarly, the city's rate of youth unemployment is 18 percent, against 15 percent nationally.
In an interview, Mr. Ehrenhalt, whose first jobs included delivering newspapers and working for a dry cleaner and as a busboy and a waiter, stressed the importance of having a job early in life. ''It tells you what a boss is, what responsibility is,'' he said.
''A lot of youngsters don't get that initial first job, their introduction to the job market, in their teen-age years,'' he said at another point. ''They don't see the connection between school and what comes after school.''
To better establish that connection -and reassure potential employers -the New York City Partnership has suggested that the Board of Education issue a ''certificate of employability'' along with a diploma to high school students who complete a semester of work in addition to their courses.
 
Job Counseling in Schools
The organization, which for a decade has helped sponsor a summer jobs program that found work for 50,000 young people last year, has also helped establish employment counseling centers in 16 city high schools. Since September 1988, more than 4,000 students have been placed in full- or part-time jobs.
It is hard to imagine a school more conscious of the occupational prospects of its students than Murry Bergtraum High School in Lower Manhattan. The students there, almost all black, Asian-American and Hispanic youths, learn marketable skills like word processing and computer science along with regular high school subjects. Although Bergtraum is hardly one of the city's elite schools, about 80 percent of its students go on to college and virtually all of them end up working. The school's former principal, Dr. Barbara L. Christen, says the program fosters an attitude of employability.
Dr. Christen tells of a student who arrived one day with a purple streak in her hair, appropriate perhaps for a high school classroom but not for the office where she worked afterward. And the girl's supervisor at work told her so.
The student later discussed the episode with people at the school. ''We were talking about the values of the experience,'' Dr. Christen recalled, ''and she herself pointed out that one value was that people would clue you in about what you had to do to get ahead.''
Then there was another Bergtraum student who arrived for a job at a bank in a T-shirt and dungarees. The next day, Dr. Christen said, he wore a suit.

GRAPHIC: Graph: teen-agers 16 to 19 years old who held or were looking for full- or part-time jobs, in the U.S. and for New York City, 1967-1988; chart: teen-agers 16 to 19 years old who held or were looking for full- or part-time jobs, nationwide and selected cities (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (pg. 29)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; TEENAGERS; AGE, CHRONOLOGICAL; SHORTAGES EMPLOYMENT (91%); LABOR FORCE (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (89%); STATISTICS (89%); LABOR SHORTAGES (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); YOUTH MARKET (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (72%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (72%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (62%); RESTAURANTS (62%); FAST FOOD (50%); 

PERSON: LEVINE, RICHARD MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); 



2 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 1, Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1192 words

HEADLINE: UPHEAVAL IN THE EAST;
GORBACHEV OFFERS CONDITIONAL TALKS WITH LITHUANIANS

BYLINE: By ESTHER B. FEIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, March 31

 BODY:
President Mikhail S. Gorbachev offered to open a discussion with Lithuanian leaders tonight if they repealed their declaration of independence, and he warned the Lithuanian people that failure to comply with his request ''could have grave consequences for all of us.''
In separate appeals to the Lithuanian Parliament and the Lithuanian people, Mr. Gorbachev seemed to be signaling for the first time that the Kremlin is willing to negotiate with Lithuania, but the offer was couched in terms unacceptable to the leadership of the breakaway republic. [Texts of the statements, page 16.]
The Lithuanian President, Vytautas Landsbergis, described the appeals as ''threats'' and said Lithuania's Parliament would resume its work Monday. 
 
More Troops Are Present
Mr. Gorbachev did not specify what the ''grave consequences'' could be. He has said the Lithuanian Parliament's actions could have dire effects on the republic's economy, and although the Kremlin has repeatedly ruled out the use of force, the increased presence of troops in the republic is bound to lead many to believe that Mr. Gorbachev is threatening military action.
Given previous exchanges between the Kremlin and Lithuania, Mr. Gorbachev presumably anticipated Mr. Landsbergis's dismissal of his offer. But after a week in which Lithuanian leaders chided the Kremlin for failing to negotiate with them, the Soviet leader's strategy apparently is to cast the Lithuanians as unwilling to grasp his extended hand.
 
Seeking Common Ground
But the fact that Mr. Gorbachev answered the Lithuanian Parliament's earlier calls for dialogue could be a sign that the two sides are at least seeking common ground.
Mr. Gorbachev's statements, which were read at the beginning of the main evening news program, come a day after President Bush sent a message to the Kremlin urging a peaceful resolution to the conflict. He had stated that the United States was ''not trying to make things difficult'' for either side and reiterated Washington's support for self-determination for Lithuania.
In his appeal to the Lithuanian legislators, Mr. Gorbachev called on them to ''immediately annul the illegal acts'' they had adopted, saying that ''such a step will open a possibility for discussing the entire range of problems on the soley acceptable basis - within the framework of the Soviet Constitution.''
Then, addressing the Lithuanian people directly, Mr. Gorbachev warned that ''if the voice of reason is not heeded now, developments could have grave consequences for all of us.''
Mr. Gorbachev's tone was more ominous and his thoughts more concentrated in tonight's appeals, but the message is the same one the Kremlin has issued since the stalemate with Lithuania over its self-proclaimed independence began nearly three weeks ago: that the Lithuanian act was illegal and invalid, and that a republic could separate from the Soviet Union only by following the Soviet Constitution through a course that has yet to be prescribed by the new Soviet Parliament.
Mr. Landsbergis treated Mr. Gorbachev's proposal essentially as a non-offer, saying, ''I regret that President Gorbachev did not hear the voices of the world inviting the Soviet Union to start dialogue and negotiations with Lithuania.''
 
On Monday, Back to Work
He again tried to coax support from other countries and tried to demonstrate the ineffectiveness of Mr. Gorbachev's appeal to Lithuania to reverse its decisions by declaring that ''the day after tomorrow, the Lithuanian Parliament will resume its work and on its agenda it will consider this unexpected statement of President Gorbachev.''
Underscoring his attempt to focus responsibility for the outcome of events on the Lithuanian leaders, Mr. Gorbachev emphasized to the legislators that they were liable for ''Lithuanians and non-Lithuanians, for their security and well-being, for the destiny of democracy in the whole of our country and of stability in the world.''
In his statement, Mr. Gorbachev criticized the Lithuanian Parliament for dire decisions ''adopted in haste, without consultations and discussions, actually within one night.''
Mr. Gorbachev's appeals were made at the recommendation of the Council of Federation, a new presidential advisory board made up of the leaders of the 15 Soviet republics and other members, which met on Friday.
 
Increasing Pressure on Republic
Moscow has been steadily increasing its pressure on the renegade republic by issuing harsh decrees, rounding up army deserters who had been offered protection by the Lithuanian Parliament and stationing Soviet troops at public buildings. Initially, the troops occupied only Communist Party buildings, but on Friday night, they were dispatched to the Procurator's Office and the main printing plant in Vilnius.
So far, there has been no sign of the troops trying to interfere with work at the printing press, although there are no Sunday newspapers in the republic and the presses were not scheduled to run again until Sunday evening.
Although Moscow claims authority over both institutions, the latest deployment of troops could be a sign that Moscow is gradually trying to take over all public buildings in the republic, and Lithuanian officials say they fear Parliament may be one of the next targets.
In his statement tonight, Mr. Gorbachev stressed that the hasty separation of Lithuania from the Soviet Union would have disastrous economic consequences for the small republic. It is a point he raised repeatedly during a visit to Lithuania in January.
''The incumbent Lithuanian leaders are trying to convince you that their separatist actions will not affect the economic, scientific, technical and other ties with the other republics of the Soviet Union,'' Mr. Gorbachev said in appealing to the Lithuanian people. ''But this is not so, because all these ties can develop normally and yield fruits only in a favorable atmosphere of confidence and mutual assistance and not in the situation of confrontation, ultimatums, disrespect for one another and ethnic strife.''
 
Demonstrations of Support
He further added that people from around the Soviet Union, whose ''just indignation'' had been aroused by the Lithuanian action, had appealed to the Soviet leadership to take ''effective economic, political and administrative measures'' against the republic.
Earlier in the day, demonstrations were held in several Soviet cities to show solidarity with the people of Lithuania. In the Ukrainian capital of Kiev, about 20,000 people defied an official ban and gathered in support of Lithuania, according to Ivan Drach, head of Rukh, the Ukrainian nationalist movement.
Mr. Drach said that after initial warnings that the demonstration was illegal, police allowed the meeting to go on unharassed.
In Soviet Georgia, demonstrators called for an end to the occupation of Lithuania and its neighboring Baltic republics of Estonia and Latvia. And several hundred people gathered this afternoon in Gorky Park in Moscow to denounce the use of troops in Lithuania and to support the right of every republic to secede from the Soviet Union.

GRAPHIC: Photos: At a rally advocating Lithuanian independence from the Soviet Union in Gorky Park in Moscow yesterday, a sign compared Soviet annexation of Lithuania in 1940 to the current political relationship (Reuters); About 1,000 people gathered at a pro-Moscow rally yesterday in Kaunas, Lithuania, which was organized by Moscow loyalists fighting Lithuanian seccession from the Soviet Union. They were protesting the recent decisions of the republic's Parliament to seek independence (Associated Press); A supporter of Lithuanian independence attended a rally yesterday at Gorky Park in Moscow to protest Soviet military action last week in the Baltic states. (Associated Press) (pg. 16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: LITHUANIA (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); BALTIC STATES (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); 

COMPANY: LITHUANIAN PARLIAMENT (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); LITHUANIA

SUBJECT: SECESSION; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES SEPARATISM & SECESSION (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); ARMED FORCES (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); 

PERSON: FEIN, ESTHER B; GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; LANDSBERGIS, VYTAUTAS (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (53%); 



3 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 9, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: Jordan 1990: New Politics, Islam's Way

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL, Special to The New York Times

 BODY:
The young woman in a dark veil had a problem: how, she asked the legislator, could she switch colleges? The legislator scribbled a supportive note to a college director he knew. The woman left. The man sighed. Only recently, said Abdel Latif Arrabiyat, a legislator from the Muslim Brotherhood, a man had asked him to adjudicate marital strife. Then, a retired soldier from the 1948 war had written asking for a raise in his pension. People, he said, did not seem to understand just what a parliamentary deputy was supposed to be able to do.
''The level of expectation is very high,'' he said. 
Expectations began to rise last November, when the first free elections in 22 years gave 32 of the 80 parliamentary seats to the Muslim Brotherhood and 10 other Islamic conservative candidates. They became the biggest and most powerful bloc in Parliament, loud in their commitment to sharia, or Islamic law, and jihad, or holy war against Israel.
 
Tremors Through Neighbors
The election and its result sent tremors through Jordan's Arab neighbors of Saudi Arabia, Iraq and Syria, unsettled variously by the siren call of freedom and the prospect of religious passion challenging secular rule. Israelis questioned the stirring of Islam so close, and many in Jordan felt their Westernized ways threatened.
But this week, as Parliament concluded its first session, the Muslim victory seemed more ambiguous, with many people disillusioned with the pace of change promised by deputies who had campaigned on the assertion that ''Islam is the solution.'' Solutions have been elusive, and, as Mr. Arrabiyat's experiences seemed to show, small detail has tripped big slogans.
''When you have a high level of expectation, whatever you do is below expectation,'' he said. ''So you find many people in Amman who say, 'What happened? We don't see anything new.' ''
Leilah Sharif, a member of the 40-seat Senate, the upper house appointed by King Hussein, said: ''They have realized the enormity of their responsibility. And they have realized that when you are under the dome of Parliament, it is not like when you are on the pulpit of the mosque.''
 
Tolerance by Monarchy
''They have achieved nothing,'' said Musa Keilani, a Jordanian diplomat and scholar who has studied the history of Islamic movements in Jordan. ''They could not impose sharia. They could not ban alcohol. They have not been able to register solid gains.''
Yet some concerns center not so much on the Brotherhood's sway in formal politics as on its street politics at a time of economic crisis and deepening disaffection among Jordanians of Palestinian descent, who form more than half the 3.5 million population, over the slow pace of United States-sponsored peace efforts.
Jordan's Hashemite monarchy, which asserts descent from the prophet Mohammed, has long shown greater tolerance toward the Brotherhood than other Arab countries.
But shortly before last November's poll, the King warned his citizens against voting for religious extremes, saying Jordan risked being thrown into Lebanon's chaos.
 
Many Did Not Vote
But the Muslim Brotherhood was able to marshal its followers at the polling stations. And many others, particularly Jordanians of Palestinian descent, many of them with a secular outlook, did not vote, staying home out of a blend of cynicism, indifference and worry that a vote in Jordan would undermine their assertion to be represented in a Palestinian state.
With a turnout of only 40 percent of the 1.4 million eligible voters, some candidates on the Islamic ticket were able to win seats from voters who may have represented only a 10th of those eligible. Since the election, Islamic candidates have lost in smaller votes for the leadership of Jordan's professional associations and syndicates.
But many suggested that the Islamic victory provided an opportunity for a wider more emotive campaign. Some Islamic deputies, notably Abdel Moneim Abu Zant, born in the West Bank town of Nablus, have stirred passions with a demand that the avowed moderacy of the Palestine Liberation Organization be abandoned in favor of holy war against Israel.
 
Support of Public Grows
On March 7, the Brotherhood issued a call for ''the liberation of Palestine from the sea to the river,'' calling it ''an Islamic duty and the responsibility of all Muslims and Arabs.'' The demand for a Palestinian state between the Mediterranean and Jordan contradicts the official policy of Jordan, the P.L.O. and most of the Arab world. But it has found an echo.
Taher el-Masri, a Jordanian of Palestinian descent and a legislator who supports more centrist policies, said he had shared platforms at public meetings with Mr. Abu Zant and ''people admire him very much.'' He continued, ''I must admit that the public is leaning to his ideas, not my ideas.''
''Abu Zant is undermining the P.L.O. because of the lack of progress on the political front,'' he said. The Muslim Brotherhood in Jordan, diplomats and Palestinian officials say, has close ties with Hamas, the Islamic movement challenging the P.L.O. in the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip.
''The more the peace process drags and tumbles, and the more that you find that the doors are locked in front of the peace process, the more these people have credibility among the audiences and the masses,'' said Mohammed Milhem, an independent member of the P.L.O.'s executive committee. ''It gives them more power to continue to challenge.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JORDAN (94%); ISRAEL (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); IRAQ (79%); SYRIA (79%); 

CITY: AMMAN, JORDAN (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JORDAN

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; LEGISLATURES; ISLAM; PUBLIC OPINION; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION RELIGION (95%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); WOMEN (90%); CONSERVATISM (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); HISTORY (71%); POPULATION SIZE (71%); LIQUOR LAWS & LICENSING (68%); PEACE PROCESS (50%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%); 

PERSON: COWELL, ALAN TZIPORA LIVNI (50%); 



4 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 13, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 553 words

HEADLINE: Cuban-American Takes Aim at Castro, on TV

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MIAMI, March 31

 BODY:
Using the infant medium of television to stunning political effect, a young Fidel Castro dominated the airwaves in 1960 seeking to rally supporters to his new rule.
Seeking a similar, if less immediate result three decades later, President Castro's Cuban-American enemies are placing their hopes for his fall on television programs being beamed to Cuba from the Florida Keys.
But along with doubts that the new United States-financed television station, known as TV Marti, can overcome electronic jamming and hasten Mr. Castro's political eclipse, the start-up of the station last week exposed a deep split among Cuban exiles. 
At its heart is a wealthy and influential Miami businessman, Jorge Mas Canosa, founder and chairman of a conservative lobby, the Cuban-American National Foundation, who is credited even by his detractors with persuading Congress to support TV Marti and its five-year-old radio station.
Since Radio Marti's founding director, Ernesto F. Betancourt, resigned this month, saying Mr. Mas interfered in the running of the station, the Miami exile leader has faced assertions that he has sought to use his position as chairman of a presidential advisory board on broadcasting to advance a single-minded quest to become President of Cuba.
The one Cuban-American besides Mr. Mas on the nine-member board is a member of his foundation. Mr. Betancourt said Mr. Mas's foundation had begun to operate as a political party.
''They even drafted a constitution and economic program for the country and plans for transitional rule with Jorge Mas the prospective presidential candidate,'' Mr. Betancourt said in an interview. ''Then they realized they needed mass-media broadcast to Cuba to realize their ambitions.'' Mr. Betancourt said that earlier this year Mr. Mas requested a 55-minute documentary on Eastern Europe for the station and recently arranged for the broadcast of flattering commentary about the foundation.
Mr. Betancourt, who generally earned high marks for his tenure as director of Radio Marti, was quickly joined in his criticisms by other Cuban-Americans skeptical of Mr. Mas as well as by a flurry of editorials and letters in the Miami press arguing that the credibility of Radio and TV Marti would be best preserved by distancing them from even the suggestion of influence from Mr. Mas or his foundation.
Answering those criticisms during numerous radio and television programs and in newspaper columns, Mr. Mas, who is 50 years old, has denied exerting any influence over the station or ever trying to use broadcasts to advance his political interests.
Mr. Mas categorically denies having ever harbored presidential ambitions.
''Up until very recently, the Cuban opposition did not have someone to identify with,'' Mr. Mas said, explaining the surge in criticism of him.
''The Cuban-American National Foundation, with me as its director, has emerged as the firm head of the opposition,'' he said. With his strong leadership, to hear him explain it, have come enmity and envy.
But Mr. Mas's critics assert that he has built his foundation into an organization with over 100,000 paying members that generates large sums in contributions and extends its influence to political races at all levels but reflects, in virtually all things, the agenda of one man, Mr. Mas.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (53%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: TV MARTI (91%); RADIO MARTI (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: TV MARTI

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CUBA; FLORIDA

SUBJECT: CUBAN-AMERICANS; TELEVISION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS (78%); LOBBYING (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (67%); 

PERSON: FRENCH, HOWARD W; MAS CANOSA, JORGE; CASTRO, FIDEL (PRES) FIDEL CASTRO (92%); 



5 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 16, Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1009 words

HEADLINE: UPHEAVAL IN THE EAST;
Texts of Gorbachev's Statements to Lithuanians

 BODY:
Following are the texts of statements made yesterday by President Mikhail S. Gorbachev of the Soviet Union to the Lithuanian people and to the Lithuanian Parliament. The statements, as distributed in translation by Tass, the official Soviet press agency, were read by announcers on Radio Moscow and on the Soviet television.
 
TO LITHUANIAN PEOPLE
Dear citizens of the Lithuanian Soviet Socialist Republic,
 I am addressing you at a difficult time for our country. The March 11 decisions of the Lithuanian Supreme Soviet have brought us to a critical point. 
 The attempts being taken by the incumbent Lithuanian leadership to break the republic's ties with the Soviet Union and its tactics of unilateral and ultimative actions endanger the normal life and security of all people in the Republic, Lithuanians and non-Lithuanians, and are a cause of grave concern in the country.
Is it normal when amendments to the Constitution, resolving the destiny of the republic and its people and concerning the interests of the entire country, are adopted in haste, without consultations and discussions, actually within one night?
The Third Congress of U.S.S.R. People's Deputies urged the Supreme Soviet of the Republic to renounce political recklessness. The Lithuanian leadership responded to this appeal for common sense with the escalation of irresponsible and illegitimate decisions.
This counterposes Lithuania to other constituent republics and the whole of the Soviet Union and undermines the historically established ties and cooperation between our peoples.
The actions being taken in Lithuania have no logical foundation. They are being taken at a time when we have begun to resolve vital issues of the Soviet federation on a really democratic basis.
What is our position? It is the sincere adherence to the ideas of the free and original development of all peoples of our country, and respect for their legitimate rights to self- determination and sovereignty. This fully refers to the Lithuanian people, too.
Now attempts are being made to convince you that genuine sovereignty within the Soviet Union, without breaking away from it, is impossible. Simultaneously, old grudges are being purposefully kindled and the dark sides of joint life are being emphasized.
Indeed, our past includes many things that we are mutually rejecting. And this refers not only to the Lithuanian people. But no one can say that in the years of perestroika any people in our country has been deliberately elevated or purposefully humiliated.
We have for years lived in one home. Does the past time deserve only bad words? Have the Lithuanian literature and poetry, theater and cinema, music and architecture, education and sports faded and got lost in the multicolored Soviet culture?
Was it not in the mutual work and with the fraternal aid from other republics that your industry and agriculture have been developing? Did Lithuania itself not extend a helping hand to other peoples in times of trouble?
 
Supporting the Constitution
Did the Lithuanian citizens not support the U.S.S.R. Constitution, by which Lithuania abided for years honestly and strictly as a full-fledged republic?
The incumbent Lithuanian leaders are trying to convince you that their separatist actions will not affect the economic, scientific, technical and other ties with the other republics of the U.S.S.R.
But this is not so, because all these ties can develop normally and yield fruits only in a favorable atmosphere of confidence and mutual assistance and not in the situation of confrontation, ultimatums, disrespect for one another and ethnic strife.
The pointed disrespect for the U.S.S.R. Constitution, the challenge to Soviet laws and the nonimplementation of union obligations give rise to just indignation all over the country.
The President of the U.S.S.R., the U.S.S.R. Supreme Soviet and the U.S.S.R. Government are receiving numerous letters and telegrams expressing utter concern and perplexity in connection with the developments in Lithuania.
People demand that the U.S.S.R. Constitution be defended and that the union be protected from the harm caused by the actions of separatists. They propose taking effective economic, political and administrative measures.
People in Byelorussia and Kaliningrad region are raising the issue of returning territories transferred to Lithuania after it joined the U.S.S.R.
In general, the situation in the Republic and around it has become dramatic. If the voice of reason is not heeded now, developments can have grave consequences for all of us. We must be united in striving to prevent this.
I have appealed to the Lithuanian Supreme Soviet, proposing that it immediately annul the illegal acts it has adopted. This will open a possibility for discussing the entire range of problems on the solely acceptable basis - within the framework of the U.S.S.R. Constitution.
I am expressing hope that my appeal will be supported by the citizens of the Lithuanian Soviet Socialist Republic.
 
TO LITHUANIAN PARLIAMENT
The incumbent Lithuanian leadership does not heed the voice of reason. It continues to ignore the decision of the third, extraordinary Congress of U.S.S.R. People's Deputies and is taking unilateral steps that run counter to the U.S.S.R. Constitution and that are openly challenging and insulting to the entire union.
I want to declare yet again that this road is ruinous and will only lead to a dead end.
I urge the deputies of the Lithuanian Supreme Soviet to understand this truth and their historical responsibility for the interests of the people of Lithuania - Lithuanians and non-Lithuanians, for their security and well-being, for the destiny of democracy in the whole of our country and of stability in the world.
I propose that the Lithuanian Supreme Soviet immediately annul the illegal acts it has adopted. Such a step will open a possibility for discussing the entire range of problems on the solely acceptable basis - within the framework of the U.S.S.R. constitution.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: TEXT

COUNTRY: LITHUANIA (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME SOVIET (71%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (68%); POETRY (60%); 

PERSON: MIKHAIL S GORBACHEV (57%); 



6 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 17, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 520 words

HEADLINE: Coalition Rule Seems a Safe Guess in Bulgaria

BYLINE: By DAVID BINDER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SOFIA, Bulgaria, March 29

 BODY:
Ten weeks before this country holds its first free elections in more than four decades, the outcome is a tossup. But whichever party comes out on top, Bulgaria's next government will be formed by a coalition.
In an interview on Wednesday, Prime Minister Andrei Lukanov said that even if his Communist Party, still the most powerful political force in Bulgaria, were to win a majority, he would opt for a coalition government. 
''Whatever the results, we are convinced that we need a coalition,'' he said. ''Why? To deal with the economic crisis and economic reform and to have a period of learning, to develop a new political culture. I am convinced that we need two, maybe more years of national cooperation for that.''
Mr. Lukanov took over the Cabinet at the head of a team of reform-minded Communists on Nov. 10, following the overthrow of the neo-Stalinist leadership of Todor Zhivkov.
The Prime Minister rates as the most popular politician in Bulgaria, according to a national opinion survey taken earlier this month. His approval rating of 71 percent was exceeded only by that of Gen. Dobri Dzhurov, the Defense Minister, who is credited with having played a key role in the ouster of Mr. Zhivkov after 35 years in power. Zhelyu Zhelev, who heads the opposition, received 39 percent in the same survey.
Because he is well known and widely liked, many Bulgarians including non-Communists hope that Mr. Lukanov will remain Prime Minister even if opposition parties gain a majority on June 10. For example, Viktor Valkov, chairman of the Agrarian Party, said he would support Mr. Lukanov. The Agrarian Party, with 500,000 members roughly half the size of the Communist Party, is the second-strongest political group in Bulgaria.
But Mr. Lukanov's prospects are far from assured. The poll indicated that half the eligible voters were undecided on how they would vote, and several Western diplomats said the opposition parties gathered under the umbrella of the United Democratic Forces have gained strength in recent weeks.
Altogether the 15 opposition parties have about half a million members, and rallies sponsored by the United Democratic Forces have recently drawn as many as 200,000 Bulgarians.
Some diplomats think that with modern office equipment, the opposition coalition might even gain a majority in June. Such equipment has begun to arrive from private British, American and West German donors.
Another uncertainty is the evolution of attitudes toward the Communist Party, which is to formally change its name to the Bulgarian Socialist Party next Monday as a mark of its stated intention of transforming itself into a social democratic party.
Four factions have emerged within the party, ranging from a liberal grouping called Road to Europe to an orthodox group of members associated with the Zhivkov era.
Work is also under way on the drafting of a new constitution. A preliminary draft embodies a detailed bill of rights and envisions a powerful legislative branch. But there are apparently strong elements in the Communist Party and elsewhere that would prefer a strong executive.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BULGARIA (94%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMUNIST PARTY (87%); AGRARIAN PARTY (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BULGARIA

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); VOTERS & VOTING (67%); 

PERSON: BINDER, DAVID; LUKANOV, ANDREI (PRIME MIN) TODOR KHRISTOV ZHIVKOV (69%); 



7 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 18, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1113 words

HEADLINE: To a Fading U.S. Bugle, Rhineland Sings a Dirge

BYLINE: By FERDINAND PROTZMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BAD KREUZNACH, West Germany

 BODY:
At 5 P.M. each day, life at the United States 8th Infantry Division headquarters comes to a brief standstill as the American flag is lowered for the night.
Soldiers and civilians stop whatever they are doing and stand at attention as Old Glory is slowly brought down at Rose Barracks and a bugle sounds Retreat. The final notes echo through the twilight, rolling across the vineyards of the Nahe River valley toward the medieval town center.
This ceremony may soon end. Since the Bush Administration proposed major troop reductions and base closings in January, it has been widely expected that the 8th Infantry Division would be one of the major units to be withdrawn from West Germany. Just the possibility of its departure is sending economic shock waves through this area's 40,000 people. 
Such tremors are being felt in many West German communities, but particularly in the state of Rhineland-Palatinate, known among some in the military as ''NATO's largest aircraft carrier'' because of the high concentration of American air bases there. #1 Out of 10 Could Close Defense Secretary Dick Cheney is already planning to close Zweibrucken Air Base, in the southwest corner of the state about 100 miles from Bad Kreuznach. Of the 800 American military installations great and small in West Germany, the commander of American forces in Europe, Gen. John R. Galvin, estimates that about 80 will be closed in the first round of reductions.
Many here complain of the annoyances and hazards of having thousands of foreign troops living and training on West German soil. But United States military spending pumps about $8 billion annually into this country's economy. Scores of companies depend on the military for business, thousands of civilians rely on it for employment, and countless German families have boosted their incomes by renting housing to soldiers and their dependents.
For those people, troop reductions will mean lower incomes, a loss of jobs and wrenching economic adjustment at a time when West Germany's Government and business sector are concentrating their resources on reunification and the enormous task of rebuilding East Germany's decrepit economy.
The Bush Administration proposed the cutbacks in response to the political changes that have swept Eastern Europe in recent months. But those developments are small comfort to people like Katherina Gruneberg, 70 years old, who works at a snack stand just up the road from Rose Barracks and spent 21 years as an employee at the base commissary.
 
'I Want Them to Stay'
''I want them to stay, not to go,'' Mrs. Gruneberg said. ''They are still a great protection for us. The American soldiers are very nice young rascals. And they account for most of the business at this stand.
''For Bad Kreuznach, it will be very bad economically, very damaging if they go,'' she continued. ''There is no big industry here, and I can't think of what they will do with the U.S. installations. They are so big only a large company could use them.''
The United States forces employ 33,000 civilians, the vast majority of them Germans. About 1,000 of them work for the 8th Infantry in Bad Kreuznach and at Dexheim, an outlying base. The gross payroll for these 1,000 civilians amounts to about $25 million a year, said Maj. Michael Maher, the 8th Division's spokesman.
Money flows from the military in other ways. The 8th Infantry spends about $2.2 million a month in Bad Kreuznach on a variety of goods and services. In 1989, it awarded construction contracts totaling $6.35 million and spent about $225,000 more on transport contracts with local bus and trucking concerns. It paid $155,000 to local hospitals for services to military staff members and their dependents.
The 8th Infantry is a mechanized division with about 21,000 officers and enlisted men. About 8,000 are stationed at the Rose Barracks headquarters, and the rest are spread over an area about the size of Rhode Island, with installations in Mainz, Wildflecken, Baumholder, Dexheim, Mannheim and Wiesbaden.
 
No Decision Yet
Major Maher said no decision had been made to move the 8th Division out, and that no such move was expected until a new agreement on limiting conventional forces in Europe is completed, perhaps late this year.
Until then, it is business as usual. ''We're busy training,'' Major Maher said.
When the troops are not training, they can part with their pay at the auto dealerships, insurance agents and fast-food restaurants that surround all big American bases in West Germany. Without the troops, these businesses would probably close.
''All of our business is with the military. If they go, that would be it,'' said Veva Hepler, an insurance sales representative for American International Underwriters, which has an office next to a car dealership just up the hill from Rose Barracks' main gate. ''I guess it was bound to happen anyway.''
If the mood is one of resignation in Bad Kreuznach, it is more like disbelief in Zweibrucken, where the 17th Air Force is based. The Air Force is the town's largest employer, providing jobs for 20 percent of the 35,000 residents.
 
Groping for New Job Skills
''My skills and knowledge are all oriented to the military,'' said a civilian clerk in the unit's administration building. ''German businesses have different requirements. They want something else, and that will make it hard for me to get another job.''
Zweibrucken city officials said that the town's unemployment rate already stands at 14 percent, well above the national average of about 8 percent. If the Zweibrucken Air Base closes, as proposed, and the 8th Infantry leaves, the state government of Rhineland-Palatinate will face serious economic problems.
The state government is considering industrial development projects that could at least ease the pain of a military departure. A ministerial working group is examining the potential problems.
''We think we will have some problems finding jobs for the military workers,'' said Jurgen Dietzen, a spokeman for the state Interior Ministry. ''We want to know what these workers can do, and if there are similar civil jobs they can do.''
One proposal is to convert one of the six American air bases in Rhineland-Palatinate into a civilian airport to ease the severe air-traffic congestion at Frankfurt International Airport. But many West Germans working at the Zweibrucken base are skeptical that the lost jobs will be replaced. In their minds, troop cuts mean unemployment.
''It's good for them because they save money,'' a mechanic working in the Zweibrucken motor pool said of the Americans. ''It's bad for me because I'll lose my job.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: If President Bush's troop-reduction proposals are put in place many West German bases will close. Pvt. Bryan Wolverton at a snack stand outside the main gate of Rose Barracks in Bad Kreuznach, one of the bases believed most likely to close (The New York Times/Scott A. Miller); Map of West Germany highlighting Rhineland-Palatinate and showing location of Bad Kreuznach, 8th Infantry headquarters, and other U.S. bases

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); GERMANY (97%); EUROPE (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (54%); 

STATE: RHEINLAND-PFALZ, GERMANY (92%); 

COMPANY: INFANTRY DIV (57%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WEST GERMANY; BAD KREUZNACH (WEST GER)

SUBJECT: MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ARMED FORCES (92%); MILITARY BASES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); MILITARY DEPENDENTS (77%); LAYOFFS (75%); CLOSINGS (75%); TRENDS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); MILITARY VESSELS (67%); NAVAL VESSELS (67%); DEFENSE SPENDING (67%); 

PERSON: PROTZMAN, FERDINAND DICK CHENEY (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 



8 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 20, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 887 words

HEADLINE: Ohio Valley of Tears Is Facing More

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DILLES BOTTOM, Ohio, March 30

 BODY:
Fifteen years ago more than 60,000 people worked in the coal mines and the steel, glass, pottery and paper plants that lined the banks of the Ohio River just south of Wheeling, W.Va. Today fewer than 30,000 are employed there.
In many of the valley's cities and towns, the once-booming plants are rusting testaments to the decline of America's industrial base. ''For Sale'' signs sprout everywhere, unemployment rates of 15 to 20 percent are commonplace and welfare officials say one of every five families lives in poverty.
And things may get worse, particularly for the region's miners. The clean air bill making its way through Congress includes a provision to reduce acid rain, one of the environmental fallouts that results when utility plants burn the high-sulfur coal mined here. The coal-burning plants, most of them in the Midwest, could install smokestack devices to remove the sulfur, or they could take a less costly approach and import low-sulfur coal. #4,000 Jobs Are on the Line ''Everybody knows they'll go for the cheapest approach and that means high-sulfur miners are in for some more hard times,'' said Larry Ward, the top local official of the United Mine Workers of America. ''The Congress doesn't seem to care that this bill has its own special kind of fallout and that we're going to be the victims. 
''It's a bill that's going to put 4,000 men out of work around here and probably another 10,000 or so miners elsewhere in the Midwest. And for every miner that goes, some grocer or car dealer or clothier is going to hurt, too.''
The miners who work the rich seam of high-sulfur coal that runs beneath the Ohio Valley are already among the workers hardest hit in the area. In the last 15 years, their ranks have been thinned from a high of 16,000 in the mid-1970's to 4,000 by automation and the use of alternative fuels. The miners say they do not oppose reducing acid rain or air pollution.
''Nobody has ever fought harder for clean air than us miners because we have to work where air is so dirty,'' said Ray Wright, a train motorman in the mine. ''All we ask in this new bill is fairness. There's technology out there that can make burning high-sulfur coal safe, but Congress doesn't seen to want to take the time to develop it.''
 
An Issue With Names on It
Local coal mine operators take a similar view. Robert Murray, the president of the Ohio Valley Coal Company, traveled to Washington on Wednesday to urge Congress to modify its clean air approach.
''The acid rain issue, which started out as an environmental issue, is really a human issue,'' he told one Capitol Hill hearing. ''To me, there are names on this issue.''
Senator Robert C. Byrd, the West Virginia Democrat who was once a coal miner, failed on Thursday to persuade the Senate to amend the clean air bill to offer additional unemployment benefits and retraining programs for miners thrown out of work. He pleaded with legislators to ''hear the cries of the people'' while considering the measure, which is expected to come up for a final Senate vote next week and then go on to passage by the House.
But the Byrd amendment was defeated by a vote of 50 to 49. Opponents of the amendment said it was too costly and gave miners more than other workers who would be affected by the bill.
Miners here, while appreciative of Mr. Byrd's effort, say that unemployment benefits and retraining programs would not tide them over because there is no hope of finding new work in the Ohio Valley these days.
''Retrain me for what?'' asked Roger Stillion, a miner at Powhatan Point. ''Most miners are in their 40's and 50's because no new miners have come in for years.''
 
Struggling to Stay Put
Young people now grow assuming that they will move away when they finish high school, or maybe sooner if their parents can find work elsewhere. Valley residents speak sadly of an economic diaspora that is scattering families to the winds, with some coming together only for funerals.
Most towns and villages are dotted with an unusually large number of small gas stations and little stores that sell sandwiches, the owners desperately struggling to find the money to stay put in the place they were born and raised and will always call ''home.''
''There just isn't anything for a young person to do around here,'' said Jim McGee, a retired miner who opened a fast-food restaurant at Powhatan Point to supplement his retirement income.
''And if the mines go, there won't be anything for the rest of us,'' he said. ''A hundred coal trucks go past my place every day. I get business from the drivers and, of course, so do any number of other merchants. If those trucks disappear, what then? More boarded up stores. More homes for sale. There'll be a domino effect.'' In the opinion of John Laslo, the former Mayor of Martins Ferry, who is a member of many valley economic commissions, the domino effect has been at work for some time, touching even the valley's vaunted athletic teams.
''This valley was home for Lou Groza and John Havlicek and the Niekro boys and on and on in professional sports,'' he said. ''Knute Rockne and Woody Hayes and a lot of other coaches used to recruit here. ''Well, I've got to say it. With the loss of so many of our families and young people, our teams aren't what they used to be.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: ''If the mines go, there won't be anything for the rest of us,'' said Jim McGee, a retired miner who opened a fast-food restaurant at Powhatan Point, Ohio, to supplement his retirement income (The New York Times/Fred Vuich); Ray Wright, a mine train operator from Bellaire, Ohio. ''Nobody has ever fought harder for clean air than us miners,'' he said. ''All we ask in this new bill is fairness.'' (The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ;CLEAN AIR ACT

INDUSTRY: NAICS213113 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR COAL MINING (60%); SIC1241 COAL MINING SERVICES (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (91%); 

CITY: WHEELING, WV, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: OHIO VALLEY COAL CO (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;OHIO; OHIO RIVER VALLEY; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: COAL; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; LABOR; MINES AND MINING; SULFUR AND SULFUR COMPOUNDS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; AIR POLLUTION; ACID RAIN; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); COAL INDUSTRY (90%); AIR QUALITY (90%); ACID RAIN (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); COAL MINING (90%); MINE WORKERS (89%); MINE PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (78%); MINES & MINING (78%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (78%); PAPER MILLS (78%); AIR POLLUTION (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); LEGISLATION (74%); EMPLOYMENT (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); TRENDS (71%); LABOR UNIONS (65%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (50%); 

PERSON: ;BYRD, ROBERT C (SEN); AYRES, B DRUMMOND JR ROBERT BYRD (57%); 



9 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 1990
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 26, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1985 words

HEADLINE: On Weekend for Counting, Census Itself Is Under Scrutiny as Never Before

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 31

 BODY:
As census forms are filled out in households around the country this weekend, the nation's residents are writing an end to a decennial demographic contest that has more winners and losers than ever before.
California wants to know if it gained six Congressional seats or seven; Pennsylvania wants to know if it lost two or three. New Jersey towns want to know local population figures so they can determine how many liquor licenses to issue. Oklahoma City and Rochester want to know if they have lost their places among the top 50 metropolitan markets, meaning millions of advertising dollars would go elsewhere.
As the winners and losers have increased, so have the legal and political pressures on the Bureau of the Census, the agency that keeps the score. It has forced politicians, the bureau and professional statisticians around the country to re-examine basic questions: What demographic information should the Government gather? How should it be gathered? And to what end? 
Census figures have always been the basis of Congressional reapportionment, but not until the 1970 census was it required by the Supreme Court that the numbers be used for redrawing state legislatures' districts. By 1980, as Federal revenue sharing programs based on population grew, census figures were used to apportion large amounts of money as well as power -more than $40 billion a year in Federal money in the 1980's.
''The bureau is clearly under increasing scrutiny,'' said the Census Bureau's director, Barbara Everitt Bryant.
Representative Thomas C. Sawyer, an Ohio Democrat who is the chairman of the House subcommitee that oversees the Census Bureau, said the pressure from this scrutiny might alter the way the census counts people. ''We're undergoing a simultaneous economic, demographic and technological change that is shaping issues more directly than at any time in the past 100 years,'' he said. ''As a result, the character of the census may not change. But the methodology may change radically.''
 
More Than People Are Being Counted
 The bureau will continue to count people: the first article of the Constitution requires a count to apportion political power. But bureaucrats and political leaders have expanded that mandate to include the collection of information about race, income, employment, education, life style, housing, transportation and disability.
Warren J. Mitofsky, the executive director of the Voter Research and Surveys Association, a new consortium organized by the major television networks for polling and election data, said that the constituency for highly detailed census data had grown enormously, and that any reduction in the breadth of the count would provoke fierce opposition among those who use the information.
''In the political world, it's the whole foundation of political polling,'' Mr. Mitofsky said.
Census data is crucial in guiding poll takers and survey researchers who gather information from small samples of people and extrapolate conclusions about much larger population groups. ''When you talk about sampling, you're talking about extending a methodology out from something concrete,'' said Charles E. Metcalf, the president of Mathematical Policy Research in Princeton, N.J. To design a sample, he said, ''You have to have some basis for doing it.''
Yet some statisticians suggest that it may be possible to stand this process on its head, and use sampling techniques to get better data than that gleaned by counting people. Planners in the bureau have already written a paper suggesting that the census in 2000 be a bare-bones effort that would do little more than count people. This could be supplemented by telephone follow-up to contact people who fail to answer and an expansion of existing population surveys to learn how people live and where they come from.
Many experts in survey research are concerned about such a change in approach. Vincent Barabba, who was census director twice and is now in charge of market research for the General Motors Corporation, said surveys might indeed provide better information on a national level. But he said he doubts that there is a cost-effective substitute for obtaining reliable local data.
Nevertheless, Representative Sawyer believes change of some sort is inevitable. ''Each census has been the last census of its type,'' he said. ''There's been a rolling evolution.'' Terriann Lowenthal, Mr. Sawyer's chief aide on the Congressional committee, says the census works. ''But does it work well enough, when the stakes are so high?''
 
Methodology Raises A Basic Question
 The questions have surfaced before. But this time, some officials say, the bureau is unusually vulnerable to charges that the old way may not be the best way.
For one thing, the cost of the bureau's promised activities to perfect the accuracy of the 1990 census will exceed its current 10-year budget of $2.6 billion, Congressional auditors say. For another, it is far behind its own goals for hiring the temporary workers needed to visit the homes of those who do not fill out the form, with only about half as many hired as the bureau had hoped.
Any change in the way the Census Bureau makes it count will tie into the debate over adjusting census figures. Adjustment is a complex mathematical process that would add to the totals for groups underrepresented in the initial count and would thus change the final count.
In a reflection of the growing importance of the disputes over census methodology, the bureau's Commerce Department overseers, who have traditionally remained aloof from statistical details, have said they will decide whether to adjust the figures from the decennial count. Government officials argue that the intervention is needed, given the political ramifications of the decision and the newly pugnacious attitude of the losers.
Just five suits were filed against the bureau over the 1970 census. Fifty-two suits were filed over the 1980 census. One of those still simmers: New York City, Houston, Los Angeles, Chicago and Dade County, Fla., want the Census Bureau to adjust the count to compensate for the undercount of as many as 1 million of their poor and minority residents.
Some statisticians believe that adjustment, a major philosophical departure from the basic verities of the count, is inevitable. Others fear that it would fundamentally change the agency's way of doing business and endanger its reputation as one of the least political and most professional agencies in Government.
 
Over Two Centuries, Counts and Insight
 It all began with the Constitution, which in Article I tied each state's political representation in the House of Representatives to population figures and ordered the Government to get those figures once a decade.
At its most basic, the job of the census was heavy arithmetical lifting. At its most creative, the job let scholars create new ways of looking at the world. ''The census categories become the language we use to talk about ourselves,'' said Margo J. Anderson, a historian at the University of Wisconsin who wrote ''The American Census: A Social History.''
For instance, it was the census superintendent, Roger A. Porter, who noted in 1891 that settlement was so widespread that ''there can hardly be said to be a frontier line.'' This comment led the historian Frederick Jackson Turner to declare an end to the era of the American frontier, giving birth to a new school of historical analysis.
In 1920, the census told the American people they had crossed the divide that separates a rural nation from an urban one. In 1940, it began to record the housing conditions in the country, including how many lavatories were in each household, and whether they were inside or out. In 1980, it showed that the population of the North and Middle West had been outstripped by that of the South and West.
Since the mid-19th century, changing social and economic conditions prompted changes in the questionnaire. Now a group of Federal panels rules on requests for new questions. The goal is to keep the long form, which is sent to 17 million households, from being too burdensome or instrusive.
In the last two decades, the census has also recorded more and more minority groups who clamored for statistical recognition - and policy benefits. But the groups often felt shortchanged. The minority groups' desires for recognition in the census mingled with a distrust of motive and method was most recently shown by the leaders of the Gay and Lesbian Task Force, which wants gay couples to identify themselves as unmarried partners, a new category.
''Domestic partnership is becoming the leading-edge societal issue of the 1990's,'' said Robert Bray of the task force. ''There's a changing societal definition of what family means.''
While the question about unmarried partners was intended to identify heterosexual couples and to distinguish them from roommates or those who live together for economic reasons, homosexual groups decided the question could yield a count of homosexuals living in committed relationships.
But ''an undercount is inevitable,'' said Urvashi Vaid, the executive director of the task force. Couples living together represent only part of the gay population - and many of them may be nervous about identifying themselves out of fear of discrimination.
Over all, the people who do not cooperate tend to be poor, nonwhite, and likely to draw Federal funds to a community. But rather than making adjustments, the bureau has tried to overcome the undercount in other ways, like asking the new organizations for extensive coverage and asking clergymen to boost the census in Sunday's sermons.
''It's upside-down marketing,'' said Dr. Bryant, the director of the Census Bureau. ''Eighty or 90 percent of our effort is targeted at the 10 percent we're most likely to miss.''
 
Cooperation, a Tool That Wins the War
 The fear that census data will be misused is one attitude that deters cooperation by people at the fringes of society. Bureau officials know that many people, even those in the mainstream, are concerned that their answers will filter back to the Internal Revenue Service or the Immigration and Naturalization Service.
Widespread lack of cooperation, which would effectively kill the census, is the stuff of nightmares for bureau officials. Confidentiality of census records is both a legal requirement and a professional obsession. Access to the main data banks can be accomplished only through bureau telephones. The bureau constantly confers with law-enforcement agencies like the Immigration and Naturalization Service to avoid any coincidences between visits by census takers and raids by the immigration agency.
The lack of cooperation that is the bureau's worst nightmare became a reality in West Germany. There, where the census data was shared with other Government agencies, the 1980 decennial head count was postponed and then canceled after a grass-roots campaign against it. It was finally held, with 85 percent participation, in 1987.
In Denmark, no census count is done. The Government gets population data from a national population registry, which everyone must join. But this approach is not popular, said Harvey Choldin, an expert on censuses worldwide who works as a fellow at the Population Reference Bureau in Washington. Of more than 180 countries in the world that do censuses, most do direct counts.
Dr. Choldin believes that Americans would never accept an administrative records system. Yet the paradoxical thing is that the American people are extremely cooperative when it comes to the census. In 1980, 83 percent of the forms that went to occupied homes were mailed back.
''People see the census as a national historical event in which they are participating,'' said Jeffrey Moore, a psychologist with the bureau. ''There aren't many of those.''

CORRECTION-DATE: April 2, 1990, Monday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article yesterday about the United States census incorrectly identified in some copies a country in which census data was shared with other Government agencies. That was done in West Germany, not in the United States.

GRAPHIC: Graph: population at each census, 1790-1990* (*1990 figures are estimate) (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); 

CITY: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: US CENSUS BUREAU (83%); US CENSUS BUREAU (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENSUS BUREAU

SUBJECT: POPULATION; CENSUS; CONSTITUTIONS; HISTORY CENSUS (99%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (92%); REDISTRICTING (90%); POPULATION SIZE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); POLITICS (88%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); SUPREME COURTS (66%); LIQUOR LAWS & LICENSING (56%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (56%); 

PERSON: BARRINGER, FELICITY MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); 



10 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 26, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1352 words

HEADLINE: Howard's 14th President Facing Stormy Waters

BYLINE: By MICHEL MARRIOTT, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Thirty-three years after he began college here, poor and unprepared, Franklyn Green Jenifer takes office April 1 as the 14th president of Howard University.
The 122-year-old institution, whose rich history clings like ivy to its walls, is facing gnawing budget problems and campus divisions that still are healing from last year's student unrest.
Dr. Jenifer, a robust man with steely determination and a helmet of graying hair, is alternately modest and expansive about his plans for the most distinguished black center of learning in the United States.
''I'm not the great white knight coming in to save the dying baby, Howard,'' said Dr. Jenifer, who for the last four years has been chancellor of the Massachusetts Board of Regents of Higher Education. ''I'm honored to come to Howard. Howard does me a great favor by having me come.'' 
 
A Multitude of Problems
While not dying, Howard is certainly ailing. The private institution's nearly $460 million annual budget ran a deficit throughout the mid-80's, peaking at $20 million. Faculty members speak of university buildings decaying after years of neglect and inadequate office space and equipment. They say that many of the school's 12,000 students live in crumbling dormitories, and that student housing is in short supply.
University administrators say financial problems were eased by erasing some of the school's pension contributions. But the move drove a deeper wedge of frustration between Howard's longtime president, James E. Cheek, and the school's staff, already embittered over other economic complaints.
Last March, feeling increasingly alienated from the university's leadership, some 2,000 students occupied the administration building for three days. Chief among their concerns was the appointment of the Republican National Committee chairman, Lee Atwater, to the school's board of trustees. A week after the protests, he resigned.
At the same time, the university's faculty - the country's largest concentration of blacks holding doctorates -was growing dissatisfied with the ''imperial'' leadership of Dr. Cheek. The student newspaper, the Hilltop, reflected similar sentiments when it called Dr. Cheek the ''invisible president'' shortly before he resigned last June after leading the school for 20 years.
It is into these churning waters that Dr. Jenifer, 51 years old, said he plans to plunge, not wade. Speaking in a low rumble, Dr. Jenifer tends to endow his words with an insistence often belied by his quiet manner.
 
'Our Time Is Short'
''If I am going to create the kind of change that I want, it's not going to be evolutionary,'' he said in a recent interview. ''It has to be revolutionary because our time is short.''
Evident in Dr. Jenifer's remarks about his intentions is his vision for Howard that the pursuit of excellence must be part of any endeavor. He is equally committed, he said, to broadening the opportunity for higher education for those often left out: the poor, blacks, children whose lives are reminiscent of his own childhood. In reaching for these goals, he said, he intends to reinvigorate the school and the system.
Some reporters and politicians in Massachusetts have said Dr. Jenifer sometimes trades on buzzwords - excellence and access are two most often mentioned. But Robert Schwartz, who was education adviser to Gov. Michael S. Dukakis of Massachusetts while Dr. Jenifer was state chancellor, said Dr. Jenifer practiced what he preached.
Educators in Massachusetts credit Dr. Jenifer with restructuring the state's financial aid system, overhauling the certification process and reorganizing the system's continuing education program. Generally, they said, Dr. Jenifer was an outspoken advocate for public higher education. As chancellor, Dr. Jenifer oversaw operations at the state's three public universities, nine state colleges and 15 community colleges, with a total enrollment of 170,000.
''By force of his own personality and his energy and his ideas, in a relatively short period of time, he built himself a base of support,'' said Mr. Schwartz. ''More importantly, he developed an agenda for change and reform and was able to move forward very rapidly.''
 
A Commitment to People
Dr. Jenifer avoids revealing his immediate plans for Howard. More generally, he said he conceives Howard's mission in terms of aggressively serving people of color.
But, among his plans is the intention to mold the school into an internationally recognized center of authority on black America and the third world, he said. As others scramble to investigate a new Europe and the emerging industrial possibilities of the Pacific Rim, Dr. Jenifer said, Howard University should look to the potentials of Africa and developing countries as future players in a global economy.
At the same time, he said, he wants Howard to turn its energies toward the poor Northwestern Washington neighborhood where the school was founded in the early years after the Emancipation Proclamation.
''I want to see more of a blur of the line of demarcation between Howard and the rest of the community,'' Dr. Jenifer said, adding that as Howard has grown as an institution, the lives of an increasing number of the city's blacks have been diminished by poverty, violence and disease. He spoke of developing tutoring and mentoring programs, using Howard's economic might to create jobs for the residents of its area, and creating research programs aimed at the pathologies that are destroying the neighborhood.
Under Dr. Cheek's guidance, Howard underwent explosive expansion. Its doctoral and master's programs grew to 77 from 25. In recent years, however, students and faculty members have complained that the school that educated Mayor David N. Dinkins of New York and Toni Morrison, the Pulitzer Prize-winning author, was faltering.
 
Hopes for Howard
Late last year, after Dr. Cheek's announcement, the search began for someone who could restore the school's reputation.
Howard's faculty favored Dr. Jenifer, who had received his undergraduate and master's degrees in microbiology from Howard. He was attractive because he had a reputation for being a forceful leader as well as an accomplished scholar, said Dr. Lawrence Johnson, chairman of Howard's marketing department.
When Franklyn Jenifer made his way to the school in 1957 with dreams of becoming a ''Howard man,'' he was 18 years old, poor and had a portfolio of weak grades and test scores. He had been separated from his father at age 5 and worked to help out at home. In his favor, he said, he had a mother and a scout leader who believed in him. Nonetheless, Howard rejected him. 'The Best Thing'
''It was the best thing that ever happened to me,'' Dr. Jenifer said recently. ''My skill level was absolutely nonexistent.''
Instead, he took a job as a messenger at the Library of Congress and worked hard to improve himself. He pushed himself to learn Russian to get a better job in the library filing periodicals, and then enrolled in a night course for pages. With a better resume, he soon had a better chance at Howard. The semester after his rejection, he was accepted.
He drove himself to earn a bachelor's and then a master's degree at Howard in 1965, and he received a doctorate in plant virology from the University of Maryland in 1970.
For the next nine years, Dr. Jenifer was a professor of biology at Rutgers University in New Jersey, holding the posts of associate provost, department chairman and chairman of the university senate.
In 1979 Dr. Jenifer was named vice chancellor for the New Jersey Department of Higher Education. In 1986 he took the post in Massachusetts.
Married and with three grown children, Dr. Jenifer said he looks forward to seeing more of his mother and brother, both of whom still live in his native Washington.
''He will be very useful at Howard,'' said Alvin F. Poussaint, associate professor of psychiatry at Harvard Medical School and a friend of Dr. Jenifer. ''His own career will serve as a reinforcing model to the students.
''What's important is that he didn't quit.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Franklyn Green Jenifer, who is to be sworn in today as the 14th president of Howard University, hopes to mold the school into an internationally recognized authority on black America and the third world. (The New York Times/George Tames)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: HOWARD UNIVERSITY (94%); HOWARD UNIVERSITY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOWARD UNIVERSITY

SUBJECT: BLACKS (IN US); APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (91%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ENDOWMENTS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); STUDENT HOUSING (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (50%); 

PERSON: JENIFER, FRANKLYN G; MARRIOTT, MICHEL MICHAEL HOWARD (74%); 



11 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 31, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 109 words

HEADLINE: Buffalo Shuts Down Its Buses and Subways

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: BUFFALO, Mar. 31

 BODY:
Buffalo's financially strapped bus and subway system was shut down tonight, despite pleas from community leaders and protests from outraged riders. 
The Niagara Frontier Transportation Authority board voted 7-to-2 to shut down the system. The vote came about five hours before the last bus was to finish its run at 1:49 A.M. Sunday.
The shutdown put more than 1,000 employees out of work, but many said unemployment was preferable to the day-to-day existence they and the transit system had been enduring.
The Erie County Legislature on Wednesday rejected a tax on public utilities to finance transit after vigorous opposition from business leaders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4111 LOCAL & SUBURBAN TRANSIT (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: BUFFALO, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: NIAGARA FRONTIER TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (58%); ERIE COUNTY LEGISLATURE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BUFFALO (NY)

SUBJECT: TRANSIT SYSTEMS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); FINANCES; BUSES; SUBWAYS PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (87%); COUNTIES (85%); TAXES & TAXATION (83%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (51%); 



12 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2, Page 42, Column 5; Style Desk

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: Lifestyle: Sunday Dinner;
For Country or Organic, Or for People-Watching

 BODY:
This is a summary of reviews of Manhattan restaurants by Bryan Miller that have appeared in The New York Times. Ratings are followed by the date of original publication; restaurants mentioned in Diner's Journal do not have ratings. Prices are current.
 
Barrow Street Bistro
Diner's Journal (Feb. 23, 1990), 48 Barrow Street at Seventh Avenue South (691-6800) - The California grill called Melrose has recently dropped its prices about 20 percent to become a solid economy-priced spot called Barrow Street Bistro. The food at this restaurant located near Village theaters is an appealing mix of country French and California. Good starters include ricotta-filled ravioli in a fresh tomato sauce; a delicately-crusted tart of leeks and goat cheese, and crisp rosti potatoes served with salmon tartar, creme fraiche and sevruga caviar. Main courses include grilled lamb chops with green lentils cooked with balsamic vinegar and bacon; rib-eye steak with Swiss chard and gratin potatoes; grilled Norwegian salmon, and calf's liver with pearl onions and raisins. Appetizers are $4 to $8, entrees $11 to $19. Sunday dinner hours are 5 to 10 P.M. 
 
Luma
Diner's Journal (Dec. 23, 1988), 200 Ninth Avenue, south of 23d Street (633-8033) - Organic ingredients are emphasized at this Chelsea restaurant, where dishes are prepared without dairy products or eggs, and a complete no-smoking policy is the house rule. Wine is allowed, however, and the list carries some good California labels. Among the current appetizers are the house salad with edible flowers in a light vinaigrette; grilled portobello mushrooms with seared endive and radicchio, and polenta with wild mushrooms and asparagus. The main courses might include cedar-roasted salmon with barley and wheatberry risotto; guinea hen served with roasted potatoes, carrots, onions and fried sage, and millet-breaded Arctic char (described as a cross between salmon and trout), accompanied by crisped leeks. For a dessert, there is ginger-crumb pear tart. Appetizers are $7.50 to $9.50, main courses $15 to $24. Sunday dinner from 5 to 10 P.M.
 
Orso
**(Feb. 17, 1989), 322 West 46th Street (489-7212) - This popular trattoria on Restaurant Row earns top billing among theater-district dining spots. The frequently changing menu carries about a dozen starters, a selection of small pizzas and a blend of northern Italian pastas and entrees. Recent choices have been starters of shrimp, scallop and octopus salad and smoked salmon with mixed crostini and watercress. One of the pizzas is topped with grilled eggplant, smoked mozzarella, mixed herbs and garlic. Pasta might be thin cracked-pepper noodles with arugula, tomato, ricotta and garlic oil, and entrees might include grilled halibut with fried capers and roasted chicken with sausage and artichokes. Appetizers are $7 to $8, pizzas are $8.50, pastas are $13, and entrees $16 to $20. Sunday hours are noon to 11:45 P.M.
 
Ten Twenty-Two
*(Jan. 12, 1990), 1022 Lexington Avenue, at 73d Street (737-1022) - This snug and clubby East Side spot, has a softly lighted dining room, a handsome wood bar, dark wainscoting and wooden Venetian blinds. Everything on the menu sounds appealing, and several appetizers can be recommended. These include the black bean soup served with corn sticks and the grilled buttery sea scallops set over haricots verts in a ginger-spiked vinaigrette. The best choices among entrees are the most homespun - for example, roasted chicken in pan juices served with rich mashed potatoes studded with pieces of fried leeks. Marinated grilled tuna is also nicely done, paired with a salsa cruda. A Long Island version of bouillabaisse with assorted local fish, white beans and spicy rouille are recommended as well. Creme brulee and chocolate caramel crack mousse are on hand for dessert fans. Appetizers are $6 to $12, entrees $18.50 to $24. Sunday dinner from 6 to 11 P.M.
 
Yellowfingers di Nuovo
Diner's Journal (April 25, 1989), 200 East 60th Street (751-8615) - Yellowfingers di Nuovo, at the corner of Third Avenue and 60th Street, is a lively spot for people-watching and also one of the better bargains around for an informal Sunday dinner. Individual herb-scented pizzas that they call fa'vecchia are topped with everything from salt, herbs and extra-virgin olive oil to smoked salmon, creme fraiche and chives. There is also an appealing selection of grilled meats and fish, an excellent rosemary-roasted chicken salad with sweet peppers and pine nuts, and sandwiches and side dishes like grilled new potatoes and fried polenta. Appetizers are $3.50 to $7.50; pizzas, $6 to $12; grilled entrees, $7.25 to $17.50. Sunday hours are noon to midnight.
 
WHAT THE STARS MEAN
 
(None) Poor to satisfactory
* Good
** Excellent
*** Extraordinary
 
These ratings reflect the reviewer's reaction primarily to food, with ambiance and service taken into consideration. Menu listings and prices are subject to change.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CHELSEA RESTAURANT (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: BARROW STREET BISTRO (NYC RESTAURANT); LUMA (NYC RESTAURANT); ORSO (NYC RESTAURANT); TEN TWENTY-TWO (NYC RESTAURANT); YELLOWFINGERS DI NUOVO (NYC RESTAURANT)

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT REVIEWS RESTAURANTS (91%); CHEESE (90%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (90%); ORGANIC FOODS (75%); SMOKING BANS (69%); SMOKING (64%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (64%); 



13 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1517 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIARY

BYLINE: By ALLEN R. MYERSON

 BODY:

COMPANIES
 
Round and Round, and Yet Another Round, at Lockheed
 
First, Harold C. Simmons bought nearly 19 percent of the Lockheed Corporation's shares. Then he called in the image doctors. Out came a videotape portraying him as a steady, hard-working industrialist. And on Thursday, Lockheed executives who had denounced him as a hungry corporate raider went through their own transformation, emerging as advocates of shareholder rights. They agreed to give major shareholders three board seats and exempt the company from anti-takeover laws. Mr. Simmons has wielded the videotape in his proxy fight to replace Lockheed's board. He has won over institutional investors who are becoming less content to remain passive - especially in a company, like Lockheed, with weak earnings and a falling stock price. The company has claimed victory, Mr. Simmons has claimed the vote is too close to call, but the true outcome may not be known for weeks.
 
 
 A.T.&T. Enters Credit Card Fray 
 
The giant American Telephone and Telegraph Company teamed up with a baby bank last week to issue a new combination of calling card and credit card. A.T.& T. chose as its partner the Universal Bank, a new subsidiary of the Synovus Financial Corporation. Synovus's headquarters, in Columbus, Ga., gives it a better perspective on the nearby Chattahoochee River than on nationwide banking ventures. But another Synovus subsidiary, Total Systems Services Inc., happens to be the nation's second-largest processor of credit-card transactions, with 14 million Visa and MasterCard holders. Only Citicorp has more.
 
 
 Case of the Outspoken Analyst
 
The Janney Montgomery Scott brokerage firm wants it known that Donald J. Trump's legal threats and demands had absolutely nothing to do with the dismissal of an analyst who questioned the outlook for Mr. Trump's Taj Mahal casino. ''We did not bow to Mr. Trump,'' Norman Wilde Jr., the brokerage firm's president, said last week. He said that the analyst, Marvin B. Roffman, was dismissed for repeatedly making unauthorized comments to news organizations.
 
 
 Upcoming at Magellan
 
Fidelity Investments rushed to issue reassurances last week that its Magellan Fund could keep succeeding even without Peter Lynch, who announced his retirement on Wednesday. His stock fund consistently out-performed the market even as it grew to $13 billion, the industry's largest. His successor, Morris J. Smith, 32, has run Fidelity's well-regarded, $700 million over-the-counter fund. Mr. Smith bristled at suggestions that he might steer Magellan toward value plays, in contrast to Mr. Lynch's penchant for growth stocks. ''I own some pretty high P/E's,'' he said, referring to stocks selling for high ratios of their earnings, but then added, ''I admit I sleep better when I own stocks with a lower P/E.'' Who knows but that value investing might make more sense during the 1990's, which are unlikely to be as kind to growth stocks as the decade past. Investors seem willing to give Mr. Smith a chance. Fidelity reported that last week Magellan had only modest redemptions.
 
In Brief
 
Creditors of Eastern Airlines were said last Thursday to be considering steps that could result in the carrier's liquidation in Federal bankruptcy court. On Tuesday, Eastern told the creditors it could no longer guarantee to pay them 50 cents on the dollar.
 
*
 
James T. Sherwin, vice chairman of the GAF Corporation, was sentenced on Friday to six months in prison for securities fraud. GAF was fined $2 million.
 
 
 More Guilty Pleas in Defense
 
A major target of the long Federal investigation into Pentagon purchasing abuses pleaded guilty to bribery and tax evansion on Wednesday. William M. Galvin, once a prominent defense procurement consultant, also agreed to cooperate with the Government. Court documents said that he had arranged to bribe high-ranking Pentagon officials. They in return allegedly agreed to steer contracts to two of Mr. Galvin's clients, Mazlat Ltd. of Israel and the Loral Corporation of New York.
 
 
 Cigarettes - Just Say Non
 
Can't imagine a French cafe without a heavy haze from Gauloises and Gitanes? The French Government can, and on Wednesday announced a plan to persuade citizens that smoking is deadly, not debonair. If Parliament approves, cigarette prices would rise about 15 percent next year, and all cigarette advertising and event sponsorship would be banned starting in 1993. French health officials want to restrict alcohol advertising as well. But the French - among the world's heaviest drinkers - are unlikely to allow it. As even the French Minister of Health, Claude Evin, said, ''A little alcohol is not harmful and could be good.''
 
 
 
THE ECONOMY
 
Minimum Wage Making Waves
 
Today's 45-cent increase in the minimum wage is likely to stoke both consumer spending and inflation. A tight labor market, with low unemployment, could send reverberations from the new $3.80 minimum well up the wage scale. Only 6.5 million workers will be directly affected by the increase, but another 7 million to 13 million will see their salaries bumped up, said Lacy Hunt, chief economist at Carroll McEntee & McGinley Inc. And higher consumer spending will add one percent to economic growth during the second and third quarters, he said. When low wage earners get raises, he explained, ''Virtually all that money will be spent quickly.'' The minimum wage goes up again next year, to $4.25.
 
 
 More S.&L. Losses . . .
 
Savings and loans continue to pile up losses. Federal regulators reported last week that the industry had a record $19.2 billion deficit last year, compared with a $13.4 billion loss in 1988. The setting for this news has become painfully familiar: a hearing where Federal officials try to persuade members of Congress that the worst is past and the industry is on its way back.
 
 
 . . . And a Possible Regulator
 
By one vote, the Senate Banking Committee approved on Friday the Bush Administration's nomination of T. Timothy Ryan Jr. as chief regulator for the savings and loan industry. Several committee members protested that Mr. Ryan, a former Labor Department lawyer, lacked experience in the savings and loan business. The White House said that finding anyone to supervise the industry's bailout has been tough. ''If this was an easy job we'd have people lining up at the door to get it,'' said Marlin Fitzwater, the President's spokesman.
 
 
 In Brief
 In an annual trade report on Friday, the Bush Administration cited Japan for maintaining the most barriers among 35 countries that restrict American exports.
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL
 
 
 The Saudis Rejoin the Play
 
Back in the early 1980's, before anyone followed the Nikkei index or yen, Wall Street watched petrodollars and the price of oil. Now, with oil prices on the rebound and revenues rising, the Saudi Arabians might move markets again. The Saudis are said to have sold more than 2 million ounces of gold last Monday, sending the price down $23 an ounce to $366 (page 15). David T. Mizrahi, editor of the Mideast Report newsletter, said they needed to buy British pounds to make payments on their weapons bills. For years, the Saudis have been draining their financial reserves as slack oil revenues have failed to cover the costs of their ambitious public spending programs, he said. Now they have resumed adding to their savings, which he estimates at $70 billion or more. ''They're going to be a bigger player in the coming years,'' said William B. Quandt, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, ''but not in the position they had in 1980 and 1981.'' Their favored investment: United States Treasury securities. They also own a large block of Texaco Inc. stock.
 
 
 North America, United?
 
A North American common market? Mexico took the first step last week by agreeing to consider free-trade talks with the United States. But the Mexican fear of economic domination by the United States remains so great - the issue helped spark the Mexican Revolution - that sector-by-sector arrangements appear far more likely in the near future than sweeping agreements. President Carlos Salinas de Gortari, invariably identified in the American press as a Harvard-trained economist, has already lowered trade barriers and welcomed American investment. ''In many ways, Salinas is redrawing the boundaries'' for Mexico's economic ties to the United States, said Robert Pastor, a fellow at the Carter Center. A North American common market, Mr. Pastor added, is ''such a logical idea it's going to happen. The only real question is whether it's going to be in 10 years or 50 years.''
 
The Nikkei, Soaring and Sinking
 
Another jarring week on the Tokyo stock market: The Nikkei index jumped 1,468.33 points on Monday, a 4.83 percent gain and its second-best ever. But the market fell 1,045.71 points on Friday to finish at 29,980.45, down 1.29 percent for the week.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Harold Simmons, image change; Carlos Salinas de Gortari; Morris Smith, new top man; the AT&T card; the Pentagon; graphs: minimum wage, in dollars and adjusted for inflation (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics); profitsor losses of U.S. Savings Institutions, 1980-1989 (Source: Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LMT (NYSE) (93%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); V (NYSE) (83%); SNV (NYSE) (68%); TSS (NYSE) (66%); T (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (83%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (68%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (68%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (68%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (66%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (66%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (66%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (66%); NAICS561422 TELEMARKETING BUREAUS & OTHER CONTACT CENTERS (66%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (56%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: COLUMBUS, GA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (93%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); VISA INC (83%); SYNOVUS FINANCIAL CORP (68%); FMR CORP (66%); TOTAL SYSTEM SERVICES INC (66%); AT&T INC (56%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); CREDIT CARDS (88%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); TAKEOVERS (79%); SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (77%); MUTUAL FUNDS (74%); 

PERSON: MYERSON, ALLEN R DONALD TRUMP (66%); PETER L LYNCH (50%); 



14 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 100 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:

MONDAY: Donald J. Trump's Taj Mahal casino and hotel are scheduled to open in Atlantic City. 
 
TUESDAY: Leading economic indicators for February are released.
The first natural gas futures contracts is to be traded on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 
WEDNESDAY: Figures for March auto sales are out.
The Phillips Petroleum Company plans to announce a new gasoline said to cause less pollution.
 
THURSDAY: Major retailers begin reporting March sales.
 
FRIDAY: March unemployment totals are due.
 
SATURDAY: Finance ministers from the Group of Seven meet in Paris.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (84%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (84%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (84%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (84%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (71%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: CONOCOPHILLIPS (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (58%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (58%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FUTURES (90%); NATURAL GAS (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); CASINOS (88%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (87%); GASOLINE MARKETS (87%); COMMODITIES TRADING (87%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (87%); FUEL MARKETS (87%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (87%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (87%); RETAIL SALES (86%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (85%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (85%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (84%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (84%); RETAILERS (84%); 

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (73%); 



15 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 1990
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 3; Page 16, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 968 words

HEADLINE: Mutual Funds;
Betting on the 'Green' Group

 BODY:
Spinning gold from garbage is the alchemy of the 1990's. That's the clear message from money managers, who are beginning to bet heavily on the environmental services sector. ''Cleaning up our polluted planet will be the growth industry of the 90's,'' said Donavon McKerchar, portfolio manager of Oppenheimer's Global Environmental Fund, launched last month.
Several small funds focus on the environment. The $13 million New Alternatives Fund, a father-and-son operation which has been based on Long Island since 1982, invests primarily in alternative energy companies. The $2 million SFT Environmental Awareness Fund, in King of Prussia, Pa., was set up at the end of 1988. 
The Progressive Environmental Fund, part of the Schield Management Company, in Denver, will begin investing this month. Its chairman, Glenn S. Cutler, says 5 percent of the fund's marketing fee will be donated to environmental groups each year. (And, yes, the fee, at .95 percent, is one of the highest among environmental funds.) But the big players ignored the sector until last June, when Fidelity launched its Select Environmental Services Fund. The Freedom Environmental Fund, part of the John Hancock group in Boston, followed in September. The Oppenheimer fund just began investing and Alliance Capital Management is to launch the Global Environment Fund, the first closed-end environmental fund, in two months.
Why the sudden interest? Fund managers say environmental housekeeping has become the world's top priority and that each time there is another environmental scare - the Exxon oil spills, radon, asbestos, acid rain - the public calls for tougher regulations and higher public spending. ''Public opinion has given birth to this industry, and it's accelerating,'' Mr. McKerchar said.
With the environmental advocates as catalysts, public awareness is driving political action. Congress is revamping the Clean Air Act and is expected to complete the work in the next month or so. Legislators are supposed to tackle the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act this fall. There's more money, too, allocated for specific problems like Superfund sites and acid rain.
A big part of the interest in stocks of environment companies, of course, stems from the Government's willingness to foot the cleaning bill. ''Hundreds of billions of dollars are pouring into a brand-new industry,'' said Larry Greenberg, who manages the Fidelity fund.
Other countries, too, plan heavy spending. Britain must put up more than $25 billion to meet new European Community water standards, and the Netherlands is expected to spend up to 3 percent of its gross national product to clean up the Rhine.
So the funds are looking for gold in the garbage heap. They invest in companies in the business of solid- or hazardous-waste management, pollution control, paper recycling, engineering and construction, water technology and alternative energy sources.
Although the year-to-date returns for environmental funds have lagged stock funds, Michael E. Hoffman, pollution control and specialty chemicals analyst for Salomon Brothers, said ''most of the poor performance is strictly a function of profit-taking of stocks that made 50 to 60 percent runups in 1989.'' He said that, as a group, environment stocks would have ''sound earnings'' for 1990, although they would not record the big gains that they did last year.
The largest holdings of Fidelity's $85 million fund are Laidlaw Industries, a Canadian company, and Chicago-based Waste Management Inc., both leaders in solid- and hazardous-waste disposal. Mr. Greenberg, the fund's manager, says both companies are well positioned to profit from two industry trends: privatization, as more municipalities turn over their garbage business to private companies, and consolidation of the 10,000 mom-and-pop garbage collection companies, which is taking place as increased regulations make smaller companies less competitive.
David S. Beckwith, who manages the Freedom Fund, likes Zurn Industries, based in Erie, Pa., a manufacturer of equipment and instruments used in waste energy plants. He expects it to post strong gains as more plants are built and says that, as a supplier, Zurn can pursue its business ''without the attendant regulatory headaches'' that plague most environmental service companies. Another favorite: Safety Clean, a Chicago-based recycler of liquid hazardous waste.
Andrew Groshans, manager of SFT, likes the Chambers Development Corporation, a Pittsburgh-based solid-waste management company. He also likes Calgon Carbon, also in Pittsburgh, the world's largest provider of activated carbon used in water-treatment systems. Calgon recently acquired a West German company, which Mr. Groshan says gives it a strong foothold in Europe.
The New Alternatives Fund is run by two ex-lawyers who began investing $100,000 gathered from friends. Its largest holding is Wellman Inc., in Clark, N.J., the nation's largest recyclers of plastic and synthetic fibers. Another favorite: Burlington Resources, of Seattle, which has large natural gas holdings.
 
 
 
GOODBYE, PETER LYNCH
Peter Lynch, head of the Fidelity Magellan Fund and one of Wall Street's most successful money managers, resigned last week. King of the hill during a 13-year stint building the fund to a $13 billion giant, Mr. Lynch, 46 years old, said he was leaving for personal reasons and that his decision was not a forecast of where the markets are headed. Should Magellan shareholders jump ship too? ''No, but this is a good time to review how Magellan fits into your portfolio,'' said Eric M. Kobren, publisher of Fidelity Insight, an independent investment newsletter in Wellesley, Mass. The fund is now so large it is unwieldy, he said, and the next 10 years won't be as good as the last.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 22, 1990, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
A chart on April 1 with the Mutual Fund column included an erroneous figure supplied by the Freedom Environmental Fund for its return for Dec. 31 to March 15. The return was -5.82 percent, not -10 percent.

GRAPHIC: Chart: year-to-date returns on environmental funds (Source: Lippr Analytical Services Inc.); graph: annual return on investment for Fidelity Magellan Fund and growth, captial appreciation and growth-and-income funds, 1977-1989 (Source: Lipper Analytical Services)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); NETHERLANDS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (51%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (76%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ALLIANCE CAPITAL MANAGEMENT HOLDING LP (55%); ALLIANCE CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LP (55%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; ENVIRONMENT; MUTUAL FUNDS MUTUAL FUNDS (93%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (91%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL INDUSTRY (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING & CONSULTING (89%); ACID RAIN (86%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (78%); SOLID WASTE REGULATION (78%); US RESOURCE CONSERVATION & RECOVERY ACT (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); SUPERFUND (77%); ENGINEERING (77%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (73%); OIL SPILLS (72%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (71%); BONDS (71%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (69%); HAZARDOUS MATERIALS REGULATION (68%); WATER QUALITY REGULATION (68%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (67%); ASBESTOS (64%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (63%); 

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE



16 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 7, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1336 words

HEADLINE: Technology;
The Software With Good Sense

BYLINE: By GEORGE HARRAR; George Harrar, a freelance writer based in Wayland, Mass., is co-author of ''The Ultimate Entrepreneur.''

 BODY:
Water flows downhill. A person can't be in two places at once. All animals live, die and stay dead. Such common-sense statements about the world are so basic that no encyclopedia bothers to include them.
But it is exactly what an encyclopedia omits that Douglas Lenat, a research scientist at Microelectronics and Computer Technology Corporation, in Austin, Tex., wants in his knowledge base, called ''Cyc.'' Cyc is the name for an M.C.C. project at known as ''large common sense knowledge-base construction,'' which Mr. Lenat is designing to augment other computer programs by giving them common sense.
A data base is simply an assemblage of facts stored in a central computer; a knowledge base is broader, containing information about logic, relationships and descriptions of behavior. 
''We're trying to instill in Cyc what the writers of the Britannica assumed everybody already knows,''Mr. Lenat said.
The Cyc project began in 1984, the same year M.C.C. was formed as high-technology research and development cooperative. Mr. Lenat projected then that it would take 10 years to create a knowledge base of 100 million common-sense assertions.
When the Cyc project is completed its knowledge base will contain 4 billion or 5 billion bytes of information - 10,000 times larger than a typical expert system today. Expert systems - programs that attempt to mimic the decision-making and thought processes of expert human beings - are the most common type of artificial intelligence.
The work Mr. Lenat is doing does not come cheaply. Each of the seven shareholders in the Cyc project - Apple Computer Inc., Bell Communications Research Inc. (Bellcore), Control Data Corporation, Digital Equipment Corporation, Harris Corporation, Eastman Kodak Company and NCR Corporation - contribute $500,000 a year. With their investment, the participating companies gain the right to use whatever Mr. Lenat's research efforts achieve to develop and enhance their own computer products.
The problem with expert systems is that the programs operate in only one, specialized subject area, such as oil exploration. Mr. Lenat's research, if it succeeds, could give these programs greater breadth and flexibility. For instance, a computer program with a general understanding of the way the world works - and specific knowledge about a person's schedule, habits, past correspondence, job and so on - could answer that person's routine electronic mail on a variety of subjects.
Cyc's real distinction is not the amount of knowledge it includes, but the kind. Only about one-third of its memory will be devoted to standard encyclopedia-style information. The remaining two-thirds will contain rules of thumb (''People generally can't see through walls''); laws of physical objects (''A car parked at the airport will tend to stay parked there until you return from your destination''), and constraints on life (''Nothing can be older than its creator'').
In the constraints category, Mr. Lenat cites a self-evident proposition: No child can be older than its parents.
''People would never make the mistake that the child could be older than his parents,'' Mr. Lenat said. ''But the typical computer program would.''
Mr. Lenat is attempting to create a program that can be customized for particular environments or people. Cyc would be able to intelligently monitor other programs as well as the actions of the operator. For example, if a computer programmed to follow financial investments advised an individual to purchase a 20-year bond, Cyc might intercede and remind the computer user that in 10 years he may need the money to pay for his daughter's college tuition.
Mr. Lenat's sponsors are beginning to determine how to use his research. ''One idea,'' said Ed Freeman of U. S. West, a Bell operating company which participates in the Cyc project through Bellcore, ''is to develop a customer adviser assistant. It would give U. S. West personnel advice on solving customer problems on-line while they are working with customers.''
Digital is already testing Cyc to design computer systems for customers. John McDermott, head of the Digital's Artificial Intelligence Research Group, foresees advanced versions of Cyc that can assess the computing needs of Digital's customers and select components, like terminals, central processing units and memory, that would fulfill those needs.
To Mr. McDermott, Cyc's essential quality is that it brings a tremendous amount of knowledge and intelligence to a problem. If the goals of an organization are changing, a person could describe the current corporate structure to Cyc, which would retrieve from its knowledge examples of similarly organized companies that have succeeded or failed trying to attain similar goals. Cyc could replace the haphazard, time-consuming hunt through journals and periodicals.
Joseph Scullion, director of strategic planning at NCR, cannot yet point to any product that his company might derive from Cyc. ''But,'' he said, ''just being able to capture common-sense intelligence in a work station means that whatever application you run on it can be more complex. And lightly trained people can be more productive.''
For example, perhaps the owner of a small business tries to save a lawyer's research fees by doing the search himself for a legal precedent related to a personnel problem. On his work station, he might well fail to navigate the on-line data base to find the information he needs. With Cyc helping, Mr. Lenat said, ''your task is not thinking up the proper legal terms, but just explaining what your problem is. Cyc figures out how to deal with the data base.''
Mr. Lenat's approach to cultivating common sense is not universally appreciated. Rodney Brooks, a researcher who directs the Mobile Robot Group at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology's Artificial Intelligence Laboratory, said Mr. Lenant's approach is to assume that ''common sense is a result of a reasoning process.'' But, according to Mr. Brooks, ''you don't have to think it's bad to put your hand on a hot stove - you feel that it is bad.''
In Mr. Brooks's opinion, the problem with Mr. Lenat's knowledge base is that ''it will never ground out.'' He means that when a search is conducted, one item will lead to another and then another without ever making a final conclusion.
Mr. Lenat has addressed this criticism by programming rules into Cyc that will limit its searches and focus its program on answering the questions asked of it. Mr. Lenat is confident that his ''one assertion at a time'' method will create a computer program that knows as much about how the world works as the average person. In some cases, it will know more. ''Cyc knows that it knows,'' Mr. Lenat said.
''When did you learn that the chicken that is on your plate is the same as the chicken that runs around on the farm? Most people don't remember. Cyc will tell you the exact date it learned that. In this sense, it is more self-aware than we are.''
Artificial intelligence researchers have consistently failed to live up to their most boastful claims, and there is no guarantee that Mr. Lenat will either. But as U. S. West's Mr. Freeman said, ''The sorts of questions that Doug is asking are very important. Even if the Cyc project crashes and burns, the black box recorder is going to be worth the price of admission.''
 
 
 
WHAT ALL COMPUTERS SHOULD KNOW
 
* No Picasso painting could have been created bedore Picasso was born.
 
* Items sold for use by children are more regulated than items sold for use by adults.
 
* There's nothing special about Thursday night.
 
* The means of transportation a person uses to get to a place is usually the same one her or she uses to return home.
 
* No child can be older than its parents.
 
* The basic business unit of measurement in a hospitial is the hospitial bed; in a hotel it is the room.
 
* On a very cloudy day it is a good idea for a person to carry an umbrella.

GRAPHIC: Grahic: ''What All Computers Should Know''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (84%); NCR (NYSE) (83%); ARB (NYSE) (65%); HRS (NYSE) (65%); HPQ (NYSE) (65%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (84%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (84%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (84%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (84%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (83%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (83%); SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH (72%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (65%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (65%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (65%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (65%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (65%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (65%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (90%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: APPLE INC (84%); NCR CORP (83%); MICROELECTRONICS & COMPUTER TECHNOLOGY CORP (72%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (65%); ARBITRON INC (65%); TELCORDIA TECHNOLOGIES INC (65%); HARRIS CORP (65%); CERIDIAN CORP (65%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: LENAT, DOUGLAS; MICROELECTRONICS & COMPUTER TECHNOLOGY CORP

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS; ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (77%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (77%); KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT (76%); SCIENCE NEWS (72%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (72%); MICROTECHNOLOGY (71%); PRODUCT ENHANCEMENTS (61%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (50%); 

PERSON: HARRAR, GEORGE MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 



17 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 15, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 196 words

HEADLINE: Currency;
All Eyes on the Group of 7

 BODY:
Foreign exchange traders will be focusing this week on the meeting of the United States and its economic allies in the Group of Seven next Saturday in Paris. The traders will be closely following the official comments during the week of the finance ministers of the seven members - the others are Japan, West Germany, Britain, France, Italy and Canada - to see whether the group is likely to make a coordinated effort to rescue the beleaguered yen. The yen slipped perilously close to 160 to the dollar last week before rallying a bit because of profit taking. Without some formal statement from the Group of Seven after the meeting or dollar selling by central banks in the days that follow, the yen could fall further, taking the Tokyo stock and bond markets with it. 

$	 	 	 	Last	Previous	Year	 	Week	Week	Ago	 	 	 	 	 	Japanese Yen	158.48	154.30	132.80	per Dollar	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	W.German Mark	1.6945	1.7140	1.8975	per Dollar	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Canadian Dollar	1.1697	1.1755	1.1924	per U.S. Dollar	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	British Pound	1.6453	1.6010	1.6860	U.S. Dollar per British Pound	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Gold	$370.25	$389.10	$384.75	Republic National Bank 	 	 	 	
LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: STATISTICS

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (54%); HSB (PAR) (54%); HBC (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (93%); JAPAN (93%); FRANCE (92%); GERMANY (90%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (57%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (54%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (54%); GROUP OF SEVEN (81%); 

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF SEVEN

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM US DOLLAR (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BRITISH POUND (79%); CENTRAL BANKS (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); JAPANESE YEN (75%); BOND MARKETS (73%); BONDS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); 



18 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 13, Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 835 words

HEADLINE: FORUM;
The U.S. Stake in Reunification

BYLINE: By JOHN L. LAFALCE; John J. LaFalce, Democrat of New York, is a member of the House Banking Committee and chairman of the House Banking Committee Task Force on the International Competitiveness of U.S. Financial Institutions.

 BODY:
The coming unification of Germany - a virtual certainty in the aftermath of last month's first free Parliamentary election in East Germany - provides the United States with a major opportunity to take commercial advantage of Central Europe's sudden opening to the West.
In the short term, East Germany itself will remain an expanding market for American goods. This is the clear impression I received in numerous talks with East Germany's new entrepreneurial class while visiting Berlin earlier this year. There are already favorable portents. Within the last week, a French-American telecommunications company announced plans to overhaul East Germany's outdated telephone network, and General Motors Corporation and Automobil-Werk Eisenach, East Germany's largest auto maker, will form a joint venture which could ultimately produce 150,000 cars annually. 
By moving into East Germany today, American companies will also improve their competitive position within the European markets of the future - beginning with Central Europe. Experts believe that once a large volume of West German capital begins flowing into the eastern part of the country, today's East Germany could become what South Korea and Taiwan have become for Southeast Asia: a dynamic engine of export-driven growth. Similar considerations apply to the European Community. A stronger American market position in East Germany today virtually guarantees America a stronger competitive position in the integrated European market after 1992.
But how do we get from here to there? Achieving a stronger American position in a unified German market will require much stronger policy direction from Washington. Broadly speaking, Congress must press the Bush Administration to make good on its oft-repeated commitment to remove a crippling array of legal obstacles that continue to weaken our competitive position throughout Central Europe and the Soviet Union. East Germany's uncertain status has not prevented our West German, French or Italian allies from providing appropriate amounts of export finance and political risk insurance to their firms. We should do no less. Both the Export-Import Bank, which just a few days ago qualified Czechoslovakia to participate in its programs, and the Overseas Private Investment Corporation should be moving into the East German market without further delay.
Congress should also insist on radical changes in our self-defeating export control policies. At last month's Coordinating Committee for Multilateral Export Controls - called Cocom - meeting in Paris, for example, the United States for the first time agreed that companies no longer need export licenses to sell high-tolerance machine tools, 32-bit microcomputers and a range of telecommunications equipment to the rapidly dissolving Eastern Bloc. Far bolder American steps are required.
The first order of business for Congress is to hold the Administration to its promise to significantly reduce the number of so-called ''off the shelf'' - easily available - items which inexplicably remain on Cocom's commodity control list and could with little difficulty be successfully marketed in East Germany. Simultaneously, the United States should accelerate multilateral efforts to reduce drastically the number of truly strategic goods we wish to remain on the Cocom list.
Thinking about future American initiatives toward East Germany raises the inevitable question of how long and under what conditions we will be able to conduct negotiations with an existing East German Government.
This is a matter over which Washington has little, if any, influence. The most plausible assumption is that Bonn will continue to treat East Germany as a separate economic entity for the foreseeable future. Far from discouraging an active American presence in the eastern part of the country, a variety of geopolitical and economic considerations suggest that, if anything, Bonn will favor an expanded American commercial presence in that part of the country.
To facilitate matters, both East Germany and the United States need to dispose of some old business. On the East German side, the new conservative coalition should accelerate efforts to settle material claims by American citizens for property expropriated by the Communist authorities 40 years ago. Similarly, East Germany needs to acknowledge forthrightly its responsibility for crimes against the Jewish community during the period of the Third Reich and make appropriate financial amends. Combined with recent steps to liberalize emigration procedures, the above East German actions should in turn enable the Administration and Congress to take the second logical step by granting most-favored-nation treatment to East Germany, as Japan, Sweden and the European Community have already done. Taking such a step at this critical time would go a long way toward putting our commercial relations with a transformed Germany on a new, more profitable footing. The stakes, to put it mildly, are huge.

GRAPHIC: Photo: John L. LaFalce (Associated Press); drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MTLQ (PAR) (70%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (70%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); GERMANY (96%); EUROPE (94%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); ASIA (75%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (57%); 

COMPANY: MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (70%); OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORP (63%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EAST GERMANY; WEST GERMANY; EUROPE; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: REUNIFICATION OF GERMANY; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EAST GERMANY-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET EXPORT TRADE (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); EXPORT CONTROLS (87%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); RISK MANAGEMENT (76%); MACHINE TOOLS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (70%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (69%); AUTOMAKERS (69%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (69%); POLITICAL RISK INSURANCE (66%); LICENSES & PERMITS (65%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (61%); JOINT VENTURES (54%); EXPORT IMPORT BANKING (50%); 

PERSON: LAFALCE, JOHN J (REPR)



19 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1333 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD;
The Negotiations With Japan Get Personal

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: TOKYO

 BODY:
LIKE squabbling marriage partners, Japan and the United States have tried one idea after another to overcome their differences, falling each time into a new round of recrimination. This year it finally seemed that they had decided to get some meaningful therapy. The trouble is that each country has hired the other to do the psychoanalyzing.
Last week it was disclosed that Washington recently presented 240 suggestions to Japan on how to reduce the two countries' persistent $50 billion trade gap. But none was aimed at getting Tokyo to import specific American products. Instead, the United States wants Japan to change ingrained practices - like the dominance of huge business cartels - and adopt other means of improving access to Japanese markets.
Not to be outdone, the Japanese Government responded with 80 suggestions of its own, urging that the United States reduce its Federal budget deficit, increase its pool of savings, curtail the use of credit cards, raise gasoline taxes and spend more on education, and on research and development. These steps would theoretically improve American industrial competitiveness, leading to products that Japan might want to buy. 
The ideas on both sides are so sweeping and unrealistic that many experts think that efforts to define and eliminate so-called structural impediments to trade may be aggravating tensions instead of easing them. ''We've become like two neighbors stepping into each other's kitchens, free to criticize what we think is wrong,'' said a senior Japanese negotiator. ''That sort of exercise would test the strength of any friendship.''
It now looks as though Japan will respond to the criticisms with a modest package of revisions that are considered unlikely to have much impact on the trade balance. But the recent discussions might have a much deeper significance. They represent the first systematic attempt by the United States to decide how it should think about Japan.
The effort is long overdue and could help to clarify some of the confusion about a nation that is both America's greatest ally and its greatest rival. Few nations inspire such sharp disagreements among experts over basic assumptions. Public policy discussions echoing with empty slogans like ''the triumph of capitalism'' and the need for a ''level playing field'' have helped little now that the challenge is less one of Communism than of a system of capitalism operating under unaccustomed ground rules.
''Americans are deeply confused because Japan is an intellectual problem as great as the U.S.S.R. ever was,'' said Chalmers Johnson, professor of political science at the University of California at San Diego and an expert on Japanese industrial policy. ''Our whole approach is premised on the idea that we and Japan are becoming more like each other. I always thought that was an especially stupid idea.''
American ambivalence seems further complicated by the uncertainties of the post-cold-war era and a loss of American confidence in the ability of the United States to compete. People wonder whether Japan is an unstoppable mercantile power aspiring to global dominance and refusing to play by free-market rules, or an unswerving ally that is opening its economy to imports, assuming new responsibilities and becoming sensitive to issues of global interdependence.
In trying to change what it sees as ingrained barriers to trade, the United States also has an ulterior motive. If Washington can persuade Japan to use its huge pool of investment capital to build roads and houses in Japan, there will be that much less money for buying hotels, golf clubs and banks in the United States.
 
'A Social Revolution'
On the other hand, the exercise is peculiar because it is almost as if the United States is trying to make Japan into a country more like itself - with K Marts, big highways, big cars, big houses filled with consumer products, preferably made in America. Japan is also being asked to free up more land for housing and commercial use, spend more on public works, deregulate a retail distribution system protecting small shopkeepers that do not carry foreign products, and eliminate cartels and other anti-competitive practices by big Japanese businesses.
''It's hubris on the part of the United States to make such demands,'' said Clyde V. Prestowitz Jr., the former Reagan Administration trade official who has become a critic of American policies toward Japan. ''For Japan to meet the American suggestions would require a social revolution. It's not going to happen.''
As they have in the past, the Japanese assert that the difficulty of changing their system is that the practices are embedded in cultural traditions. Michael H. Armacost, the United States Ambassador in Japan, observed recently that ''American political culture is highly individualistic,'' while Japan is a Confucian society that ''accords a higher priority to the community'' with ''a considerable autonomy and respect'' for people of high rank. This view holds that Japanese people find it easy to invest their faith in the powerful corporate conglomerates that have charged high prices at home in order to undercut competitors abroad. The rewards of that faith are the envy of all the world.
In the last year or so, a new school of thought has coalesced, sometimes called revisionism, which rejects such cultural explanations for Japanese habits and ways. The revisionists suggest that Japanese faith in powerful organizations - in producers rather than consumers - is the legacy of centuries of oppressive political relationships. These scholars see the Japanese power structure, not the culture, as the source of its practices.
In their view, for instance, the Government of Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu cannot afford to eliminate cartels, collusion, price-fixing and bid-rigging among big companies - a basic aim in the current talks with the United States - because it received $200 million in political contributions in the last year from the largest Japanese corporations, which depend on these practices for their livelihood.
 
Beating 'the System'
Some revisionists have a bleak view of Japan. Professor Johnson, for example, asserts that Japan is a mercantile power like the Germany of the late 19th century: it protects its domestic market, overcharges consumers at home, subsidizes exports and engages in predatory pricing abroad that has wiped out its competitors in electronics, automobiles and other fields. He argues, for example, that construction companies that engage in bid rigging - constantly deplored by Washington - could not do so without the tacit consent of the ruling party, which, he says, gets an enormous amount of money from the building industry.
In his recent book, ''The Enigma of Japanese Power,'' Karel van Wolferen, a Dutch journalist, posits the existence of ''the System,'' which he says is the product of centuries of political oppression and thought control imposed through educational, cultural, political and bureaucratic institutions. The loving devotion of Japanese people for their corporations and educational system, he writes, has been a triumph of propaganda and social engineering ''vastly superior to those other major products of social engineering,'' Nazism and Leninism.
Many Japanese condemn Mr. van Wolferen's thesis as ethnocentric. But the observation of Japan's uniqueness is as old as the first encounters by Westerners. In the 16th century, Alessandro Valignano, a Portuguese Jesuit missionary, said of the Japanese, ''They have rites and ceremonies so different from those of all other nations that it seems that they deliberately try to be unlike any other people.''
Four hundred years later, many people still see Japan as a nation with special characteristics. ''The criticism that Japan is somehow unique has begun to shape the whole debate about us,'' lamented a Japanese diplomat. ''The fact is, Japanese intellectuals have failed to answer this criticism.''

GRAPHIC: Engraving: Trade talks, the old-fashioned way: Commodore Matthew Perry, who used a show of naval power to open relations between the United States and Japan, is depicted on a visit to Yokohama in 1853 (Bettmann Archive) (pg. 1); graph of U.S. trade deficit with Japan, 1974-1989, highlighting key events (Source: Commerce Department) (pg. 2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (99%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; JAPAN

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND TRADE; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TRENDS (78%); TRADE DISPUTES (78%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (77%); BUDGETS (76%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CARTELS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); FUEL TAX (53%); BUDGET DEFICITS (53%); NATIONAL DEBT (53%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 



20 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2, Column 3; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1132 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD: A Voice From Latin America;
Some Lessons In Democracy - For the U.S.

BYLINE: By HERNANDO de SOTO; Hernando de Soto, a Peruvian businessman, is head of the Institute for Liberty and Democracy, a group that promotes change of political institutions in the third world. He is the author of ''The Other Path'' (Harper & Row), about the transition to democratic capitalism.

DATELINE: LIMA, Peru

 BODY:
IN the United States there has been much talk about increasing credits, investment and aid to Eastern Europe at the expense of money destined for Latin America. The aim is to help emerging capitalism and democracy where socialism has failed. But from a cynical Latin perspective, this South-to-East shift constitutes a transfer of resources from where capitalism has failed to where socialism has failed.
Most Latin American countries have had private property and democratic constitutions for nearly 170 years. This in addition to the tens of billions of dollars in foreign aid and hundreds of billions of dollars in loans have not raised the per capita gross domestic product over $2,000 a year. Meanwhile, totalitarian socialism, which is proclaimed to have failed, offered Eastern Europeans $5,000 a year. 
In United States policies toward Latin America and Eastern Europe the most important question seems to get little consideration: why did private property, democratic constitutions and resources from abroad fail to generate success in the South, and why are they expected to succeed in the East?
The Institute for Liberty and Democracy in Lima figured that if these three conditions have not produced prosperity, it may be that both the Latin elites and United States experts spent too much time studying backward societies, pronouncing them immovable, even lovable, cultural relics rather than studying why countries like the United States are successful. So we studied the institutions of developed countries and compared them with our own. This research found that the successful union of democracy and the market in developed countries has been accomplished through various institutions, extending far beyond elections and the elimination of central planning.
For example, Peru is considered a democracy because it elects a president and a parliament. In the five years after an election, though, the executive branch has been known to make 134,000 rules and decrees with no accountability to the congress or the public. After elections, no ongoing relationships exist between those who make decisions and those who live under them.
 
U.S. vs. Latin Democracy
In the United States democracy, elections are only the beginning. Rule-making is also democratic. To start, Americans have access to most government information. Draft rules must be published. Citizens can comment on them in writing and in hearings, and officials must respond. If the officials do not, the people can overturn the rule, using administrative courts. Civil servants do cost-benefit analyses on proposed regulations and Congressmen receive and react to constituents' letters. At the state level, referendums are used to circumvent government when, in spite of all these mechanisms, it fails to respond.
Latin American regulations and legislation are not the product of democracy, but of bargaining between a few special interests and officials. Their bargains lead to law that restricts access to markets, distorting prices and perpetuating poverty. This protects a small class of crony capitalists, denies opportunity to others and deepens inequality. This arrangement requires armies of bureaucrats and policemen for enforcement and foments underground economies for the peaceful poor, violent resistance from the rest, and migration to the United States by those who can travel.
The institutions underlying the success of the American market system and the genuine participation of Americans in their own governance were constructed over 200 years. So unnoticed has this process been that Americans have taken it for granted, losing the ability to recognize and teach the importance of these institutions and failing to incorporate them into their foreign policies.
The route to democratic capitalism is complicated and unglamorous. Take the crucial matters of tariff decisions and property rights.
In Peru, decisions on import duties are a prerogative of the president made far away from the public. As a consequence, tariff and trade decisions can distort the free market, and are a primary source of crony capitalism. In the United States, proposals to modify tariffs must be authorized by Congress, published by the Government, independently analyzed and discussed at hearings. Most must be able to survive judicial challenge. Compared with Peru's, American trade decisions are a marvel of efficiency, coherence and stability.
As for property, just because it is not government-owned does not make it efficient. In Peru, for example, private property abounds, but it is not legally secure. In the United States, property rights are grounded in unambiguous titles and registration. Transfer is easy, by sale or lease, and the full use of it is permitted, for example, as collateral for bank loans.
Getting a title on a home in Peru, however, requires up to 48 months of hard work and far more than the yearly minimum wage for bribes and registration fees. As a result, little private property is registered. In the few cases in which it is, after 10 years its value is up to nine times greater than that of unregistered property. Moreover, registered titles provide access to mortgage-backed finance, which in the United States accounts for most credit that new businesses receive.
It is evident then that for private property to work, sophisticated registry systems must be set up. Such a system must be capable of starting from scratch and operating on a scale so much greater than what is required even in the United States that it cannot be imported. We know because in Peru the Institute for Liberty and Democracy has just set up such a system.
Designing the transition from Latin American mercantilism or European Communism to market-oriented democracies is not as easy as writing a check. This is evident if one considers that only 20 out of 170 countries in the world have built the institutions and successfully made the transition.
Until there is a serious effort to meet the requirements of developing true democracy and equitable capitalism, and commit adequate resources to it, a shift in the flow of funds from Latin America to Eastern Europe will make little difference in the long run to either. Paradoxically, it may force Latins to invest scarce resources in improving our institutions, while East Europeans stall their political and economic development as they use their most valuable talents to get a bigger slice of the American funds, just as Latin Americans have done for the best part of this century.
Of course, if the American focus is on the short-run fulfillment of basic human needs Latin Americans might remind Washington that per capita income in Eastern Europe is more than twice that in Latin America. Whose basic human needs are greater?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (96%); LATIN AMERICA (95%); PERU (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LATIN AMERICA; EUROPE; EUROPE, EAST

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; CREDIT; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN AID; LATIN AMERICA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; EUROPE-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (88%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); TRENDS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); POLITICS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); AGENCY ADJUDICATION (73%); LEGISLATION (68%); REFERENDUMS (64%); CIVIL SERVICES (63%); 

PERSON: DE SOTO, HERNANDO



21 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5, Column 4; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
Boning Up For the Next Battle Over Deregulation

BYLINE: By ERIC WEINER

 BODY:
AIRLINE deregulation has produced, besides much else, a steady stream of studies. More than a dozen institutes and Government agencies have churned out piles of papers since Congress decided 12 years ago to allow the airlines to fly when and where they want and to charge whatever passengers were willing to pay.
Depending on the study, deregulation is anything from a rousing success that has saved consumers billions of dollars to a dismal failure that has led to higher fares, poorer service and an erosion of saftey margins. There are more flights but fewer airlines; passenger complaints are up, but so are the number of passengers; fares are at once higher and lower. 
The latest study, released Wednesday by the Economic Policy Institute, a Washington organization associated with liberal thinking, found that air fares, when adjusted for inflation and fuel prices, are higher than they would have been had the Government continued to regulate the industry.
The study contradicts a review by the Department of Transportation released in February, which concluded that deregulation has led to more choices for consumers and fares that are, on average, 15 percent lower.
Congress is considering several proposals to re-regulate the industry, but the Bush Administration is opposed to any such moves. Secretary of Transportation Samuel K. Skinner is expected to arm himself with his department's voluminous study to fend off new restrictions. The study by the Economic Policy Institute will provide ammunition to the other side.
In the early days of airline deregulation, new carriers sprang on the scene with fares cheaper than bus tickets. But of the dozens of upstarts, only two have survived - Midway Airlines and America West.
Today, the top eight airlines control more than 90 percent of the market, down from 15 airlines in 1984. Meanwhile, the prospect is further consolidation: weaker carriers like Pan American World Airways, Trans World Airways and Eastern might not survive.
The barriers to entry are formidable. Major airlines have a virtual lock on gate space at four of the nation's busiest airports: Washington National, O'Hare in Chicago, and Kennedy and La Guardia in New York. The large airlines' reservation systems and frequent-flier programs have also deterred new entrants.
''A new carrier has to find a true niche and make sure it's not stomping on the toes of its competitors,'' said Lee Howard, executive vice president of Airline Economics, a consulting firm in Washington.
The study released last week said deregulation had been credited for trends that were already established in 1978. Fares and fuel prices had been falling for the previous decade. Because of lower-cost fuel, more efficient jets and other advances in productivity, fares would have fallen with or without deregulation, the study concluded. Using the same measures, the study found the cost of flying today is, on average, 2.6 percent a mile higher.
In places, fares seem to have gone berserk. In Kansas City, travel agents have been complaining that more people are driving the 257 miles to St. Louis now that Braniff Airlines has gone bankrupt and no longer serves the city. A full-fare, one-way coach ticket on T.W.A. costs $250. A cab ride costs $231.
Champions of deregulation note that in the 12 years the number of passengers has nearly doubled. Critics contend that, while discount fares account for some of that growth, more Americans are inclined to fly anyway as the baby-boom generation grows older and wealthier. ''These things had nothing to do with deregulation,'' said Paul Stephen Dempsey, author of the study and a former lawyer for the Civil Aeronautics Board who once supported deregulation.
The most visible change brought by deregulation was the hub-and-spoke system. Airlines funnel planes into a central airport and then disperse them in spokes to dozens of cities. The airlines argue that they can serve smaller cities; for instance, a passenger in Colorado Springs has access to hundreds of flights simply by changing planes in Denver, where United and Continental Airlines have hubs. But even the Transportation Department report found that because the system has also allowed near-monopolies in some cities, the fares at hub airports are higher.
What about the worst fear about deregulation: that safety would suffer? The accident rate is lower than it was in 1978, but Mr. Dempsey and others say the skies are safer despite deregulation, not because of it. Airplanes are older, pilots younger and the amount spent on maintenance per plane lower. More automated planes and better flight training have compensated for these problems, Mr. Dempsey said.
Several bills before Congress would essentially re-regulate the industry. Other, perhaps more politically palatable proposals include imposing ceilings on fares in certain markets, allowing foreign airlines to fly domestic routes and limiting the number of hub airports that an airline can control.
''We ought to have the courage and wisdom to admit we made a mistake,'' wrote Mr. Dempsey. ''The time has come to roll back deregulation.'' Alfred E. Kahn, the economist who is considered the originator of deregulation, supports some forms of re-regulation but says 90 percent of passengers are better off today.
''I never promised people a perfect system,'' Mr. Kahn said.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TWAIE (AMEX) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (53%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (75%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: PAN AM CLIPPER CONNECTION (53%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (83%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FARES; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY DEREGULATION (97%); AIRLINES (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (90%); AVIATION REGULATION & POLICY (90%); TRANSPORTATION INDUSTRY LAW (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (90%); AIRPORTS (89%); AIR SERVICE (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); OIL & GAS PRICES (88%); TRAVEL TICKETS (79%); AIR FARES (79%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (79%); LEGISLATION (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); COMPUTERIZED RESERVATION SYSTEMS (74%); LIBERALISM (73%); PRODUCTIVITY (50%); 

PERSON: WEINER, ERIC MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 



22 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 20, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 2185 words

HEADLINE: THE REGION;
Dinkins Wanted An Unusual Group To Run His City, And Here It Is

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

 BODY:
IF mayors are known by the company they keep, David N. Dinkins bids fair to be remembered for surrounding himself with the most diverse administration in New York City's history. But he has taken his time to do it, and now must blend the eclectic group to make it all work.
In many ways, Mr. Dinkins is the consummate insider, a 25-year veteran of the Manhattan Democratic machine who has known or worked with almost everyone who is anyone in city politics. Yet he was elected on a platform promising change and brought with him an unusual group of goads and gadflies, with a sprinkling of seasoned bureaucrats.
This Mayor made a female labor-union economist his finance commissioner; a black, openly gay psychiatrist his mental health commissioner, and a bird-watching Medicaid-fraud lawyer his environmental commissioner. He has put out-of-towners in charge of the police, jails, welfare and health departments. 
Edward I. Koch, who was Mayor for 12 years, was often criticized for appointing too few minorities and women to important jobs and for relying on a cadre of experienced politicians and bureaucrats. Mr. Dinkins, while recycling some people, is taking a different tack.
It remains to be seen if diversity alone will bring greater efficiency or responsiveness to a sprawling government of a quarter-million workers. But Mr. Dinkins apparently hopes that fresh faces will shake up sleepy agencies and invigorate public confidence.
''We in New York are proving by example that we can form a government representative of all the people,'' Mr. Dinkins said in a recent speech in Washington. ''It takes time - not as much time as some others have taken to form their administrations, I might add - but in the end we will have an administration sensitive to the needs and aspirations of all our people.''
Four months after he took office, the Mayor has at last quieted most of the criticism that his search for the best was taking too long. His two biggest remaining vacancies are at the head of the City Planning Commission and the Sanitation Department, and he said Friday that he hoped to fill these soon.
But the delays took their toll. After searches for budget, welfare and housing commissioners in which people approached by the administration either were not interested or could not agree on terms, Mr. Dinkins settled on applicants whose names had been in the hopper from the beginning.
''There's nothing wrong with being somebody who takes his time to make a decision,'' said Thomas Kessner, a history professor at Kingsborough Community College in Brooklyn and author of a biography of Fiorello H. La Guardia. ''But that is not going to get you the feeling you want, which is that you're a general with your troops behind you.''
On the other hand, Mr. Kessner said, the Mayor has so far minimized internecine squabbles or ''major catastrophes, and that's not so simple.''
While some Hispanic supporters complained that he had not appointed enough Hispanic officials, he has also won praise for naming a Cuban-born hospitals chief and the first Puerto Rican fire commissioner.
As Manhattan Borough President, Mr. Dinkins was fiercely proud of the diversity of his staff and of the experts whom he persuaded to serve on task forces or committees.
''It was really important to him that people knew these important people were willing to work for him,'' a senior adviser said. Now Mr. Dinkins proudly notes the Ph.D.'s among his appointees, invariably referring to his police commissioner as ''Dr. Lee Patrick Brown.''
Still, a motley crew has its problems. Already Mr. Dinkins has let it be known, after some events were arranged without his knowledge, that he wants advance word of news conferences to be held by his consumer affairs commissioner, Mark Green, who ran for the United States Senate in 1986 and who is widely believed to still have political aspirations - and of similar appearances by other appointees.
How well the non-New Yorkers like Mr. Brown will work out also remains to be seen. Mr. Koch said his own experence with newcomers ''has not been a good one, but that doesn't mean it's definitive of all out-of-towners.''
And not all of Mr. Dinkins's appointees are new to the scene. First Deputy Mayor Norman Steisel, in charge of day-to-day operations, was sanitation commissioner under Mr. Koch, and Mr. Dinkins's corporation counsel, Victor A. Kovner, was once a partner in Mr. Koch's old law firm.
Mr. Dinkins said he believed the mix would work ''very well.''
The final judgment, of course, is for the future. Andrew Hacker, a professor of political science at Queens College, said Mr. Dinkins's newly representative government will face all the challenges already faced by the first mayors from other groups, from the Irish to the Italians to the Jews.
''Whenever new groups enter public office,'' he said, ''the question always is raised: Can they handle the job? Now, as in the past, politics is serving as a proving ground.''
 
DEPUTY MAYORS
 
Norman Steisel
First Deputy Mayor
An investment banker and former commissioner who was credited with rejuvenating the Sanitation Department, he is the Mayor's most prominent appointee from the Koch administration. He had not been close to Mr. Dinkins but is highly regarded as a manager.
 
Bill Lynch
Deputy Mayor for Intergovernmental Relations
One of the Mayor's most trusted associates, he was chief of staff to Mr. Dinkins when he was Manhattan Borough President and his campaign manager. He oversees the Mayor's dealings with the City Council and political groups.
 
Sally B. Hernandez-Pinero
Deputy Mayor for Finance and Economic Development
Also from the Mayor's inner circle, she had been deputy Manhattan borough president under Mr. Dinkins and, since 1988, the city Financial Services Commissioner, in charge of aiding small businesses and not-for-profit corporations.
 
Barbara J. Fife
Deputy Mayor for Policy and Planning
An urban planner and a former Democratic national committeewoman and state party treasurer, she was a senior assistant to Mr. Dinkins when he was borough president and was a top adviser in the campaign.
She ran the borough president's office while he campaigned.
 
Milton Mollen
Deputy Mayor for Public Safety
A former senior appellate judge who was nearing retirement, he has a newly created post overseeing cooperation among the police, the courts and the district attorneys.
His goal, he said, is to cut down on ''finger pointing'' among crime-fighting agencies.
 
COMMISSIONERS AND TOP APPOINTEES
 
Albert F. Appleton
Environmental Protection Commissioner
A lawyer and executive assistant to the state Deputy Attorney General for Medicaid fraud control, he had long been active in the Audubon Society. Environmental groups praised his selection. A top priority: dealing with environmental emergencies like oil spills.
 
Lee P. Brown
Police Commissioner
A former public safety commissioner in Atlanta and most recently police chief of Houston, he is the first non-New Yorker to head the department in nearly a quarter-century.
The Mayor passed over the incumbent, Richard J. Condon, who had strong support.
 
Mary Schmidt Campbell
Cultural Affairs Director
A holdover from the Koch administration, she was initially recommended for the job in 1987 by Mr. Dinkins when he was Manhattan Borough President.
Previously she directed the Studio Museum in Harlem, which became a leading black cultural institution.
 
Dr. J. Emilio Carrillo
Health and Hospitals Corp. President
A former director of Hispanic health services at Cambridge (Mass.) Hospital and an instructor at Harvard Medical School and the Harvard School of Public Health, he takes over an overburdened hospital system that often serves as a family doctor to the poor.
 
Elisabeth F. Gotbaum
Parks Commissioner
An administrative assistant in both the Lindsay and Beame administrations, she was the chief fund-raiser for the Dinkins campaign and after the election ran the inaugural committee. Her challenge is to keep the parks from deteriorating while city money is short.
 
Mark Green
Consumer Affairs Commissioner
A lawyer, author and consumer advocate, he was the unsuccessful Democratic opponent of Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato in 1986 and an adviser to the Dinkins campaign.
''After years of shooting arrows at government,'' he said, ''I figured it was time to catch a few.''
 
Dr. Billy E. Jones
Mental Health Commissioner
A psychiatrist with a career at public hospitals, he was medical director of Lincoln Hospital in the Bronx. Dr. Jones, who has always worked at public hospitals, said his goal was to improve mental health services for children, the homeless and AIDS patients.
 
Kenneth J. Knuckles
General Services Commissioner
A lawyer and an architect, he had been deputy borough president of the Bronx since 1987, overseeing day-to-day operations of the borough president's office and housing and development issues. He heads the city housekeeping and purchasing agency.
 
Victor A. Kovner
Corporation Counsel
A close adviser in the campaign and transition and long associated with the reform wing of the Democratic Party in Manhattan, he and Mr. Dinkins have been friends since the 1960's, when they were district leaders.
Mr. Kovner was the Mayor's first appointee.
 
Philip R. Michael
Budget Director
A former city finance commissioner, he most recently had watched the city budget as director of the state Financial Control Board. His appointment was aimed at reassuring business leaders that the city was in experienced hands as it faced uncertain fiscal times.
 
Felice L. Michetti
Housing Commissioner
As first deputy commissioner of the department for four years, she was an architect of the Koch administration's 12-year housing plan. Her appointment signaled that Mr. Dinkins would continue the plan despite criticism that it does not solely aid the poor.
 
Dr. Woodrow A. Myers Jr.
Health Commissioner
A former Indiana Health Commissioner, Dr. Myers's appointment caused the most bitter dispute of the new administration. It pitted some of Mr. Dinkins's black supporters against some of his gay supporters, who questioned Dr. Myers's policies on AIDS.
 
Carol O'Cleireacain
Finance Commissioner
A fiscal adviser to the Dinkins mayoral campaign, she was chief economist of District Council 37 of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, the city's largest municipal workers union and a campaign supporter of Mr. Dinkins.
 
Lucius J. Riccio
Transportation Commissioner
A deputy commissioner in the Transportation Department and a former Sanitation Department official, he was a surprise choice of the Mayor, who bypassed the incumbent, Ross Sandler. Mr. Riccio impressed the Mayor during an interview for another job.
 
Carlos M. Rivera
Fire Commissioner
A 31-year veteran of the Fire Department and most recently its chief of operations, he is the first Hispanic commissioner of the department.
His goal, he said, is to improve firefighters' morale after feuds with Mayor Koch over salaries and the closing of firehouses.
 
Harvey Robins
Operations Director
A former executive of the city Human Resources Administration and most recently Deputy Schools Chancellor for financial affairs, he is credited with reducing the staff at the Board of Education. His goal, he said, is to ''wring'' the excess from city government.
 
Barbara Sabol
Human Resources Administrator
A former executive deputy commissioner of the state's Department of Social Services, she will run a huge bureaucracy in a job that Mr. Dinkins has said is tougher than his.
Regarded as a conciliator, she vowed to do more for poor children and families.
 
Eric J. Schmertz
Labor Relations Commissioner
A labor mediator and former dean of the Hofstra University Law School, he was forced out as a city labor arbitrator in 1980 by Mayor Koch in a dispute over arbitration rulings.
He has an expanded mandate from Mr. Dinkins to get involved in private-sector labor disputes.
 
Susan E. Shepard
Investigation Commissioner
A former Assistant United States Attorney in Brooklyn, she most recently was counsel of the State Commission of Investigation.
She named a special counsel to conduct an inquiry into whether Mr. Dinkins violated ethics and reporting rules in a stock transfer.
 
Allyn R. Sielaff
Correction Commissioner
A former head of the state prison systems in Virginia, Wisconsin, Illinois and Pennsylvania and most recently administrator of the courts in Cleveland, he has a reputation as a strong manager who supports inmate work programs and alternatives to incarceration.
 
Douglas H. White
Personnel Director
A deputy commissioner for Consumer Affairs in the Koch Administration, Mr. White had been commissioner of the State Division of Human Rights since 1984. The Mayor wants him to increase the number of minority-group members in the city work force.

GRAPHIC: Photos of Mayor David N. Dinkins's cabinet: deputy mayors Norman Steisel, Bill Lynch, Sally B. Hernandez-Pinero, Barbara J. Fife, Milton Mollen; commisioners and top appointees Albert F. Appleton, Lee P. Brown, Mary Schmidt Campbell, Dr. J. Emilio Carrillo, Elisabeth F. Gotbaum, Mark Greene, Dr. Billy E. Jones, Kenneth J. Knuckles, Victor A. Kovner, Philip R. Michael, Felice l. Michetti, Dr. Woodrow A. Myers Jr., Carol O'Cleireacain, Lucius J. Riccio, Carlos M. Rivera, Harvey Robbins, Barbara Sabol, Eric J. Schmertz, Susan E. Shepard, Allyn R. Sielaff, Douglas H. White (Photographs by The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: MEDICAID (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (89%); HISTORY (77%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); MEDICAID (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (74%); BUDGETS (74%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%); MENTAL HEALTH (69%); LABOR UNIONS (69%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (68%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (67%); LAND USE PLANNING (63%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (60%); WRITERS (60%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (60%); MEDICARE FRAUD (54%); BIRDING (54%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%); 

PERSON: DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); PURDUM, TODD S MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 



23 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 18, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: The 51st and 52d States;
Let Puerto Ricans Decide Their Fate, but Fairly

 BODY:
Puerto Rico is not America's Lithuania, but it is unhappy with its status as a highly dependent commonwealth. An overwhelming majority of 3.3 million islanders are agreed that they want change. But as Congress is learning, agreement stops there. What adds to the perplexity is a parallel but unrelated campaign to grant statehood to the District of Columbia. 
A Senate bill supported by the Bush Administration would offer Puerto Ricans a chance to choose, by a binding vote next year, statehood, improved commonwealth status or independence. The problem is to assure a fair choice. If one or another side has plausible reasons for charging bad faith, the referendum could prolong the argument it is meant to end.
Polls for the first time show a narrow majority of Puerto Ricans now favors statehood. As sentiment has shifted, so has the tone of a longstanding debate. Statehood supporters now join with advocates of independence in decrying colonialism. Those clamoring for enhanced commonwealth status contend that the Senate bill is frontloaded unfairly in favor of statehood.
The argument springs from a complicated history. The U.S. acquired Puerto Rico from Spain almost incidentally in 1900. In 1917, Puerto Ricans became U.S. citizens, but not until 1947 did they elect a Governor. Five years later, Congress approved an ingenious commonwealth arrangement, giving a Spanish-speaking island home rule and exemption from Federal taxes but no vote in Federal elections.
Economically, the plan made sense. Using an additional tax break known as Section 936 of the revenue code, Puerto Rico has provided generous incentives for mainland investors. But politically, the island has been virtually a ward of Congress, without the clout it would wield with two senators and six or seven representatives, plus a Presidential vote.
This sense of being second-class citizens has given potent impetus to the statehood campaign. As statehood sentiment has waxed, so has uncertainty about Puerto Rico's tax exemptions, causing investors to hold back. To end the debate once and for all, Gov. Rafael Hernandez Colon, a commonwealth advocate, proposed a binding referendum.
But he now faults the Senate bill as ''terribly, dangerously unbalanced.'' It would phase in Federal taxes and phase out Section 936 over four years. Meanwhile, says the Congressional Budget Office, statehood could cost other U.S. taxpayers as much as $9.4 billion in additional Federal social spending; more than half the island's population remains below the national poverty line.
A very different view is taken by former Gov. Carlos Romero Barcelo, a statehood proponent. He persuasively cites similar preferential treatment granted other incoming states. Congress can redress the balance by rewording the commonwealth choice to give its proponents more of what they seek: an increased international role, an open port for air carriers, a voice in Federal appointments and jurisdiction over natural resources.
What is unarguable and fundamental is Puerto Rico's right to self-determination. The choice is primarily between two forms of association with the United States. Even the minority favoring independence relies on reason rather than passion. Congress can reciprocate by specifying clearly and fairly what Puerto Ricans can expect, whichever way they vote.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

INDUSTRY: SIC4424 COASTAL FREIGHT (92%); 

COUNTRY: PUERTO RICO (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); LITHUANIA (88%); SPAIN (75%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: PUERTO RICO CONTAINER CO (92%); PUERTO RICO SAFETY EQUIPMENT CORP (92%); PUERTO RICO INDUSTRIAL MANUFACTURING OPERATIONS ACQUISITION CORP (92%); PUERTO RICO INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CO (92%); PUERTO RICO SUN OIL CO (92%); PUERTO RICO TELEPHONE CO (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PUERTO RICO; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: STATES (US); EDITORIALS; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS; REFERENDUMS; LAW AND LEGISLATION US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); US TERRITORIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); REFERENDUMS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); GOVERNORS (75%); TAX RELIEF (70%); APPROVALS (70%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (70%); AIRLINES (50%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%); 



24 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 18, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 882 words

HEADLINE: In Working for Mideast Peace, Fairness Is Vital

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Since returning recently from an extensive trip through the Middle East, I have been disturbed by highly biased attacks on both me and President Bush in columns by A. M. Rosenthal (''Silence Is a Lie,'' March 22) and William Safire (''Bush Versus Israel,'' March 26).
Mr. Rosenthal insinuated (or stated) that I was a liar by commenting publicly on human rights abuses by the Israeli authorities in the West Bank and Gaza while not simultaneously making similar public criticisms of Syria. Mr. Safire wrote that President Bush, Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d and their top associates are anti-Israel, have shut their eyes to Arab terrorism, are acting to prevent Jewish emigration from the Soviet Union, attempt to cut aid to Israel, want to impose a Palestine Liberation Organization state in the occupied territories, support a divided Jerusalem and are contributing to a possible pogrom or ''death process'' for Jews being retained in the Soviet Union.
In my travels I invariably address known human rights abuse in every country, almost always directly with the nation's leader. I did this forcefully in both Egypt and Syria before arriving in Israel. The particular problem that aroused my comments in Jerusalem, both to top government leaders and to the press, was a recent Israeli policy of deporting to Jordan the Palestinian mothers and children from the West Bank and Gaza who cannot prove birth or residence in the area since it was occupied by Israeli military forces in 1967. There were 251 documented cases of this type. I gave the names of those about whom I knew personally to Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir and later discussed this issue with Shmuel Goren, who is in charge of civilian administration in the occupied territories.
No one denied the accuracy of these reports. Mr. Goren informed me that they were changing this policy. At my urging, he stated further that the mothers and children already deported would be permitted to return home and rejoin their husbands and fathers. Within two hours I announced this positive decision at a press conference in the Tel Aviv airport.
What would you have me do differently? What would your columnists' policy be if an Arab leader was taking Jewish mothers and children away from their homes and husbands, and forceably deporting them to a foreign country? Palestinians are human also, and their rights must be defended. I am not authorized to speak for President Bush, but I was given a thorough briefing on his policies before my trip and later met with him, the Secretary of State and the national security adviser after my return to give them a personal report. None of Mr. Safire's accusations are true. The President's budget proposal continues the allocation of approximately $10 million daily in aid to Israel, and he certainly does not support Arab terrorism, imposing a P.L.O. state on the West Bank and Jerusalem or obstructing Jewish emigration from the Soviet Union. Additionally, Mr. Safire stated that George Bush is the only President who threatened to cut aid to Israel and affirms a statement by Yasir Arafat that this is the first Administration that speaks of the end of the Israeli occupation.
As a matter of historical record, President Richard M. Nixon used full economic persuasion to halt the Israeli military advance toward Cairo in 1973. Also, I notified Prime Minister Menachem Begin in 1978 that unless the Israeli invasion of Lebanon was stopped, I would notify Congress that United States weapons were being used for offensive purposes, which would have terminated all military assistance from our country.
The invasion stopped, and the forces were soon withdrawn. Furthermore, I worked assiduously to bring about an end of the Israeli occupation of the West Bank and Gaza. In fact, this requirement is written into the Camp David accords, both in an affirmation of compliance with United Nations Resolution 242 and the words ''the Israeli military government and its civilian administration will be withdrawn as soon as a self-governing authority has been freely elected by the inhabitants of those areas.'' It is well known that this agreement was signed by Prime Minister Begin and later ratified by the Israeli Knesset.
I know for a fact that President Bush and Secretary of State Baker are fully committed to bring a just peace to the Middle East and to help guarantee the security of Israel. Also, no one can deny my friendship and support for a peaceful and secure Israel or the persistent and successful effort I made to seek the freedom of Soviet Jews. The Israeli-Egyptian peace treaty and the 51,000 ''refuseniks'' who gained their freedom in 1979 alone are at least partial proof of the preceding statement. I did not seek these goals to gain the approval of Times columnists, but out of deep conviction that I was defending the interests of my country and upholding its basic principles.
At the same time, it is incumbent on you and other Americans to realize that United States leaders must be objective and fair as we work for peace and the enhancement of human rights, even if, on occasion, such actions might displease a friendly nation like Israel or its impassioned supporters in this country.
 
JIMMY CARTER
 Atlanta, March 28, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); MIDDLE EAST (95%); SYRIA (92%); EGYPT (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); JORDAN (79%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%); 

COMPANY: PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (56%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; ISRAEL

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MIDDLE EAST-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ISRAEL-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; PALESTINIANS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); DEPORTATION (86%); WRITERS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (76%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TERRORISM (73%); BUDGETS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CARTER, JIMMY; SAFIRE, WILLIAM; ROSENTHAL, A M JIMMY CARTER (72%); 



25 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 19, Column 3; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 692 words

HEADLINE: Rostenkowski's Critics Are Wrong

BYLINE: By Roger C. Altman; Roger C. Altman is vice chairman of the Blackstone Group, an investment-banking firm.

 BODY:
Representative Dan Rostenkowski's plan for cutting the deficit has been attacked by nearly everyone except the White House. Critics charge that it contains too much deficit reduction, is unfair and would be bad politics for the Democrats. They're wrong on all counts.
The plan calls for a five-year, $511 billion package to wipe out the deficit entirely. Half would come from spending cuts. Defense, Medicare and cost-of-living increases, including Social Security, would be frozen next year. Thereafter, defense would grow only 1 percent yearly - that is, less than inflation. The other half of the package consists of tax changes: excise taxes on alcohol, tobacco and gasoline would be increased. The loophole enabling certain wealthy taxpayers to pay at lower than maximum rates would be closed. And tax indexing would be suspended for a year. 
Political leaders and experts argue that the deficit has not caused much damage and that today's economy would take a nose dive with deeper spending cuts. This ignores the painful slowdown in our standard of living, and its causes. The prime cause of the slowdown is our abysmal levels of private savings, private investment and productivity. There is a direct relationship between the problems and the deficit's size. From 1950 through 1980, net private investment averaged a healthy 3 to 3.5 percent of the gross national product. During the 1980's, elbowed aside by the Federal demand for capital, it plunged to 2.3 percent, dragging down productivity. This anemic productivity growth, the industrial world's lowest, is the real burden that the deficit places on working people. It explains why the middle class's real per-capita income has not risen in recent years. Unless savings and investment rates rise, living standards will stagnate further; to move up the standards, the deficit must shrink.
Our $5 trillion economy, though slowing because of the deficit, is strong enough to absorb those budget cuts. The latest data indicate a growth rate for early 1990 of around 2 percent, after inflation; we are not on the verge of a recession. Besides, the Rostenkowski plan may well sharply reduce interest rates. The kick to growth from lower rates could outweigh or offset the dampening effect of slower spending and higher taxes.
So the deficit is the right problem to attack, and Mr. Rostenkowski does it fairly. Critics say his one-year freeze on entitlement cost-of-living adjustments is unacceptably hard on the poor. Actually, less than 20 percent of entitlements go to people below the poverty level. This is not a large sum, and the plan could be adjusted for rebates to the truly needy.
Liberal critics claim that certain Rostenkowski tax increases are also unacceptably regressive. Half the new revenue would come from higher taxes on cigarettes, alcohol and gasoline. These don't depend on ability to pay, and thus fit one definition of regressive. But discouraging use of alcohol and tobacco is indisputably pro-health. As for gasoline, U.S. taxes and pump prices have always been the lowest in the industrialized world; surely our consumers can afford slightly higher prices. New revenue also would flow from making the maximum tax rate identical for all Americans. Today, certain taxpayers earning up to $217,000 per year still don't pay the maximum 33 percent rate, while other affluent citizens do. This has never made sense, and closing the gap is certainly not regressive.
As for politics, Democrats need a budget solution much more than Republicans. Big deficits kill Democratic initiatives on education, children and rebuilding our infrastructure. The plan also would eliminate the need to raise taxes for years, and thus promises to sideline tax issues in the nation's political dialogue.
The White House has shown surprising flexibility on the tax and defense portions of the Rostenkowski plan, making a sweeping agreement possible - if it's done by the political equivalent of the immaculate conception, without fathers and witnesses. That's how the Social Security financing reforms of 1983 were put together. Mr. Rostenkowski has given us the chance to do it again.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION TAXES & TAXATION (91%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); BUDGETS (89%); COST OF LIVING (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); MEDICARE (76%); RECESSION (76%); LIVING STANDARDS (75%); EXCISE TAX (74%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (74%); TAX INCREASES (74%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (74%); BUDGET CUTS (73%); POOR POPULATION (72%); PRODUCTIVITY (71%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (69%); INTEREST RATES (68%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (63%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); 

PERSON: ALTMAN, ROGER C; ROSTENKOWSKI, DAN (REPR) ROGER ALTMAN (50%); 



26 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 5; Page 22, Column 5; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 211 words

HEADLINE: Airplane Seats

 BODY:
To the Editor: ''You Can't Be Too Thin in Economy Class'' reminded me of my Tower Air charter flight from New York to Athens last August. Like the plane seats described in the article, ours created extremely cramped conditions. A woman's complaint that when the man in front of her leaned back in his seat, his seat was practically in her face, turned into a very loud argument that attracted the attention of many passengers.
Two airline employees did their best to resolve the dispute, with little result. Later in the flight, I saw a man several seats ahead of me turn around and angrily threaten the man behind him as his hand formed a fist that appeared ready to strike, because this man had dared to ask him not to lean back too far. Luckily, no violence broke out. In such tight conditions, it could have.
After an exciting two-week tour of Greece and its islands, I dreaded the flight home, until a thoughtful tour guide responded to our complaints about the flight to Athens with good news: ''For your return flight, I booked you all on first class.'' Since the flight was a charter, there was no difference in price, and the much-appreciated extra space on the way back felt like an extension of our vacation.
 
NAOMI HEILIG
 New York, N.Y.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); GREECE (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: ATHENS, GREECE (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: TOWER AIR (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: TOWER AIR

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; NYTRAVEL; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES AIRLINES (91%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (70%); 

PERSON: HEILIG, NAOMI



27 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 5; Page 10, Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 1818 words

HEADLINE: WHAT'S DOING ON: The Eastern Shore

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER CORBETT; CHRISTOPHER CORBETT, a writer living in Baltimore, is the James Thurber journalist-in-residence at Ohio State University.

 BODY:
Maryland's Eastern Shore stretches some 150 miles from the upper tidewaters of Chesapeake Bay to the sand dunes at Assateague where the Free State meets Virginia on the Atlantic. For generations the peninsula - which includes nine of Maryland's counties - was as insular as any island, removed from the mainland, remote, rural, primarily agricultural. Today, within easy driving distance of several of the nation's largest cities, the Shore has become a major resort area.
For travelers from the North the Eastern Shore has always symbolized the start of the South in the style of life, cuisine and speech of the inhabitants. It sits just below the old Mason-Dixon Line.
There are many Eastern Shores Ocean City, Maryland's largest oceanfront resort, turns into the state's second largest city in summer when more than 300,000 tourists hit the beach. The year-round population is less than 10,000. 
On the bay side, there is a somewhat more upper-crust form of tourism. Waterfowl hunting, an expensive gentleman's sport, is big business in the tidewater. The tidal rivers and inlets are crammed with busy marinas full of sailboats. Waterfront estates sell for seven figures and chic towns like Oxford and Easton support an immigrant population of outdoorsy types (coral pink or lime green corduroys festooned with mallards, Barbour hunting jackets, Wellington boots). The Talbot County seat of Easton has major brokerage houses on its main streets.
But despite tourism and development, particularly the promotion of the shore as a retirement location and a site for vacation homes, the peninsula remains chiefly rural.
The best introduction to Maryland's Eastern Shore may be to pick up a copy of the local weekly or daily newspapers (the weeklies are best). Contained between dispatches on a striped bass poaching ring, the 4-H tractor safety course and the livestock news is the real story of the towns that make up the region. Here will be the notices for bull roasts, oyster suppers, flea markets and galas or fetes (as they are called).
 
Special Events
On the lower shore, this is the 20th anniversary of the Ward World Championship Wildfowl Carving Competition, April 27 to 29 at the Ocean City Convention Center. Information: 301-742-4988 or 800-742-4988. The competition is sponsored by the Ward Foundation, which also operates the Ward Museum of Wildfowl Art in nearby Salisbury on the campus of Salisbury State University. It is named after Lem and Steve Ward, barbers from Crisfield, who became famous for carving wildfowl decoys and were the subject of a Smithsonian exhibition in 1987.
More than 2,000 entries from some 1,000 carvers from the United States, Japan, England, Norway and Canada are expected. The foundation sponsors seminars April 25 to 26.
On the upper shore, the Chestertown Tea Party Festival on May 26 commemorates an incident in May 1774 when residents of Colonial Chestertown seized tea from the brigantine Geddes and threw it in the Chester River. The festival includes a 10-mile run, exhibitions of Colonial crafts, walking tours of the historic district along with a reenactment of the tea party.
For even the casual traveler the Eastern Shore means chicken. That may be due in no small part to the efforts of Frank Perdue, poultry czar, television star and native son, whose operation's headquarters are in nearby Salisbury. The importance of the chicken to economic and culinary life on the shore is celebrated annually at the Delmarva Chicken Festival. The 42d festival is June 8 to 9 at the Talbot County Community Center in Easton. Contact: 301-822-4606.
The festival is chiefly a kind of country fair built around a celebration of the chicken - especially eating it. A highlight includes what promoters say is the world's largest frying pan - 650 pounds, 10 feet in diameter and capable of cooking 10,000 pieces of chicken in two days.
 
Chesapeake City
Chesapeake City serves as a kind of gateway to Maryland's Eastern Shore, straddling the Chesapeake & Delaware Canal. The town itself, known locally as Canal Town, looks like a modern-day community out of Mark Twain's ''Life On The Mississippi.'' Life pretty much revolves around the canal - begun in 1829 as a link between upper Chesapeake Bay and Baltimore and Delaware Bay and Philadelphia on the Atlantic side.
Canal Town is a jumble of brightly painted 19th-century frame houses along narrow tree-lined streets. Chesapeake City celebrates May Day on May 12 with a Maypole dance and street entertainment. (301-885-5377)
 
Chestertown
The Kent County seat of Chestertown on the broad Chester River is home to the best preserved collection of Colonial-era buildings in Maryland after the capital of Annapolis. In its heyday, Chestertown was an important Tidewater port and its riverfront today bears testimony to this, lined as it is with a row of fine late 18th- and early 19th-century houses. The old town, home to Washington College, is ideal for walking, although most of the great houses of the Colonial era are not generally open to the public. The Kent County Chamber of Commerce (118 North Cross Street, Chestertown, Md. 21620; 301-778-0416; 9 A.M. to 2 P.M. weekdays) has produced a detailed self-guided walking tour.
Walkers may wish to refresh themselves at the White Swan Tavern at 231 High Street, which, alas, serves only afternoon tea daily from 3 to 5 P.M. There is also the Buck-Bachus Store in Queen Street, also open from 1 to 4 Saturday.
Another county seat that is home to a fine collection of Colonial architecture is Easton in Talbot County. The Historical Society of Talbot County (25 South Washington Street, Easton, Md. 21601; 301-822-0773) offers guided walking tours of the historic district Tuesday to Saturday from 10 A.M. to 4 P.M. and Sunday from 1 to 4. Within easy walking distance, downtown Easton offers a number of late 18th- and early 19th-century buildings.
Nearby is St. Michaels, the oldest town in Talbot County, and home of the Chesapeake Bay Maritime Museum (301-745-2916). Admission: $5; senior citizens, $4.50; children 6 to 17, $2.50. The museum, open daily from 10 A.M. to 4 P.M., houses an extensive array of historical and maritime artifacts at its 18-acre site within walking distance of the village. The centerpiece of the maritime museum is the old Hooper Straight Lighthouse - moved from its original location in the 1960's. One of the few remaining screwpile lighthouses - it looks like a cottage on stilts - the interior of the lighthouse has been restored.
One of Talbot County's most charming villages is Oxford - home of the Oxford-Bellevue Ferry. Established in 1683 and describing itself as the oldest working ferry in the nation, it makes continuous crossings of the Tred Avon River every 20 minutes. Service is on a first-come, first served basis. One-way trip for car and driver, $4 - additional passengers 25 cents each. (301-745-9023)
 
House Pilgrimage
The 53d annual Maryland House and Garden Pilgrimage will give the curious a chance to see a wide selection of fine homes. The tour focuses on Queen Anne's County on April 22 and will offer several fine examples of Colonial architecture, including Wright's Chance and Tucker House, both dating from the late 1790's.
The Caroline County tour April 21 focuses on Victorian-era houses in Denton and Federalsburg. And on May 5 the Talbot County tour includes houses from both the Colonial and modern periods. It includes the grounds, not the house, of Wye Heights Plantation, an 1,100-acre private estate on the Wye River. Information: 301-822-6933.
 
Ocean City
With 10 miles of white sand beach and a nearly three-mile-long boardwalk, Ocean City is the Eastern Shore's major beach resort with a summer season that stretches from the first warm spring days until late into the fall. Ocean City, which calls itself the white marlin capital of the world because of the sport fishing, kicks off the summer season May 12 with the White Marlin Festival. Tourist information and reservations: 800-492-3224 in Maryland or 800-626-2326 out-of-state.
 
Where to Stay
At the water's edge, on the outskirts of the village of St. Michaels, is the Inn at Perry Cabin (308 Watkins Lane, St. Michaels, Md. 21663; 301-745-5178) which was built in the early 19th century and named in honor of Commodore Perry. Doubles from $175 to $275; suites from $250 to $375. Scheduled to reopen May 1, the 19-room inn was purchased last year by Sir Bernard Ashley (widower of the designer Laura Ashley). Redecorated by Laura Ashley Designs, it is the first of an anticipated group of deluxe hotels planned by the design company for the United States.
Or, in Oxford, try the 34-room Robert Morris Inn on The Strand (Post Office Box 70, Oxford, Md. 21654; 301-226-5111), on the banks of the Tred Avon River. Doubles from $70 to $150.
In Chesapeake City on the upper shore, a turn-of-the-century house offering lodging alongside the C&D Canal is the Inn at the Canal (104 Bohemia Avenue, Chesapeake City, Md. 21915; 301-885-5995). It has six rooms, all with private baths. Rates range from $65 to $95.
In Chestertown, the six-room White Swan Tavern (231 High Street; 301-778-2300) has been a landmark in the center of the village since before the American Revolution. Doubles from $75 to $110, $125 for suites, includes Continental breakfast.
On the lower shore the 16-room Atlantic Hotel in Berlin (2 North Maine Street, Berlin, Md. 21811; 301-641-0189), with doubles from $70 to $90, offers an elegant Victorian alternative to the beach-front motels of nearby Ocean City.
Budget choice: The Washington Hotel (Somerset Avenue, Princess Anne, Md. 21853; 301-651-2825) has been a hotel or inn since 1744. Doubles are $34 to $42.
 
Restaurants
Easton's Art Deco Avalon Theater, dating from the 1920's, reopens April 6 following extensive renovations. Attached to the theater, which will house the Mid-Shore Center for the Performing Arts, are three restaurants at 42 East Dover Street. Cecile's offers entrees such as veal scallopini for $17, roast leg of lamb, $15.50, oysters granville, $15, or traditional crab cakes, $16. Dinner for two with wine about $50 to $75.
Upstairs at Chamber's Penthouse Restaurant overlooking the county seat, entrees include stuffed oysters with crab imperial, $14.95, and filet mignon for $15.95. Casual cuisine is offered on the ground floor of the complex at the Legal Spirits Tavern.
In Chestertown, try the Imperial Hotel (208 High Street; 301-778-5000), with porterhouse steak at $26, veal scallopini with prosciutto ham, $24, and Norwegian salmon, $23.50. Dinner for two with wine from $75.
Budget choice: The Old Wharf Inn on the waterfront in Chestertown (301-778-3055) is a family-style restaurant popular with local residents. Dinner for two, $35 including beer or wine. Crab cakes, $11.95; fried oysters, $11.50.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Washington College men's rowing team, Chestertown (Jonathan Atkin); The River House in Chestertown, Md. (Jonathan Atkin); The lighthouse at Maritime Museum, St. Michaels (Marty Katz); map of Eastern Shore of Maryland

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (79%); ENGLAND (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (95%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: AUGUSTA, ME, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP WRESTLING (52%); THE LIGHTHOUSE (59%); THE LIGHTHOUSE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MARYLAND

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; NYTRAVEL RESORTS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); SPONSORSHIP (87%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (84%); COUNTIES (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (72%); SPORT HUNTING (67%); RIVERS (66%); FESTIVALS (66%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (66%); MARINAS (66%); ANNIVERSARIES (61%); 

PERSON: CORBETT, CHRISTOPHER



28 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 5; Page 6, Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 1727 words

HEADLINE: FARE OF THE COUNTRY;
Spain's Savory Suckling Pig

BYLINE: By ANN PRINGLE HARRIS; ANN PRINGLE HARRIS, who teaches English at the Fashion Institute of Technology in New York, writes frequently about European cooking.

 BODY:
WHEN Don Quixote and Sancho Panza come upon a wedding feast in the Castilian countryside, the first thing they see is a huge steer on a spit, stuffed with ''twelve little suckling pigs embowelled, to give it the more savory taste.'' Today, roast suckling pig - cochinillo asado - plays as prominent a role in Castilian Spanish cuisine as it did in Cervantes's day, but not as support for a steer; it is in itself a star attraction.
The land and the seasons determine what you eat in Spain, as they have for centuries. In the moist, green pasture lands of Galicia you expect, and find, beef; on the east and west coasts there will be shellfish. And in central Castile, where the arid tablelands turn almost purple in the light cast by the Guadarrama mountains, you know from the look of the fields that this is not a country for grazing. Here and there you may see sheep, but no herds of cattle, as in the northwest. Pigs are a natural livestock choice for the region, and the slaughter of young animals, baby lambs and goats as well as pigs, makes economic sense. 
A suckling pig as the Spanish define it has fed only on mother's milk, has never been allowed to run free, and is no more than a month old. While suckling its young, the mother pig feeds on rye, oats, cabbage and potatoes. You can find little pigs on display in butcher shops, in the stalls of local markets, and - occasionally - in the windows of restaurants that serve cochinillo. The pig's skin looks white and waxy; at first you think it is wax, but on closer inspection you see tiny beads of moisture, a sign of freshness.
Americans tend to picture roast pig as grilled whole on a spit and garnished with an apple in its mouth. In Spain, however, the baby pig is traditionally butterflied, then roasted in an open earthenware dish, and if an apple were to be put in its mouth it would have to be the smallest of crab apples, since the pig, to qualify as a suckling, should weigh no more than about 3 kilos (6 to 7 pounds). Cochinillo asado can be found in Segovia, Avila and Arevalo - the three towns are all within 50 to 75 miles of Madrid - as well as in many restaurants in Madrid itself.
Diners should approach the dish with no preconceptions based on the typical American roast of pork. A more apt comparison would be to roast duckling. Although cochinillo doesn't taste like duckling, it has a similar texture, moist yet chewy, not muscled but not tender to the point of flabbiness; remember, it has had very little time to put on weight. Purists tell tales of cochinillo's falling apart when touched with the edge of a plate, but none of the restaurants that my husband and I visited put on this show, and indeed, a bit of al dente resistance suits the slightly smoky flavor of the meat, which is heightened by generous seasonings of garlic and, often, thyme.
THERE is a layer of fat under the skin, as with duckling, and one test of the skill of the preparation is to examine the underside of the skin. It should be well browned and as crusty as parchment outside, but the underlying fat should have been eliminated, or at least minimized, through long, slow cooking.
Cochinillo at Botins, in Madrid, meets this standard. In Hemingway's ''The Sun Also Rises,'' Jake Barnes takes Brett Ashley to Botin's, which he says is one of the best restaurants in the world. Certainly it is one of the most agreeable.
Madrilenos dine late, yet by 9:45 on a Friday night Botin's already had a line waiting for tables. The maitre d'hotel, courtly and grave, explained that the wait would be 30 to 35 minutes, and it fell precisely within that range. Periodically, as tables became available, people at the head of the line were shown to a bench and given menus to study. While waiting, they could survey the busy scene: bottles of wine being set up on the grainy, lime-washed service bar; hors d'oeuvres being prepared on the other side of the small waiting room, with its red-paneled walls, cream-painted arches, beamed ceiling and old-style mirrored cabinets; diners descending a curved staircase to a downstairs eating section. Blue and gold Spanish tiles and art objects set in lace-edged niches decorate a dining room on the main level, and midway through the meal musicians dressed in doublets and hose are likely to stroll in and serenade the diners, accompanying themselves on the guitar and the bandurria, a Renaissance instrument similar to a mandolin.
Cochinillo at Botin's is crisp outside, tender within and redolent of roast garlic. Its flavor hints at the evergreen oak used to fire the oven in which it cooks (ash and pine are other woods that may be used in earthenware ovens). Roast potatoes, the classic accompaniment, are served with it, and the waiter's suggestion of the house wine, a Valdepenas red from La Mancha, is an excellent choice.
Down the street from Botin's, at El Cuchi, you enter a different world. Here, the concept is restaurant-as-theater. There are bullfighting scenes on the walls, but a close look reveals that in most of them the bull has things well in control. Fresh-faced waiters dash about like runners in training, occasionally executing an exuberant pass with a tablecloth. A young woman in a peasant skirt pours tequila from a canteen strapped to her shoulders, and background music, which sounds like foreground music, runs to Mexican hits of the 40's or earlier.
El Cuchi is in fact one of a chain of Mexican restaurants (''Two hundred in Mexico, one in Madrid,'' a waiter said), but Madrid's young set seems to have taken kindly to its irreverent, new-world attitude toward the mystique of the bullring and Old Castile. Botin's Renaissance musicians are likely to quaff a 20th-century beer at its convivial bar, and prominent at the entrance is a sign that reads, ''Hemingway never ate here.'' Fittingly, El Cuchi takes liberties with Castilian cooking. Chunks of roast suckling pig arrive in an earthenware casserole, with potatoes and peppers; not your classic cochinillo.
EL CUCHI'S address - 3 Calle de Cuchilleros, or Street of the Cutlers - may explain its name. On the other hand, the logo, a broken fork with the fraction ''one-half'' printed over it, might just as well be taken as a spoof of Michelin's coveted knife-and-fork ratings, cuchillo being Spanish for knife.
Also informal, but more in the old Spanish style, is Los Galayos, just off the Plaza Mayor in Madrid. Carved oak paneling, ropes of white garlic, hams hung to dry behind an attractively tiled bar, and colorful homespun curtains evoke the restaurant's 19th-century past; but the real heart of Los Galayos is its large brick oven, where suckling pig, baby lamb and cabrito - baby goat - are slowly roasted over a wood fire. The proprietor, Esteban Gonzalez Moreno, makes a specialty of dishes from Avila, his native city.
For cochinillo, the split, salted pig is placed on a round wood rack above a couple of inches of water in an oval-shaped, terra cotta baking dish. From time to time during cooking, the chef, Juan Batalla, pulls the dish out with a long metal fork and bastes the pig with melted lard and the cooking juices, to which garlic has been added. Diners at Los Galayos can begin with garlic soup, also a Castilian specialty, follow with cochinillo (served here with fried potatoes), and end with yemas -sweet cakes made with egg yolks, a special dessert of Avila.
Avila itself, known as the birthplace of St. Teresa, is about 70 miles northwest of Madrid. Surrounded by its original fortifications, which are in excellent condition, it also boasts a vast Romanesque basilica and a cathedral built over several centuries that has both Romanesque and Gothic elements.
ON the cathedral plaza is the former Valderrabanos Palace, which has been skillfully transformed into a hotel that offers modern comfort while retaining the atmosphere of a noble residence.
Within easy walking distance of the cathedral plaza, at Meson Del Rastro, one can eat cochinillo Avila style. It seems much the same as cochinillo in the style of Madrid, though perhaps a bit more salted and crusty on the outside; it is listed on the menu as toston, meaning roast. Diners enter El Rastro through a stone-paved courtyard leading to a reception room with a working fireplace - a welcoming spot on a cold night. The large dining room, also with a fireplace and with pairs of antlers on the walls, has the feel of a hunting lodge.
Segovia, a beautiful walled city perched above the surrounding plain, lays claim to cochinillo as its native dish. Several restaurants in the city serve it, but the classic one is the Meson de Candido. From its upstairs dining room, with beamed ceiling and walls covered with inscribed pictures from satisfied clients, it is possible to see the walls of the city lit at night, and to glimpse Segovia's fine Roman aqueduct, still in working order.
Cochinillo at Meson de Candido is well prepared, but it is presented on its own. Most diners will want to order potatoes and a vegetable or salad with it, because, although suckling pig is very filling, it is at its best when set off by foods with other flavors and textures. Diners who are not sated by all of this can go on to one of Meson de Candido's dessert specialties, a dish that corresponds roughly to our baked Alaska.
There are various recipes for the home preparation of roast suckling pig, some calling for the addition of white wine to the pan juices, others adding a sausage stuffing. But few home kitchens can provide what Spanish chefs consider the true essential ingredient of cochinillo asado: the old-style, wood-fired brick oven found in the classic restaurants of Castile.
 
WHERE TO FIND ROAST PIG
The restaurants listed below make a specialty of roast suckling pig (cochinillo asado, or toston). Those in Madrid are all near the Plaza Mayor, in the old section of the city. Prices, figured at 107 pesetas to the dollar, are for an appetizer, main course of cochinillo, vegetable or salad, and dessert, for one person.
Botin, 17 Cuchilleros, Madrid (telephone 266 42 17); about $30. Los Galayos, 5 Botoneras, Madrid (266 30 28); about $34. El Cuchi, 3 Cuchilleros, Madrid (266 44 24); about $34.
Meson del Rastro, 1 Plaza del Rastro, Avila (21 12 18); about $26.
Meson de Candido, 5 Plaza Azoguejo, Segovia (42 59 11); about $30. - A. P. H.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Serving suckling pig at Los Galayos Restaurant in Madrid, left, and, above, at the oven in Botin, one of Hemingway's favorites (Photographs by Paul Hanna)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SPAIN (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: GALICIA, SPAIN (79%); 

CITY: MADRID, SPAIN (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SPAIN

SUBJECT: COOKING AND COOKBOOKS; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; NYTRAVEL MAMMALS (90%); HOG & PIG FARMING (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (78%); LIVESTOCK FEED (77%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (74%); SHEEP & GOAT FARMING (73%); MEAT STORES (69%); 

PERSON: HARRIS, ANN PRINGLE ANA PATRICIA BOTIN (56%); 



29 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 6; Page 34, Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 3988 words

HEADLINE: MALLING THE NORTHEAST

BYLINE: By Roberta Brandes Gratz: Roberta Brandes Gratz is the author of ''The Living City,'' published last year.

 BODY:
MANY MALL DEVELOPERS VIEW NEW ENGLAND as overly regulated and environmentally troublesome. But the partners of the Pyramid Companies, the largest shopping-mall developer in the Northeast, see only untapped potential. No site is too complicated, no downtown too powerful, no citizen opposition too strong, no environmentally sensitive area too sensitive to deter Pyramid from a site on which it wants to build.
In the last 10 years, Pyramid has completed 16 large enclosed malls in New York and Massachusetts and another 16 smaller shopping centers in New York. Among these are controversial and bitterly opposed projects in Albany and Utica, N.Y., and in Pittsfield, Mass. It has in the works 18 major development projects - new malls or expansion of old ones - including the proposed Palisades Center in Rockland County (which will cover 130 acres and have 153 stores), and a mall in Williston, Vt. (72 acres, 75 stores), and its current favorite project, a multipurpose mall and housing development in its hometown of Syracuse.
With the capacity to open three or four malls a year and its eye on available open space on assorted highway routes, Pyramid is changing the face of New England in a way that strikes fear in environmentalists, terrifies established retailers, provokes outrage in local citizens' groups, causes unease in state officials, exasperates planners and sparks joy in the hearts of shoppers. 
And now Pyramid has added another weapon to its arsenal. Last month, the company agreed to purchase Bonwit Teller (earlier it had tried unsuccessfully to buy B. Altman). With retail giants everywhere collapsing, teetering or facing an uncertain future, the genre seems headed for the endangered species list. A mall, however, must have major retailers - anchors - to survive. And, for a price close to $20 million, Pyramid has assured itself the Bonwit anchor for malls to come. The five Bonwit stores include, in addition to the Manhattan flagship, a Bonwit in Pyramid's Buffalo mall. Another Bonwit Teller will open soon in Pyramid's almost completed Syracuse mall.
''This is a company that defines the American dream as a mall in every wetland, and they'll stop at nothing to attain it,'' says Linda Sachs, former spokeswoman for the New York State Commission on Government Integrity. The group is investigating Pyramid's alleged involvement in the 1985 Town Board election in Poughkeepsie, where the company was seeking a zoning change and spent almost $1 million to elect pro-mall candidates.
''They inch their way along, spend all sorts of money and then appeal to the public on the basis of how much money they've spent,'' moans a losing opponent, who does not want to be identified. ''That's like the kid who kills his parents and pleads for mercy as an orphan before the judge.''
But Robert J. Congel,(Continued on Page 54) Pyramid's founder and principal partner, sees things differently: ''We're giving people a convenient place to shop with greater opportunity for consumer choice at a competitive price.''
IT IS 6:30 IN THE MORNING IN downtown Syracuse. The rising sun slants through the two-story arched windows that line the walnut-paneled chamber, a tastefully refurbished former courtroom dating from the 1920's. The room is done in a Pompeian color scheme - soft peach pilasters, pale blue detailing, gold-leaf rosettes and a dash of red. Eighteen clean-cut young executives are seated around an 18-foot mahogany and burl conference table. The group, partners at Pyramid, are busy making notes on yellow legal pads, studying columns of numbers and occasionally consulting the support staff, which is seated off to the side. The day is underway at Pyramid headquarters.
This venerable chamber is not just a customized conference room. It is a communications center, a corporate war room with speaker phones built into each place around the table so that the whole Pyramid partner network is electronically connected at the same time each day.
The logistics of the multiple-permit process are always complicated, and resistance to Pyramid projects is often fierce. Considerable press attention has been paid to Pyramid's legal entanglements, environmental insensitivities and local negotiating patterns. Citizens' groups have sprung up all over the Northeast, each with the same mission: to stop a proposed Pyramid mall. So, like generals conferring on how to motivate troops and manipulate treacherous field conditions, Pyramid executives work out the daily strategies before the local opposition has had a chance to open its war-weary eyes.
To these executives, field conditions at the different sites appear the same, all variations on an unholy alliance of local merchants, mall competitors, overanxious environmentalists and citizens afraid of change, resisting what Forbes magazine called the Pyramid ''mall-building juggernaut.''
''Controversy is the American way of life,'' Congel says with stoic confidence.
Each development battle, no matter the outcome, leaves the locality a different place. And while the executives around the table are low-key, dispassionate and matter-of-fact, and the business at hand appears mundane, this morning's agenda goes to the heart of the expansion of American life at the highway interchange. The trend toward regional mall proliferation - whether on empty cornfields or as replacements for downtown Main Street - is altering the American countryside and restructuring the national retail economy as significantly as mergers and acquisitions are altering the national corporate landscape.
Shopping centers already account for more than 55 percent of all non-automotive retail sales, according to an industry study. Most of this once occurred downtown. Too often, malls deliver a lethal blow to small and large traditional downtowns alike, undermining in one sweep local economies and traditional communities.
But local life-and-death issues intrude not one bit in this boardroom. Here the bottom line is getting the project done. At the head of the table sits Congel, the 54-year-old grandson of an immigrant contractor, who started laying water pipes, went on to build sewage treatment plants and then shopping centers. Congel sits, jacket off, mostly listening, commenting occasionally. He is asked by phone for ''words of wisdom'' for an upcoming meeting. Expansions underway at Holyoke, Mass., and Kingston, N.Y., and new projects at Taunton and Plymouth, Mass., are discussed.
Brief mention is made of the huge rock excavation (more than two million cubic feet) and $200 million construction loan for the Palisades Center, in West Nyack, N.Y. Now going through the permit-approval process, it is one of the most controversial projects in the pipeline. Rocklanders remember too well the decimation of the county's traditional downtowns - like Nyack's - after the opening almost 20 years ago of the Nanuet Mall (not a Pyramid project). On top of that, the 108-acre, mostly vacant site is on the state's list of suspected hazardous waste dumps. At first, Pyramid proposed to build on the site by driving piles. Now the construction site is immediately adjacent to the supposed toxic ground but requires blasting away a small mountain, on the far side of which is an historic black cemetery.
But most attention this morning is paid to the Syracuse project, where a 120-acre regional mall - larger than all of downtown Syracuse's existing 1.2 million square feet of retail space - is nearing completion. As part of the project, Pyramid has also converted industrial buildings to office and residential use; the project has generated related plans for 2,000 units of new cluster housing and waterfront recreational facilities. The scale of the Oil City project - so named because the site was formerly occupied by an oil-tank farm - appears certain to transform into surplus goods the existing downtown of Syracuse.
Downtown property owners, retailers, civic groups and planners are understandably alarmed at the expected destabilizing impact, but the business community and Mayor Thomas G. Young are fully in step with Pyramid. The Oil City project, he told The New York Times in 1987, ''can only bode well for not only the northwest crescent of downtown, but the entire tax base of Syracuse.'' There is little doubt that this is the project Pyramid wants recognized as its crowning achievement.
AS A PRIVATE PARTNERSHIP, Pyramid is not subject to the same kind of public scrutiny as a publicly held corporation. Figures on annual earnings are not available, but in 1988 Forbes magazine estimated the company's assets at $2 billion. Interviews with Pyramid executives and public officials and a close reading of court records yield a picture of a tight ship under the skilled and watchful command of Congel. Congel himself, according to Forbes, is worth well over $200 million.
Solid, unruffled, determined and, he says, ''competitive by nature,'' Congel looks for similar qualities in the partners he picks -''intelligent, very aggressive and unemotional about business, in reverse order,'' says Congel. Every Pyramid project is a separate general partnership in which Congel or a member of his family have a controlling interest, which varies from 51 to 75 percent. There are no limited or outside partners but each partnership usually has six to nine general partners, depending on the size and complexity of the project, and one sponsoring partner, who is the site manager, the one who ushers the mall proposal through the public approval process, who hires influential local lawyers, architects, engineers and environmental consultants. The site manager is also responsible for subcontracting the construction work. (The Palisades Center project is expected to employ 2,000 workers, 80 percent from the local community, according to Thomas Valenti, the sponsoring partner for the project.) Congel expects the management of Bonwit Teller to follow a similar arrangement. Pyramid will retain a better-than-50-percent ownership position, and a sponsoring partner will run the retail operation.
Ben Frank is the sponsoring partner of Maple Tree Place (75 to 80 stores, 72 acres, 400,000 square feet, 2,100 parking spaces) in Williston, Vt., six miles from Burlington. Pyramid owns a 160-acre farm nearby, ripe for future expansion. Last December, the Williston Planning Commission denied Pyramid a building permit, but the company has appealed the ruling. The current proposal rose like a phoenix from the ashes of a dramatic defeat 12 years ago, and Pyramid executives appear confident.
Frank is a short, mild-mannered man who talks excitedly when he thinks his arguments might be less than convincing. ''Environmental laws are being used to stop competition,'' he says, echoing a favorite theme articulated by Pyramid partners to explain away local opposition. In his farmhouse office, he argues that Maple Tree Place is ''designed to be in harmony with the environment,'' with its attractively landscaped single-story buildings and sizable setback from the road.
Environmental laws are often the opposition's only weapon in a struggle over a piece of real estate. Pyramid partners advocate a very narrow definition of environmental law.
This was the case with Pyramid's original Williston plan, which was defeated, in part, by Vermont's strong environmental laws. The 1978 version (82 stores, 490,000 square feet, 2,600 parking spaces) was, as malls go, of medium size, but larger than the en-(Continued on Page 58) tire retail space of downtown Burlington. Even today's scaled-down version would be the largest mall in Vermont.
The Williston-Burlington saga is the best example of Pyramid's never-say-die approach. Deep financial pockets and extraordinary patience give Pyramid an unusual ability to persevere. Six years, more than $2 million in expenses and a fruitless court challenge to its permit denial did not quell Pyramid's determination to penetrate the Burlington market. Ben Frank, a resident of both Stowe, Vt., and Montreal, notes sternly that this is ''a Ben Frank project on land owned by Pyramid.'' Though Pyramid retains the controlling share, Frank's connection to Stowe is supposed to give the project a local flavor.
''Last time, they were a double-breasted-suit crowd of city slickers,'' says Fred (Chico) Lager, president of Ben & Jerry's ice cream, which is based in nearby Waterbury. ''Ben Frank wears plaid shirts and tries to be folksy, but Vermonters can recognize an authentic plaid.'' Lager is an active member of Citizens for Responsible Growth, the Williston-based opposition and the creative mind behind a series of newspaper ads: ''They're Baaaack,'' shrieked one. ''They Came From Outer State.''
Frank argues, as do all Pyramid spokesmen, that ''one well-planned, well-designed center will, if government does its job right and prohibits the rest of the area from fast-food spots and sprawl, prevent strip development from following.''
''Evidence from all around the country suggests that just the opposite will happen, that sprawl and growth follow malls,'' counters Betsy Rosenbluth, assistant director for Burlington's Community and Economic Development Office, a Williston resident and active Pyramid opponent.
There is one major difference between conditions in 1978 and now. Downtown Burlington (60- to 70-percent locally owned retail stores) was clearly shaky in the late 1970's. The mall threat mobilized the city to upgrade its downtown by building on its existing strengths, preserving its genuine downtown character and not letting the traditional retail core be replaced by an in-town regional mall of national stores. Today downtown Burlington is thriving, as Ben Frank is quick to point out.
But a recent study commissioned by the Chittenden County Regional Planning Commission estimated that Maple Tree Place would siphon off more than $31 million in shopping revenues from Burlington and $20 million from surrounding communities. Though it would add $60 million of new shopping revenue to the town of Williston, the potential strain on local services could more than offset the income benefit. The study also predicted a loss of full-time retail jobs associated with current retail businesses and a gain in part-time mall jobs at below the average regional wage. The study analyzed 13 malls in the Northeast and South, some Pyramid and some not, and concluded that the downtowns of small cities suffered significantly following construction of regional malls, requiring a new and unending spiral of public investment to compensate for negative changes. The study did not consider the temporary economic benefits of jobs gained during construction.
''People joke that Vermont is 10 years behind the rest of the country,'' says Dee Steffan, a slight, dark-haired community college administrator who opposes Pyramid. ''But it gives us a chance to see the mistakes of other states and fight not to repeat them.'' The more these Vermont loyalists talk, the clearer it gets that the mall fight is a psychological watershed for them, an attempt to preserve the spirit that they feel distinguishes this state from others.
So far, Pyramid Companies does not seem to lose. Defeat, when it comes, has been only temporary. In 1986, the Clarkstown Town Board in Rockland County, for example, defeated the zoning change necessary to build the Palisades Center. In 1988, with two mall opponents replaced on the Town Board by supporters, the zoning change passed. Two Pyramid proposals were defeated in the Pittsfield, Mass., area over a period of 20 years. But last fall Pyramid opened the 550,200 square-foot Berkshire Mall in Lanesborough, a suburb of Pittsfield, while still tangled in litigation.
ROBERT CONGEL PROCLAIMS himself an environmentalist and owns 4,000 acres of wetlands, called the Savannah Wildlife Preserve, located between Syracuse and Rochester. Established in 1984 with 30 land purchases made over five years, Savannah has six full-time people to manage, develop and improve the land, which Congel uses for hunting and recreation. He also uses it as ammunition to counter the company's reputation for environmental insensitivity. ''There is not an environment that can't be improved,'' Congel argues in response to criticism of Pyramid's pattern of seeking development sites in fragile environments that other developers shun. In Utica, for example, Congel claims, ''the wetland we built on was marginal and full of junk. We built a pristine wetland that supports wildlife and vegetation and an improved flooding situation.''
Environmentalists counter that humans can't replace artificially what nature has created. ''Functions fulfilled by a wetland don't necessarily get fulfilled by a new wetland in another place,'' notes Peter Berle, the former State Environmental Commissioner. He stood in Pyramid's way in Utica while in office, and is now president of the National Audubon Society. New wetlands ''can't serve the same ecological niche, and they don't maintain themselves naturally like existing ones,'' says James T. B. Tripp, general counsel for the Environmental Defense Fund.
Tripp successfully represented the Environmental Defense Fund against Pyramid in three Federal court cases the company brought in Boston, New York and Washington in an attempt to build a mall on a 50-acre wetland, called Sweeden's Swamp, in South Attleboro, 30 miles south of Boston. Although considered a critical victory by environmentalists, the resolution was a clear case of Pyramid losing the battle but winning the war. Before the case was resolved, Pyramid joined forces with a competitor to build another regional mall in North Attleboro, a few miles from the disputed site.
The gravest problem reflected in this case, Tripp says, is the pattern, typical of but not exclusive to Pyramid, of buying distressed property cheaply. Buying up inexpensive wetlands, flood plains and landfills leaves more money to fight a resistant permit process.
PEOPLE HAVE NO idea what they are in for,'' contends Lucille Bifano, of West Nyack. She is a member of the Southern Clarkstown Civic Association and is active in the fight against the Palisades Center. Her group has visited the newspaper morgues near Pyramid's battlegrounds, interviewed other opponents and, in turn, informed others facing Pyramid developments about what has been happening on their turf. ''We have to learn from each other,'' adds Ms. Bifano. A stack of videotapes focusing on Pyramid's history and methods circulates among an informal opposition network of citizens and public officials.
The Clarkstown group learned some important lessons from nearby Poughkeepsie. Pyramid's four-acre, 1.1 million-square-foot Galleria opened there in August 1987, but the involvement of Pyramid in local elections in 1985 is the focus of a continuing probe by the New York Commission on Government Integrity, chaired by John D. Feerick, dean of the Fordham University School of Law. Says Anna Buchholz, then the Poughkeepsie town supervisor: ''They went straight to the center of power and played a bigger league political game than this town had ever seen. It startled us to discover that outside money could have such an impact and it shattered people's illusions about the sanctity of local government. Now people are reluctant to get into local government, figuring they really don't have the time or energy to play the new game.''
The Feerick Commission uncovered an elaborate scheme by which contributions from Pyramid partners and their families were reportedly funneled to the campaigns of pro-mall candidates for the Poughkeepsie Town Council when Pyramid needed the council's approval for a zoning change to build the Galleria. The commission says that $776,967 was earmarked for those candidates. Neither the candidates nor the public knew where the support money was coming from. Most significantly, the contributions were reported after the election and in Albany, not in Dutchess County. Comparable elections customarily brought no more than $20,000 in total contributions.
One pro-mall candidate, Louis Del Santo, testified at a Feerick Commission public hearing that letters to voters ostensibly from him and from his wife were neither authorized nor signed by them. The same was true, he said, of campaign material in which he supposedly called for better planning in Poughkeepsie and complained about the absence of a master plan. ''I didn't even know what a master plan was,'' Del Santo told the commission.
Whether any illegalities will be found is still unknown. What is clear is that election-law loopholes were skillfully used to circumvent campaign finance limits. ''What they did was not unique, just discovered,'' says one commission member. ''The principal importance of what they did was that it was legal. This demonstrates that special interests can, in fact, buy an election without the people knowing they were bought.'' And because the campaign contribution records on file are often handwritten, illegible and with numbers that don't add up, ''you can't even find out who bought the election because you can't get the information,'' the commission member adds.
After five mall supporters, all Republicans, were elected to the seven-member Council, and mall approval was obtained, Pyramid turned its attention elsewhere. Of the five, four were defeated in the next election, two of them running for different office. The fifth left town.
Pyramid is still fighting in court to avoid testifying before the commission (''strictly based on legal advice,'' says Congel), which will itself shortly go out of business. Congel claims that the alternative in Poughkeepsie was to make cash donations to candidates. ''There is always a certain amount of business that takes place under the table. There's hardly an election where cash does not change hands. We knew ahead of time that either we left Poughkeepsie or did it legally and played by the rules. . . . It's a choice we made, and I'm proud of it. We gave local people the opportunity to have balance. We need predators and we need prey. All things are needed to keep the balance.''
CHICO LAGER, THE Ben and Jerry's executive who opposes the Williston project, points out that a Pyramid consultant's report on the Poughkeepsie election, which was introduced as evidence during the commission hearings, concludes that the company ''didn't need to go through such gyrations and spend so much money to buy an election. They could play it smarter by being Mr. Nice Guy with good public relations and a polite front man (a la Ben Frank) to talk straight to the people. The report told them they could achieve the same thing if they played it differently. While they always had a local partner carrying the ball for Pyramid, now they have refined the role and look for a representative who will appease rather than wear down and challenge a local community.''
But whether the community likes the local partner or not, what scares it in the face of such a well-financed, powerful mall operation is the loss of local control and local character. Seventy or eighty national chain stores anchored by one or more department chains inevitably displace a substantial number of locally owned and operated stores. ''These are not new retail dollars,'' says Peter Clavelle, the Mayor of Burlington. ''This is displaced growth, not new growth. If we haven't learned the lesson from national experience that regional malls suck lifeblood out of downtowns, then we haven't paid attention.''
Such notions, however, find no place in the crack-of-dawn meetings at Pyramid. Forging ahead, overcoming obstacles, looking for new opportunities - these are the issues confronting the partners. They have no intention of losing . . . anywhere. ''Almost anything is resolvable,'' says Congel with confidence, ''if you work long enough.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Above: Robert J. Congel, Pyramid's founder and principal partner, commands a company that has been called a ''mall-building juggernaut.'' (Joe Traver) (pg. 34); Inset, facing page: A Pyramid mall near Buffalo. (Joe Traver) (pg. 35); Inset, right: Some communities resist Pyramid's projects. (Joe Traver) (pg. 34)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (93%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); VERMONT, USA (79%); 

CITY: SYRACUSE, NY, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); UTICA, NY, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: PYRAMID COS (93%); NEW YORK STATE COMMISSION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: PYRAMID COMPANIES

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NORTHEASTERN STATES (US)

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SHOPPING CENTERS; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT (91%); RETAILERS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ZONING (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); THREATENED & SENSITIVE SPECIES (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); WETLANDS (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (73%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (72%); ORPHANS (61%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%); 

PERSON: CONGEL, ROBERT J



30 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 6; Page 24, Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 4530 words

HEADLINE: BLACK STUDIES' NEW STAR: Henry Louis Gates Jr.

BYLINE: By Adam Begley: Adam Begley, a freelance writer, earned his doctorate in American literature from Stanford in 1989.

 BODY:
IN 1981, WHEN THE MACARTHUR FOUNDATION ANNOUNCED that it would pay out generous stipends to 21 ''exceptionally talented individuals'' (the first crop of instant ''geniuses''), Henry Louis Gates Jr. was an unknown 30-year-old assistant professor at Yale University. A man called on the telephone and started talking about giving him something like $30,000 a year for five years, no strings attached. Gates told him to ''quit fooling,'' and the next morning at 8:30, still unconvinced, he waited by the gate of his Yale college for the messenger with the promised letter of confirmation. Embarrassed by his own eagerness, he retreated to his apartment; proof of his good fortune arrived soon thereafter. 
Nine years later, ''Skip'' Gates, as he is known to more people than seems possible for a 39-year-old academic, is quite used to awards, honors and the delicious sense of being wanted. At campuses across the country, students have been demanding a new cultural pluralism - greater diversity in the courses offered and in the professors hired to teach them. Meanwhile, as part of a continuing effort to increase the number of minority faculty members, university administrators have been chasing after scarce black scholars. Gates is one of the most visible (and controversial) proponents of African-American studies; his special field, African-American literature, is flourishing, thanks in part to the success of such writers as Toni Morrison and Alice Walker. Along with a handful of other distinguished black professors, he has become a prize fought over by universities determined to claim pre-eminence in a burgeoning field. Five years ago, Cornell University made him a full professor at the age of 33. Now, after nearly two and a half years of negotiation, Duke University seems to have lured him away (next fall he will become the John Spencer Bassett Professor of English). But can it keep him? Princeton University, which has recently emerged with a strong black studies program, has just entered the fray.
There is more at stake here than the prestige of a university or the trajectory of a controversial academic. During the last decade, the percentage of blacks among college students has declined; the number of blacks earning doctorates has dropped precipitously. Gates belongs to a generation of African-American scholars who began their studies during the late 1960's, when the elite universities opened their doors wide to minority students and established the first black studies programs. Faced now with what nearly everybody agrees is a massive reduction in the number of black intellectuals coming into the academy, that generation has begun to wonder where the next generation will come from, where it will be trained and what it will study. Gates, who is often described as a one-man industry and an institution builder, may well be part of the answer.
THE NATIONAL HUMANITIES CENTER, SKIP GATES'S TEMPORARY headquarters (he still commutes up to Cornell once a week), is tucked away in Research Triangle Park, North Carolina, an eerie, manicured wilderness. It is dotted with the latest in sleek corporate architecture, housing companies that design microchips or delve into biotechnology. A refuge for a select gathering of scholars on leave, the Humanities Center gives off no musty, bookish smell - this ivory tower is all beveled glass and metal tubing.
And Gates is no frayed-tweed, absent-minded academic. A visitor settling into a chair in his cluttered office is welcomed at once as a fast friend, a co-conspirator in a faintly hilarious alliance against an unnamed and comically wrongheaded opposition. The good guys are winning. ''Here! Look at this - isn't this something? It just came in today.'' He waves a copy of the recently rediscovered autobiography of a female slave. ''I've got to tell you this story.'' All the lost and forgotten writings of African-Americans seem to be finding their way into Gates's hands. He's pleased, but he's not surprised. He has the happy confidence of a man who shapes events, whose energy, charm and unexpected gusts of urgent eloquence combine to make things happen.
The Humanities Center receptionist will tell you right away that ''Professor Gates is always on the telephone.'' With a phone in his Mercedes-Benz, a literary agent in New York and an impressive network of contacts in the academy, publishing and the arts, he sometimes seems more like a mogul than a scholar. Stanley Fish, who as chairman of Duke's English department was largely responsible for recruiting Gates, believes that ''entrepreneurial P. T. Barnumism'' is one of the keys to his success. John Blassingame, a Yale colleague, also resorts to the big-top motif: ''There are multiple rings in Skip's circus,'' he says.
It's sometimes hard to see how all the rings fit under the same tent. And yet, by pitching his voice in a new manner and adopting a different vocabulary, Gates erases the image of the mogul and becomes the committed activist. In print and from behind the podium he attacks Allan Bloom, author of the best-selling book about the crisis in higher education, ''The Closing of the American Mind,'' and William J. Bennett, who as Secretary of Education was noted for his denunciations of American universities for dismantling the core curriculum. To Gates, the ''Killer B's'' (as Bloom and Bennett are known in the academic world) are representatives of ''the cultural right,'' guardians of ''white male Western culture.'' Leading the ranks of a ''rainbow coalition'' of left-leaning critics, he fights for a ''revised canon,'' a broader representation of non-European cultures in the basic university curriculum and a concurrent emphasis on the contribution of women to Western civilization. He calls the process ''de-centering the humanities.''
As a self-proclaimed ''race man,'' Gates (Continued on Page 48) wants the history and culture of Africans and African-Americans taught in the nation's classrooms. He explains the private impulse behind this facet of his activism with a quotation from James Baldwin, who wrote, ''I have not written about being a Negro at such length because I expect that to be my only subject, but only because it was the gate I had to unlock before I could hope to write about anything else.'' Gates's goal, predicated on the conviction that African-American studies programs can help open up the university to minority students, is ambitious. In an essay celebrating the 20th anniversary of African-American studies programs, he writes: ''If we have taken black studies for granted as a tool for integrating higher education, we may have only begun to glimpse its potential for integrating the American mind.''
What is African-American studies? In most universities, it's an umbrella term for a curriculum that addresses the black experience in North America, Africa, and the Caribbean (though some programs focus almost exclusively on American topics). This curriculum usually includes a range of courses in the humanities, social sciences and fine arts, from ''Introduction to Jazz'' and ''Black Cults and Sects'' to ''Advanced Swahili'' and ''American Urban Politics.'' Many conservative academics deny that such an eclectic grouping of subjects can qualify as a separate discipline. They argue that courses on black experience are most effectively taught in the context of established departments - or they propose that the material in question be blended with more standard fare. For example, instead of creating a course called ''Black Woman Writers,'' they would add to the syllabus of an existing course poems and novels written by black women. Proponents of autonomous black studies programs, Gates among them, reply that all disciplines have institutional histories - they are artificial, even arbitrary constructs that serve a need. After 20 years, Gates argues, the field has earned its place as a genuine discipline.
This ideological tug of war has far-reaching practical consequences, many of them involving the distribution within the university of money, jobs and power. African-American studies is now generally an ''interdisciplinary program,'' a poor relation of more established departments - English, history, sociology, economics. Although dependent on their goodwill and on that of the administration, these programs have maintained a considerable degree of autonomy on some campuses; there are also a few full-fledged departments, notably at Cornell, the University of Wisconsin and Harvard University. Gates is openly critical of black studies programs that hold themselves aloof from the more traditional academic departments or the communal life of the university. (''You know, ghettoized programs where students and members of the faculty sit around and argue about whether a white person can think a black thought.'') He dismisses as a ''racialist fiction'' the idea that African-American culture is ''exclusively a thing apart, separate from the whole,'' and insists that white and black professors alike should teach black studies for the benefit of the entire student body. Yet he favors the creation of separate departments. And even if black studies programs are denied departmental status, he believes they should have the power to make appointments, to hire members of the faculty whose methodological approaches may ''fall outside the discipline of a traditional department.''
Not surprisingly, Gates's views have been attacked by a broad spectrum of critics, from black separatists intent on promoting ''Afrocentricity'' to self-styled defenders of Western culture who decry the spread of ''victim studies.'' But as Yale's John Blassingame notes, ''Gates is blessed with an ego sturdy enough to withstand the inevitable critics.'' ''To put it in the simplest terms,'' says Stanley Fish of Duke, ''Skip is not ignorable.'' Indeed, controversy makes him all the more desirable. A Cornell colleague, Jonathan Culler, argues that Gates is much sought-after for three reasons: because his work is first-rate, because of his institutional prowess and because ''desire is always mediated desire. The fact that he is visible in the media reinforces his desirability within the universities, who know that if they have captured Skip Gates they have captured attention.'' Isaac Kramnick, professor of government at Cornell and a former associate dean, contends that ''Skip is peculiarly valuable because of his instinct to surround himself with other black scholars.'' As Gates himself points out, in five years he helped bring nine black faculty members to Cornell, including his friend Wole Soyinka, the Nigerian playwright and Nobel laureate. A university like Duke, determined to hire a significant number of minority faculty members, looks at Gates and imagines that it can solve its problem with one appointment, however costly and difficult to negotiate.
Attracting graduate students has become as important as finding members of the faculty, and Gates does both. In 15 animated minutes he can list a dozen projects he has in the works, nearly all of which can be used to entice graduate students eager to participate in prestigious scholarly undertakings. There is the 10-volume supplement to ''The Schomburg Library of Nineteenth-Century Black Women Writers'' (the first 30 volumes are already out from Oxford University Press); the estimated 100 volumes of texts recovered by the Black Periodical Literature Project; ''The Norton Anthology of Afro-American Literature''; Perennial Library's Zora Neale Hurston series (its new edition of ''Their Eyes Were Watching God,'' published in January, has gone back to press four times - 75,000 copies are in print); ''The Oxford Companion to Afro-American Literature,'' which Gates will co-edit with Houston A. Baker; and ''A Dictionary of Global Literacy'' (which he describes as a ''multicultural response'' to E. D. Hirsch Jr.'s ''Dictionary of Cultural Literacy''). Thrown in with a miscellany of other projects (six volumes of critical essays he is editing for Warner books, individual titles he's editing for Vintage and New American Library), Gates mentions his own book, ''Black Letters and the Enlightenment: On Race and Reason,'' which he hopes to finish this summer. (His last book, ''The Signifying Monkey: A Theory of Afro-American Literary Criticism,'' won an American Book Award in 1989.) Wherever Gates goes, all his projects go - along with the flattering attention they receive.
In academia, as elsewhere, success provokes resentment. Stanley Fish explains that some people find it ''distressing'' that Gates should display so much ''entrepreneurial energy.'' He adds that ''academics believe that one sign of their worth is the degree to which society fails to reward them. Therefore, someone who is receiving applause, rewards, attention, grants must have sold his soul.'' At Duke, the ''Gates negotiations'' spawned a rich collection of rumors about how big his paycheck will be. (The most generous gossip pegged his salary at $200,000.) Duke officials deny that Gates's salary is out of line with other salaries. Gates says he makes ''good pay, but not six figures.''
He is disarmingly open about enjoying his success. He likes to show a visitor around his neo-Colonial house in Durham. His wife, Sharon, an accomplished ceramicist, is just running out to the studio; she has a show in less than two weeks. His father, a slim older man busy at the kitchen sink, waves cheerfully. Gates stops in each room to tell a different story. An old hip injury, to which he attaches a long tale about a racist doctor, slows his progress; he walks with a cane and a marked limp. In his oversized, wood-paneled study, he talks about his friendship with Wole Soyinka. Upstairs, he reminisces about meeting his wife: they were both working on Jay Rockefeller's 1972 gubernatorial campaign in West Virginia. His two daughters, aged 8 and 10, want their rooms included in the tour. The house is huge (9,000 square feet) and grand, still sparsely furnished - except for the daughters' rooms, which are decked out with bright frills and posters of teen-age idols.
At the top of a sweeping staircase, Gates pauses in front of a cluster of photographs to trace his ancestry back to a sepia-tint portrait of Jane Gates, midwife and former slave.
PIEDMONT, WEST VIRGINIA , a small town two hours west of Washington, lives off its papermill. Henry Louis Gates Sr. worked as a paper-loader and kept his family comfortable by moonlighting as a janitor. His wife, Pauline Coleman Gates, was active in community affairs; in 1957, she became the first black secretary of the Piedmont P.T.A. Their son, Skip, received an excellent primary and secondary education in the local public schools (''there was no discrimination in the classroom''), and then spent a year in a local junior college. In the late 1960's, he started dating a young white woman; helped force the closing of the Blue Jay restaurant in nearby Keyser, which held segregated Saturday night dances; became, as he puts it, ''the voice of civil rights in Piedmont,'' and was rewarded with the No. 1 spot on a list of potential troublemakers in Mineral County. ''I was called 'nigger' so often I thought I had a sign stenciled on my back.'' Gates laughs and covers his eyes when he tells this story. ''I decided to get the hell out of there and applied to Yale.''
He graduated summa cum laude in history in 1973 and went off to Clare College, Cambridge University, on a Mellon Fellowship. At Cambridge he met Wole Soyinka, who steered him toward the study of African-American literature. Six years later, when he received his Ph.D. in English from Cambridge - his dissertation was on the critical reception of black literature during the Enlightenment - Yale made him an assistant professor with a joint appointment in the English department and the Afro-American studies program.
In 1982, a year after being dubbed a genius by the MacArthur Foundation, Gates was again in the news (and his picture graced the pages of People magazine), when he announced he had rediscovered the first novel published by a black person in the United States. This coup established his talent for a special kind of literary archeology and, in his mind, justified the MacArthur grant. ''Our Nig,'' written in 1859 by a free black woman named Harriet E. Wilson, was ignored when it was first published, Gates conjectured, because it depicted not the horrors of slavery in the South but the racism of white Northerners. In later years, it was thought to have been written by a white man posing as a black woman. Gates, who came across a tattered copy while browsing in a Manhattan bookstore, studied century-old census reports, obituary notices and county records to verify the race and gender of the author. His work extended the scope of the Afro-American literary tradition by more than 30 years.
In 1985, a year and half after Random House published the new edition of ''Our Nig,'' Gates accepted an appointment as a full professor in the Cornell English department. On top of the promotion, Cornell provided resources (space and staff as well as cash) for his already numerous projects. The Black Periodical Literature Project, poorly financed since its inception in 1980, benefited from an infusion of money. To date, more than 12,000 works of short fiction, 18,000 poems and 42,000 book reviews and literary notices from 1827 to 1940 have been unearthed. ''It was like stumbling onto the ruins of Pompeii,'' says Gates.
To complement his reputation as an eminent literary archeologist, he published ''Figures in Black,'' a collection of essays, followed by what he calls his tenure book, ''The Signifying Monkey,'' in which he presents his credentials as a critical theorist. Although it won an American Book Award, and the back cover has a blurb from Jacques Derrida, the dean of deconstruction, reviews were not unanimously favorable. Gates examines African myths, early African-American slave narratives and modern novels written by black Americans and links them to a distinct literary tradition - one that is closely related to the black vernacular tradition. What he calls ''signifyin(g)'' - the literary equivalent of a ritualized language game full of indirection, boasting, insult and salacious humor - functions as a kind of double talk of allusion and parody, linking African and African-American literary texts. For example, in five of the earliest black autobiographies he traces the ''talking book'' motif, in which a book talks (or fails to talk) to an illiterate slave; each of the autobiographies rings changes on the previous uses of the trope. This kind of parodic interplay, Gates claims, is the very essence of the black literary tradition.
In his review for The New Republic, Andrew Delbanco, a Columbia University professor, argued that much of ''The Signifying Monkey'' is obscured by the jargon of contemporary literary criticism, a ''hermetic language'' that subverts Gates's true inclination, which is ''to meet the texts on their own terms.'' Stanley Fish retorts that when Gates applies the language of high literary theory to an African myth or to Alice Walker's ''The Color Purple'' he ''earns a legitimacy for African-American literature that it shouldn't need to prove.'' In the view of Sacvan Bercovitch, a professor of English at Harvard, Gates has ''found a way of asserting the existence of a separate black American tradition, and of asserting this in a way that places the black American tradition at the cutting edge of literary theory.'' He adds that ''many skeptics believe that Gates has merely found a gimmick.'' If his theoretical work is difficult, even at times impenetrable, he's also capable of writing for a general audience. For the front page of the Arts and Leisure section of The New York Times, he produced a hip analysis of black sitcoms and their relation to black experience, spicing a serious thesis with comic asides. (He proposed, for example, that the dazzling gold chains so important to Mr. T's ''A-Team'' costume carry ''a subliminal suggestion of bondage.'') Last month, The New York Times Book Review featured his Dashiell Hammett spoof, a name-dropping expose of the conspirators who shape the literary canon.
This impulse to reach a wide public is central to many of Gates's projects - especially ''The Norton Anthology of Afro-American Literature,'' which he hopes to publish in 1992. As general editor of the anthology, Gates finds himself in the somewhat paradoxical position of forming one canon while attacking another. Some critics distrust the idea of reproducing (and thereby reinforcing) what they consider a repressive system of cultural authority. Others resist the idea that African-American literature merits a canonical anthology in the first place. Gates concedes that in the interest of promoting the most significant African-American literature he's been forced ''to borrow a leaf from the right.'' But his pragmatic approach suits his aims. ''Publication of the anthology,'' he argues, ''will help institutionalize the teaching of African-American literature. Nobody will be able to say they can't teach it because it's too expensive to gather the materials or because the material is unavailable.'' To his colleagues on the left he says, ''You have to have a canon so the next generation can come along and explode it.''
ISAAC KRAMNICK'S SUBTERRANEAN Cornell office is too well-lit to be gloomy, and Professor Kramnick is too animated by his convictions to be depressed by his narrow basement quarters. He's defending Gates's talent for self-promotion, punctuating his argument by rapping his fist on his desk. ''To criticize Skip,'' he says, ''is to single him out as someone who exemplifies very profound changes in the faculty.'' Although many of Gates's projects excite controversy, nothing provokes so much pointed criticism as his evident glee at being a highflier. Well-publicized job offers from Columbia and Stanford University and the prolonged negotiations with Duke have made him a symbol for a new trend in self-marketing among an elite corps of superstar scholars.
Kramnick argues that though the university was once a refuge from the marketplace, and professors, proud of their calling, were loyal to the institution in which they taught, today the marketplace (in the form of outside offers) determines a scholar's worth; loyalty lasts until a better offer materializes. In this competitive climate, scholars have shown their willingness to dangle an outside offer in the hope that the home institution will match it - if not, they move on. When Stanford started wooing Gates, for example, Cornell created for him an endowed chair (he became the W. E. B. DuBois Professor of Literature) and asked him what would make him stay. He said, in essence, that he wanted to act as a one-man affirmative action committee, making sure that minorities were hired in every department; Cornell agreed.
The superstars (and even some lesser stars) can now write their own ticket. This new dispensation has created some inequalities and a good deal of bad feeling. ''The resentment some people feel in general,'' says Kramnick, ''is transferred to a few highly visible figures like Skip Gates.'' He shakes his head in disbelief. ''People always scream, 'Gates!' But they don't point to the white faculty who have gotten extraordinary deals by the same methods.''
The scarcity of black scholars has had a predictable effect. When the very few young black job candidates emerge from doctoral programs, they're besieged with offers if they're good; once they're established in a university, promotion often swiftly follows. Kramnick dismisses the idea that this ''black market'' will subvert standards: ''Sure, there will be second-rate blacks hired, but it will take till eternity for the number of second-rate blacks in the university to match the number of second-rate whites.''
Especially if current trends continue. According to the Department of Education, out of 34,033 doctorates awarded in the academic year 1986-87, a mere 1,060 went to blacks - down more than 16 percent from 1981. During the same period, the total number of doctorates awarded rose by nearly 3.6 percent. Today, about 3 percent of the nation's college faculty is black.
For Gates, these statistics are a call to arms. He points to the high attrition rate among black undergraduates, which he feels results primarily from ''cultural isolation and estrangement.'' As a cure, he suggests that a knowledge of one's own culture strengthens one for encounters with other cultures: ''One must learn how to be black in America.'' Strong African-American studies programs - if they're well-integrated with traditional departments - will help reverse the attrition rate, he contends. And the example of a community of successful black scholars may eventually feed more blacks into the pipeline to graduate studies and a university career.
From Cornell, home of a well-established black studies center, Gates is supposed to move permanently to Duke, where black studies have been moribund for the last decade. Duke offered his wife a job teaching ceramics at the Duke Institute of the Arts. They hired Anthony Appiah, a highly regarded professor of philosophy who accompanied Gates from Yale to Cornell and is (according to Gates) ''his closest intellectual and personal friend.'' They also hope, with Gates's help, to attract Wole Soyinka. Richard A. White, dean of Duke's college of arts and sciences, says that his office has been ''developing a list of black scholars who are interested in moving from wherever they are and coming to Duke.'' To revitalize black studies, the administration claims it is prepared to spend several hundred thousand dollars over the next few years. As Stanley Fish says, ''We have a lot of hopes pinned on Skip Gates.''
But Princeton seems ready to deflate those hopes. The presence of Toni Morrison, who directs the university's creative writing program, has already helped it attract an impressive array of black scholars and critics (including Cornel West, a professor of religion, and Arnold Rampersad, the biographer of Langston Hughes). And now the English department has voted to offer Gates a position.
''I was up there visiting,'' says Gates, who won't discuss the English department's vote but is unable to conceal his enthusiasm, ''and the President, Harold Shapiro, came over to me at this party they had for me and said, 'We want to start a graduate program in African-American studies' - I think they can do it, with or without me. They have good people now - Toni Morrison: need I say more? - and they have the potential to grow.''
If, as seems likely, Princeton makes a formal offer, the ''Gates negotiations'' will have to be reopened. Duke (which has so far shown little inclination to establish a graduate program in black studies) may have to expand on its promises and offer to become an important training ground for a new generation of African-American scholars. Skip Gates's institutional prowess is at work again.

GRAPHIC: Cover photo: Henry Louis Gates Jr.; Photos: Left: Gates at his North Carolina home.(Neal Slavin) (pg. 24); Right: A Black studies class at Princeton University.(Sara Krulwich/The New York Times) (pg. 25); Above, left: A copy of 'Our Nig,' the first American novel by a black author. Right: A portrait of a Gates ancestor, Jane Gates. (pg. 26-27); Family portrait with portraits: Gates, at home, with his wife, Sharon (left), and their daughters, Maggie (sitting) and Elizabeth. The photographs are of the Gates family; on the wall is a drawing of Gates's mother, Pauline. (Neal Slavin) (pg. 27)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CORNELL UNIVERSITY PRESS (53%); YALE UNIVERSITY (84%); YALE UNIVERSITY (84%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (59%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (59%); 

SUBJECT: BLACKS (IN US); COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); FOUNDATIONS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (72%); LITERATURE (72%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (72%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (72%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (66%); WRITERS (64%); 

PERSON: GATES, HENRY LOUIS JR; BEGLEY, ADAM; GATES, HENRY LOUIS JR (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH) HENRY LOUIS GATES JR (96%); 



31 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 6; Page 36, Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 4568 words

HEADLINE: HAVEL'S CHOICE

BYLINE: By Sanford J. Ungar: Sanford J. Ungar is dean of the School of Communication at American University in Washington.

 BODY:
ONLY THREE WEEKS INTO HER UNCONVENTIONAL ambassadorship, Rita Klimova has high technology on her plate. Just back from New York in her chauffeured Lincoln Continental, she is having a small dinner at her official residence on the edge of Rock Creek Park in Washington. The principal guest, the publisher of an international videotex service, is explaining how he will install his system in Czechoslovakia with American money.
The atmosphere is jolly - it all seems too good to be true. The publisher has already arranged to place 10 computers, gratis, in the office of President Vaclav Havel in Prague, and 800 to 1,000 more will soon be on their way, paid for by American foundations. The only unsettled issue is how the additional computers will be distributed; Klimova (pronounced klee-mo-VAH) wants to be sure the majority will be earmarked for newly private enterprises.
''I really can't see anything wrong with this,'' says Klimova after the publisher has gone. But there is a trace of wariness in her voice. Since she was chosen by the new Government in Prague to represent Czechoslovakia, many gifts have been pressed upon her - for herself, her President, or her country - and they have often been followed by tough-minded business propositions. No surprise there, perhaps, but for someone who has just emerged from more than four decades of life under Communism, the warm embrace of capitalism can sometimes be a bit suffocating. 
The publisher has left Klimova a diskette with his software, assuring her she can use it easily in her new Toshiba laptop computer. She nodded with satisfaction on accepting it. But now that he is safely out the door, she puts the diskette down and makes a confession: she hasn't been able to figure out how to use the laptop. She's been writing on an old manual typewriter borrowed from a friend.
Later, upstairs, Klimova settles onto a secondhand couch that an interior-decorator friend from London has obtained for the residence from a wealthy Washingtonian. She recounts her glittery two-day trip to New York - dinner with Barbara Walters and other television stars, lunch with Joan Didion and assorted literary figures. For the 58-year-old Klimova, being in America is part homecoming, part revenge, and part bewilderment. Barely five months ago, she was a persecuted dissident who had been hounded out of her university teaching job after the Soviet invasion in 1968. Now she's running Czechoslovakia's most important embassy, back in the country where, improbably, she attended public school 50 years ago.
Her mission is to convince the United States Government, and just as important, American corporations, that Czechoslovakia really is undergoing fundamental change - the kind of change that will make for an attractive business climate. Klimova is supposed to recruit investors, re-establish old political and cultural ties, and promote tourism - without spending any money. And on Capitol Hill, she must persuade wily senators and Congressmen that Czechoslovakia is a worthy competitor with Poland and Hungary for a piece of any new foreign-aid pie that may be created. If she is truly to reflect the crazy-quilt forces unleashed by the revolution at home, Klimova will talk like the conservative economist Milton Friedman with a chorus of Bob Dylan playing in the background, while somehow preserving the ideal of a unique Central European identity.
It will not be easy. Poland and Hungary were out of the gate first with their revolutions, and are supported by well-mobilized American constituencies - Solidarity, the Polish trade union, has been a household word in this country for a decade now. And the historical ties that once bound Czechoslovakia and the United States have become frayed over the years. Few Americans remember that President Woodrow Wilson helped create Czechoslovakia after World War I, by supporting Tomas Masaryk, the half-Czech, half-Slovak statesman, in his dream of building a new democratic country from the ruins of the Austro-Hungarian Empire.
Americans are more likely to think of Czechoslovakia as a country that capitulated easily to Hitler and then, after liberation by the Red Army, submitted rather willingly to more than 40 years of domination by the Soviet Union. As the winds of democratic change swept across Eastern Europe, Czechoslovakia stood alone with Romania as a bastion of Stalinism, with the old regime still putting dissidents on trial for subversion as recently as last fall.
For decades, Czechoslovakia's embassy in Washington was a backwater; its main business was to discourage American interest in the country, deny visas to would-be visitors and help do the dirty work of the K.G.B.
Indeed, Havel says Klimova's first and most important task in Washington will be to ''clean house'' - to get rid of the spies and secret police on the staff, easily identifiable as the people appointed by the Interior Ministry rather than the Foreign Ministry. ''After she reorganizes the embassy and brings in people she can trust,'' he says, ''she can begin to project our way of thinking in America.'' That part of the job should be easy. ''We don't have to teach her our policies,'' Havel says, ''because she helped formulate them.''
LIKE MOST CZECHOSLOVAKS, RITA Klimova was caught by surprise at the collapse of the old regime. She had been waiting for the revolution for more than two decades. But when it finally came last November, she nearly missed it.
She and her 23-year-old son, Vladimir (known as Vladya), had been in Hungary meeting with two Czechoslovak exiles from Rome and Geneva. The two were raising money to buy offset printing equipment for an underground newspaper being published by Klimova and other dissidents in Prague. After the group had reached agreement on how to smuggle it into Czechoslovakia, mother and son drove home on the evening of Sunday, Nov. 19. Two nights before, the police had brutally beaten students who were marching in the streets to commemorate a massacre by the Nazis 50 years earlier. Prague was seething with anger.
When she got back to her apartment, Klimova found a message: her friend Havel wanted her to come to his apartment at 9:30 the next morning.
Tired and unsuspecting, Klimova arrived at Havel's apartment overlooking the Vltava River 15 minutes late. A crowd was waiting. ''I was pushed into this room,'' she recalls, ''and it was unbelievable. I had never seen anything like it except in a movie . . . six television cameras and 20 photographers.'' Havel and half a dozen other activists had called a press conference, and they wanted to be sure that the person known to speak the best American English in the country would be there to convey their message to the outside world. Outraged by the police attack on the students (and emboldened by the fall of the Berlin Wall earlier that month), they were now launching an opposition movement, Obcanske Forum. It would seek the downfall of Czechoslovakia's hard-line Communist Government.
Klimova took a seat next to Havel and began interpreting. She translated Obcanske as ''Civic,'' and Civic Forum it became. For the next several weeks, as the old order crumbled, hers was the English-language voice of the ''velvet revolution'' - another Klimov-ism - reciting non-negotiable demands with a hurried, slightly breathless accent and an impatient tone perfected in her early teens on the Upper West Side of Manhattan.
Klimova was no stranger to anyone who had contact with the Czechoslovak dissident movement in recent years. I first met her during a visit to Prague in 1987. With her two children grown and the assurance of a state pension (she had just retired at 55), that was the year she emerged from the shadows and began to take chances.
''Rita became everyone's first stop in Prague,'' says Jeri Laber, executive director of Helsinki Watch, the human rights organization. ''She performed a role similar to that of Anatoly Shcharansky in Moscow.'' To protect her, visiting reporters never quoted Klimova by name, but they used her as a trusted source for insights on events in Czechoslovakia. She also provided phone numbers and introductions. Her two-room apartment (so tiny it could easily fit into the living room of her official embassy residence) had a reputation as a safe place to meet representatives of Charter 77 and other opposition groups.
Americans in particular made it a point to see Klimova, because of her extraordinary command of English and her subtle knowledge of - and not-so-subtle fanaticism about - everything American. Here was a person who kept a veritable library of hard-to-find American books, magazines and newspapers, not to mention videocassettes; a restless extrovert who, in a country where most people had been forced to learn Russian, drew on a rich treasury of slightly dated American idioms and slang expressions to vilify the corrupt, inbred regime in Prague.
In fact, I was tempted initially to believe that Klimova was only pretending to be Czechoslovak. ''Not even in New York,'' observed one recent visitor from New York, ''do you find anyone who speaks such perfect New York Jewish English!''
''I'M EXOTIC,'' KLIMOVA BOASTS WITH A PROUD GRIN. ''I'm almost like a creature from the zoo.'' Certainly, even by Central European standards, Rita Klimova has had an eventful life. She remembers being hustled by her mother to a village in southeast Bohemia in the fall of 1938, a few months before her seventh birthday, in fear that war with Germany might lead to air raids on Prague. (The family returned to the city after the Munich Pact was signed.) And she describes seeing her parents, both Jewish, in the kitchen of their apartment on March 15, 1939, the day Hitler occupied Prague, burning their radical books and plotting their escape.
But her most vivid, rapturous recollections of her youth revolve around her days in the New York City public schools, which she attended from third through ninth grades. ''I pledge allegiance to the flag,'' she begins with a chuckle, and goes on to recite the Pledge of Allegiance flawlessly. ''I was completely American,'' she says. ''I liked Frank Sinatra, I liked hamburgers and hot dogs. . . .I didn't have a middle name like everyone else, so I invented one: Jane.'' She went often to Radio City Music Hall to see the Rockettes with an American cousin, who would take her to lunch at Schrafft's. She was a champion cookie-seller in the Girl Scouts and learned how to use makeup and nail polish from Seventeen magazine. Her mother dragged her to politically correct Pete Seeger concerts and events sponsored by Russian War Relief, but she preferred going to Carnegie Hall to see Billie Holiday and Count Basie. For her, she says, ''the war was like it was nonexistent.''
After the Allied victory, Klimova pleaded with her parents to remain in the United States, but to no avail. With their Americanized daughter in tow, they returned to Prague in 1946 to build Socialism. There, Klimova found that she could be an instant social success, a walking opportunity for her peers to practice their English. Because her Czech had deteriorated, she attended an English-language Gymnasium, where many of the students came from conservative families. As an act of adolescent rebellion against the school authorities, she organized a handful of fellow students into a Communist cell.
Social reasons also motivated her to sign up with the party at 17. ''The real reason I joined the Communist Party,'' she says, ''is that the boys were so much nicer'' - since party members were intent on learning Russian, not English, they tended not to treat her as a language course.
Klimova missed the Communist takeover of her country. When thousands of Czechoslovaks crowded into Prague's Old Town square to cheer Klement Gottwald's putsch in 1948, she was off on a school skiing trip.
In 1951, fresh out of high school, Klimova went to work for a year as a lathe-turner in a factory making engines for Soviet MIG jet fighters. There she became an officer of the Communist youth organization and, she acknowledges, an admirer of Stalin: ''I thought he was crucial to everything, and great, of course.''
These views, which evolved gradually, were influenced by the enthusiasm of young people around her, and by her parents. Both were journalists who had drifted into Communist student circles in the early 1920's, soon after they immigrated to Prague from the western Ukraine by way of Vienna. By 1934, her father, Batya Bat (well known by his pen name of Stanislav Budin), was editor of Rude Pravo, the Czechoslovak Communist Party's daily newspaper. He lost his job two years later when he was expelled from the party in a doctrinal dispute.
At the time, her mother was given the choice of divorcing her husband or resigning from the party. She resigned. Still, during their time in America and on their return, the Budins defended the policies of Stalin and the Comintern, and Klimova's mother even rejoined the party. (Her father did not, which may have saved his life during the anti-Semitic purges of the 1950's.) Both before and after entering the Prague School of Economics, Klimova served on screening committees that decided whether students were politically fit to continue their education. She insists that she never informed on anyone, but admits she assumed that teachers and others who were accused of ''antigovernment activities'' were guilty and deserved their punishment. ''I swallowed the ideology hook, line and sinker,'' she says now. True believers were well rewarded by the system in Czechoslovakia. Upon obtaining her master's degree in 1958 (she later earned a doctorate), Klimova was invited to teach at Prague's prestigious Charles University, where she lectured on the history of economic thought and the economics of the Anglo-Saxon countries. By then, she had married Zdenek Mlynar, another up-and-coming Communist intellectual. A roommate of Mikhail Gorbachev at Moscow State University, he later played a key role in Alexander Dubcek's ''Prague Spring'' in 1968. (She and her husband separated in 1966, six months after the birth of Vladya, and divorced the following year. Klimova also has a daughter from the marriage, Milena, now 32.) Klimova seems uncomfortable now when pressed to explain why so many people, including herself, were willing to condone serious abuses in the name of Communism. ''We thought it was inevitable and correct, that they knew what they were doing and had the blueprint for a better society,'' she says. ''Everybody came to regret that view. Absolutely everybody. It just took a while. Some people became disillusioned with Communism very early and some a little later, and some had to wait until the tanks came.''
She dates her own awakening to the early 1960's, when Czechoslovakia's economy stopped growing; she found plausible explanations not in Marxist texts, but in the Western economists she had been reading on the side. Nevertheless, the Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia in 1968, she says, ''was just about the biggest shock of my life.'' The crackdown that accompanied ''normalization'' in Czechoslovakia took some time to reach people like Klimova. Convinced that she was the only one who could teach her courses, she thought she could not possibly be fired. But in 1970, when a committee began to look for members of the faculty who had continued to oppose the Soviet intervention, she was one of the first to lose her party card and her job. Her department was dissolved.
''I expected to become a cashier in a self-service restaurant,'' Klimova recalls. ''There were endless debates among my friends about who would end up doing what, and I just hoped to get something clean, indoors and sitting down.'' Others became manual laborers, construction workers or cleaning women. Jiri Dienstbier, the current Foreign Minister, worked as a stoker after losing his job as a radio journalist. But Klimova was assigned to work in the university's accounting department and then carved out a niche for herself as a freelance English interpreter at medical conferences.
After her father signed Charter 77, a petition drafted in 1977 demanding that the Government respect fundamental human rights, the family was subjected to petty harassment - their house was searched, they were required to take multiple tests to renew driver licenses and they were ordered to move into a smaller apartment. In 1978, she married Zdenek Klima (hence Klimova), a former diplomat who had also been purged from the party. He died suddenly of a heart attack two years later. By this time both her parents were also dead, and for several years her life was very bleak indeed. The Government succeeded in repressing almost all dissident activity, and she faded from view. It is Klimova's son, Vladimir Mlynar, who takes credit for getting his mother out of the doldrums and back into action. Denied an education because of his parents' politics, he went to work as a hospital orderly and, in the evenings, was a driver for counterculture musicians and other dissidents. Through these contacts, when he was barely 20 years old, he became part of a clandestine courier network, a channel that brought everything from forbidden manuscripts to computers and photocopying machines into Czechoslovakia from West Germany. Often the material was divided up into small packages at Klimova's apartment; often Vaclav Havel was one of the customers who received late-night deliveries.
Before long, Klimova was going to cocktail parties and passing secret messages to diplomats who were helping the channel. At Vladya's urging, she became involved - along with some former journalist colleagues of her father - in reviving an old, politically independent Czechoslovak newspaper, Lidove Noviny, in samizdat form. And, at the urging of Jiri Dienstbier, a former student of hers, she served occasionally as an interpreter for Havel. ''I was not one for going to prison,'' Klimova says, but she found herself drawn inexorably into the network.
For years, Klimova was stubbornly pessimistic about the prospects for change in Czechoslovakia. Early last November, she was still telling visiting reporters that things looked bad. But by early December, when it became clear that the Communist Government really would topple, she agreed to join the staff of Valtr Komarek, an economic forecaster who would become Deputy Prime Minister. She looked forward to prodding him from the right, urging the quickest possible transition to an open economy with free-market prices. Before she could start the job, however, Klimova met Meda Mladek, a prominent Czechoslovak emigre from Washington, who came to Prague to watch the revolution unfold. Mladek was impressed with Klimova's public performances and urged Dienstbier to name her Ambassador to the United States. Dienstbier liked the idea and offered her the job. Klimova says, ''It took me 30 seconds to accept.''
I VISITED KLIMOVA IN PRAGUE EARLIER this year as she was preparing to move. Racing to squeeze in medical appointments and a frantic round of lunches, she was besieged by job seekers, entrepreneurs and assorted opportunists. Finally, on a Sunday afternoon, we rode together on the train to Vienna, where she was going overnight to spend a small reserve of hard currency on five pairs of new ambassadorial shoes. At the Austrian border - the old Iron Curtain - when police combed the train, as they had done every day for more than 40 years, she froze and answered their questions with uncharacteristic sheepishness.
On the train, Klimova described her vision of Czechoslovakia's future simply: ''a European-style democracy, similar to France but neutral like Austria, with a flourishing economy'' doing business with multinational corporations. With the right kind of effort, she believes, Czechoslovakia can develop its own strong exports, including small airplanes, costume jewelry, clothing, beer and, through conversion of its arms industry, hunting guns. ''And who knows,'' she added, ''eventually maybe we can create a welfare state.''
But none of this is possible, according to Klimova, unless her country's newfound freedom is guaranteed by the withdrawal of Soviet troops, as rapidly as possible: if Gorbachev does not survive, she fears, a conservative successor might reverse the flow of Soviet soldiers, now scheduled to be gone by June 30, 1991.
Klimova's firmly practical, economist's approach at times seems out of sync with the stranger rhythms of her country's unfolding revolution. ''I am really very square,'' she says. ''We are caught in something of a time warp, as if we stopped developing culturally in 1968. People have to get some things out of their system.'' Thus she watched in amusement, but without comment, as the rock star Frank Zappa jetted into Prague and offered his advice on how to revive the country's economy and as Havel, besieged on all sides, took off an entire weekend to meditate with the Dalai Lama.
For their part, old-line reform Communists have treated Klimova's assignment to Washington as a curious one, the selection of an amateur who knows little of diplomacy. (The Foreign Ministry sent her a book called ''Diplomaticka praxe,'' but it seemed to deal mostly with how to address letters and what male diplomats should wear.) The Americans, by contrast, have expressed their pleasure, both publicly and privately, at this overtly political appointment, much the way that many Czechoslovaks are happy to have a well-connected Republican figure, Shirley Temple Black, at the American Embassy in Prague.
Almost anything Klimova does in Washington during her early days is bound to be an improvement over the dark age when the Czechoslovak Embassy was a hostile presence. Traces of that era linger. Just before Klimova got there, the embassy still had a switchboard operator who barely spoke English. The visa office claimed to have applications available only in German, and still had a stockpile of pamphlets extolling state ownership of the means of production in Czechoslovakia and stressing the benefits from its membership in the Warsaw Pact.
A WEEK AFTER I LEFT HER AT THE TRAIN STATION IN Vienna, I rode out to Washington's Dulles Airport to watch Klimova arrive to take up her post. She had been sent first-class on Pan Am (which lost her luggage on the way from Frankfurt), and had a mobile lounge of her own to bring her from the plane to the terminal. A State Department protocol officer held her by the elbow as some two dozen greeters, official and unofficial, applauded and pressed bouquets of flowers into her arms until they overflowed. The largest ones came from the embassy people, unaware that she was under orders to ship some of them home as soon as possible. A group of children in traditional costumes - the sons and daughters of emigres - wished her success in hard-learned Czech.
Two days later, I stopped at the Embassy of Czechoslovakia, a modern, fortresslike building. It was after working hours. Supervising the preparations for Havel's visit the following week was the Democratic activist Madeleine K. Albright, whose father was a Czechoslovak diplomat who sought asylum in the United States after the Communist takeover of 1948. Painters were hard at work, giving the public rooms a face lift. Meda Mladek had replaced shabby, stereotypical East-bloc wall hangings with collages, abstract paintings and avant-garde sculptures by Czech and Slovak artists who had been repressed for years. The permanent staff of the embassy looked on in amazement. The revolution had finally touched their lives, too.
Havel's visit to Washington and New York was a triumph, although 2,000 people turned up for an embassy reception to which 600 had been invited. Klimova rode in the motorcades, listened from the House floor to Havel's address to a joint session of Congress, went to the Lincoln Memorial at midnight with him and Senator Edward M. Kennedy, and had lunch at the White House. In New York, when Havel received an honorary degree from Columbia University, Klimova made a nostalgic return to Low Library, where her mother had worked in the cataloguing department during the war, while her father edited an emigre Czechoslovak newspaper, New Yorkske Listy.
But now the real work begins. The ''way of thinking'' that Havel wants Klimova to explain to the American Government calls for an end to NATO, along with the Warsaw Pact, to create what Havel calls a ''Europe without pacts.'' There is one major problem: however enchanted they may be with Czechoslovakia's playwright-president in other respects, George Bush and his Secretary of State, James Baker, hate this idea. Klimova must help reassure American officials almost daily that Havel does not advocate driving the United States and all traces of its influence from a united Europe.
Most of Klimova's American friends are liberal Democrats, but her ideas on economics and foreign policy are distinctly conservative Republican. (On the refrigerator in her Prague apartment, a tiny Bush-Quayle campaign button sits next to an ''I H New York'' magnet.) Left to her own devices, she gleefully indulges in anti-Communist and anti-Soviet rhetoric. During one recent public forum in Washington, she skewered the Washington bureau chief of Tass, the official Soviet news agency. Against her friends' advice, Klimova granted an interview to Radio Marti, the alternative radio service the United States beams at Cuba. This is especially awkward since the Czechoslovak Embassy still officially represents Cuban interests in Washington. (There are discussions under way to see whether some other country might like to take over the job. Switzerland, which represents American interests in Havana, would seem to be a likely candidate.) The housecleaning at the embassy has begun, and just recently the ''press attache'' (with whom the Washington press corps had never had any dealings) departed for home; several other staff members will be similarly ''rotated'' by summer. As they leave, their vaguely defined jobs will be eliminated and the embassy's visa section expanded in anticipation of increased tourism. It has been proposed that the visa requirement be eliminated entirely for Americans, but Klimova says, ''We can't do that, because we need the $16''- that is, the hard-currency fee for each visa.
Her biggest problem, says Klimova, is time. ''I've been more or less available on a first-come, first-served basis so far, and then when more important things come along, I find that I'm already busy,'' she complains. ''I feel I should be lobbying. I don't have any problem picking up the phone and calling the Congressmen I met in Prague, but it's hard to figure out when to do it.''
If anything, Klimova seems more American than ever - especially when comparing the burgers at Roy Rogers and McDonald's. Having resisted opportunities to immigrate to the United States in 1968 and 1977, she's finally here on her own terms, and her Czechoslovak identity remains intact. Would she, could she, ever think of staying? ''Only if things get very bad at home, and I could bring my children and grandchildren here, too. But I couldn't afford to live here as an American.'' She thinks the problem over for a moment, and adds: ''I'd have to marry a rich American man.''

GRAPHIC: Phoots: Rita Klimova in Prague shortly before taking up her duties in Washington. (Antonin Kratochvil) (pg. 36-37); A local Prague tailor fits the ambassador for an evening dress. Since coming to the U.S., Klimova has been on a hectic schedule. (Antonin Kratochvil) (pg. 38); Klimova with Vaclav Havel in the secret apartment he used when he was a dissident. Now, it is his private presidential office. (Antonin Kratochvil) (pg. 40)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TOS (LSE) (54%); 6502 (TSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); CZECH REPUBLIC (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); 

CITY: PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (90%); 

COMPANY: TOSHIBA CORP (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CZECHOSLOVAKIA

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; FOREIGN SERVICE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (76%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (70%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (68%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (62%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (61%); 

PERSON: KLIMOVA, RITA (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH); KLIMOVA, RITA (AMB); UNGAR, SANFORD J BARBARA WALTERS (50%); 



32 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 6; Part 2, Page 8, Column 1; Business World Magazine

LENGTH: 624 words

HEADLINE: TO START WITH . . .;
APRIL FOOLS' DAY, INTEL-STYLE

 BODY:
FOR THE 22,000 EMPLOYEES OF the Intel Corporation, the hottest item on their cafeteria newsstands this week will be an eight-page magazine with a strong resemblance to the National Enquirer. The subject matter is close to home: the workers and operations of Intel, the world's largest manufacturer of microprocessors, based in Santa Clara, Calif. Among the articles: an Elvis sighting at one factory, a U.F.O. sighting at another. But the feature most calculated to draw readers is an advertisement.
There's Andrew S. Grove, the company's C.E.O., with a spray-painted X across his face; below him stands Craig R. Barrett, recently named executive vice president and a potential successor. The layout of the ad is second cousin to a series the company has been running to promote its new 386SX chip with the slogan, ''Now you can't afford to wait.'' What Barrett is saying, though, is: ''Now! I can't afford to wait.'' It's April Fools' Day at Intel. 
For eight years, the company has been marking the occasion with a special issue of its magazine devoted entirely to harassing executives and sending up company policies.
The semiconductor business was deep in the doldrums in 1983 when the first issue appeared. The cover carried a photo of the company's chairman proclaiming, ''I'll be right eventually,'' and the headline, ''Gordon Moore Once Again Announces End of Recession.'' Inside, one story reported a spate of new training courses, including ''M2A - INTEL ARROGANCE - Especially for marketing personnel'' and and ''M5W - THE WOMAN MANAGER - Course to be developed when needed.''
By 1984, the industry was booming, and Intel was fending off desperate purchasing agents. The April Fools' issue reported plans to remove all company signs from sales offices and change their telephones to unlisted numbers. But the business was back in the tank a year later, and Jack C. Carsten, then the senior vice president in charge of microprocessor manufacturing and sales, appeared on the cover breakfasting on a bowl of chips above the headline, ''If You Can't Sell 'Em, Eat 'Em.''
Over the years, Grove, too, has taken his licks. In 1987, he appeared on the cover in Japanese costume beside the headline, ''Japanese Buy Intel.'' The cover story reported that, following the acquisition, Intel's market share in Japan had doubled overnight. ''In a swift move designed to salve Intel's wounded pride,'' the article noted, ''Andy Grove was named Shogun of the company and the entire executive staff was given unlimited privileges at Mitsubishi's private golf course near Kyoto.''
Within the chip industry, Intel is otherwise known for its spartan, no-nonsense corporate culture. The top officers set the example, working in cubicles, eating in the cafeteria. In 1988, the company took a gentler tack with the slogan, ''Make Intel a great place to work.''
The cover of the next April Fools' issue showed employees cavorting on the grounds of the ''Intel Golf & Country Club.'' Inside, it was reported that Robert W. Reed, the chief financial officer, had been named ''chief fun officer,'' responsible for coming up with new on-the-job recreational activities. Meals were now being delivered to staffers' desks: ''People who work late - after 3 P.M. - receive a choice of barbecued filet mignon or mesquite-broiled salmon.''
Such high jinks are far from standard fare in company magazines, at Intel or elsewhere. Grove offers this rationale for the special issue: ''When things are tough, or even when they're not tough, it's important not to take ourselves too seriously - the work, yes, but oneself not at all.'' He does not see the issue before it is printed. ''People know that,'' he says, ''so whatever happens, it's not on my head.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Craig R. Barrett crossing out portrait of Andrew S. Grove from April Fools' Day issue of Intel's corporate magazine

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (97%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (97%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (72%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (72%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (97%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTEL CORP

SUBJECT: APRIL FOOL'S DAY; EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); MICROPROCESSORS (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (74%); ELECTRONICS (73%); SEMICONDUCTORS (71%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (68%); RECESSION (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); MARKET SHARE (63%); GOLF (63%); 

PERSON: ANDREW S GROVE (74%); 



33 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 1990
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 6; Part 2, Page 16, Column 1; Business World Magazine

LENGTH: 5399 words

HEADLINE: BUFFET TAKES STOCK

BYLINE: By L. J. Davis; L. J. Davis, a contributing editor of Harper's Magazine, writes about business from New York.

 BODY:
HE ALWAYS EXPECTED THAT HE would one day be rich, Warren E. Buffett says, although it is doubtful that the man now known as the Oracle of Omaha had any inkling of just how rich he would actually become. Last year, Forbes Magazine estimated his personal fortune to be in excess of $4 billion. With Berkshire Hathaway, a one-time textile manufacturer, as his vehicle, Buffett at age 59 has achieved an enviable standing in the world of finance. Laurence A. Tisch, the chairman of Loews Corporation and president of CBS, and himself no slouch in these matters, says that Buffett has had ''the most brilliant career in American investment history.''
Warren Buffett has been a student of the stock market since he was 9 years old: ''I used to chart all kinds of stock, the more numbers the better.'' When he was in his rebellious stage in high school, he recalls, ''I shorted a few shares of American Telephone because I knew that all my teachers owned it. They thought I knew about stocks, and I thought if I shorted A.T.&T., I would terrorize them about their retirement.'' 
It was one of the very few times that Warren Buffett has allowed emotion to dictate an investment. His discipline as an investor, his devotion to a rational, coherent strategy, are legendary. As a shrewd purchaser of stock and, on occasion, whole companies, he has compiled a record of unparalleled success. Yet in many ways, he is very different from the popular image of the financial titan.
With his off-the-rack suits and unruly, thinning hair, Buffett resembles nothing so much as a mildly eccentric clerk in a discount shoe store. He lives in a middle-class Omaha neighborhood in the house that he bought in 1958 for $31,500. He collects model trains. In fact, he has sometimes been portrayed as the quintessential cornfed, ''aw-shucks'' hick. Nothing could be further from the truth. Buffett, who reads the philosopher Bertrand Russell for relaxation, has a wit and erudition seldom encountered in his profession.
There is about him a remarkable sense of play, of business as an intensely enjoyable game. ''I'm the luckiest guy in the world in terms of what I do for a living,'' he says. ''No one can tell me to do things I don't believe in or things I think are stupid.'' In the age of the quick buck, he has been free to pursue long-term investments in well-run, responsible companies. In the process, he has acquired a reputation for prudence and probity. ''Warren wants to succeed,'' says Louis Lowenstein, head of Columbia University's Center for Law and Economic Studies, ''but he's not greedy.''
Within the investment community, Buffett is renowned as a follower of Benjamin Graham, widely regarded as the father of modern securities analysis. Graham held that the stock market is a highly irrational place where most participants brainlessly purchase stocks as prices rise and brainlessly sell them as prices fall. The disciplined, rational Graham investor seeks out stocks - Buffett calls them ''sleeping beauties'' - that are selling substantially below book value (redefined by Graham to eliminate good will and accounts receivable). When the market eventually corrects its mistake, the investor takes his profit.
Over the years, Buffett has rung a number of changes on the Graham methodology. For example, he has made major investments in companies with no net worth whatsoever. Recently, however, he has wandered further from the master's footsteps, attracting unaccustomed criticism. Specifically, Buffett has emerged as a so-called ''white squire,'' an investor who purchases large blocks of stock in companies threatened by takeover and receives unique financial concessions in return. He has also raised capital for Berkshire Hathaway by issuing zero-coupon bonds, which give him a handsome tax break on interest payments he will probably never make.
''Ben would not have bought any of the stocks we own now,'' Buffett says. Ironically, Graham would undoubtedly have avoided buying Berkshire Hathaway shares as well. As of the first week of March, the company was trading in the vicinity of $7,200, down by more than $1,500 from its peak last year but still the most expensive listing on the New York Stock Exchange. At that price, Berkshire's stock fetches 1.8 times book value. Buffett says that book value does not accurately reflect the true worth of any holding, but it remains extremely unlikely that Benjamin Graham would have invested two cents in the company of his most prominent disciple.
VISITORS TO WARREN BUFFETT's offices on the 14th floor of a plain-vanilla office building on the edge of downtown Omaha are greeted by a small porcelain plaque inscribed with the words: ''A fool and his money are soon invited everywhere.'' Buffett's total staff consists of a chief financial officer, four accountants, two secretaries, a part-time treasurer and a personal assistant, Gladys Kaiser, who has been with him for 22 years.
Scattered about Buffett's own office, a modest space with walls of emerald green, are miniature sculptures of bulls and bears. Under a glass dome rests an antique Edison stock ticker, but there are no electronic calculators, no Quotrons, no computers. ''I am a computer,'' he says.
His ''data base'' includes copies of his first income-tax returns - they date back to 1944, when he was 13. At the time, he ran two paper routes and published a racing tip sheet called ''Stableboy Selections.'' He has also preserved a 1931 letter written by his grandfather, Ernest H. Buffett. Warren's father, Howard, had recently opened a stock brokerage. In the letter, Grandfather Buffett advised his fellow Rotarians not to patronize the new firm. ''He said his son was a nice young fellow,'' Warren Buffett explains, ''but he didn't really know his stocks.''
The firm prospered nonetheless, providing young Warren, a frequent visitor, with an early introduction to the mysteries of the marketplace. By the time he was 8 or 9, he was marking up stock prices on the blackboard at the local office of Harris Upham.
''I was always interested in statistics,'' recalls Buffett, who developed a precocious and lasting taste for horse handicapping. ''There are a lot of similarities between handicapping and investing. There are speed handicappers and class handicappers. The speed handicapper says you try and figure out how fast the horse can run. A class handicapper says a $10,000 horse will beat a $6,000 horse. Ben Graham said, 'Buy any stock cheap enough and it will work.' That was the speed handicapper. And other people said, 'Buy the best company, and it will work.' That's class handicapping.''
In 1942, Buffett's father entered his first Congressional race. ''He was such an improbable candidate,'' Buffett says, ''that neither he nor his opponent took him seriously. On election night, he wrote out his concession statement, went to bed at nine o'clock and woke up the next morning to find he'd won.''
The family moved to Fredericksburg, Va. ''I was miserably homesick,'' Buffett recalls. ''I told my parents I couldn't breathe. I told them not to worry about it, to get a good night's sleep themselves, and I'd just stand up all night.'' He describes his classroom performance as ''miserable,'' but his business thrived. He established a company that placed pinball machines in the capital's barbershops. By the time he was 20, he had $9,800 in cash.
At his father's urging, Buffett attended the Wharton School of Business at the University of Pennsylvania. He lasted two years. ''I didn't feel I was learning that much,'' he says. ''Nebraska called, Wharton repelled.'' He finished his undergraduate education at the University of Nebraska, then applied to the Harvard Business School. ''The interview in Chicago took about 10 minutes,'' he says, ''and they threw me back in the water.''
Buffett had read a book entitled ''The Intelligent Investor,'' by Benjamin Graham - a popular version of ''Security Analysis,'' his classic study written with David L. Dodd. ''I don't want to sound like a religious fanatic or anything, but it really did get me,'' Buffett says. Graham was teaching at Columbia University's Graduate School of Business. Buffett enrolled.
The Graham method of value investing had one characteristic that was not shared by many market theories: an extraordinary portion of the time, it worked. To Graham, the actual business of a company was immaterial. The difference between its market price and its discounted book value was everything, providing an all-important Margin of Safety that would protect the original investment and insure future profits. In the short run, the market was irrational, but in the long run it would detect the discrepancy between the price of a stock and the underlying value of the actual company. ''It was sort of a no-brainer,'' says Buffett.
Graham practiced what he preached at a small Wall Street investment firm, Graham-Newman. Buffett was eager to join him there, and Graham eventually capitulated. ''It was easier than being pestered,'' says Buffett. The new man soon discovered that he and Graham had somewhat differing views of practical investing: ''Ben was not interested in going as deeply into corporate analysis as I might be.''
In 1956, two years after Buffett joined him, Graham wound up the business and retired; over the years, his investors had received a return of 19 percent, compounded annually - almost precisely the figure he had predicted. And Buffett returned to Omaha.
AT BISHOP'S LODGE IN Santa Fe, N.M., last September, two dozen business luminaries from around the nation gathered at Warren Buffett's behest to share four days of fun and games. Among those in attendance: Donald R. Keough, president of the Coca-Cola Company, of which Berkshire Hathaway owns 7 percent; Thomas S. Murphy and Daniel B. Burke, chairman and president, respectively, of Capital Cities/ABC (Berkshire owns 17 percent); Katharine Graham and her son, Donald, principal owners of The Washington Post (Berkshire has 13 percent).
The high point of the festivities came with a re-enactment of the Time-Warner merger. Murphy played Time's president, Nicholas J. Nicholas Jr., while Burke took the part of chairman J. Richard Munro. Katharine Graham was the ghost of Clare Boothe Luce, the wife of Time's founder, Henry Luce. And John J. Byrne, chairman of Fireman's Fund Insurance Company, served as moderator amid heckling and catcalls from a knowledgeable audience that included Laurence Tisch.
Buffett's biannual get-togethers originated with a reunion of 11 of Benjamin Graham's former students and associates and their mentor in 1968. ''They were moderately well to do then,'' says Buffett. ''They're all rich now. They haven't invented Federal Express or anything like that. They just set one foot in front of the other. Ben put it all down. It's just so simple.'' Over the years, the gatherings have broadened to reflect the host's wide circle of acquaintances, but not the growing size of his purse. Everyone goes Dutch.
When Warren Buffett returned to Omaha from his stint with Graham in New York, he was 25 years old, married with two children, and his personal fortune stood at $140,000. ''I thought it was enough to retire on,'' he says. ''I had no master plan.'' Soon, however, he was approached by family members in need of investment advice. Buffett established a partnership, informing his investors: ''I'll run it like I run my own money, and I'll take part of the losses and part of the profits. And I won't tell you what I'm doing.''
Over the following 13 years, Buffett achieved a compounded annual return of 29.5 percent, and the total fund, including some investments from new partners, grew from $105,000 to $105 million. Buffett's own wealth rose to $25 million.
Among the new partners was a local physician, who contacted Buffett in 1957, listened with seeming indifference to his ideas - and then pledged a $100,000 investment. When Buffett asked why, the doctor replied: ''Well, you remind me of a fellow named Charlie Munger.''
Two years later, Buffett actually met Charles T. Munger, an Omaha native six years his senior who had been practicing law in Los Angeles. The two became fast friends and began doing business together in 1967. ''It was never a formal partnership,'' says Munger, ''but we were partners.'' (In 1978, he became vice chairman of Berkshire Hathaway.) Munger was not an unqualified admirer of the theories of Benjamin Graham. ''I thought a lot of them were just madness,'' he says. ''They ignored relevant facts.'' Buffett was still learning to adapt Graham's principles to the new realities of the marketplace. ''I evolved,'' he says. ''I didn't go from ape to human or human to ape in a nice, even manner.'' He searched for bargains and, as he puts it, ''I had the misfortune to find some.'' Specifically, Buffett bought a struggling Nebraska farm-equipment manufacturer and a third-rate Baltimore department store. ''When a management with a reputation for brilliance tackles a business with a reputation for bad economics,'' he says, ''it is the reputation of the business that survives.''
A more lasting Graham-inspired investment was the 1965 purchase of Berkshire Hathaway, a New Bedford, Mass., company that had once spun a quarter of the nation's fine cotton. The company sold for about $12 a share but had a book value of more than $19 a share. The difference represented Graham's Margin of Safety, and Buffett needed every dollar of it as the textile industry continued its inexorable decline.
But elsewhere in his investment strategy, Buffett had begun to analyze companies in a highly un-Grahamlike fashion. Instead of relying simply on book value, he studied a company's management and performance. Rather than simply pursuing bargains per se - a mediocre company at a very cheap price, for example - ''I became very interested in buying a wonderful business at a moderate price.''
Buffett's first great coup in that regard was the American Express Company. In 1963, devastated by a scandal involving a large quantity of nonexistent salad oil, the company saw its stock price plummet from around $60 to $34. It was hardly a Ben Graham investment situation: facing a $60 million loss, American Express effectively had no net worth. There was no Margin of Safety.
''But as far as I was concerned,'' Buffett says, ''that $60 million was a dividend they'd mailed to the stockholders, and it got lost in the mail. I mean, if they'd declared a $60 million dividend, everybody wouldn't have thought the world was going to hell.''
A careful scrutiny of the company revealed that American Express virtually owned the nation's traveler's check business and possessed by far the strongest credit card, assets that were entirely unaffected by the scandal. Together, the check and card businesses constituted an unassailable franchise - what Buffett calls ''a castle with a moat around it,'' his new Margin of Safety. A franchise, as Buffett defines it, consists of a product or service that people will seek out and ask for by name, even if it is priced above the competition. ''It ain't a wonderful business if it doesn't have a franchise,'' he says.
As a rule, Buffett had never committed more than a quarter of the partnership's capital to a single investment, but he broke that rule now, pouring $13 million - 40 percent of the capital - into American Express. He sold out two years later for a $20 million profit.
Buffett found many an opportunity in the mid-1960's. ''I went from flower to flower in those days,'' he recalls. But as the decade waned, and the stock market boomed, the opportunities grew fewer.
OVER THE YEARS, WARREN Buffett has developed his own very distinctive modus operandi. Yet he does little, he says, that the average serious investor cannot do for himself. His investment ideas, in the main, come from reading annual reports, the financial press and trade magazines. He determines the ''intrinsic value'' of a business by judging management's ability to allocate capital intelligently and by analyzing the outlook for the company's products and its industry. He arrives at the dollar value of the business by computing its future cash flow, allowing for inflation and interest rates.
Herewith, a sampling of Buffett's insights:
Knowing the Company. ''We don't buy things we don't understand.'' Buffett says he has trouble getting a fix on cyclical and capital-intensive industries such as automobile manufacturing. ''If I'd been right on Ford, I'd have made a lot of money. Because I didn't know the right price to pay for Ford in 1980 or 1982, I probably don't know the right price to pay now. The difference is that I know I don't know.''
Efficient Market Theory. This theory, widely taught in business schools, holds that the market already knows everything of consequence about a company and has priced its stock accordingly; it is therefore a waste of time for the individual investor to undertake his own study of a business. Buffett regards the market as a highly inefficient place. ''I think it's fascinating how the ruling orthodoxy can cause a lot of people to think the earth is flat. Investing in a market where people believe in efficiency is like playing bridge with someone who's been told it doesn't do any good to look at the cards.''
When Not to Buy. ''For some reason, people take their cues from price action rather than from values. What doesn't work is when you start doing things that you don't understand or because they worked last week for somebody else. The dumbest reason in the world to buy a stock is because it's going up.''
Index Funds. The investment community has devised instruments, called index funds, that are often based on the collective performance of a basket of companies. ''You don't try and figure out who has the best business and who are the best managers. It's a know-nothing approach, essentially. The people who sell index funds, though, don't charge like it's a know-nothing approach.''
Value Investing. ''The fact that it's so simple makes people reluctant to teach it. If you've gone and gotten a Ph.D. and spent years learning how to do all kinds of tough things mathematically, to have it come back to this is - it's like studying for the priesthood and finding out that the Ten Commandments were all you needed.''
IN 1969, AS THE BULL market wound down, Warren Buffett informed his investors that he was winding up the partnership. His stated reasons were several. The partnership's capital had grown so large that small investments were no longer reasonable, and he could find no big investments to his liking. In addition, the market was too speculative for his taste. ''I didn't know how to be a hero anymore,'' he says. Whereas he had once been a Niagara of new ideas, he was now an eyedropper. But he had other reasons for abandoning the partnership.
''I did not want to be running any vehicle where my implicit obligation was to earn the highest return I could every year,'' Buffett says. He wanted to be free to make long-term investments. Moreover, there was a personal factor involved. ''I was developing relationships with the operating people in our owned businesses,'' he says, ''and I simply didn't want to have their duration determined by whether I got an exceptionally good bid that morning.''
From that point on, his principal investment vehicle would be Berkshire Hathaway, in which he and his wife, Susan, eventually had a 45 percent interest. As chairman and principal stockholder, Buffett could invest where and when he pleased, with money provided by the insurance companies that Berkshire had begun to buy in 1967.
Insurance companies had a special charm for an investor like Warren Buffett. He could deploy the float - money generated by the insurance premiums that remained on the books until claims were paid, which might take a very long time indeed. (Soon he would also have access to another kind of float, generated by Blue Chip Stamps. Buffett and Munger were buying the company, whose float was created by the lapse of time between the purchase of stamps by merchants and the claiming of merchandise by customers.) Over the next two decades, Berkshire acquired eight companies that Buffett speaks of as the ''Sainted Seven Plus One.'' The companies, with an estimated collective worth of $1.6 billion, are a distinctly mixed lot, but they share three features: excellent management, superior products and a franchise in their industries. Among others, Berkshire owns Borsheim's, an Omaha volume jeweler; See's Candies, a West Coast confectionery chain; The Buffalo News, and Fechheimer Brothers, a Cincinnati manufacturer of uniforms.
In 1983, Buffett paid $55 million for 90 per cent of the Nebraska Furniture Mart, the largest discount home-furnishings store in the nation. Three years later, Berkshire bought the Scott & Fetzer Company, a Cleveland conglomerate with three operations: a manufacturing group, whose products include air compressors; the Kirby Company, and World Book.
While Berkshire was acquiring its portfolio of companies, it was also acquiring an impressive portfolio of stocks. In 1973, Buffett paid $10.6 million for 9 percent of the Washington Post Company. By his calculation, the company was worth between $400 and $500 million, but the market valued its stock at only $100 million. ''The people selling it to us were institutions,'' Buffett notes. ''They probably would have come to the same conclusion about the intrinsic value that I came to, but they wouldn't have cared because they thought the stock was going down tomorrow.'' At the end of 1989, Berkshire's investment was worth $486 million.
By 1974, the market was once again depressed. Buffett was ecstatic. ''I feel like an oversexed guy in a harem,'' he crowed. ''This is the time to start investing.''
One bargain that particularly caught his eye was Geico, the Government Employees Insurance Company, in Washington. Buffett had briefly invested in the company in 1951, when Benjamin Graham was its chairman. By 1976, Geico was in bad shape, but it still retained its franchise, the sale of automobile insurance by mail to a low-risk constituency, which guaranteed a huge float. Berkshire eventually bought $45 million of Geico stock, an investment worth $1.4 billion at the end of 1989.
For 15 years, Warren Buffett and Thomas Murphy, the chairman of Capital Cities Communications, had shared a warm friendship. ''Whenever there was a major decision to be made for our corporation,'' Murphy says, ''I checked it with Warren.'' In 1985, as Capital Cities was about to buy ABC, Buffett committed $517 million of Berkshire's money to purchase 17 percent of the merged enterprise. With typical candor, Buffett reminded the readers of his annual report that Berkshire had once owned a major block of Capital Cities and had disposed of it. ''I understood the business,'' Buffett says, ''and I sold it. I mean, I don't mind missing businesses like Control Data that I don't understand, but I do mind missing businesses I understand. I've done plenty of that. That's the real sin.''
Still, the Berkshire stockholders could hardly complain. As of the end of 1989, the value of the investment had tripled. Attending the 1988 Capital Cities/ABC management meeting, Buffett dressed in a Salvation Army uniform and serenaded the gathering with a song of his own composition, ''What a Friend I Have in Murphy.''
By and large, however, the 1980's did not offer great opportunities for value investors. In a stock market fueled by takeovers, bargains were not in abundant supply. At the same time, Berkshire's capital had grown so huge that Buffett was forced to make large investments. Like ocean liners, immense amounts of money are hard to maneuver. As Buffett puts it, ''Large sums forge their own anchors. In the 70's, I had a lot of ideas and very little money. Now I've got a lot of money and very few ideas.'' As usual, however, Buffett found a way.
He trimmed his portfolio back to just four major investments: The Washington Post; Geico; Capital Cities/ABC - and Coca-Cola. He regarded them as his permanent holdings. The Coca-Cola investment, completed in 1989, cost Berkshire $1 billion, representing 6.3 percent of the company. At the end of 1989, Berkshire's stake was worth $1.8 billion.
BUFFETT HAD ALWAYS parked a significant portion of Berkshire's capital in tax-exempt bonds, but changes in the revenue code reduced their desirability. He soon found a substitute. Some careful investors have long favored convertible preference stock, a security that can be cashed at face value or converted into a company's common stock. The convertible preferreds are regarded as safe, and they yield a predictable, bond-like return. Such stock sells at a premium over the quoted price of the common on the day of purchase but offers the investor the tantalizing possibility of sizable capital appreciation, should the value of the common stock increase in price.
In four instances, Buffett has committed a substantial amount of capital to buy private issues of this investment vehicle. In each case, the issuing company had been or was being threatened by takeover. In each case, the convertible preferred that he bought carried special restrictions but also special privileges.
In 1987, Revlon's Ronald O. Perelman exhibited a keen interest in the parent company of Salomon Brothers, the investment banking firm. Shortly before the October stock market crash, Berkshire paid $700 million for an issue of Salomon convertible preferred; if converted, it would represent 12 percent of the company. In the case of Salomon - as was true of the other three companies - Buffett obtained a relatively low conversion premium, though it would increase as the market dipped. Buffett receives a yield of 9 percent, but the fact that he purchased most of the securities through Berkshire rewards him with a corporate tax advantage that brings his effective yield to around 11.5 percent.
Last July, Buffett cut a similar deal with Gillette - a company recently threatened by both Perelman and Coniston Partners - paying $600 million for 11 percent of the company. A month later, he paid $358 million for an issue of convertible preferred representing 12 percent of USAir Group, the airline holding company that had attracted the predatory interest of Steinhardt Partners. And in December, Buffett paid $300 million for the convertible preferred of Champion International, representing 8 percent of the giant paper company.
In all four deals, unusual restrictions applied. If a potential buyer for his block of convertible preferred appears, Buffett is obliged to offer the issuing company first refusal. Even if the company does not buy back the shares, he is prohibited from selling his entire block to any one purchaser. With the exception of Champion's stock, there are extensive waiting periods before he can convert the preferreds. Buffett must wait three years to begin converting his Salomon preferreds, and two years before converting Gillette and USAir preferreds. On the other hand, Buffett has been granted the unusual privilege of voting his preferred stock as though it were common. And a cash redemption is guaranteed unless the company defaults.
To many in the investment community, Buffett seemed to be assuming the role of a so-called ''white squire,'' selling protection to nervous companies at a handsome premium to himself. (It is a charge Buffett denies, insisting that he is, as usual, a long-term investor - nothing more, nothing less.) Considerable controversy has arisen over the fact that the convertible preferred was made available to Buffett alone, not to other stockholders. In fact, a stockholder suit has been filed against Salomon on that issue.
In his defense, Buffett remarks, ''There are very few people who would want to buy something that was totally unmarketable for such a long period of time. For most people, it just wouldn't be a practical investment.'' In addition, he says, ''If I had four more Coca-Colas to buy, I wouldn't be buying these. I like the convertibles better than I do other fixed-income investments, but I'm not doing handsprings. We get a mediocre return.'' ''Mediocre'' for Warren Buffett, that is. William H. Miller 3d, a senior vice president with the Baltimore investment firm of Legg Mason, observes: ''If people object that he got a special deal, those are objections that should be against the management of those companies, not Buffett.''
Last year, in another departure from past practice, Berkshire raised $400 million from a sale of zero-coupon convertible bonds. Holders receive no interest payments, but they will eventually have the option of converting the bonds into cash or common stock. Thanks to a provision of the tax code, Berkshire deducts interest payments on these bonds, even though such payments are not being made, and most likely never will be. As a result, Berkshire's carrying costs are only about 4 percent.
Meanwhile, the holders of the bonds declare interest they never receive. ''There is a very curious market for this kind of zero-coupon bond,'' says Columbia's Louis Lowenstein. ''It only makes sense for people who care about reported income rather than real income, which gives it an appeal for institutional investors who are judged on a performance that isn't necessarily based on cash.''
Though Berkshire has grown and profited hugely under Buffett's custodianship, it has not declared a dividend since 1967. Nor has he ever split the stock, although the price has risen astronomically. As recently as 1982, the stock traded as low as $420; in 1988, when Buffett listed Berkshire with the New York Stock Exchange, the shares soared as high as $8,900 before falling back to trade in a range between $7,200 and $8,500. Berkshire remains the most expensive stock on the exchange, though it has recently come under pressure following a Feb. 12 article in Barron's. An analysis in the financial weekly concluded that Berkshire's market price was ''considerably higher than the company's value when viewed as a collection of business and portfolio investments.'' (Buffett claims that the article contained serious computational errors that reduced the book value of Berkshire's holdings by hundreds of millions of dollars.) The annual reports he personally composes are remarkable for their wit and candor and are liberally laced with apposite quotations from the likes of Pascal, Goethe, Sam Goldwyn and Yogi Berra. Sometimes a note of pessimism creeps in. ''Our gain in net worth during the year was $613.6 million, or 48.2 percent,'' he wrote in his 1985 report. ''It is fitting that the visit of Halley's Comet coincided with this percentage gain; neither will be seen again in my lifetime.'' Perhaps, but the comet's trail was sighted last year, when Berkshire posted an annual gain of $1.51 billion, or 44.4 percent.
WARREN BUFFETT HAS never regretted his return to Omaha. His older son, a farmer and county commissioner, lives outside town, and Buffett's daughter has recently returned to Omaha from Washington. Her husband manages the Buffett Foundation, devoted to population control and nuclear disarmament; the foundation will receive by far the largest portion of Buffett's personal fortune. His second son is a musician in Milwaukee. Buffett is separated from his wife, who resides in San Francisco; he lives with his companion and housekeeper, Astrid Menks.
''I think it's a saner existence here,'' he says. ''I used to feel, when I worked back in New York, that there were more stimuli just hitting me all the time, and if you've got the normal amount of adrenaline, you start responding to them. It may lead to crazy behavior after a while. It's much easier to think here.''
As Buffett reflects on his life, his rapid, hesitant voice is punctuated with bursts of laughter. ''I love what I do,'' he says. ''I'm involved in a kind of intellectually interesting game that isn't too tough to win, and Berkshire Hathaway is my canvas. I don't try to jump over seven-foot bars; I look around for one-foot bars that I can step over. I work with sensational people, and I do what I want in life. Why shouldn't I? If I'm not in a position to do what I want, who the hell is?''

CORRECTION-DATE: April 8, 1990, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
A short caption last Sunday about the movie ''I Love You to Death'' incorrectly described Tracey Ullman, who appears in the film. She has previously appeared in the feature films ''Plenty'' and ''Give My Regards to Broad Street.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Warren E. Buffett (Jodi Buren) (pg. 16); Charles T. Munger, Warren Buffett's longtime partner (Bonnie Schiffman/Onyx) (pg. 63); graph of Berkshire Hathaway stock (pg. 62)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: L (NYSE) (83%); BRK.B (NYSE) (58%); BRK.A (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (83%); NAICS334519 OTHER MEASURING & CONTROLLING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (83%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (83%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (83%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (58%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEBRASKA, USA (58%); 

CITY: OMAHA, NE, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: LOEWS CORP (83%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (58%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES WEALTH MANAGEMENT (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (74%); BONDS (69%); TEXTILE MFG (56%); SHOE STORES (50%); HAIR LOSS (50%); 

PERSON: BUFFETT, WARREN; DAVIS, L J WARREN BUFFETT (93%); 



34 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 6; Part 2, Page 19, Column 1; Business World Magazine

LENGTH: 4811 words

HEADLINE: The High-Octane Ethanol Lobby

BYLINE: By Michael J. Weiss; Michael J. Weiss is a contributing editor of The Washingtonian.

 BODY:
WHEN WORD OF THE INTERNAL REVENUE Service decision came to Thomas Daschle's Capitol Hill office the Friday afternoon before Thanksgiving, the South Dakota Democrat was deep in debate on the Senate floor, and the celebration had to begin without him. On returning to his office, with its rustic decor of buffalo hides and Indian headdresses, he found the members of his staff literally jumping with joy.
For 18 months, Daschle had been the point man in the campaign to win tax breaks for a substance called ethyl tertiary butyl ether, or ETBE. When added to gasoline, its developers claim, the catalyst can reduce automotive carbon monoxide emissions by 20 to 30 percent.
Aside from its environmental promise, however, what gives ETBE its special political charm is that 40 percent of the catalyst consists of ethanol - and virtually all of America's ethanol comes from corn. Over the past decade, a coalition of farm-state legislators, grain processors and trade groups has successfully fought to keep in place a generous, highly controversial ethanol tax credit. And the I.R.S. announcement is a giant step on the road to extending that tax credit to ETBE. 
The campaign for the ethanol derivative illustrates how a little-known lobby for an obscure farm byproduct can deploy formidable clout in Washington. Tens of thousands of farmers called, wrote or faxed their support for the tax credit. Endorsements arrived from four Cabinet secretaries, the Environmental Protection Agency administrator and 75 senators. ''I've never seen anything like this,'' says Douglas Durante, Washington representative of the Clean Fuels Development Coalition, one of ETBE's most active supporters. ''To get 75 senators to agree that it's summer and not winter is nearly impossible.''
Yet the tax credit was not universally popular. Senator Bill Bradley attacked both the proposal itself and the notion that it should be accomplished by means of an I.R.S. ruling. ''This is an issue for Congress to decide here on the floor,'' the New Jersey Democrat told his colleagues, ''under the clear-eyed scrutiny of the American taxpayers, who once again see the long arm of the Government reaching deeper and deeper into their pockets to benefit a handful of special interests.''
The Treasury Department's support of ETBE is only the latest chapter in a political saga that dates back to the gas lines of the mid-70's. Seeking to reduce the nation's dependence on imported oil, the Carter Administration touted gasohol - a mixture of gasoline and 10 percent ethanol - as one answer. But when the first plants went on-line in 1978, wholesale ethanol cost 80-cents-a-gallon more than wholesale gasoline. Federal and state tax exemptions - the Federal credit alone now equals 60 cents for each gallon of ethanol sold to gasoline blenders - helped make up the difference; gasohol now accounts for 8 percent of the 110 billion gallons of gasoline sold annually.
While public concern about imported oil has waxed and waned, gasohol producers have received more than $4.6 billion in Federal and state tax exemptions since 1980. A major benefactor has been Archer Daniels Midland Company, based in Decatur, Ill., which produces 75 percent of the nation's ethanol. The company is the largest agricultural processor in the United States, with 1989 sales of $10 billion on products ranging from pasta to pet food. Over the years, critics have charged that the tax breaks amount to nothing more than ''corporate welfare'' for A.D.M. and its chairman, Dwayne O. Andreas, a generous contributor to both political parties. But efforts to trim these favors have fallen victim to the ethanol lobby.
Today, the ethanol industry has reached a crossroads. The introduction of ETBE could expand the market for ethanol. On the other hand, state tax credits have been reduced in recent years, and the construction of new ethanol plants has halted. Even more critical, the Federal tax credit is due to expire in 1992, and without it the ethanol industry will die. With several tax bills being debated in Congress, and legislators seeking ways to reduce the nation's deficit, the ethanol credit is coming under increased scrutiny.
There are even growing signs of dissension within the ethanol lobby itself, which has split into pro-A.D.M. and anti-A.D.M. factions. Says John E. Ford, director of Congressional relations for the American Corn Growers Association: ''It's a nasty little war and it's going to get nastier.''
THE TAX EXEMPTIONS GRANTED TO GASOHOL producers in 1979 were not the only steps taken to nurture the ethanol industry. Congress passed a series of bills providing protective tariffs as well as investment credits and loan guarantees for new ethanol plants. Another alcohol fuel, methanol - most of which comes from natural gas - had also been promoted as a gasoline alternative. But methanol made from natural gas received no tax credits or protective tariffs.
The oil companies, concerned that methanol and ethanol would steal market share, fought them both. They attacked methanol as being only half as fuel- efficient as gasoline. With ethanol, they raised an issue that would be repeated over the years - that it requires as much energy to produce a gallon of ethanol from corn as that gallon will yield as fuel. The oil industry also complained that ethanol was impractical for nationwide distribution since it could not be transported by pipeline. (Because ethanol would absorb water in a pipeline, gasohol must be ''splash-blended''; the ethanol is added directly to gasoline in a tank truck.) But ethanol provided corn growers with a new market for their crop. The farmers argued that it would reduce the need for commodity price supports that paid them either to leave their fields fallow or to stockpile surplus harvests. The corn growers had the enthusiastic support of large, grain-processing operations like Archer Daniels Midland, which were well-positioned to enter the market; the same wet-milling technology that produces high-fructose corn syrup can be used for ethanol.
In the political battle between oil and agriculture, the farmers won through sheer numbers. ''Give an ethanol lobbyist a sack lunch and a quarter and you'll have 18,000 corn farmers generating telegrams within 24 hours,'' says David E. Hallberg, founding president of the Renewable Fuels Association, ethanol's first trade group. Within two years, starting from scratch, A.D.M. and the other ethanol processors were turning out 75 million gallons of the alcohol fuel. Eighty-seven percent of that output was from A.D.M. facilities.
I WAS RAISED TO BELIEVE YOU'RE supposed to support your mayor and your Congressman and your politicians,'' says Dwayne Andreas. In his sixth floor office at A.D.M.'s Decatur headquarters, the tanned, elfin Andreas, 72, works among the mementos of a lifetime spent rubbing shoulders with the power-elite. On the wall hang photographs of Andreas in the White House with Ronald Reagan. On the desk sits a recent letter from Richard Nixon. A glowing three-foot-wide globe has been marked with Andreas's intinerary for a trip to the Soviet Union, where he has frequent business dealings with President Mikhail S. Gorbachev.
Since becoming a confidant of former Vice President Hubert Humphrey more than 40 years ago, Andreas has assiduously cultivated his political connections among Democrats and Republicans alike. ''The only people who have carried any weight,'' Andreas says, ''are the ones who deal with both sides.'' He has another rule for businessmen, based, he says, upon advice Humphrey gave him: ''Never suggest anything to a politician. They're scared to death they'll be caught doing something.''
In the 1970's, Andreas met a young Kansas Republican Representative named Robert Dole, who would become A.D.M.'s staunchest ally on Capitol Hill - and today is the Senate Minority leader. Dole sponsored an amendment providing a Federal tax break for gasohol in 1978 and has since sponsored about a dozen other bills designed to promote and protect ethanol. In 1980, for example, Dole introduced and pushed through the Senate a trade bill amendment to impose a tariff on Brazilian ethanol. Five years later, he led the successful fight to reverse a Customs Service ruling that allowed certain blends of Brazilian ethanol to enter the United States without import duties. Explaining his position at the time, he told a reporter, ''I'm a farm-state Senator.''
Meanwhile, A.D.M.'s Political Action Committee, along with Andreas and his relatives, were contributing more than $130,000 to Dole campaigns. The company's private plane has flown Dole to Midwest speaking engagements, and for a time A.D.M. sponsored Dole's commentaries over the Mutual Radio Network. The Senator and his wife, Elizabeth Dole, currently Secretary of Labor, purchased an apartment from Andreas in 1982 at the Sea View, a Bal Harbour, Fla., hotel in which residents hold shares. They paid $150,000 - less than the apartment's market value. Andreas was chairman of the Sea View Corporation and its largest shareholder. Also at the Sea View: Robert Strauss, a former chairman of the Democratic party; Tip O'Neill, the former speaker of the House, and Howard Baker, White House chief of staff in the Reagan Administration.
Andreas insists that his relationship with the Senate Minority Leader is strictly personal. ''I haven't discussed ethanol with Bob Dole twice in 20 years,'' he says today. ''There's no reason for it. The farmers have been after him for years on end.'' Senator Dole has declined to be interviewed for this article.
In keeping with his role as bipartisan benefactor, Andreas contributed $150,000 to Humphrey in the 1972 Presidential primaries and gave Nixon $122,000 in the general election. (Part of the Nixon gift - $25,000 in cash - ended up in the bank account of one of the Watergate burglars.) Between 1975 and 1977, Andreas gave $72,000 in A.D.M. stock to the children of David G. Gartner, then Humphrey's administrative assistant. When Gartner was appointed by President Carter to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, in 1978, word of the gifts came out. Carter urged Gartner to resign, but Gartner chose to stay on. After the brouhaha subsided, A.D.M. bought Carter's peanut warehouse for $1.2 million and named Robert Strauss, who was Carter's trade representative, to A.D.M.'s board. None of these A.D.M. activities were shown to violate Federal laws.
Andreas has not slowed his pace as a political contributor. According to the Federal Election Commission's most recent records, during the 1987-88 elections Dwayne Andreas gave at least $31,000 to individual candidates and more than $100,000 to the National Republican Party. A.D.M.'s political action committee spent $160,550 on candidates ranging from Utah Republican Senator Orrin Hatch to Washington Democrat Thomas S. Foley, the Speaker of the House. The list of other donations by members of Andreas's family, as compiled by the Federal Elections Commission, goes on for seven computer printout pages.
''If a fellow is willing to devote his life to public service, and a fellow like me has more money than I ever dreamed existed in the whole world, wouldn't I be an ass if I didn't respond to requests?'' asks Andreas, who has likened campaign giving to tithing. ''Suppose a friend of ours at Coca-Cola is raising money for a Georgia senator. We have no choice. We don't even ask who it is. This is the way business operates.''
ANDREAS ROSE TO THE C.E.O.'s OFFICE AT A.D.M. from modest roots. Born in Minnesota in 1918, he dropped out of Wheaton College in order to help with Honeymead, the family's Iowa grain and feed elevator business. In 1945, he sold Honeymead to Cargill Inc., the Minneapolis-based grain processor, and soon became an executive in its oil-seed division. Nine years later, A.D.M. invited Andreas and his younger brother Lowell to join A.D.M.'s board.
Dwayne Andreas became C.E.O. in 1970 and, with his brother, transformed A.D.M. into one of the world's largest soybean processors and flour millers, currently with 117 processing plants; subsidiaries in Europe and Canada; a shipping company and a commodity brokerage firm. (Lowell retired more than 10 years ago, but Dwayne's son, Michael, and his nephew, Martin, are now executives in the company.) Dwayne Andreas sees the Government's tax credits for farm products as a quid pro quo. ''We endeavor to be on the Government's wavelength to see what they want done,'' he explains. ''Some years they want more soybeans. Some years they want to do something big in China. Who can do it for them? We're in 50 countries. We can do anything.''
A periodic guest at White House dinners during the Reagan Administration, Andreas has known the former President since ''Dutch'' was a lifeguard at a swimming pool in Dixon, Ill. In 1984 Reagan, seeking to curry favor with farmers, paid a visit to A.D.M.'s Decatur headquarters. Soon thereafter Andreas erected a life-sized bronze statue of the President in the company parking lot.
Each year, A.D.M. budgets $7 million to $8 million for advertising. Much of that is devoted to ''Face the Nation,'' ''Meet the Press'' and ''This Week with David Brinkley'' - shows that are de rigueur viewing for Washington lawmakers.
Such moves helped make ethanol a potent force in Washington. Between 1984 and 1986, when the demand for ethanol dropped as oil prices skidded from $30 to $10 a barrel, many ethanol producers feared they would have to shut down. They appealed to Richard Lyng, then Secretary of Agriculture, for the right to receive cut-rate corn, which was being offered to farmers to help them through the agricultural depression. Lyng balked at the notion.
Shortly thereafter, Andreas met with Lyng and Martin Sorkin, then an A.D.M. lobbyist, for breakfast at Washington's Madison Hotel. When questioned later by reporters, Lyng described the men as ''personal friends.'' To this day, Andreas maintains that the discount corn program was not discussed. But, two days after the breakfast, Lyng removed the restriction that would have kept ethanol processors from receiving corn. In early 1986, A.D.M. received $29 million worth of corn - more than half of the entire $54 million Federal program.
Gasohol's tax subsidy, which goes to companies that buy ethanol to blend with gasoline, comes out of the Federal Highway Trust Fund. During the first five of President Reagan's eight years in office, Elizabeth Dole, then the Secretary of Transportation, proposed that the ethanol tax exemption should be ended. Each time, the tax break was restored in the Senate Finance Committee by her husband.
''We often wondered whether they ever talked about that in the evening,'' says Francis Francois, director of the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials. ''It's the Secretary of Transportation doing things the way she thinks they should be done and a powerful Senator doing what he thinks is right for his people back home. But it makes an interesting situation where Mrs. Dole says 'no' and Mr. Dole says 'yes.' And they both come out looking like heroes.''
AMONG THE FARM GROUPS that have labored on ethanol's behalf are the National Corn Growers Association with members in 22 states, the American Farm Bureau Federation and the American Agriculture Movement. The National Farmers' Organization has conducted regular ''legislative fly-ins'' to bring farmers from 30 states to Capitol Hill to promote ethanol and other agricultural issues.
These groups argue that the $500 million Federal subsidy for ethanol creates new markets for corn. But some agricultural economists believe that the subsidies are counterproductive. A 1986 report issued by the U.S.D.A.'s Office of Energy said that the subsidies, by driving up the demand for corn, increase consumer food costs. (In 1989, ethanol production consumed 350 million bushels of corn, or about 5 percent of the total harvest. That demand raised the price of corn by 15 to 20 cents, to $2.60 a bushel.) The report further stated that any benefits to corn growers would come at the expense of soybean farmers, whose prices would drop because livestock feed, a byproduct of ethanol production, competes with soybean meal. ''Direct cash payments to corn growers,'' the report concluded, ''would be more economical than attempting to boost farm income through ethanol subsidies.''
The report set off a furor in the ethanol industry. ''There were significant attempts to have me removed from office,'' says Earle E. Gavett, the director of the U.S.D.A.'s Office of Energy and the author of the report.
In response to the Gavett report, Dole led a Congressional campaign to urge the U.S.D.A. to set up a special task force on ethanol. Eighteen months later, the task force, consisting primarily of ethanol industry representatives, issued its own report. Its conclusion: it cost less to subsidize ethanol than to subsidize corn. The report did not address the impact on consumer costs and soybean farmers. Ethanol lobbyists declared that the two contrary reports amounted to ''a wash.''
In 1988, with the ethanol tax credit due to expire four years later, A.D.M. increased its support of congenial trade groups such as the National Corn Growers and the Renewable Fuels Association, which share office space on Capitol Hill. Dues for the R.F.A. are based on the amount of ethanol a company produces, and A.D.M. is far and away the largest producer. A.D.M. is also the major contributor to a foundation run under the auspices of the R.F.A. to provide technical information on fuels. How closely entwined are A.D.M. and the R.F.A.? A 1984 invoice to the R.F.A. from William McMurtrie (a former Andreas son-in-law and a lobbyist), requesting a $2,000 fee and reimbursement for a $240.85 dinner with three Congressmen, was forwarded to Archer Daniels Midland for payment. David Hallberg, who departed the R.F.A. to become executive vice president of Revolution Fuels of America, says he left the trade group in large part because of interference by A.D.M.
What constitutes a registered lobbyist in Washington is spelled out by law. But according to Ann McBride, the senior vice president of program operations for Common Cause, many people lobby who are not technically lobbyists. She says, ''The law was passed in '47. Everybody knows that it's a joke.''
The law office of Robert Strauss and Covington & Burling, the city's largest legal firm, are both listed under the heading for A.D.M. in ''Washington Representatives,'' a directory of Washington lobbyists. But A.D.M., which produces many agricultural products, claims that none of its Washington representatives lobbies for ethanol - despite reports to the contrary.
According to C. Boyden Gray, who was Vice-President Bush's counsel, Robert Strauss talked with George Bush before the Presidential primaries of 1988 and suggested that the candidate would win extra farm-belt votes if he would tone down his support of methanol and imported ethanol. Bush held fast. Gray also recalls running into Dwayne Andreas at a dinner in early 1988 at which Andreas offered advice on winning votes for candidate Bush. Gray quotes Andreas as saying, ''You know, you really ought to tap the environmental benefits of ethanol.''
Strauss, for his part, admits he did have a meeting with Bush before the primaries, but says that he never discussed ethanol. He maintains that he has never lobbied on behalf of A.D.M., that other lawyers in the firm work on A.D.M. projects. ''I'm not above it,'' he says, ''but I don't represent them.''
Referring to the ethanol-A.D.M. relationship, Douglas Durante, the Washington representative of the Clean Fuels Development Coalition, says, ''There's no industry in the world that's so dominated by one company.'' Durante's group was formed in 1988 to promote the expansion of the industry outside of A.D.M.'s traditional Midwest territory. Another trade group - the American Corn Growers Association, created by disgruntled members of the National Corn Growers Association - has begun organizing for the same purpose.
Washington policy makers have occasionally expressed some impatience with the ethanol tax breaks. When a drought hit the nation's farm belt in 1988, and pushed up the price of corn, Senator Dole asked that ethanol producers be allowed to participate in another Agriculture Department corn giveaway. Bill Holmberg, former director of the Energy Department's Office of Alcohol Fuels and now a C.F.D.C. consultant, recalls standing in a Capitol corridor during the debate and hearing Congressmen walk by whispering, ''Nothing for A.D.M. Nothing for A.D.M.''
House and Senate conferees decided to provide limited aid to small producers and allow nothing for the two largest ethanol producers, A.D.M. and A. E. Staley, also of Decatur. But U.S.D.A. Secretary Lyng had discretionary authority over whether to implement the program, and he never did. In short order, 18 ethanol plants shut down. ''If A.D.M. wasn't going to be a part of the program, the industry was going to have no program,'' observes Frederick Potter, president of Information Resources Inc., a consulting firm that covers the alcohol fuels industry.
WITH ETHANOL LOSING ITS allure as an agricultural commodity, industry lobbyists began to trumpet its environmental benefits. Ever since 1970, when the Environmental Protection Agency mandated the removal of lead additives from gasoline, the oil companies had sought other octane-producing additives to replace lead. MTBE, a methanol-based additive developed in 1978, was competitively priced, but it derived primarily from imported fuels and was toxic. In 1988, ethanol researchers at American Eagle Fuels Inc., in Lincoln, Neb., announced the development of ETBE, an additive that has an ethanol content ofabout 42 percent.
Unlike ethanol, ETBE could be mixed with gasoline at the oil refineries and moved through pipelines to gasoline distributors. Like ethanol, however, ETBE would be expensive. While MTBE cost 60 cents per gallon to produce, and was in plentiful supply, ETBE's price tag was 30 percent higher, and the additive was still experimental. What was needed, proponents said, was a tax break.
Although ETBE was not invented when the original ethanol subsidy was passed in 1978, ethanol lobbyists claimed that Congress would have approved the application of the credit to ethanol derivatives. And ETBE had some surprising new supporters. Oil companies, under increasing pressure from the Environmental Protection Agency to improve emission levels, jumped on the bandwagon. Arco Chemical was the original petitioner to the Treasury department for ETBE.
For a time, however, Archer Daniels Midland held off endorsing the new product; more than twice as much ethanol goes into gasohol as into gasoline with ETBE. The Clean Fuels Development Coalition asked Senator Dole to lead the battle for ETBE on the Hill, but he declined. Senator Tom Daschle took on the role, circulating a ''Dear Colleague'' letter.
While ETBE supporters worked Capitol Hill, C. Boyden Gray urged first the Reagan, then the Bush administrations to back the cause. Gray, who drives a methanol-powered Chevrolet, believes that using alcohol fuels like ethanol and methanol is preferable to ''the regulatory nightmares that would cascade around us if we don't clean up our air.''
Gray says he discussed ETBE with ''every Cabinet Secretary.'' The ETBE tax break - whose impact would be felt not by the Highway Trust Fund, as is the case with gasohol, but by the Treasury Department - eventually won endorsements from five Cabinet-level officials: Nicholas F. Brady, the Secretary of the Treasury; William K. Reilly, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency; Samuel K. Skinner, the Secretary of Transportation; James D. Watkins, the Secretary of Energy, and Clayton K. Yeutter, the Secretary of Agriculture.
Last June, President Bush lent his support to ETBE with a swing through Lincoln, Neb., where he visited American Eagle Fuel's ETBE research facility and was photographed driving a demonstration car powered by E85, an experimental mix of 85 percent ethanol and 15 percent gasoline. But five months after the trip, the Treasury Department still had not made a decision on ETBE. According to a legislative aide, the Treasury Department's tax attorneys initially opposed extending the credit, given the steep Federal deficit. But in early October, Daschle proposed an amendment to a budget bill to extend ethanol's credit to ETBE legislatively, and the Senate Finance Committee passed the provision by a margin of 12 to 8.
Meanwhile, Dole was active on behalf of ethanol itself. In late November, during Senate floor debate on the unrelated Steel Import Bill, he blocked further action on the measure. With a recess looming, Dole offered to lift his hold on the steel bill . . . if ethanol's excise tax credit, mandated to expire in 1992, were extended to the year 2000. ''Without hearings, publicity and on just about the last day of a session,'' says a methanol lobbyist, ''Dole was trying to push through a seven-year multi-billion-dollar tax expenditure. It was shameless.''
Eventually, Dole agreed to a compromise: he would lift the hold on the steel bill if hearings were scheduled for the next legislative session on ETBE and extending the tax break to the year 2000. At the same time, he expressed sudden interest in supporting Daschle's ETBE amendment to the House-Senate budget bill. But before Congress could act, the Treasury Department announced its decision in favor of ETBE. The resistance within Treasury had been overwhelmed, a legislative aide says, ''by ethanol politics.''
TODAY, WITH THE 101st CONGRESS back in session, the various ethanol lobbies are engaged in new Washington battles. The House and the Senate are considering a measure to strengthen the 1970 Clean Air Act, which calls for support of alcohol fuels such as ethanol and methanol to help combat air pollution. Legislators are also debating a new farm bill that could extend ethanol's tax credit until the turn of the century. A vote on the farm bill is expected before Memorial Day.
Meanwhile, schisms remain in the ranks of ethanol supporters. The A.D.M.-backed Renewable Fuels Association is against expanding the industry through new plant construction, the importation of ethanol and through methanol development. Not so the Clean Fuels Development Coalition, which wants to see a broader ethanol industry. Publicly and privately, members of both lobbying groups continue to snipe at each other. ''The ethanol industry is probably the best in the city at circling up every morning and shooting at one another,'' says Eric Vaughn, the current R.F.A. president.
Most ethanol trade groups see ETBE as the natural successor to gasohol. Says Bill Holmberg, the ethanol lobbyist: ''Ten years from now, ethanol in gasoline will only be 10 percent of production, ETBE will be 75 percent and 15 percent will be for other industrial uses.'' Proponents hold that ETBE, as a new product, deserves its turn at the tax subsidy trough.
A.D.M. continues to brew ethanol. Ironically, considering the ethanol lobby's efforts on behalf of tariffs against imported ethanol, A.D.M. signed a contract in January to sell 100 million gallons to Petrobras, the state oil company of Brazil. And, anticipating that Treasury's ETBE decision will become final, Andreas has been in touch with oil executives. ''The oil companies will become our allies,'' he predicts.
Yet opposition to the ETBE tax break continues. C. Eugene Steuerle, an economist and senior fellow at the Urban Institute in Washington, feels that the I.R.S. is making a costly mistake. ''The whole alcohol fuels credit is just a very inefficient form of subsidy,'' Steuerle says. ''For the amount of money we're spending, we don't get much benefit at all.''
Some Congressmen are openly hostile. ''The Treasury Department says that if these subsidies continue and expand to include ETBE,'' Senator Bradley says, ''we're looking at another $5.5 billion in the 1990's. At a time of huge deficits, when worthy programs that enjoy broad public support are going begging, spending $10 billion on the ethanol industry - in which a single company accounts for over 66 percent of the operational capacity in the U.S. - is frankly unconscionable.''
For his part, Andreas says he will not lose any sleep if A.D.M.'s ethanol plants simply shut down. After 12 years in the business, he insists that A.D.M. has made less than a 6 percent return on its investment - ''less than all our other divisions'' - and that ethanol represents less than 10 percent of A.D.M.'s business. ''If they cancel ethanol,'' he says, ''do you think I'm worrying?''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Douglas Durante, right, the Washington representative of the Clean Fuels Development Coalition, briefs Scott Fleming, an administrative assistant to Rep. Nita M. Lowey, D-N.Y., in the Longworth House Office Building, across from the Capitol; Dwayne O. Andreas, chairman of Archer Daniels Midland, with a statue of President Reagan at company headquarters in Decatur, Ill. (John Loengard); an A.D.M. television ad for ethanol (Alan Haywood); President Bush driving a car powered with ethanol last June in Lincoln, Neb. (Journal-Star Printing Company) (pgs. 18 & 19); Eric Vaughn, left, president of the Renewable Fuels Association, with Christopher A. Novak, assistant to Senator Charles E. Grassley (R.-Iowa) (John Loengard) (pg. 40); table lists U.S. ethanol production and Federal and

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ADM (NYSE) (74%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: LINCOLN, NE, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: ARCHER DANIELS MIDLAND CO (74%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (54%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FUEL; GASOHOL; TAX CREDITS; ETHANOL; FARMERS; PRODUCTION; LAW AND LEGISLATION TAX LAW (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); ETHANOL (91%); ALCOHOLS (91%); TAX RELIEF (90%); LOBBYING (90%); FUEL ADDITIVES (90%); FUEL TAX (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BIOFUELS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); TAX AUTHORITIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (78%); THANKSGIVING (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL PROGRAMS (75%); EMISSIONS (75%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (75%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (74%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); CARBON MONOXIDE (69%); 

PERSON: WEISS, MICHAEL J TOM DASCHLE (88%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (58%); NITA M LOWEY (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%); 



35 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 6; Part 2, Page 22, Column 1; Business World Magazine

LENGTH: 3692 words

HEADLINE: TEACHING STEELCASE TO DANCE

BYLINE: By Margery B. Stein; Margery B. Stein is an editor of this magazine. Joseph Giovannini, a New York-based architect, contributed reporting to this article.

 BODY:
PREFACED BY CRASHING CYMBALS, Steve Martin breaks into song and tap dance atop a collection of desks, shelves and storage cabinets. Life-size on a video screen, the movie superstar looms over the entrance to the Steelcase showroom at the National Exhibition of Contract Interior Furnishings (NEOCON), mecca of the $8 billion domestic office-furniture industry.
''Your parts are so simple and incredibly free-standing,'' Martin croons. ''You embody a fresh esthetic that moves me. Curvilinear, trapezoidal . . . it makes my heart go flippedy floidal.''
Hype and nonsense? Not for the thousands of architects, designers and dealers swarming about the five-acre confines of Chicago's Merchandise Mart last June. The subject of Martin's routine - Steelcase's new ''Context'' modular system - was serious business. For several years, the world's largest manufacturer of office furniture had been trumpeting an ambitious program of internal redesign. Context was the first major evidence of the company's alleged new creativity. 
Systems furniture - those mix-and-match partitions, storage cabinets and other components that effectively isolate employees in sterile cubicles - has driven the American office-furniture market for the last two decades. But advancing technologies and financial upheavals have forced corporations to reassess both their organizational structure and the very culture of the work place. ''Companies are becoming leaner, with fewer levels of hierarchy and smaller central staffs,'' proclaims the sales brochure for Context, quoting Rosabeth Moss Kanter, the Harvard Business School professor who is an expert on organizational behavior. ''More rewards are tied to employee inventiveness and creativity. . . . The sleeping giants of the corporate world are not only awakening from their slumbers, they are learning to dance.''
Context represents Steelcase's response to the prevailing corporate wisdom: With a more humane business environment that encourages creativity, American industries can regain their competitive edge in world markets. The free-standing modules are designed to encourage teamwork and foster communication among different levels of workers. And in tune with the cost-conscious gospel of the 90's, the various sections may also be reconfigured for expansion or downsizing.
Steelcase has a lot riding on the system. A $90 million manufacturing facility for Context is scheduled to be completed in June in Kentwood, Mich., six miles from the company's headquarters in Grand Rapids. Since the first editions began rolling off assembly lines last fall, Context has been installed in several dozen offices across the country, including divisions of the Connecticut-based insurance giant, Aetna Life and Casualty..
Until 1985, the office-furniture industry had been on a roll for a decade. Fueled by the influx of white-collar workers needed to staff the booming service economy, annual growth rates in the office-furniture business soared as high as 20 percent. But shakeouts in the computer industry and the financial services sector, along with the slump in commercial real estate, have taken their toll. At the same time, competition from foreign producers threatens the American stake in the international marketplace.
Since 1986, Steelcase's dominant share of the fragmented United States industry has remained relatively static, averaging 21 percent. To revitalize its market share and strengthen its global presence, the Middle Western giant has had to reappraise its fundamental nature - that of a mass producer supplying a broad middle market.
With 21,000 employees worldwide and a formidable network of 700 dealers, Steelcase has been considered the General Motors of office furniture. Now the company is dramatically changing both its operating style and its image - a process chairman Robert C. Pew calls ''demassification.''
The focus has been on revamping the product development process and on forming alliances with the architects and interior designers who wield enormous power in corporate buying decisions. What's more, the company has been on an acquisition kick, snapping up smaller, prestigious furniture companies favored by that influential community.
Says George Beylerian, a former importer of stylish chairs who serves as a liaison to the design world for the company, ''Steelcase has to talk the language of the gurus of high design.''
IN THE SHORT FLIGHT FROM CHICAGO across western Michigan, the plane to Grand Rapids skims low over patchworks of farms and touches down between cornfields. This is the area settled in the 1830's by pioneers from New England who arrived by boat, sailing up the Grand River until they encountered the rapids and were forced to head for dry land. To this growing community, surrounded by hardwood forests, came skilled cabinetmakers. In time, with an infusion of funds from East Coast banks, the woodworkers turned Grand Rapids into one of the premier furniture-manufacturing centers in the nation.
In 1912, a Grand Rapids engineer named Peter M. Wege and 11 associates formed the Metal Office Furniture Company to make fireproof office safes, gradually branching out to steel desks and files. The company's sole claim to design distinction came with a 1937 commission to produce the innovative metal furniture designed by Frank Lloyd Wright for the Johnson Wax administration building in Racine, Wis.
For the most part, Steelcase - as Metal Office has beenknown since 1954 - was perceived as a manufacturer of durable products churned out in quantity. ''Steelcase would bring in railroad cars loaded with steel and just stamp it out,'' says a design consultant to the furniture industry. ''But to a large degree, they ignored the design community.''
Recalling the product-development process, Robert Pew, the 66-year-old chairman, says, ''I hate to tell you how it was done in the 50's. We'd take an arm from one chair, a base from another, a back from another.'' In contrast, the company's chief rival, Herman Miller Inc., founded in 1905 in nearby Zeeland, developed a tradition of commitment to design. Now No. 2 in the industry, Miller forged relationships with several noted American designers, including Charles and Ray Eames, creators of the classic molded-plywood chair, which the company began producing in the late 1940's.
Knoll Associates, established in New York in 1946, emerged as the preeminent source for modern office furnishings. Hans G. Knoll was a disciple of the Bauhaus, the experimental school of design established in 1919, during the Weimar Republic, which aimed at a marriage of art and the machine. Knoll's American wife, Florence Schust, was an architect trained by Ludwig Mies van der Rohe, one of the creators of the esthetic for the glass-walled skyscrapers and streamlined furniture that epitomize the International Style.
The Knolls were closely linked to the architectural firm of Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, which put the stamp of the International Style on the headquarters buildings of many leading corporations. Through exclusive royalty arrangements with master architects and designers, Knoll Associates provided the status furniture for the public rooms and executive suites of those buildings - Mies's steel-and-leather Barcelona chairs and Eero Saarinen's pedestal table and chairs of molded fiberglass.
THE MODERNIST OFFICE TOWERS that were transforming the downtowns of American cities and the cores of suburbia were host to an influx of new occupants; between 1950 and 1980, the number of white-collar workers more than doubled, from 21.6 million to 53.5 million. The traditional office interior, with managers closeted in private rooms while the rank and file toiled in open areas known as bullpens, was fast becoming obsolete - a victim of technology and of new theories about the changing workplace advanced by behavioral scientists.
In 1964, Herman Miller seized the design initiative by introducing Action Office, a so-called open system. Space was defined by movable panels of shoulder height that enclosed workers in three-sided compartments, each furnished with a work surface, chair and storage units. The panel-based system sparked a revolution in the industry - a revolution fed by the advent of the personal computer, which created a need for individual work stations.
Steelcase jumped into the office-systems market in 1973 with its own panel-based line, Series 9000. ''When systems came along, it blew the market apart,'' says Frank H. Merlotti, 63, president and C.E.O. of Steelcase. ''Companies like us grew when we got into systems very aggressively.'' A work station in the series currently sells for $3,000 to $4,000, with a typical Steelcase client, such as A. T. & T. in Chicago, ordering perhaps 2,500 work stations.
In 1976, responding to the unsightly trails of wires from computer installations - a problem designers refer to as ''wire management'' - Haworth Inc. of Holland, Mich., brought out panels with integrated electrical wiring. The industry soon followed. Five years ago, Haworth sued Steelcase for patent infringement and, after winning in Federal appeals court,has been negotiating a settlement.
Steelcase was able to become the Goliath of the office-furniture industry, despite its backwardness in design capability, because of its strength in two other areas - a client base of major white-collar employers like A. T. & T. and I.B.M. and a tightly coordinated distribution system. Steelcase has built a solid network of exclusive dealerships, which it backs to the hilt with extensive advertising, financing and training programs on selling and installing products. ''They do that better than anyone else in the business,'' says Tom McAnallen, president of Office Environments, a Steelcase dealership group with headquarters in Charlotte, N.C. Last year, McAnallen's four dealerships sold more than $26 million in Steelcase products. Although Steelcase sets suggested list prices for its lines, McAnallen says that dealers generally offer discounts ranging from 25 percent to 65 percent.
In simpler times, business usually rolled in through corporate purchasing agents, who placed orders for quantities of desks and chairs. But with the big building projects that overtook commercial real estate developers and their corporate tenants during the last two decades, the power to specify products shifted to a new group of design professionals. Major architectural firms have added interior design services to meet the needs of corporate customers - from planning layouts and coordinating complex technical installations to selecting furnishings. In the largest companies, facilities managers, many with design training, assume broad responsibility for all aspects of the physical plant, from selecting the architect to implementing the design plan.
Steelcase's weakest link had been to this design community. Says Frank Merlotti, ''We have had to try to get close to the specifiers.''
BY THE MID-1980'S, A PROFOUND change in the United States business climate, caused by corporate restructurings and uncertainty about the economy, translated into a dramatic slowdown in new orders for office furniture. Steelcase remained the industry leader by a wide margin, but its nearest competitors were gaining ground. Although Herman Miller, with $800 million in sales in fiscal 1989, is about one-third the size of Steelcase, its sales have tripled over the last 10 years and its market share has grown from 7 percent to 10 percent of the industry. In the same period, Haworth (No. 4 after mass-market Hon Industries of Muscatine, Iowa) increased its sales tenfold, to $510 million.
To offset sluggish domestic sales, manufacturers began trying to expand in the international marketplace. But the Americans encountered stiff competition from foreigners. In 1984, Steelcase won an order to equip Citibank's Hong Kong office tower with its Series 9000 system after bidding against Haworth and manufacturers from Germany, Britain and the Netherlands. ''Five years before, it would have been us, Haworth and Miller,'' says James C. Soule, vice president of Steelcase International. Adds Frank Merlotti: ''We're not just designing for this country. We have to make products that will work anywhere in the world.''
Steelcase's management read the handwriting on the wall: to counter its growing competition at home and abroad, the company would have to alter radically the formula that had served it well for more than 70 years. ''It was this feeling that we were getting too big and slow to stay close to what was happening,'' says Soule, 47, who came to Steelcase as vice president of human resources in 1984 with a Ph.D. in psychology.
So the manufacturer became a disciple of the new management religion of fostering creativity and entrepreneurship within the corporation.
ON THE OUTER REACHES OF Grand Rapids, a seven-story pyramid of granite and glass looms above a prairie dotted with wildflowers. This is the Corporate Development Center, a $111 million statement of Steelcase's creative intentions that opened last May. The 575,000-square-foot edifice was designed by the WBDC Group, a local architectural firm, in tandem with a trio of organizational psychologists who became known as ''the three amigos.'' A soaring, loftlike space, it unites design, engineering and marketing staffs who were previously scattered in several locations.
''What we had in mind,'' says Franklin Becker, one of the amigos, who is a professor of facility planning and management at the New York State College of Human Ecology at Cornell University, ''was to spur the creation of more innovative products and to shorten the product development cycle.'' Executives are grouped in ''clusters'' at the center of the building, where they are accessible to everyone. The ''town square'' on the ground floor, as well as the informal seating and outdoor terraces, are all intended to encourage serendipitous encounters or at least peripatetic thinking.
In a glass-walled office looking out on the pyramid's atrium sits Terence D. West, the 41-year-old, bearded director of Steelcase's industrial design. West swivels noiselessly in his Sensor chair, a form of adjustable seating that the company brought out in 1986. A decade earlier, Herman Miller had introduced the same concept to American offices with its Ergon chair, named after the science of ergonomics, which seeks to adapt working conditions to suit the worker. Steelcase has sold more than a million units of the award-winning Sensor, priced from $300, for the secretarial model, to $1,300, for the top executive version.
Sensor and the much ballyhooed Context office system were developed by Steelcase's Business Management Groups. The company's new multidisciplinary team approach to product design was patterned after a process used in the development of the Ford Motor Company's successful Taurus model. Instead of treating the industrial designer's work as sacred - the Herman Miller tradition - and then relaying it to other departments for implementation, Steelcase puts the concept through simultaneous design, engineering and marketing scrutiny. ''The final product,'' says West, ''is better engineered and more accurately captures the design intent.''
Although Context garnered highest honors from the Industrial Designers Society of America, not all professionals give rave reviews to the design-by-committee system under which it was created.
''Context is well thought out mechanically, but it spent a little too much time in engineering,'' says Randolph H. Gerner, an interior design partner at the architectural firm of Kohn Pederson Fox Associates. ''It was redesigned and redesigned and perhaps watered down.''
But that may have been the intention all along. ''What comes out of consensus,'' says Becker, ''is a reasonable rather than an inspired product, not invention but innovation in small increments.''
THE SYSTEMS ONE plant in Grand Rapids - one of the company's 17 domestic manufacturing facilities - is the length of six football fields laid end to end. Inside, workers cover the distance on three-wheel bicycles, sharing the wide aisles with small robot trucks piled with chair arms, casters and the like.
The basic $9-an-hour wage at nonunion Steelcase is about half the rate at the General Motors plants in the area. Yet the average Steelcase employee can earn almost the same annual compensation - more than $35,000 - through profit-sharing bonuses and incentive compensation for exceeding shop quotas.
With the participatory-management process now in force, the plant's 517 daytime production workers are divided into ''employee involvement teams'' of 5 to 14 persons to spot and correct problems. One group realized it could not suggest improvements because none of its members knew how the parts they were making for the Series 9000 furniture fitted into the desks assembled down the line. Photographs showing components and finished pieces are now posted along the assembly lines.
''The engineers used to come in and look at the machines and redesign the equipment,'' says Wayman P. Britt, a 35-year-old employee relations manager. ''Now they're on the floor talking to the people who run the machines. The employees know the machines, and are taking responsibilities for redesigning their equipment.''
Says Frank Merlotti, who started at Steelcase as a production-control manager in 1961, ''By having these teams, we've reduced delivery cycles by a half, reduced inventories, brought operations and machines closer - now, you don't make it 'till you need it.''
AT SOTHEBY'S IN NEW York last December, the peers of the high-design realm gathered at a benefit for AIDS victims. In the galleries, guests contemplated models by top-drawer architects and designers made of candy and other foods: Richard Meier's ''Bridgeport Center'' composed in sugar, Robert Venturi's Chippendale chair in pasta, a marzipan bed by Gaetano Pesce. In the auction room, friends and admirers spiritedly bid up drawings and watercolors of the designers' models.
The gala raised nearly $200,000 for the cause and an intangible amount of good will for its sponsor, the Steelcase Design Partnership, a consortium of smaller, design-oriented companies with ties to the industry's upper crust. ''I'm trying to bring about a dialogue designers understand,'' says the Partnership's creative director, George Beylerian, who orchestrated the ''Edible Architecture-Delicious Designs'' auction.
Besides encouraging creativity within its own ranks, Steelcase has been trying to acquire distinction outright with the purchase of the Partnership companies: Vecta Contract (executive furnishings), Beylerian Ltd. (imported seating for the hotel industry), Metropolitan Furniture (lounge seating and conference tables), Brayton International (European-style executive and lounge seating), Atelier International (lighting and exclusive Italian reproductions of furniture by Frank Lloyd Wright and Le Corbusier) and Designtex Fabrics. Details, a seven-employee company within the Partnership fold, is being started in New York City to produce what the company calls ''productivity-enhancing work tools that support the personalization and humanization of the work environment.'' Translation: desk and other accessories for work stations.
''The Partnership companies were reaching markets we had a difficult time reaching,'' says Merlotti. ''Their whole thrust was to be closer to the specifier-designer. Ours was to be closer to the client.''
Steelcase gave the original owners carte blanche to continue running their own companies. ''We're certainly not intending to become Steelcase-ized,'' says L. Paul Brayton, C.E.O. of Brayton International and president of the Partnership. ''Steelcase doesn't have anything to do with our designs.''
Although many details of the relationship between Partnership and parent have yet to be worked out, the acquired firms, whose combined sales amounted to less than 10 percent of Steelcase's $2.3 billion in revenues last year, have gained access to its ample pockets for their product development, and to its vast dealer network. ''We're learning how to access the distribution network,'' says Stephen H. Kiviat, president of Atelier. ''It's a process that will take years.''
THE JURY IS STILL OUT on whether Steelcase can succeed with its ambitious makeover, into which the manufacturer has poured more than $400 million without going into debt. The private company, owned by descendants of its founders, refuses to disclose its earnings, but Robert R. Bartels, an analyst who follows the industry for William Blair & Company of Chicago, estimates that Steelcase's pretax profit margins were ''a bit better'' than the 8 percent reported by publiclyowned Herman Miller.
Meanwhile, the industry is being buffeted by crosswinds. ''Overall growth in the office-furniture market is currently running at about a 3 percent annualized rate,'' says John Walthausen, an analyst for First Albany Corporation. ''And the number of major projects around the country is relatively small. That has led to some very tough price competition and some very substantial discounting.''
Following Steelcase's lead, the major companies and the second tier of United States manufacturers - Knoll International, Westinghouse Furniture and Kimball International - have managed to grow by nibbling at the hundreds of smaller firms with regional market niches or products that complement their own lines. After undergoing several changes of ownership, Knoll (with roughly $300 million in furniture sales last year) is trying to maintain its status position while adding less expensive lines of systems, accessories and seating.
Historically, says Walthausen, office furniture is an industry given to shifts and consolidations from which only the fittest and most flexible companies survive. Those that did not pick up the market's cues fell by the wayside.
''Those that did innovate, prospered,'' says Walthausen. ''The lesson here is: This is an industry where design does count.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Leather lounge chair from Brayton International, one of the prestige firms acquired by Steelcase (Courtesy Stern + Associates); Context, Steelcase's new office-furniture system, installed at the Westchester, Ill., branch of M/A/R/C Inc., a market research firm (Mark Ferri); Steelcase president Frank Merlotti, right, and foreman Don Vredevoogd, with Sensor chairs (Mark Ferri); The Design Partnership consists of five high-design companies purchased by Steelcase. Some of their products: conference table, above, from Metropolitan Furniture; storage system, right, and lamp, below, from Atelier International (Courtesy Stern + Associates) (pgs. 22-23); Frank Lloyd Wright's metal furniture, designed for Johnson Wax in 1937 (Courtesy of Steelcase) (pg. 50)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SCS (NYSE) (92%); AET (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS337215 SHOWCASE, PARTITION, SHELVING & LOCKER MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS337214 OFFICE FURNITURE (EXCEPT WOOD) MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS337211 WOOD OFFICE FURNITURE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (70%); 

CITY: GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STEELCASE INC (92%); AETNA INC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: STEELCASE DESIGN PARTNERSHIP

SUBJECT: OFFICE EQUIPMENT; DESIGN; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS OFFICE FURNITURE (92%); OFFICE FURNITURE MFG (91%); OFFICE DESIGN (90%); FURNITURE MFG (90%); FURNITURE STORES (89%); DANCE (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (73%); PARTITIONS & SHELVING MFG (73%); INSURANCE (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); 

PERSON: STEIN, MARGERY STEVE MARTIN (92%); DAVID DAVIS (70%); 



36 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 6; Part 2, Page 28, Column 1; Business World Magazine

LENGTH: 2576 words

HEADLINE: The New Wave Directors

BYLINE: By Alison Leigh Cowan; Alison Leigh Cowan is a business reporter for The Times.

 BODY:
ELLEN R. MARRAM, PRESIDENT AND C.E.O. of the Nabisco Biscuit Company, drives to her office in East Hanover, N.J., from her apartment on Manhattan's Upper West Side in a 1990 Lincoln Continental. One of the perks of being a director of the Ford Motor Company - Marram is the only woman on the Ford board - is having the use of late-model cars to evaluate each year. Marram, 43, a Wellesley College economics major who went on to earn an M.B.A. from the Harvard Business School in 1970, runs a $2.5 billion segment of RJR Nabisco. She is also a director of the K Mart Corporation, one of two women on the board of the huge discount chain.
After nearly two decades of trial and error, the search for women to serve on corporate boards has taken a sharper focus, away from highly visible figures in other fields to lesser known executives with solid business credentials. 
The ball started rolling for Marram in January 1987 when she was named president of Nabisco's $1.2 billion grocery products division. Six months later, her photograph appeared on the cover of Business Week to illustrate a story about corporate women who might be the next generation of C.E.O.'s. In less than a month, she received a call from Bernard M. Fauber, then chairman of K Mart, offering her a seat on its board. ''Clearly, the fact that I was a woman was a reason he was talking to me,'' Marram recalls. ''But another reason was my marketing background and the fact that I was someone who was running an operating company.''
In June 1988, Marram was promoted to the top job at Nabisco Biscuit. Two Ford directors contacted her in the fall to sound her out about joining their ranks. Again, there was no doubt why Donald E. Petersen, chairman of America's No. 2 automaker, wanted Ellen Marram on his board: She was female, she had a general marketing background, and she was running an operating company of significant size.
Since she accepted the Ford director's slot, Marram has received calls from numerous companies, mainly in retailing and financial services. ''Boards are looking for women with general management experience, and my name is one that comes up in the computer,'' Marram says.
Some of the urgency to broaden the composition of boards, fueled by the feminist and consumer-action movements of the 1970's, may have abated. But the interest in having qualified women continues.
''When corporations first started looking for directors outside the old-boy network and they turned to recruiters,'' says Jack Lohnes, board-services chairman of Spencer Stuart, an executive search firm, ''the person sought after was someone immediately recognized as a prominent woman, a media name.'' He cites Juanita M. Kreps, a Duke University economist who served as Secretary of Commerce in the Carter Administration, and Anne L. Armstrong, President Ford's Ambassador to Britain. ''Today,'' Lohnes adds, ''chairmen are looking for women who have been running a business and have profit-and-loss experience.''
And with good reason. The restructurings and takeovers that convulsed corporate America during the 1980's raised unprecedented challenges to the competence of boards of directors. As a result, specific business experience, rather than more oblique qualifications, has become the prized ticket for admission to the inner circles.
The searchlight has swung away from the so-called trophy candidates to shine upon a small but growing elite of women executives like Ellen Marram; Janice D. Stoney, 49, president of the Consumer Division of U.S. West Communications, and Judith A. Rogala, 48, senior vice president for service integration at Federal Express Corporation.
Stoney heads a $3 billion operation that serves 23 million residential customers in 14 states. After Stoney became president and a director of Northwestern Bell Telephone Company in June 1987, Jack D. Sparks, a director of the parent company, U.S. West, and at the time chairman of Whirlpool Corporation, invited her to join his board. ''Having been on your own board and having had to deal with governance and strategy issues,'' says Stoney, ''is valuable experience for other boards.'' In the same year, she became a director of Guarantee Mutual Life Company, and in 1989, of Premark International.
Judith Rogala started her business career as a flight attendant for T.W.A. and advanced through a series of positions to become the general manager of the airline's regional office in Seattle. In 1980 she switched to Federal Express. She was a senior vice president in charge of regional hubs for the air-courier-service company when a recruiter approached her in 1989 about joining the board of the Butler Manufacturing Company, a producer of construction components and systems. ''Joining a board,'' she says, ''is a natural progression for senior executives.''
Rogala is currently responsible for integrating the services of Flying Tiger into Federal Express, which acquired the company last year. It is a demanding assignment, and, she says, it has kept her from pursuing offers to join other boards.
The new emphasis on operating experience provides an advantage for women executives, who often are younger and at a lower level on the management totem pole than male candidates for directorships. ''Were I a man in the position I'm in,'' Ellen Marram acknowledges, ''I would not have been invited to be on the board of a Fortune 100 company.''
The average outside director of a major public corporation is a 61-year-old white male who is chief executive or chief operating officer of a company the same rank or higher. ''How many Katharine Grahams can you come up with? That's the problem when I do a search for a woman director,'' says Gerard R. Roche, chairman of the executive recruiting firm of Heidrick & Struggles. Graham, chairman of the Washington Post Company, is the only woman C.E.O. of a Fortune 500 company.
When the near-desperate call went out from corporations in the 1970's for women to serve on their boards, the possibility of finding candidates to match the profile of the male corporate director was practically nil. So qualifications were enlarged to include representatives of special constituencies such as minorities and consumers.
The rare female senior executive was highly sought after, regardless of her particular business experience. Catherine B. Cleary, at the time chairman of the First Wisconsin Trust Company, was snapped up by A. T. & T., General Motors and Kraft. G. G. Michelson, a senior vice president of R. H. Macy & Company in charge of industrial and consumer relations, was tapped for the board of the Quaker Oats Company. She now serves on the boards of seven corporations.
Women attorneys in private practice were welcomed aboard, particularly if, like Carla A. Hills, President Ford's Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, they had a background in government. Hills became a director of I.B.M., Chevron Corporation and AMR Corporation until she returned to government last year as United States Trade Representative. Lawyers who happened to be female and black - ''two-fers'' in recruiting parlance - like Barbara Scott Preiskel, formerly general counsel for the Motion Picture Association of America, were especially sought after. Preiskel currently serves on five boards.
Corporate nets were flung toward Academe. The administrative experience of women who headed non-profit institutions, like Jill K. Conway, former president of Smith College, and Hannah H. Gray, president of the University of Chicago, was construed as relevant to many of the issues dealt with in the board room.
And then there was a subset of the trophy candidate, spouses of distinguished chief executives: Dolores D. Wharton, wife of Clifton R. Wharton Jr., former president of Michigan State University and Chancellor of the State University of New York; Kathryn D. Wriston, a former associate at Shearman & Sterling who married Walter B. Wriston when he was chairman of Citicorp, one of the law firm's major clients. ''I suppose it helps in some cases and hurts in others,'' Kathryn Wriston says when asked about the link between her marriage and her numerous directorships.
As a mark of how far women have progressed, consider the marriage of Barbara H. Franklin, a Washington management consultant, to Wallace Barnes. They met while serving as directors of Aetna Life & Casualty Company. Their union was disclosed in the 1987 Aetna proxy statement under the heading of ''certain transactions and relationships.''
THE MONETARY REWARDS of being a director can be substantial, particularly for the woman who serves on several boards. According to a survey of the largest 100 public companies by Spencer Stuart, the average directorship pays $43,300 a year. Directors are also being awarded such executive fringe benefits as life insurance, pensions and golden parachutes. Women are making the transition to professional directors (a full-time occupation) earlier than men, who generally do so after normal retirement from a corporate career. Most corporations permit directors to serve until age 70 or 72, compared with the traditional mandatory retirement at 65 for executives. Claudine B. Malone gave up an associate professorship at Harvard Business School in 1982 to hang out her shingle in McLean, Va., as a management consultant - and a professional director. ''I don't like the term,'' she says, ''but I am one.'' Malone, 53, has served on as many as 10 corporate boards simultaneously. ''At some times, 15 would not be too many,'' she says, ''and at other times, one would be too consuming. It depends on what's going on.''
Having one or more ties to an old-boy network is the most useful key to unlocking board-room doors. ''I guess I have a few mentors,'' says Judith Richards Hope, 49, a senior partner in the Washington office of the Los Angeles-based law firm of Paul, Hastings, Janofsky & Walker. One of them is Drew Lewis, chairman of the Union Pacific Corporation. ''Women can stand toe to toe with any man on the board,'' he says,'' and a lot of times they're better because they do their homework.'' In 1981, when he was Secretary of Transportation in the Reagan Administration, Lewis named Hope to the board of the Consolidated Rail Corporation, which the Government hoped to sell to the public. ''The toughest thing,'' Hope recalls, ''was standing up for the policies I was put on the board to stand up for when those policies were at odds with management policy.'' In 1987, Lewis invited her to join his Union Pacific board.
Last year, George Putnam, chairman of Putnam Management Company in Boston, who also serves on the board of General Mills, suggested Hope as a director for the food company. Putnam, former treasurer of Harvard University, was one of those who supported Judith Hope as a candidate for director of the university's governing body. Hope, a Harvard Law School graduate, had made an unforgettable impression on Putnam in 1975 while doing volunteer fund-raising for her alma mater, Wellesley College. ''She prevailed on her father-in-law, Bob Hope, to perform at a benefit for the college at Symphony Hall,'' Putnam recalls. ''It was a lovely evening.''
The old-boy network is not the only source of mentors for the woman who aspires to board directorships. According to Walter Wriston, support is also provided by ''the young-girl net, as opposed to the old-boy net.'' The network includes not only respected women directors but non-profit organizations like Catalyst and the Financial Women's Association of New York, which maintain data banks on women executives. F.W.A. makes its lists available without charge to corporations and the nominating committees appointed by the chairmen of their boards; Catalyst expects corporate donations of $10,000 or more for providing such service.
Although only about 15 percent of board vacancies at major corporations are filled by executive recruiters, some headhunting firms promote their ability to search for women directors. Fees can be as high as $50,000 to fill one director's slot - regardless of whether the headhunter's candidate is chosen - versus the one-third of the first year's guaranteed cash compensation that headhunters charge to recruit a C.E.O. or a C.O.O.
Eugene E. Jennings, professor emeritus of management at the Michigan State University Graduate School of Business, and a consultant to chief executives, has been coaching aspirants (for a fee of $3,000 per hour) on how to land seats on boards and gain positions of power once elected. His instruction to women, in capsule: ''Do you know how to read financial statements? If you don't, I'll send you to Northwestern for a one-week course. Do you know how to shut up? There's a pecking order, and new board members are seldom listened to for a year or two. Do you know how to put your feminism back in the closet?''
The growing activities of networks and recruiters come at a time when the momentum for choosing women as directors may be slackening. According to Directorship, a Westport, Conn., consulting firm, 6.8 percent of the directors' chairs available at the 1,000 largest public companies were occupied by women last year; 352 women average two boards apiece. This representation is only a shade better than in 1987. Many insurance and consumer-oriented companies have several women on their boards (Philip Morris has four), but at least 10 of the 50 largest industrial companies have no female directors.
Walter Wriston, since his retirement a professional director currently serving on 11 boards, says, ''The exterior pressure for equal opportunity is undoubtedly still there, and it's felt by corporate management. But I think they're saying, 'We won't fill a board vacancy with an unqualified woman.' That's no longer a very good excuse because there are a lot of very qualified women.''
NOW THAT MANY OF the buyouts of the 80's are coming apart, and the short-term philosophy that fueled them is under attack, a reappraisal of the role and the composition of boards of directors is underway. Some of the largest institutional investors, traditionally prone to passivity, are seeking a voice in the nomination of directors. And many are echoing the question phrased by Walter Wriston, ''Is there still value in putting non-business people around the table?''
In October 1987, Dale M. Hanson, C.E.O. of the California Public Employees Retirement System, the largest public employee pension fund in the country, gave Texaco's C.E.O., James W. Kinnear, a list of 14 names of candidates for directors, including two women. From the list, Texaco picked John Brademas, president of New York University and a former Congressman from Indiana.
''We do not subscribe to the belief that the only people who should be on boards are other C.E.O.'s,'' says Hanson. He cites the environment and global economic warfare as the big issues boards will be wrestling with in the 1990's. ''We will have to have people who have good conceptual minds coming on to boards,'' he says.
''Given the percentage of the U. S. population that is female, and given that females are moving up the corporate ladder at a far faster clip than a number of us would have imagined,'' he continues, ''it's inevitable you'll see more women directors. They have an exceptional grasp of issues and in many cases have superior analytical capabilities as far as understanding why things are happening.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Judith Rogala, Federal Express: Senior vice president-service integration, Rogala is a former regional manager for T.W.A. She is a director of Butler Manufacturing; Ellen Marram, Nabisco Biscuit: As C.E.O., Marram runs a $2.5 billion operation for RJR Nabisco. A marketing expert, she is on the boards of K Mart and Ford; Janice Stoney, U.S. West Communications: As president of the telephone company's consumer division, Stoney oversees a 14-state region. She is a director of Whirlpool Corporation, Premark International and Guarantee Mutual Life (Bill Ballenberg; Rob Kinmouth) (pg. 28); G. G. Michelson, senior vice president external affairs of R. H. Macy, sits on the boards of Macy's, Quaker Oats, G.E., Goodyear, The Stanley Works, Chubb, and DCNY Corp.; Professional director Cl

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (86%); F (NYSE) (86%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (94%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (94%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (86%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (86%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (83%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: KRAFT NABISCO (94%); FORD MOTOR CO (86%); KMART CORP (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL EXPRESS CORP; RJR NABISCO; US WEST COMMUNICATIONS

SUBJECT: CORPORATIONS; BOARDS OF DIRECTORS; WOMEN FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (90%); WOMEN (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (88%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); EMPLOYEE PROMOTIONS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (72%); AUTOMAKERS (72%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (72%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (71%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (68%); BANKING & FINANCE (60%); 

PERSON: ROGALA, JUDITH; MARRAM, ELLEN R; STONEY, JANICE; COWAN, ALISON LEIGH ANN LIVERMORE (74%); 



37 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 6; Part 2, Page 42, Column 1; Business World Magazine

LENGTH: 2273 words

HEADLINE: Everyone Gives, Everyone Benefits

BYLINE: By Robert B. Reich; Robert B. Reich teaches political economy at the John F. Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University. This article is adapted from an essay in The American Prospect.

 BODY:
IN THE EYES OF MANY AMERICANS, THE nation's economic prospects look grim. Foreign competitors are clobbering us now, and paving the way toward future dominance. Trade friction with Japan is heating up.
The transition from basic industries to advanced technologies, the central fact of modern economic life, requires huge investments. Today, the governments of our major competitors are devotedly assisting their economies in making this transition - luring direct investment by global corporations, easing the transition out of mature industries, nurturing new technologies and, most importantly, improving the productivity of their work forces. In the 21st century, the economic future of any nation will depend on the accumulated experience and technological sophistication of its workers. Japan, Germany, South Korea and Taiwan, for example, are already showing the way in automobiles, microelectronics and other forms of advanced manufacturing. 
What can be done? With each passing trade statistic, the debate in the United States grows more strident between two opposing factions. On one side is a coalition of American companies and trade unions that wants the Government to protect and advance American enterprise. In the view of these neo-mercantilists, it's either them or us, and unless we become more assertive, foreign competitors will continue to exploit our openness. On the other side are the free-trade advocates, including most Wall Street bankers, economists and officials at the highest reaches of the Bush Administration. They hold that profit-seeking individuals and enterprises are far better able to make all necessary adjustments to the global economy than are governments, which only mess things up. Unrestricted movement of all factors of production across national boundaries, the free-traders say, will ultimately improve everyone's lot - ours and theirs.
I would argue that neither approach can meet the needs of the United States and the world. A confrontational, beggar-thy-neighbor nationalism will lead to trade wars that benefit no one. But a policy of laissez faire will retard the development of new technologies and infrastructure and an educated work force. What is needed is a third way, an outward-looking economic nationalism, whereby each nation would seek to improve the capacities of its citizens, but at the same time would work with its trading partners to ensure that these improvements not come at their expense.
THE NEO-MERCANILISTS' ZERO-SUM PREMISE - it's either them or us - is simply incorrect. Today, no nation's central bank can control its money supply or the value of its currency without the help of other nations' central banks, nor can a nation unilaterally raise its interest rates or run large budget surpluses or deficits without others' cooperation or acquiescence. And these days every advanced nation depends on every other as a market for, and source of, its goods. The Japanese, for example, need a strong and prosperous United States as a market for their goods and a place to invest their money. Any step they take that precipitates a prolonged economic decline here would have disastrous results for them.
Meanwhile, technologies move from computers in one nation to satellites and then down to computers in another, so all countries gain access to new insights at about the same time. And the knowledge of how to make smaller and more powerful semiconductor chips inevitably migrates to other workers in other nations, benefiting everyone on the planet.
Of course, the nation whose workers first gain a particular insight may benefit disproportionately in the short term. But technologies are not like commodities for which world demand is finite, nor does technology come in preordained quantities that either they get or we get. While it is true that the American work force needs direct experience in designing and fabricating leading-edge technologies if we are going to be able to share in their future growth, these need not be exactly the same technologies pioneered by the Japanese or any other nation's work force. In fact, we are ahead of the pack in such areas as complex software, biotechnology and airframes, to name only a few.
Moreover, American workers are being trained to be increasingly productive in some technologies in which other nations are the leaders. Ten percent of our manufacturing workers are employed by firms with foreign affiliates. These companies are now creating more jobs in the United States than are American manufacturers and at higher average wages - $32,887 in 1986 versus an American average of $28,954. Foreign firms come here not just because American assets are now so relatively cheap, but because the foreign firms can be more productive in the United States than can their American-owned rivals. After Japan's Bridgestone Tire took over Firestone, productivity soared. The same thing happened at the General Motors-Toyota joint venture in Fremont, Calif., where, through retooling and retraining, Toyota transformed what had been a troubled G.M. plant into a model facility.
Given the choice of foreign managers and the financial capital that comes with them, or American managers and capital, American workers may in fact do better with the foreign variety. Compared with their American counterparts, for example, Japanese and Western European managers take lower salaries and benefits for themselves relative to their workers, encourage substantially more worker participation and provide employees with greater job security. And compared with many foreign sources of capital, Wall Street demands faster paybacks - and thus tolerates less experimentation, long-term research, worker training and product development.
The specter of foreign management and ownership nevertheless frightens many Americans, who fear that these newcomers will pursue strategies here that reduce American competitiveness. But in today's interconnected world, global companies cannot afford to put their home country's interests ahead of the interests of their shareholders.
Consider the American-owned corporations that have been setting up shop abroad as rapidly as foreign corporations have been coming here. Even though their foreign capital spending is small compared to their domestic spending, it is growing at a much faster rate - up 24 percent in 1988 and 15 percent in 1989. And much of it goes for high value-added production - complex design or production engineering, systems integration and the like. In fact, American firms increased their overseas research and development spending by 33 percent between 1986 and 1988, compared with a 6 percent increase in R&D spending in the United States. They are going wherever they must, doing whatever they must, to maximize profits. Foreign firms operating in the United States have similar priorities.
By the same token, American companies abroad and foreign companies in the United States have equally good reasons to behave responsibly in their host countries. Robert W. Galvin, chairman of Motorola, noted recently that, should it become necessary for the company to close some of its factories, Motorola would not close its Southeast Asian plants before closing those in the United States. ''We need our Far Eastern customers,'' said Galvin, ''and we cannot alienate the Malaysians. We must treat our employees all over the world equally.''
Our national economic goal should be to increase the value of what American citizens add to the world economy - and thus to improve the American standard of living. To the extent that foreign-owned companies help us accomplish this, they should be welcomed.
THE PROPONENTS OF LAISSEZ-FAIRE orthodoxy are deluded if they think that free markets are all we need. If the American work force is to compete more successfully in the world, it needs help with research and development; education, training and retraining; job search and relocation programs; infrastructure such as roads, ports, bridges and sewage treatment facilities. Because the benefits of such investments extend far beyond individual investors, we cannot rely on market forces to meet the society's requirements. Thus the task falls on the public sector. That, however, presents a practical political dilemma. For if the benefits of these wealth-creating investments are enjoyed in the first instance by an entire nation's work force, and then to some extent by other nations, why should an individual taxpayer willingly pay for them?
Loyalty to place - to one's city or region or nation - has traditionally provided the answer to such questions. Individual citizens supported taxes to pay for education, roads and other civic improvements, even when the individual taxpayer was likely to enjoy but a fraction of what was paid out. He or she did so out of a sense of obligation to improve the well-being of everyone else within the same political and geographic unit. As our fellow citizens grew wealthier and more productive, we benefited from their ability to give us more in exchange for what we offered them.
Now that national, state and even local economies are becoming subsets of a global economy, their borders no longer clearly define the boundaries of economic interdependence. And yet, in a global economy, we have little left but the sentiment of loyalty to inspire sacrifice for the greater good. A sense of national purpose - of historic, cultural and principled connection to a common political endeavor - must transcend cosmopolitan economic ties if it is to elicit investment in the nation's future.
Paradoxically, such nationalist sentiments result in greater global wealth than do ''one-world'' sentiments founded upon loyalty to no nation. Like the villagers whose diligence in tending to their own gardens results in a bounteous harvest for all, citizens who feel a special obligation to cultivate the talents and abilities of their compatriots end up contributing to the well-being of compatriots and non-compatriots alike.
Thus the goal should be to encourage public spending within the United States and other nations that would enhance the capacity of their individual work forces to add more value to the world economy. In addition to building infrastructure and supporting such activities as education and preschool care, governments would award subsidies to companies that undertook high value-added production within their borders, so that the nation's work force could gain sophisticated on-the-job skills. But to ensure against zero-sum games, in which nations bid against one another to attract the same set of global companies and related technologies, nations would negotiate appropriate levels and targets for such subsidies.
Under such an arrangement, the amount of permissible subsidy might be directly proportional to the size of a nation's work force but inversely proportional to its average skills. Thus nations with large and relatively unskilled work forces would be allowed greater leeway in subsidizing global companies than nations with smaller and more highly-skilled work forces.
Other kinds of national subsidies would be pooled and parceled out to where they could do the most good. Nations would jointly fund basic research and development whose fruits were likely to travel almost immediately across international borders - projects such as the high-energy particle accelerator, mapping the human genome and the exploration of space.
Similarly, governments would seek to ease the transition of a work force out of older industries and technologies in which there was worldwide overcapacity. This might take the form of severance payments, relocation assistance, extra training grants and funds for retooling or upgrading machinery. Since every nation benefits to the extent that overcapacity anywhere else is reduced, such subsidies might come from a common fund established by all nations; contributions would be apportioned according to how much of that particular industry's capacity lay within each nation's borders at the start.
Finally, the industrialized nations would seek to develop the capacities of the work forces of the Third World - not as a means of forestalling world Communism or stabilizing Third World regimes so that global companies could safely extract raw materials and sell products within them, but as a means of enhancing global wealth. To this end, the shift of high-volume, commodity industries - textiles, for example - to Third World nations would be welcomed, and markets in advanced economies would be open to them.
IN THE AFTERMATH OF THE devastation of World War II, the United States took the lead in creating a new international economic system to guide the growth of the world economy - fixed exchange rates to minimize currency fluctuations, an International Monetary Fund to ensure liquidity, a World Bank to provide development finance and a General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade to ensure an open trading system. In effect, these innovations were designed to channel world trade and finance toward growth for all. By almost any standard the system was a spectacular success. The years 1945 to 1970 witnessed the most dramatic and widely-shared economic growth in the history of mankind. World G.N.P. grew from $300 billion to about $2 trillion; world trade from $30 billion to over $300 billion.
The time has now arrived for a further step along this path. If the transition from basic industries to advanced technologies is to enhance world wealth, rather than merely rearrange it, a new set of international rules must be devised - and soon.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); GERMANY (79%); TAIWAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INVESTMENT SERVICES INC (55%); AMERICAN ENTERPRISE.COM CORP (55%); AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (55%); AMERICAN ENTERPRISE SOLUTIONS INC (55%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FORECASTS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET LABOR FORCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); CENTRAL BANKS (86%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TRENDS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (73%); MICROTECHNOLOGY (72%); LABOR UNIONS (69%); TRADE DISPUTES (65%); MONEY SUPPLY (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: REICH, ROBERT B



38 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 6; Part 2, Page 48, Column 1; Business World Magazine

LENGTH: 3256 words

HEADLINE: MINNEAPOLIS: NO MORE MR. NICE GUY

BYLINE: By William Souder; William Souder writes about business and popular culture from St. Paul.

 BODY:
THE HEADHUNTERS SAY that nobody ever wants to come to Minneapolis, and that once here, nobody ever wants to leave. It's inarguably cold, this distant outpost - a remote corner of flyover land in the heart of the heart of the country. But Minneapolitans do not merely endure this American Siberia, they thrive in it.
Minneapolis - the core of the Twin Cities metropolitan area that includes St. Paul and the suburbs - is an uncommonly clean place, studded with lakes and parks, inhabited by well-educated, hard-working people. Folks here tend to see themselves as not so much isolated as insulated, particularly from the vagaries of urban crime and economic entropy that obtain in so many other cities. In winter, the insulation takes a more concrete form, as residents traverse the central business district in shirtsleeves through a system of enclosed pedestrian skyways at the second-floor level. Summer finds them flocking to the lawns and beaches lining the lakes. 
Minneapolis is at once a cultured city and a going concern of unusual vigor. General Mills, Dayton Hudson and 3M are among the 17 Fortune 500 companies that call the Twin Cities home; so do the Walker Art Center, the Guthrie Theater and Minnesota Public Radio. Their context is a politically open and socially tolerant city not entirely grown out of its homespun, frontier sensibilities. Last January the New Jersey-based Campbell Soup Company came here to open its ceremonial 20 billionth can of condensed tomato soup, a product the Twin Cities' 2.2 million inhabitants consume at the rate of 20 million bowls a year.
Social welfare has always been considered a proper concern of the city's corporate citizens. John Sargent Pillsbury, one of the many New Englanders to find a home and establish an empire here, served three terms as Governor and was an early underwriter of the University of Minnesota. Even as corporate leadership passed quietly from the city's founding families and into the hands of a new class of professional managers, the philanthropic tradition continued. Some 80 local companies currently pledge 5 percent of their pretax earnings each year to charitable and artistic causes.
The economy has found strength in diversity - agribusiness, retailing, technology and finance. As recently as the 1970's, it was generally believed that the Twin Cities were recession proof. The 1980's changed all that, just as they changed the mood and tenor of business here. Minnesota was rocked by a depression in agriculture and a slump in mining that sent rural unemployment soaring. The national downturn in computer sales threatened to kill off what had been a boom industry in the Twin Cities.
Meanwhile, takeover artists, arbitrageurs and greenmailers, who spoke in tongues foreign to the local scene, were suddenly heard loud and clear. Minneapolis ''got discovered,'' says Steven G. Rothmeier, president of IAI Capital Group, a Minneapolis unit of London's Hill Samuel Bank. ''The people running companies in this town understand now that they can be targets.''
Rothmeier knows whereof he speaks. He was C.E.O. of NWA, parent of Northwest Airlines, when it was taken over last year for $3.65 billion by Los Angeles financier Alfred A. Checchi and a group of investors that included KLM Royal Dutch Airlines.
NWA was not the only local company to find itself unhappily in play. In 1988 Grand Metropolitan P.L.C., the British food-and-beverage conglomerate, acquired the Pillsbury Company in a $5.7 billion hostile takeover that cost Minneapolis 550 jobs before the ink on the deal could dry. The aftershocks continue. Last January Pillsbury announced 1,300 more layoffs - 250 of them here. That same month the Securities and Exchange Commission charged an attorney in one of Minneapolis's oldest and most prestigious law firms with insider trading in Grand Met's takeover bid.
No company seemed immune from takeover fever, not even so venerable a local institution as Dayton Hudson, the retailing giant, which fought off a $6.6 billion raid in 1987. The defense was aided by an anti-takeover law passed by the state legislature after an emergency appeal from the company.
One side effect of the merger mania of the 80's was to make celebrities of some of the city's chief executives. Among them were a pair of homegrown financiers, Carl R. Pohlad and his protege Irwin L. Jacobs. Pohlad, president of the Marquette Bank Minneapolis and chairman of MEI Diversified, was a longtime investor in Texas Air and a confidant of its chairman, Frank Lorenzo. Pohlad's holding company, Bank Shares Inc., controls more than 40 banks, and his personal net worth has been estimated at $700 million. But the 73-year-old financier was not well known locally until his 1984 acquistion of the Minnesota Twins baseball team. Jacobs, C.E.O. of the private holding company Minstar, had already earned a national reputation as a greenmailer for the millions he made by threatening takeovers of RCA, Walt Disney Productions and several other large corporations that paid to desist.
Minneapolis, which often grants its local heroes a measure of respect not accorded them elsewhere, had elevated Pohlad and Jacobs to the cherished status given native sons Prince and Garrison Keillor. Indeed, by the end of the decade, it was fashionable in some business circles to see the takeover frenzy of the 1980's as having had a salutary effect on Minneapolis. Takeovers ''bring a heightened awareness of management's need to be responsive to shareholders, a greater concern to ensure that a company is working,'' says Rothmeier, who ran Northwest Airlines for fouryears but bailed out with a golden parachute worth more than $2 million, two months after the company was awarded to the highest bidder.
Yet there were those who feared that the deals and dealmakers would destroy what had made Minneapolis's business culture so special. And they worried that the advent of outside business owners would bode ill for the city's future.
Curtis L. Carlson, the 75-year-old founder and sole owner of Carlson Companies, a $6 billion Minneapolis conglomerate that includes the Radisson Hotels International chain, is one of the fretters. ''Home offices make this city,'' he says. ''You have to wonder how much a replacement manager cares for Minneapolis.''
Carlson cares. In 1986 he kicked off a fund-raising effort for his alma mater, the University of Minnesota, with a pledge of $25 million. The university returned the favor by renaming its business school in his honor. Beating the bushes for three years, Carlson helped raise an additional $342 million for the university. In the process, he learned a lesson he thinks may one day prove costly to Minneapolis: ''Whenever I called a branch office to ask them for money, they thought $500 was a lot.''
MINNEAPOLITANS have long regarded their home as belonging to an elite group of mid-sized American cities - Seattle, Portland and Santa Fe are others - for which the phrase ''quality of life'' has a special meaning. A $2 billion building boom in the central business district during the 1980's transformed a city skyline once dominated by the solitary spire of the 52-story I.D.S. Center into an extravagant reach of slick highrises. But beyond the downtown proper, Minneapolis is still remarkably residential, a grid of streets possessing a quiet, Middle Western ambiance.
The local economy has diversified dramatically over the past century, since the days when industry centered around the lumber and flour mills powered by St. Anthony's Falls. Among those innovations the world owes to companies based here are Scotch Tape and Post-it Notes (3M); the supercomputer (Control Data, Cray Research); the supermarket trading stamp (Gold Bond); the pocket-size heart pacemaker (Medtronic); the first $3 million baseball player (Kirby Puckett of the Twins), and Wheaties (General Mills).
For all its vigor, though, the local economy has faded of late. Dain Bosworth's 80-stock regional index tracked ahead of national averages throughout the 1970's. But local stock prices slipped in the mid-80's, and Dain research director Peter Glanville says the index now actually trails the rest of the country. Troubles in specific industries - most notably computers and banking - also came home to roost.
The Control Data Corporation entered the decade as a maker of high-performance mainframes, with revenues exceeding $5 billion a year; it finished the 80's with five straight years of losses, which totaled $1.43 billion. First Bank System, once the dominant bank-holding company in the Twin Cities, lost hundreds of millions of dollars in 1988 and 1989, much of it as the result of bad loans and investments.
DAYTON HUDSON KNEW something was up in early June 1987 when its stock climbed $5 in the course of a week, moving into the mid-50's. As takeover rumors swirled, the company's investment bankers - Goldman, Sachs & Co. - learned that the Dart Group, a Washington-based holding company, was looking to acquire the nation's fifth-largest retailer, probably to break it up. Dayton Hudson chairman Kenneth A. Macke vowed to fight.
But the Haft family, owners of the Dart Group, were coming after Dayton Hudson in earnest, and they caught the Minneapolis company at a vulnerable moment. Though annual revenues had been growing steadily, to more than $9 billion, earnings had been nearly flat for two years. Macke had already begun restructuring Dayton Hudson with the 1986 sale of the B. Dalton bookstore chain. But other divisions had poor records. Some analysts were estimating Dayton Hudson's breakup value at more than $100 a share.
The local citizenry cared little about the financial ins and outs; a Twin Cities institution was under attack by outsiders. Dayton Hudson was the very embodiment of the local philanthropic tradition and a company that employed 34,000 Minnesotans. The downtown store had been a Minneapolis fixture since its founding early in the century by George Draper Dayton.
Unlike so many of the nation's major corporations, Dayton Hudson is incorporated in Minnesota, not Delaware. Macke petitioned Minnesota Governor Rudolph G. Perpich, who promptly convened a special legislative session. On June 25, in a single day of work, an anti-takeover bill was written and passed into law. The new bill stipulated that an investor who acquired a Minnesota company in a hostile takeover would be barred from liquidating any of its assets for at least five years.
Irwin Jacobs could read the clear implications for someone like himself. ''I couldn't believe Ken Macke ran over to the Legislature with his lawyers and his lobbyists,'' says Jacobs, still fuming almost three years later. ''The Legislature didn't have any right to get involved in something like this. Is this a socialist world we're living in?''
The Hafts eventually made a new, $65-a-share proposal, but it disappeared into the detritus of the October 1987 stock market crash. Reprieved, Macke set to work on the company's underlying problems, and the following year, net earnings rose 26 percent, to $287 million. To discourage further attacks, he implemented a $63-per-share stock buyback totaling $438 million and put in place an employee stock ownership plan.
AS THE DAYTON HUDSON episode demonstrated, Minneapolis was no longer safe from the raiders. It could happen here. And it did - first in late 1988, with Grand Metropolitan's hostile $5.7 billion acquisition of Pillsbury, and again in the spring of 1989, with Alfred Checchi's purchase of Northwest Airlines.
Pillsbury was unable to rally the community, or even its own troops, to mount an effective defense. Employee morale was low at the company: in 1987, Pillsbury had sustained its first profit decline in 16 years, earning only $182 million on sales of more than $6 billion. Within Burger King, the company's largest division, franchisees were restive over what they considered ineffective advertising and inadequate capital support by Pillsbury.
Philip L. Smith, the company's fourth chief executive in four years, had been on the job only a few months when Grand Met made its move. The $60-per-share bid was nearly double the trading price, and even Pillsbury's own employees lined up to sell: roughly half of the four million shares in the company's employee stock benefit programs were soon in the hands of Grand Met.
The British food giant also took pains to woo the Governor and the local non-profit organizations. ''Grand Met came in advised to treat this community with kid gloves, and they did,'' says Charles I. Mundale, executive director of the Minnesota Project on Corporate Responsibility, a watchdog organization funded by 42 of the Twin Cities' largest companies.
Pillsbury, which is incorporated in Delaware, could not invoke Minnesota's anti-takeover law. More than a dozen prospective white knights were approached, to no avail. When Grand Met improved its offer to $66 a share, Pillsbury accepted.
''Everybody on the Street had a book on Pillsbury,'' recalls Ian A. Martin, the 54-year-old Scotsman whom Grand Met sent to Minneapolis to become Pillsbury's C.E.O. ''We could see that the company was not firing on all cylinders.'' Martin promptly fired 550 Pillsbury employees and another 550 from the Burger King division, ''cutting a swath through the redundancies of the organization,'' he says. He closed a total of five plants and distribution centers. ''Job creation is not an end of business,'' says Martin.
Under Grand Met, the company is maintaining its $8 million annual funding of the philanthropic Pillsbury Foundation. Perhaps more important for the local economy, Grand Met turned the 121-year-old Pillsbury around; profits increased 21 percent in the first nine months under the new owners.
ASIDE FROM HIS MINNESOTA Twins, no part of Carl Pohlad's activities interests local people more than his affiliation with the 48-year-old corporate raider, Irwin Jacobs. The son of a burlap-bag dealer from Minneapolis's working-class north side, Jacobs was a small-time wholesaler in 1975 when he went looking for a $4.1 million loan to buy Minneapolis's ailing Grain Belt Breweries.
After being turned away by other bankers, Jacobs called on Pohlad. ''Everybody else laughed at him,'' says Pohlad. ''He had a deal with me in 30 minutes. And you know why? Because Irwin understood the value of non-ledger assets like real estate and a brand name. The worst that could happen was that he'd sell the brand and liquidate the assets.'' Indeed, Jacobs sold Grain Belt nine months later, picking up a $4 million profit, along with the nickname that has dogged him ever since: Irwin the Liquidator.
Jacobs has bought a string of boat manufacturers, including Lund, Larsen and Wellcraft. AMF, the White Plains, N.Y.-based maker of recreational equipment, declined to sell him its prestigious Hatteras yachts division in 1985, so Jacobs bought the entire company - the only major corporation he has actually acquired in all his takeover runs. He soon sold off all of AMF except Hatteras, recouping his full $565 million investment and, in essence, getting the yacht maker for free.
Although Jacobs was on his own last summer when he tried and failed to take over Avon Products, during the 80's he and Pohlad often operated as a team. Pohlad, for example, was part of the small group of Minneapolis investors that Jacobs assembled to pursue Disney in 1984, until the Bass Brothers came to Disney's rescue by buying out the Minneapolitans for more than $150 million. Pohlad and Jacobs bought a 51 percent non-voting stake in the Minnesota Vikings football team, then promptly went to court in an attempt to obtain voting rights for their interest; the case is still pending. They doubled their $46 million investment in Shaklee Corp. last year, in a takeover bid that sent Shaklee into the arms of Japan's Yamanouchi Pharmaceuticals.
The two men would seem an unlikely alliance. Pohlad is a pillar of the banking industry, handpicked two years ago by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation to take over two troubled Texas companies, National Bancshares Corporation and Texas American Bancshares. Jacobs, in contrast, is the man whom the Federal Reserve's Board of Governors fined $50,000 in 1980. The Fed charged that Jacobs had acted in bad faith when he acquired, then quickly sold off, a small bank-holding company called MidAmerica Corp.
''I think I understand Irwin,'' says Pohlad. ''He used to be known as a liquidator; that was because he never found a business he could devote himself to. He likes the boat business because it's a sexy business.'' To which Pohlad adds, almost wistfully, ''Just like airlines are a sexy business.''
It is in the airline business that Pohlad finds himself involved with another controversial partner: 49-year-old Frank Lorenzo, the chairman of Texas Air Corporation. Pohlad had been an investor in Texas International Airlines before Lorenzo acquired the small, innovative carrier for a song in 1972. The young financial operator from New York used his private investment firm, Jet Capital Corporation, as a vehicle for the acquisition and for expanding the airline, which he renamed Texas Air.
Lorenzo's reputation as a pioneer in low-cost, low-fare airlines has been tarnished in recent years by his fierce anti-labor tactics. And the stock in his highly leveraged Texas Air, which traded as high as $49 a share in 1986, tumbled as low as $5 during the past year.
Of late, Pohlad has tried to resolve some of the damage Lorenzo's bellicose impulses have wrought. He found a potential buyer for Eastern Air Lines, the 1986 acquisition that is proving to be an albatross for Lorenzo. But the deal collapsed. Last month, a Federal bankruptcy examiner found that Texas Air had drained off millions of dollars in Eastern assets to its Continental Airlines units.
Unlike some other Minneapolis businessmen of his generation, who rue the rise of contentious upstarts like Frank Lorenzo and Irwin Jacobs, Carl Pohlad says: ''I've got a great deal of respect for those guys. As far as their reputations go, you have to understand that everybody in the country got into the act when it came to takeovers. I don't think you can paint labels on guys like Irwin Jacobs and Frank Lorenzo. They were part of something a lot bigger.''
SOMETHING BIGGER - the cumulative effect of raids, L.B.O.'s and Eighties Excess - made its mark in Minneapolis. And even though the first months of the 90's have seen the national takeover fever abate, few people here believe the Twin Cities can ever revert to the old way of doing business. But they disagree about where the new way is taking them.
''The Twin Cities business community is not unique in seeing an adverse change,'' says Control Data's 78-year-old founder, William C. Norris. ''There's no such thing as job security anymore. You can't be a moral, ethical corporation and yet see a large number of people in society denied the opportunity to work.''
''I don't care what the old guard thinks,'' says Irwin Jacobs, ''because the old guard has done nothing here in the past decade. They're coasting. But I don't think that that means the community is going to suffer. There will be another group of leaders who will come in and make things happen.''
Dayton Hudson's Kenneth Macke, one who fought and survived, has adopted the philosopical middle ground. ''We'll all learn to live with the dealmakers,'' he says. ''But it will take some adjustment.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Irwin Jacobs, the Minneapolis-based financier, has earned a national reputation as a takeover artist (pg. 48); Minneapolis skyline (pg. 48 & 49); Kenneth Macke, chairman of the 87-year-old Dayton Hudson Corp., with two buyers at the flagship department store in downtown Minneapolis (pg. 49); Carl Pohlad, who controls 40 banks, also owns the Minnesota Twins (pg. 65) (Geoffrey Biddle)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CPB (NYSE) (82%); GIS (NYSE) (55%); TGT (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311422 SPECIALTY CANNING (82%); SIC2032 CANNED SPECIALTIES (82%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311824 DRY PASTA, DOUGH & FLOUR MIXES MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED FLOUR (55%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (55%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (55%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (55%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (55%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (55%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (95%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (94%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CAMPBELL SOUP CO (82%); GENERAL MILLS INC (55%); TARGET CORP (55%); MINNESOTA TWINS (59%); MINNESOTA TWINS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MINNEAPOLIS (MINN)

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (84%); CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (73%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (72%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (71%); TAKEOVERS (71%); AGRICULTURE (69%); CHARITIES (69%); FOOD INDUSTRY (67%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (66%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (65%); RECESSION (65%); PUBLIC RADIO (65%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (64%); BASEBALL (61%); TRENDS (60%); 

PERSON: SOUNDER, WILLIAM ANN LIVERMORE (50%); 



39 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 6; Part 2, Page 66, Column 1; Business World Magazine

LENGTH: 990 words

HEADLINE: The Invisible Man

BYLINE: By John F. Richard; John F. Richard is a former vice president at the Irving Trust Company.

 BODY:
I CONFESS TO BEING ONE OF THE fortunate - suburban childhood, Ivy League college, graduate school, 15 years of steady promotions in international banking. Not that all this matters much as I sit in my small weekend house with the walls closing in on me. I am unemployed.
The quiet of the Connecticut woods, which used to provide a respite, now feels more like solitary confinement. Returning home from one of my contrived distractions, I look quickly for the blinking light on the telephone answering machine. I'm expecting the headhunter from Houston to call back, a friend at a New York bank and, most importantly, the senior vice president of the company I am currently hoping will provide employment. 
No light, no calls, deepening silence. I am gradually becoming the invisible man. This is a shock for which the American Dream has left me ill prepared. In fact, it is my third shock in the debilitating cycle of unemployment.
The first occurred 11 months ago. After a year-long hostile tender battle between my bank, the Irving Trust Company, and a competitor, the Bank of New York, I should have expected it. I preferred to believe that I would survive the merger, as I had been assured many times. It was merely a question of whom I would report to: I was a vice president in charge of lending to finance companies, and two senior executive vice presidents were warring for control of my little group. My complacency also seemed justified by 10 years of favorable performance reports, as well as by my involvement in the turnaround of the bank's middle-market activities.
In the end, my entire division was dismissed. We were on the losing side of an acquisition. Q.E.D. Suddenly the consolidation of the financial services industry, which looked so necessary on paper, got very personal.
I considered myself one of the lucky ones. Many others were simply dismissed. I was given the choice of a lesser position or a severance package. At the age of 48, single, I decided I could easily afford the couple of months it would take to find another job. Then I would defer my starting date to allow for a trip to China that I had long dreamed of. Piece of cake. I began contacting friends and headhunters.
Not so easy. At the end of two months, I had identified not a single opportunity. Nothing, zero.
My expedition to China, a month after the massacre in Tiananmen Square, turned out to be one of very few events in the last year worth remembering. Two months later I returned, renewed and ready to go. I contacted all the old headhunters and, through friends, a bevy of new ones. A few leads made it seem as though the market might have turned:
Monday: Headhunter with my resume calls to describe a senior consulting position with a major accounting firm. Salary, approximately $120,000. I express strong interest.
Thursday: Second recruiter calls about a British bank's senior lending position. Salary, $100,000 plus bonus. Again I indicate strong interest.
Three weeks later I have not heard back from either recruiter. Although I have been told never to lean on headhunters, I give in and call - only to learn that the accounting firm has filled the job with someone significantly more junior, while the British bank has promoted an existing employee.
Multiply this experience by 10, and you begin to understand the roller-coaster ride of job hunting. Sometimes it's a short ride. One recruiter, who has my resume, calls to describe a $150,000 job, then adds that the managing partner of the company wants someone 15 years younger than I. By the six-month mark, I have had one set of interviews. This lack of job prospects, the dead-end scenario, is shock No. 2.
Still I plug away. I scour the business press, even the classified ads, for leads. Who might be expanding into what product areas? Which organizations are looking for personnel changes to bolster profits? But it's the headlines that catch my unwilling eyes - Merrill laying off, Shearson restructuring, personal bankruptcies up. I pore over my bank statements with greater and greater care.
In my increasingly depressed state, my sensitivity to others' hardships is heightened. I find myself recalling one of my Chinese guides who taught himself English and who now faces unemployment with the drop in tourism after Tiananmen. Or the tearful AIDS victim who accosted me on a street in New York, saying his bed in a hospice had been delayed and he had no money for food or lodging. Even without a paycheck, I find it easier to dig into my pocket.
The upside has been my friends. Even friends of friends volunteer contacts, ideas, referrals. One venture capitalist, pressed to suggest companies in need of new financial management, says the real future lies in ''workouts,'' the restructuring of failed businesses - not exactly my area of expertise.
Time passes. The casual social query, ''What do you do?'', starts to sound confrontational. Just making introductory phone calls to potential contacts gives me the kind of palpitations usually associated with a teenager calling for a first date. Still, any lead, no matter how slight, relieves the tedium, often moving me to imagine not only the job but my office, commuting times, even the magazine subscriptions I'll need. Missing the daily confirmation of my skills, I find that my few interviews provide enormous relief, allowing a temporary return to professional involvement.
To fill the huge gaps in my days, I employ myself . . . building a garage. In Connecticut this means struggling with rocks, indeed boulders. Even such mindless labor yields a small, yet tangible, sense of accomplishment.
The roller coaster continues. Away from the hurly-burly of work routines, answers to the cosmic questions - who I am, what I really value, what goals are most important - become clearer every day. But the way to get where I want to go seems to fade with my own increasing invisibility. Shock No. 3.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: IRVING TRUST CO (NYC)

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET EMPLOYMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (71%); SEVERANCE PAY (68%); WAR & CONFLICT (66%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (65%); 

PERSON: RICHARD, JOHN F



40 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 7; Page 1, Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 3593 words

HEADLINE: GOOD BOOKS ABUT BEING SICK

BYLINE: By ANATOLE BROYARD; Anatole Broyard is a former editor of The Book Review. He teaches fiction writing in Cambridge, Mass.

 BODY:
I was reading Shirley Hazzard's novel ''The Transit of Venus.'' Though I had admired her other books, I'd always resisted this one. It struck me as too pure somehow, too heroic, larger or finer than life and therefore unreal. But now I read it with an almost indescribable pleasure. There were sentences that brought tears of gratification to my eyes and raised the hairs on the nape of my neck.
I was in a Boston hospital, propped up in bed with an intravenous feeding tube in my arm and a catheter in my urethral canal after undergoing surgery for prostate cancer. It was a double room and my roommate, a kind of thug who growled when he spoke because he had both a broken jaw and a drug habit, was spraying the air for the fourth or fifth time that day with a cloying deodorizer. He had a television set and a radio going at the same time.
The catheter hurt and the diagnosis of my case was ambiguous. When I asked the oncologist the usual question - How much time have I got? - he hesitated before answering. ''I would say,'' he said, ''that you have in the neighborhood of years.'' 
I burrowed into the book. I was not escaping into it but identifying with it, as fervently as I have ever identified with any novel. The life Shirley Hazzard described was the kind I wanted for my neighborhood of years. Her book was the prescription that I needed and that no doctor would give me. I needed a dose of the sublime. From where I sat in my cranked-up bed, the sublime seemed to be all there was left.
I paused in my reading because I was out of shape and the beauty of the book had winded me. In my mind I composed a letter to Shirley Hazzard. After a brief description of my circumstances, I said, ''You offered me an alternative. Art is our ace in the hole. I'm eating your book for lunch and it's making me hungry.''
I was afraid of finishing ''The Transit of Venus.'' It had become my neighborhood. I put it down and went for a walk around the ward, dragging the metal rack with the I.V. tube and the catheter bag. From the window of an empty room I looked down at the city, which was dotted with trees. How extraordinary the real world was! Shirley Hazzard was right.
When I got out of the hospital my first impulse was to write about my illness. While sick people need books like ''The Transit of Venus'' to remind them of the life beyond their illness, they also need a literature of their own. Misery loves company - if it's good company. And, surprisingly enough, there isn't much good company in this rapidly proliferating field. A critical illness is one of our momentous experiences, yet I haven't seen a single nonfiction book that does it justice. Even in fiction there are only a handful of great books on the subject: Tolstoy's ''Death of Ivan Ilyich,'' Thomas Mann's ''Magic Mountain,'' most of Kafka, and Malcolm Lowry's ''Under the Volcano.''
While Tolstoy is the grandfather, my favorites among these are Mann and Lowry. Kafka's illnesses are more existential than physical; they are like Kierkegaard's ''sickness unto death.'' In ''The Magic Mountain,'' Mann wrote the grand, definitive romance of illness, a portrait that I would say, speaking as a connoisseur now, will never be equaled.
Mann's hero, Hans Castorp, who has only a little ''moist spot'' on one lung, has been sublimating his passion for Clavdia Chauchat, who is seriously ill, by reading biology books. When, encouraged by champagne, Castorp woos her, he vacillates between the language of physiology, of the doctor, and the language of the lover or poet. ''Let me touch devotedly with my lips,'' he says, ''the femoral artery that throbs in the front of your thigh and divides lower down into the two arteries of the tibia!'' ''The body, love, death,'' he says, speaking to her in French, the only language they have in common, ''these three are only one. For the body is sickness and voluptuousness, and it is this that causes death, yes, they are carnal both of them, love and death, and that is their terror and their great magic!'' After their first and only night together, Clavdia gives Hans an X-ray of her tubercular lungs as a souvenir.
Like Mann, Malcolm Lowry uses the delirium of illness in ''Under the Volcano,'' where alcoholism is the consul's disease, one that will kill him indirectly. While I have little patience with drunks, I love the consul because he makes drunkenness too seem like Mann's ''fever of matter,'' like a slip or glitch in our composition, a hopeless reaching for happiness. He is so inventive, so poetic, so tender about his alcoholism, he wastes himself in such grandiose gestures and experiences such incredible distortions without allowing them to break his heart, that I find the novel almost unbearably moving.
When I turned to nonfiction, to books by people who were or had been ill, I expected to find some echo of Castorp or the consul, but for the most part I was disappointed. Two of the better books were written by journalists: ''Stay of Execution'' by Stewart Alsop, who was a political columnist, and ''Hanging In There,'' by Natalie Spingarn, a medical reporter. Their books remind me of the dispatches of war correspondents. While they describe in considerable detail the way cancer attacks and how the campaign against it works, they don't go much beyond this. They tell the reader a lot about the waking life of the cancer patient, but not much about his daydreams or fantasies, about how illness transfigures you. Their books are objective, businesslike. You wouldn't know from them that inside every seriously ill person there's a Kafka character, a Castorp or a consul, trying to get out.
Max Lerner certainly has Mann and Kafka in bed with him in ''Wrestling With the Angel: A Memoir of Triumph Over Illness.'' Like an old campaigner, he welcomes the opportunity to examine, at point-blank range, the threatened human body and soul. His book, which will be published in June, is the best of the patients' accounts I've seen. My only reservation is that his memoir is perhaps too intellectual, not lyrical enough, too much about ideas and too little about the whatness, the sheer here-and-now of illness. His thinking about his illness is a bit too professional. Ill or well, he's the same Max Lerner, better known, almost, than the cancer he writes about. At his age, he's hard to awe.
Norman Cousins is both a reporter and a reformer in his books about his own and other people's illnesses. He was one of the first to encourage the patient to develop strategies of his own, to provide for himself all the things the doctor didn't order. While he has been criticized for oversimplifying the issues - his insistence, for example, on the healing power of laughter - he has many shrewd things to say. He advises the patient to regard the diagnosis of critical illness not as a threat or a prophecy but a challenge. He urges the sick person to take an active part in his treatment, to keep reminding his doctor whose life it is.
In his latest book, ''Head First: The Biology of Hope,'' Mr. Cousins seems very useful in his job as a sort of patient's advocate in the School of Medicine at the University of California at Los Angeles. But while his book is crammed with information and news of research, he is perhaps too fond of unexplained remissions. I like him because he is an evangelist of sorts, and every hospital ought to have one. Yet his sense of humor is corny and his yea-saying may put off sophisticated people. For a former editor of The Saturday Review, he has surprisingly little to offer about the imaginative life of the sick.
Bernie Siegel, a doctor who says ''call me Bernie,'' is a sort of Donald Trump of critical illness. He sounds like a proprietor or landlord of mortality. The title of his book ''Love, Medicine & Miracles'' tells a lot about him. He believes in love and miracles as much as in medicine, and he has even more spontaneous remissions to report than Norman Cousins. Although he's a surgeon, he might sometimes be mistaken for a pop psychiatrist. Like Mr. Cousins, Dr. Siegel is not a gifted writer, and this may cause his suggestions to sound cruder than they actually are. He asks his patients to practice ''imaging,'' to think of their ''good'' cells attacking and overcoming their ''bad'' cells. Some of his analyses of patients' drawings strike me as recklessly confident.
Yet, for better or worse, Dr. Siegel introduces an element of camaraderie into the medical process. He rallies the patient and offers him hope, even if it is ''inspirational.'' In his presentation of himself, he reminds me of a doctor I once knew who wore such outlandish-looking suits that I couldn't help wondering about his medical judgment. While his book is a best seller, Dr. Siegel is like an awkwardly drawn angel announcing a controversial miracle. Yet, with all these caveats, he is a godsend to many people who are too sick to object to his style.
Susan Sontag's ''Illness as Metaphor and AIDS and Its Metaphors'' is an elegant analysis of how we think about illness and the stigma we attach to it - the ''spoiled identity'' of the sick, as Erving Goffman puts it. She chooses to address herself more to the conceptualization of illness than to the daily experience of it. Approaching him panoramically rather than individually, she aims a bit high for the sick man lying flat in his hospital bed. It is not his quiddity but his place in the medical polity that occupies her. She is to illness what William Empson's ''Seven Types of Ambiguity'' is to literature.
In my opinion, Ms. Sontag is too hard on metaphor when she says that ''the most truthful way of regarding illness - and the healthiest way of being ill - is one most purified of, most resistant to, metaphoric thinking.'' She seems to throw the baby out with the bath water. While she is concerned only with negative metaphors, there are positive metaphors of illness too, a kind of literary aspirin. In fact, metaphors may be as necessary to illness as they are to literature, as comforting to the patient as his own bathrobe and slippers. If laughter has healing power, so too may metaphor. Perhaps only metaphor can express the bafflement, the panic combined with beatitude, of the threatened person. Surely Ms. Sontag wouldn't wish to condemn the sick to Hemingway sentences.
Oliver Sacks, a neurologist, has become a kind of poet laureate of contemporary medicine. While I can only hint here at all the extraordinary things he has done to open up our thinking about illness in ''Awakenings,'' ''Migraine,'' ''A Leg to Stand On,'' ''The Man Who Mistook His Wife for a Hat'' and ''Seeing Voices,'' I would describe him as a doctor who has a genius for entering the patient's illness, for looking around inside his pathology for suggestions about how the sick man can cope, how he can live parallel to, or even through, his disability. He reconciles afflicted people to their environment in such a way that they are not so much submitting to it in an impaired exchange as proposing a novel relation. He turns disadvantages to advantage. In ''Seeing Voices,'' for example, he points out that the sign language of the deaf can evoke ''a concreteness, a vividness, a realness, an aliveness, that spoken languages, if they ever had, have long since abandoned.''
When Dr. Sacks severely injured his leg while climbing alone in Norway, he could hardly move and might easily have died of exposure, but as he says, ''There came to my aid now melody, rhythm and music. . . . Now, so to speak, I was musicked along. I did not contrive this. It happened to me.'' Remembered music gave him the strength, the rhythm, to ''row'' himself along the ground until he found help. A virtuoso of medical innovation, he finds more means of healing than are dreamed of in our philosophies.
What kind of book would I like to write? I'm not a doctor, and even as a patient I'm a mere beginner. Yet I am a critic and, being critically ill, I thought I might accept the pun and turn it on my condition. If I were to demystify or deconstruct my cancer, I might find that there is no absolute diagnosis, no single, agreed-upon text, but only the interpretation each doctor and each patient makes.
My initial experience of illness was as a series of disconnected shocks, and my first instinct was to try to bring it under control by turning it into a narrative. Always in emergencies we invent stories. We describe what is happening, as if to confine the catastrophe. The patient's narrative keeps him from falling out of his life into his illness. Like a novelist, he gives his anxiety a shape.
In the beginning I invented mini-narratives. Metaphor was one of my symptoms. I saw my illness as a visit to a disturbed country. I imagined it as a love affair with a woman who demanded things I had never done before. I thought of it as a lecture I was about to give to an immense audience, on a subject that had not been specified. Having cancer was like moving from a cozy old Dickensian house crammed with antiques, deep sofas, snug corners and fireplaces to a brand-new one that was all windows, skylights and tubular furniture.
Like anyone who has had an extraordinary experience, I wanted to describe it. This seems to be a normal reflex, especially for a writer. I felt a bit like Eliot's Prufrock, who says, ''I am Lazarus, come from the dead, / Come back to tell you all, I shall tell you all.'' Like a convert who's had a vision, I wanted to preach it, to tell people what a serious illness is like, the unprecedented ideas and fantasies it puts into your head, the unexpected qualms and quirks it introduces into your body. For a seriously sick person, opening up your consciousness to others is like the bleeding doctors used to recommend to reduce the pressure.
What goes through your mind when you're lying, shot through with nuclear dye, under a huge machine that scans all your bones for evidence of treason? There's a horror movie appeal to this machine: beneath it you become the Frankenstein monster exposed to the electric storm. How do you appear to yourself when you sit with bare shins and no underwear beneath a scanty cotton gown in a hospital waiting room? Nobody, not even a lover, waits as intensely as a critically ill patient. On a more complicated level, it would be like explicating a difficult poem to try to capture the uncanny, painless yet excruciating sensation that comes with having a 10-inch needle thrust straight into your abdomen, a needle that seems to be writing on your entrails, scratching some message you can't make out.
What a critically ill person needs above all is to be understood. Dying is a misunderstanding you have to get straightened out before you go. And you can't be understood, your situation can't be appreciated, until your family and friends, staring at you with an embarrassed love, come to know, with an intimate, absolute knowledge, what your illness is like. The therapist Erving Polster defined embarrassment as a radiance that doesn't know what to do with itself. We need a book that will teach the sick man's family and friends, the people who love him, what to do with that radiance. If they knew how to use it, their radiance might do him more good than radiation.
I'm tempted to write a romantic book, a love offering, like Clavdia Chauchat's X-ray picture. The space between life and death is the parade ground of romanticism. The threat of illness itself seems to sound a romantic note - I've been feeling exalted since I heard the diagnosis. A critical illness is like a great permission, an authorization or absolving. It's all right for a threatened man to be romantic, even crazy, if he feels like it. All your life you think you have to hold back your craziness, but when you're sick you can let it out in all its garish colors.
Writing a book would be a counterpoint to my illness. A book would force the cancer to go through my character before it could get to me. In ''Intensive Care,'' Mary-Lou Weisman tells us that just before her 15-year-old son died of muscular dystrophy, he asked his father to arrange him in ''an impudent position'' in the hospital bed. I'd like to write an impudent book. While Norman Cousins looks for healing laughter in low comedy, I'd rather try to find it in wit. The threat of dying ought to make people witty since, as Samuel Johnson said, it concentrates the mind. Oddly enough, death fits Freud's economic definition of humor: he says that we set aside a certain amount of energy to hear out a joke that threatens to go on and on, like life, and then suddenly the punch line cuts across it, freeing all that energy for a rush of pleasure.
Norman Cousins and Bernie Siegel are correct in saying that a sick person needs other strategies besides medical ones to help him cope with his illness, and I think it might be useful to describe some of the strategies that have occurred to me. After all, a critic is a kind of doctor of strategies. For example, I saw on television an Afro-Cuban band playing in the streets of Spanish Harlem. It was a very good band and before long a man stepped out of the crowd and began dancing. He was very good too, even though he had only one leg and was dancing on crutches. He danced on those crutches as other people dance on ice skates and I think there's probably a ''dance'' for every condition. As Kenneth Burke, one of our best literary critics, said, the symbolic act is the dancing of an attitude.
As a preparation for writing, as a first step toward evolving a strategy for my illness, I've begun to take tap-dancing lessons, something I've always wanted to do. One of my favorite examples of a patient's strategy comes from a man I know who also has prostate cancer: instead of imagining his good cells attacking his bad cells, he goes to Europe from time to time and imposes Continental images on his bad cells. He reminds me that in an earlier, more holistic age, doctors used to advise sick people to go abroad for their health.
The illness genre ought to have a literary critic - in addition to or in reply to Susan Sontag - to talk about the therapeutic value of style, for it seems to me that every seriously ill person needs to develop a style for his illness. I think that only by insisting on your style can you keep from falling out of love with yourself as the illness attempts to diminish or disfigure you. Sometimes your vanity is the only thing that's keeping you alive, and your style is the instrument of your vanity. It may not be dying we fear so much, but the diminished self. A writer friend of mine who died of lung cancer used a Jamesian style in referring to his illness as a way of preventing anything ugly, rude or abrupt from arising. Another writer friend who had lung cancer was robbed of his style by a stroke that left him speechless. He died not of cancer finally, but pneumonia, as if his lungs had filled with trapped speech and he had drowned in it.
Somebody other than a doctor ought to write about the relation between prostate cancer and sexuality. As I understand it, the prostate gland is like a raging bull in the body, snorting and spreading the disease. All of the various treatments are designed to tame the prostate. When I chose hormonal manipulation over orchiectomy, I was warned that this method too would effectively cancel my libido. Yet I found this hard to believe. My libido is lodged not only in my prostate but in my consciousness, my imagination, my memory, my appreciation of women, my conception of myself - my esthetics, if you will.
There's room for hermeneutics here. Is desire itself carcinogenic? Couldn't there be another level of sexuality? Can the imagination, for example, have orgasms? Is it possible to discover an alternative mode -as the signing of the deaf is an alternative to speech - a form we haven't thought of yet, an avant-garde, nonobjective, post-modern sexuality? What would Oliver Sacks say? I never understood, in ''The Sun Also Rises,'' why Lady Brett and the castrated Jake Barnes couldn't think of anything to do, why all that wanting had to go begging. In my own case, after a brush with death, I feel that just to be alive is a permanent orgasm.
There's too much talk about anger among the sick and in the books about them, and I think writers should be cautioned against this. The feeling of being unjustly singled out is a dead-end kind of thinking and you can't get rid of it in Elisabeth Kubler-Ross's screaming room. I'm past middle age, and I've never been really sick before - what have I got to be angry about? Anger is too monolithic for such a delicate situation. It's like a catheter inserted in your soul, draining your spirit.
Just before he died, Tolstoy said, ''I don't understand what I'm supposed to do.'' Very sick people feel this kind of confusion, but I'd like to point out that there's a lot they can do. I feel very busy now, very usefully occupied, and I'd like to write about some of the ways a sick person can divert and defend, maybe even transcend himself.
The British psychoanalyst D. W. Winnicott began an autobiography that he never finished. The first paragraph simply says, ''I died.'' In the fifth paragraph, he writes, ''Let me see. What was happening when I died? My prayer had been answered. I was alive when I died. That was all I had asked and I had got it.'' Though he never finished his book, he gave the best reason in the world for writing one, and that's why I want to write mine - to make sure I'll be alive when I die.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (pg. 28)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: TRANSIT OF VENUS, THE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (57%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (57%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BOSTON (MASS)

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); CARDIOVASCULAR DEVICES (89%); LITERATURE (78%); BONE FRACTURES (76%); CANCER (75%); ONCOLOGY (75%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (71%); FACIAL INJURIES (71%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (71%); PROSTATE DISEASE (71%); MEN'S HEALTH (69%); PROSTATE CANCER (69%); 

PERSON: BROYARD, ANATOLE; HAZZARD, SHIRLEY THOMAS MANN (84%); SHIRLEY HAZZARD (77%); HANS CASTORP (68%); MALCOLM LOWRY (64%); 



41 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 7; Page 24, Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1652 words

HEADLINE: PAPA GETS THE BLAME

BYLINE: By ROGER SHATTUCK; Roger Shattuck, the author of two books on Marcel Proust, has most recently published ''The Innocent Eye: On Modern Literature and the Arts.''

 BODY:

A HISTORY OF PRIVATE LIFE
Volume Four: From the Fires of Revolution to the Great War.
Edited by Michelle Perrot.
Translated by Arthur Goldhammer.
Illustrated. 713 pp. Cambridge, Mass.:
The Belknap Press/Harvard University Press.
$39.95.
As with icebergs and volcanoes, seven-eighths of human life remains out of sight. Behind the great events and eminent figures traditionally recorded as history lie teeming behaviors that fill our time - all-pervasive, only half predictable, sometimes wicked. Therefore by conventions of civility in speech and dress we limit access to one another's lives. There are things we would rather not know. Yet the opposite pull of curiosity can become very strong. 
Our appetite for the underside of history has long been served by accounts of daily life, by histories of taste and of morals, by personal narratives and, primarily, by novels. Early in this century the influential French Annales school of history deflected the focus of scholarly history from narratives of great events to scrutiny of mentalites - lasting attitudes or mental habits underlying events. That school has succeeded so well in France at least that some historians are leaving mentalites behind in order to burrow even further down toward cases. A large library has accumulated of studies of villages and small-time individuals.
The new emphasis on the history of everybody has now been consecrated in an ambitious five-volume series - ''A History of Private Life'' - published by the distinguished Seuil house in Paris and masterfully translated by Arthur Goldhammer for Harvard University Press. Because of the copious illustrative materials - paintings, drawings, caricatures and photographs, all cannily chosen and wittily captioned to display domestic life - one responds first to a magnificent picture book. It is disappointing to discover that a team of resourceful researchers (unacknowledged in the American edition) assembled the illustrations independently; the authors never refer to the array of images. With foolish parsimony, the American edition omits the handsome colored endpapers of mural paintings and wallpapers that emblazon the Seuil volumes.
A respected nonacademic scholar, Philippe Aries, who liked to call himself a Sunday historian, ''willed, conceived, and prepared'' the series. He died in 1984, when it was half completed. Aries's study of the history of the family in ''Centuries of Childhood'' (1962) has left a visible mark on the first three volumes. He and his collaborators were aware of a problem affecting a history of private life beginning with ancient Rome. The notion of privacy as a valued condition related to individualism did not really take shape until the 19th century, primarily in England. The 20-odd authors of the first three volumes, including the eminent Georges Duby, circumvent this potential difficulty by writing social history with a major emphasis on domestic life and sexual mores. Their generally competent essays offer us something between a nonalphabetical encyclopedia and a miscellany, with no primary subject and no sustained argument.
This approach changes in the fourth volume, devoted to the crucial 19th century. That is when separation of home from work place became established, and people began to seek privacy consciously. Furthermore, for this modern period the available documentation about daily life in words and images becomes overwhelming and can be shaped to support almost any thesis. Michelle Perrot, the editor and principal contributor to this volume, has woven two books into one. All the essays except one on England offer sociological studies of private life in 19th-century France combined with severe critical judgments of that life. The shuddering political events of the period are rarely referred to. Three short essays - on the French Revolution, the development of the English ''sweet home'' and rituals and pastimes of the bourgeoisie - make the common point that the Revolution stopped short of liberating women from the home and retained public life for men. The change I refer to occurs in the essays by the main contributors. The way they recast Aries's ideas stands the series on its head. In his introduction to Volume Three, central in every way to the project, Aries explains how increased state intervention in people's lives during the 17th and 18th centuries encouraged the formation of a private sector: ''Ultimately the family became the focus of private life. Its significance changed. No longer was it merely an economic unit for the sake of whose reproduction everything had to be sacrificed. No longer was it a restraint on individual freedom, a place in which power was wielded by women. It became something it had never been: a refuge.''
A scholar best known for her study of the working class, Ms. Perrot appears to continue this interpretation in her opening remarks to Volume Four. She states that ''the nineteenth century was the golden age of private life.'' But in the third paragraph of a 160-page section, she refers to the family not as a haven, but as ''a totalitarian unit'' provoking rebellion and explosion. After looking at some theories of the family from Hegel to Michel Foucault, she easily gathers evidence of family conflict that casts an unfavorable light on the bourgeoisie and paternalistic husbands. The golden age of privacy turns out to be the dark dungeon of family life. In a later section on childhood, Ms. Perrot again subjects the family unit to the ultimate curse of our time: ''totalitarianism.'' This antifamily verdict is not supported by a careful weighing of evidence to refute Aries.
In a 100-page chapter called ''Private Spaces,'' the social historian Roger-Henri Guerrand unfolds a broad panorama of information about domestic architecture and the consequences of extreme inequities in the distribution of wealth. Mr. Guerrand devotes his most impassioned pages to describing and praising the housing project for workers built by the industrialist Jean-Baptiste Andre Godin according to the socialist-utopian principles of Charles Fourier. Godin's social project in Guise (100 miles northeast of Paris) housed more than a hundred families in imposing four-story buildings with running water and toilets on every floor, glassed-in courtyards, medical services, baths and rubbish chutes. Mr. Guerrand dismisses Emile Zola's skepticism about the community, expressed after a brief visit, and states rhapsodically and inaccurately: ''Godin thus realized the Fourierist utopia.'' A few pages later Mr. Guerrand vents his wrath on another entrepreneur, Frederic Le Play, who encouraged workers to save money in order to buy their own homes. According to Mr. Guerrand this ''bizzare idea'' led to France's becoming ''a straitlaced country of self-satisfied homeowners.''
Such sweeping observations pass right by the real need to examine the relation of ownership - particularly absentee and corporate ownership - to our self-awareness as citizens of a community. To a disturbing degree, we have come to think in terms of owning our selves, our persons.
Alain Corbin, the third major contributor to this volume, has studied prostitution in France and published a much discussed work entitled ''The Foul and the Fragrant: Odor and the French Social Imagination'' (1986). Here Mr. Corbin has written 200 pages divided between information and apologia. His brief remarks on the confessional, alcoholism, Pasteur's revolution of the microbe and French psychologists at the century's end show a shrewd investigator at work. But his central subject is the history of contemporary sexuality, which he dates from about 1860, when ''the bourgeoisie began to suffer from its morality.'' The resulting liberation of sexual behavior is variously referred to as ''a slow but profound change,'' ''a mutation,'' and in his final sentence as a ''revolution.'' Mr. Corbin realizes that adequate documentation for these claims is hardly furnished in his brief, unsystematic accounts of adultery, licensed bordellos and courtesans of the demimonde. He ultimately locates the change in ''the emergence of a new species'' - namely, the persecuted figure of the male homosexual:
''When all is said and done, the pederasts of the nineteenth century were the first to develop the model of a strictly hedonistic sexuality, cut off from procreation, which was destined to enjoy a brilliant future. When homosexuals finally emerged from hiding to proclaim their normality, it was, as Philippe Aries remarked, in order to hold out to the young a triumphant new model of virility.'' (My translation.) The paragraph deserves scrutiny. Unless one reads it ironically as an admonition - and I do not - Mr. Corbin is welcoming this new model of strictly hedonistic sexuality and offers it to all of us to enjoy. He mentions no complications, no dangers, social, moral or medical. (In a 1982 article, Aries did discuss the role of the homosexual and the pansexual today - but in more judicious tones than Mr. Corbin's.) In her conclusion, Ms. Perrot picks up the song. The ''desperate effort'' of the 19th century to moor private life to the family dissolved into 20th-century concerns with self, body, psyche and ''sexuality liberated from procreation and marriage.'' It all leads to a ''new system of relations,'' of which unfortunately she provides no description or discussion.
Many of us are well enough informed about the early years of our own century to decide for ourselves about these large claims concerning our sexuality and our morality and about the degree to which such claims constitute a reliable ''history'' of private life, even in France. Anyone who reads the final volume of this series in French will discover the disintegration of the project into political and sexual special pleading. Such pleading is already present in Volume Four.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: HISTORY OF PRIVATE LIFE, A (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (93%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (87%); ENGLAND (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (56%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (93%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (92%); HISTORY (89%); WRITERS (88%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); CLASSICS (73%); FAMILY (73%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (73%); PAINTING (69%); 

PERSON: SHATTUCK, ROGER; PERROT, MICHELLE PHILIPPE ARIES (75%); MICHELLE PERROT (72%); 



42 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 7; Page 10, Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1724 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
I HEAR AMERICA SWINGING

BYLINE: By ROBERTO GONZALEZ ECHEVARRIA; Roberto Gonzalez Echevarria, formerly a catcher in a semiprofessional baseball league, is the R. Selden Rose Professor of Spanish and Comparative Literature at Yale University.

 BODY:

BASEBALL
The People's Game.
By Harold Seymour.
Illustrated. 672 pp. New York:
Oxford University Press. $24.95.
Is there baseball without the major leagues? To hear some interested parties speak could lead one to believe that Commissioner Kenesaw Mountain Landis once said, let there be baseball, and there was baseball, and he saw that it was good, and since then we have had the National and the American Leagues. Harold Seymour's ''Baseball: The People's Game,'' which dispels any such notion, is must reading for all lovers of the game and should be absolutely required for those who presume to meddle with its well-being and future. 
This is the third volume of Mr. Seymour's history of professional baseball in the United States. (''Baseball: The Early Years'' was published in 1960 and ''Baseball: The Golden Age'' appeared in 1971. A fourth volume is in preparation.) However, the current book is his most important because it raises broader issues about the game and touches the lives of more people. Very few Americans ever play professional baseball and an even smaller number put on a major-league uniform. But millions have played the game Mr. Seymour writes about here. He gives us a broad and detailed history of baseball as it was played from sandlot ball to the semipro and professional level in the so-called Negro Leagues; he includes American Legion, Y.M.C.A. and church-sponsored leagues, as well as softball and women's baseball. In short, Mr. Seymour covers the gamut of American baseball outside self-proclaimed Organized Baseball, from the origins of the game to just before World War II. ''Baseball: The People's Game'' is significant not only for the history it tells, which is rich, detailed and lavishly researched, but for the questions it raises about baseball as a game and as a United States institution.
One of Mr. Seymour's implicit arguments is that what began as a children's game was soon taken over by adults, who not only regularized it but regimented it, and eventually endowed it with an ideology. This ideology, first derived from theories about the benefits of sport in physical education, escalated to pieties about character-building and was then inevitably elevated to patriotism, bordering at times (during the 1930's) on fascism. It would be all too easy to cast Mr. Seymour as a romantic. But those of us who as children were lucky enough to play unsupervised by adults probably associate the pleasures of catching, throwing, hitting and running with freedom from school and home, an unlikely feeling for those who toiled in leagues designed to entertain parents and extend their control over kids.
The result of all this is clearly Little League, which Mr. Seymour's history does not reach. Perhaps today's children, exposed to so much professional baseball on television, never really play the game but play instead at playing major-league baseball. The replicas of the majors offered by amateur leagues from college down to Little League, I am sure, reinforce this. Perhaps children can still experience that unmediated feeling of physical pleasure and psychic release that the very act of hitting one squarely or picking up a hot short hop can afford. Perhaps even professionals, as they intone the platitudes that make up the ideology of professional sport, are aware that these have very little to do with the game itself. Mr. Seymour's thorough research scrupulously separates the game of baseball from the economic, political and social institutions that embraced it and used it for their own gain. This is a healthy antidote to self-serving presumptions about the deep, natural affinity between baseball and the values of United States culture, a debate I wish my friend A. Bartlett Giamatti and I had been granted more time to pursue.
The game, as Mr. Seymour understands it, is essentially the physical activities of catching, throwing, hitting and running, and the exhilaration of executing them for no other gain than the momentary pleasure of performing them. This is the special time bubble of play, a space outside the pressures of the real world, in which rules other than society's govern. It is the whooshing of a fast ball as it sails right into your motionless mitt or the elation of knowing, after a long run, that a fly ball is going to be yours. But it is also the freedom to make up rules to adjust for the lack of enough players, equipment or a big enough field.
Built on top of this is the edifice of social and economic regulation, from the money paid to players by industrial teams to the athletic scholarships offered by colleges in an increasingly professionalized sports environment after the turn of the century. Around this structure, like a scaffolding of (hot) air, are the words contrived to support it by hiding both the nature of the game and the true intentions of its sponsors.
Of course, one wonders if any game ever really develops outside social institutions, if the very rules that make it up reflect in some way - even a negative one - those of the larger systems that contain it. Could baseball, with its contrived rural cast (outfield, infield, mound, horsehide, stick) and its rejection of time as a factor, hide the essentially urban, industrial dreariness of United States society during the game's history? The unhampered sandlot game may be a delusion, a mirage of memory, a field of dreams.
Mr. Seymour's most poignant pages about freedom, restraint and baseball in a closed environment are those devoted to the game in prisons. These make up almost a book within the book and serve to present, in dramatic fashion, the use of baseball for social purposes. But they also show the benevolent aspect of the game, its ability to shelter momentarily the players and spectators from the harsh realities of lives without hope, by engaging them in an activity with limited but attainable goals - like ''running home'' without being stopped by the warden. The same is true of the various chapters devoted to baseball in the armed forces, both in peacetime and during World War I, when thousands of teams played in Europe and the game became further ingrained in patriotic ideology and propaganda.
While Mr. Seymour's is a baseball book that can be read with pleasure, it is also a wide-ranging study of cultural history in the United States from the mid-19th century to the beginning of World War II. The author focuses on the effect of larger socioeconomic systems, such as welfare capitalism, on baseball, and on the use of the game in broad social processes, like the Americanization of immigrants. But he also zooms in on smaller institutions like the general store, which spawned the Hot Stove League, and the organization of town teams in rural areas. The overall picture is one where baseball is part of a vast, unplanned campaign to impose upon the majority of the population values that will ease the growth of capitalism by diverting the workers' attention from their harsh working conditions. This political scheme holds for Mr. Seymour's study of the spread of baseball to other parts of the world, particularly the Caribbean, Mexico, Central America and the Pacific. The beginning of baseball in those regions is the direct result of the rise of the United States as a world economic, political and military power.
This is the first baseball book in which I find that research on Caribbean baseball is unbiased and reliable, though much remains to be done. Unlike other writers, Mr. Seymour does not assume that Cubans, Dominicans and Puerto Ricans play or watch baseball differently because they are imperfect imitators of the conventions and rituals of the game in the United States. Games, like languages, can be imposed by imperial powers and then used (as Caliban warned Prospero) to curse them. The dominance of Cuban teams in international amateur play since the late 1930's is a case in point.
The overwhelming presence and protection of Father is rarely felt when children play ball in the Caribbean. In the provinces of Cuba, where I grew up, we played mostly unsupervised sandlot ball until, as teen-agers, those with talent joined organized town or school teams. I remember, when I was about 12, traveling to a nearby town to play a team whose pitcher was a full-grown man and threw curves that hissed around your ears before they dove over the plate. They called him Vinagre Mizell after the St. Louis Cardinals pitcher Vinegar Bend Mizell, who set a strikeout record in the Cuban winter league in the 50's. I was proud to crack a hard foul off him before he struck me out in my only time at bat. Was this experience good or bad for me? I have no idea, and I was not too worried about it then (my parents either, thankfully). I remember the excitement of playing those guys, whom we had never seen before, and who, less than 10 miles from our town, were strangers and, during the game, enemies. Sizing them up was part of the fun.
The homogenization of baseball by the major leagues is another important issue raised by Mr. Seymour's book. Today baseball is like a pyramid that players climb from Little League to the big leagues, within a stable environment where plays and even gestures are set, uniforms down to wrist bands are the same and stadiums are facsimiles of professional fields. I am sure that there must be some gains in this, but there are many losses. The heaviest, I think, is the impossibility of playing against a team that is truly dissimilar, that will test your intelligence and adaptability as the game goes, bringing freshness and adventure to the whole experience.
This process of homogenization is fortunately not complete. I treasure a recent acquisition: a facsimile copy of a history of Cuban baseball published in Havana in 1889, and have been enjoying ''Dobleplay,'' a book by Edgard Tijerino recently published in Managua, Nicaragua, that a friend who knows my weaknesses brought me the other day. The story Mr. Seymour tells has analogues in those countries, but much is different, from the smell of coffee and cigar smoke in Cuban stadiums (in the United States they smell of beer), to the kind of player assessment Cubans and Nicaraguans make, an assessment that values savvy more than raw physical talent. I hope those differences are preserved and enjoyed.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kids playing sandlot baseball

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: BASEBALL: THE PEOPLE'S GAME (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (91%); AMERICAN LEGION (54%); AMERICAN LEGION (54%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BASEBALL (93%); BOOK REVIEWS (91%); CHILDREN (87%); YOUTH SPORTS (79%); PHYSICAL EDUCATION (79%); SOFTBALL (78%); HISTORY (74%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: GONALEZ ECHEVARRIA, ROBERTO; SEYMOUR, HAROLD; ECHEVARRIA, ROBERTO GONZALEZ HAROLD SEYMOUR (96%); 



43 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 7; Page 13, Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1501 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
THERE'S GOLD IN THEM THAR DIAMONDS

BYLINE: By LOUIS RUKEYSER; Louis Rukeyser is a syndicated columnist and the host of ''Wall Street Week With Louis Rukeyser'' on public television.

 BODY:

THE BASEBALL BUSINESS
Pursuing Pennants and Profits in Baltimore.
By James Edward Miller.
Illustrated. 382 pp. Chapel Hill:
The University of North Carolina Press. $24.95.
In 1930, the Yankees paid Babe Ruth the unprecedented sum of $80,000 to hit home runs. When reminded that this was more than President Herbert Hoover earned, the Bambino reportedly quipped, ''I had a better year than he did.'' Today, when even the average major leaguer's salary is about two and a half times what President Bush makes, there is far less laughter on the scene; as this past winter's lockout again dramatized, baseball has become not just big business but confrontational big business, with the worst labor-management relations on the national sports scene. Now comes a timely book purporting to tell us how it happened. 
James Edward Miller is a historian, and he has written a scholarly, immensely detailed book, which focuses on the Baltimore Orioles to identify the issues that have arisen since the 1950's, with the modern commercialization of baseball. The sport was never just the innocent fun and games that sentimentalists imagine, as the Ruth anecdote suggests, but changes in the past four decades have been authentically profound - ranging from the purely financial, such as the explosion of television revenues, to the intensely human, such as the belated and still incomplete acceptance of blacks at all levels of the game.
Interestingly, the sport itself may have altered least. In the 1960's, as professional football claimed precedence as America's new national pastime, many commentators thought the decrease in baseball's attendance would be permanent; they argued that the sport would have to be jazzed up or disappear. (To one such persistent television interrogator, the St. Louis Cardinals' great pitcher Bob Gibson exploded in exasperation: ''It's a baseball game!'') With the single and still hotly debated exception of the designated hitter, baseball has had fewer major rules changes than football or basketball in the ensuing years, but has had a resurgence of attendance nonetheless. Explanations range from fashionable nostalgia to complicated theories about subtlety and strategy, but the indisputable reality, as Mr. Miller points out, is that the game now attracts a more diversified, younger and more affluent audience than ever before. Somebody must be doing something right. As Mr. Miller sees it, though, that somebody is certainly not the owners. They have been guilty of ''a textbook case of bad industrial management,'' he tells us, and they have ''ignored legal restraints and practiced collusion in an effort to destroy free agency and impose limits on players' salaries.'' Massive, periodic labor-management clashes have thus become inevitable. One has to stop and remind oneself from time to time that, whatever the owners' motives, a journeyman second baseman now pulls down what was approximately the total payroll of the Orioles less than 30 years ago. Can it all have been due, as Mr. Miller seems to believe, to the brilliant negotiating skills of two heads of the players' union, Marvin Miller and Donald Fehr? Other historic forces, including those pervading the broader society, also played a part in shifting the sport away from its traditional paternalism. (The author is out of date, incidentally, in citing ''major tax benefits'' as a leading reason for owning a sports team. These have largely disappeared, and nowadays the most significant lure, aside from the enormous ego baths, comes in the potential for resale. The Seattle Mariners, for example, were sold for $13 million in 1981 and almost six times that figure in 1989 - a turnaround that was particularly lovely for a team that has never had a winning season.) But Mr. Miller is surely on target when he decries baseball's sorry record on race relations. The sport that long banned nonwhite players from its organized precincts was slow to accept them, he recounts, at positions other than the outfield or first base, unless they were superstars. ''The overall statistics continue to show a marked tendency to hand the so-called thinking positions to white players,'' he concludes. The rawest bigotry has occurred at the managerial level, but change is finally occurring there, too. Baltimore's current field manager, Frank Robinson, is the same superb athlete who was a symbolic victim of prejudice in 1966. Mayor Theodore McKeldin, unsuccessfully urging Baltimore's tavern owners to serve blacks during World Series games there, declared in disgust: ''I find it a distasteful piece of irony that I must make this plea in light of the fact that without Frank Robinson, a person who would be excluded by such businesses, we would probably have no World Series.''
As any team would, the Orioles make an imperfect metaphor for the sport as a whole. They could once be reasonably described, as they were by Roger Angell in 1983, as ''the dominant American League team of our time''; they were an early example of the postwar realignment of franchises, and until 1979 they were the last publicly traded franchise in the major leagues. But in the decades when the minor leagues lost nearly all power and television became the ninth-inning home run for baseball owners and players alike, Baltimore had special problems as a smaller market fighting for fans not just against the usual competitors but against the perennial effort to re-establish a team in nearby Washington. Mr. Miller is absorbing on all these questions, and he is unabashedly a fan - though he criticizes most cities, including Baltimore, for making too many financial concessions to keep their teams.
The 1990 season may well provide an objective test of whether the evident revival of America's love affair with baseball can survive its increasingly frequent labor-management disruptions. Meanwhile, Mr. Miller has written a useful book. One might wish for a livelier style; his addiction to formulations like ''On 2 December 1964 . . .'' is more suited to the barracks than the bleachers, and his narrative is interrupted by no fewer than 1,102 footnotes - or more than six times the total number of games the Orioles played last season. (Still, the occasional error creeps in; Baltimore's Mayor from 1959 to 1963 was J. Harold Grady, not Henry Grady.) We also learn perhaps more than we need to know about Mr. Miller's other prejudices - as, for example, when he informs us, for no particularly relevant reason, that Ronald Reagan was ''the amiable ideologue whose economic policies deprived the urban poor of basic assistance, enriched the well-to-do, and turned the United States into the world's biggest debtor nation.'' (Gosh, professor, who's on first?) For the most part, though, in his thoughtful chronicle of baseball's often grudging movement into modern American life, Mr. Miller has provided enthusiasts and critics alike with a solid double to left.
 
 
 
25 YEARS OF HAGGLING
 Only one out of every 4,000 high school varsity baseball players will ever play in the big leagues. Those few who do make it often receive extraordinary salaries - player earnings in 1989 averaged $512,804, and 152 players will receive $1 million or more this year. Such affluence does not inspire much sympathy from the public when players and club owners are involved in labor disputes. But life in baseball has not always been so plush. Kenneth M. Jennings, in BALLS AND STRIKES: The Money Game in Professional Baseball (Praeger, $24.95), describes some of the earlier problems ballplayers faced: salary caps, a reserve system that curbed player mobility, minimal or nonexistent retirement provisions and, in the nonunion years, almost complete managerial control over players' careers and wages. In 1966, however, the Major League Baseball Players Association took on a new and more aggressive stance with the hiring of Marvin Miller, a former chief economist for the United Steelworkers of America. Mr. Miller led the association to a new era of player-owner relations, notable for major gains in salaries, pensions, arbitration procedures and working conditions. Mr. Jennings, a professor of industrial relations at the University of North Florida, gives a detailed account of collective bargaining in baseball during the last 25 years, leading up to the owners' lockout this year. He discusses the participants on both sides and how disunity among the club owners has contributed to the union's ability to achieve large bargaining gains. He also deals with salary arbitration and how it has been used to settle pay disputes, noting that it can resemble ''a high-stakes crapshoot'' that leaves management incapable of controlling a team's payroll costs. For aficionados of the sport, this book provides clarifying insight into the complicated issues of baseball's labor relations and offers fascinating anecdotes and a shrewd commentary on the diverse and colorful personalities involved.
 
DAMON STETSON

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: BASEBALL BUSINESS, THE (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA PRESS (58%); UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (84%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (56%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (56%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS; BASEBALL BASEBALL (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); HISTORY (70%); BASKETBALL (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (65%); 

PERSON: RUKEYSER, LOUIS; MILLER, JAMES EDWARD JAMES H MILLER (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 



44 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 8; Page 10, Column 2; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 1307 words

HEADLINE: VIEWS OF SPORT;
TV Cash Can Give Colleges High Marks

BYLINE: By NEAL H. PILSON; Neal H. Pilson is the president of CBS Sports.

 BODY:
The business of televised sports has undergone dramatic changes over the last two decades and will continue to evolve as we look ahead into the 1990's. What was once a stable, structured and predictable marketplace is now one of unparalleled growth and transition, resulting in a far more complex and uncertain economic environment.
Several industry statistics point to changes in a marketplace that supported the uninterrupted growth of network television for its first 35 years.
* While the average television viewer in 1970 received only four or five channels, three of which were networks, the average television household today receives almost 20 television channels and many receive 40 or more.
* Cable has grown from nine basic services in 1970 to more than 50 basic channels and seven pay services, offering a diverse menu of programming from news to sports to music videos. Today, nearly 57 percent of all homes with television subscribe to basic cable service. 
 
* In 1980, there were 129 full-power independent television stations; today there are 339.
* In 1979, 480,000 videocasette recorders were sold; today, 61 million households are equipped with VCR's.
This changing marketplace clearly affects the business of televised college athletics because these factors affect the bottom lines of most universities and colleges. I would like to explain how CBS is involved with collegiate sports, particularly in light of our recent seven-year, $1 billion agreement with the National Collegiate Athletic Association to televise its men's basketball championships and 15 other sports. And I urge college administrators and the public to consider television revenue more favorably than it is usually portrayed, not as a seed of corruption but as a resource and a business opportunity.
Changes in the television marketplace have dramatically affected the three basic elements of the business: audience, advertising and programming. The audience shift has been profound, from a combined 90 percent prime-time share for the networks in 1980 to 67 percent last fall. Advertising revenue must now be shared with competing video services, like cable and barter syndication. Programs and sports events that used to go to the three networks automatically are now being aggressively bought by these alternative distribution systems.
A decade ago, network television was the only carrier of major collegiate football. But in 1989, CBS and ABC broadcast less than 20 percent of the approximately 300 college football games carried on television. The growth of college basketball on television is even more pronounced. Before 1970, not one regular-season game was broadcast on network television. This season well over 1,300 games have been available to college basketball viewers in this country via broadcast and cable networks.
Increased competition has forced CBS to re-examine what we feel makes network television unique and determine how we can best serve a changing audience. Network television remains the only system that can deliver programming simultaneously to all 92.1 million television homes in the United States. ESPN, the largest cable service, reaches only 55 million. It is therefore far more economical for the networks to reach all of the television homes with one event than it is for cable services to distribute two, three, or four events at one time.
As a result, I think the networks will be concentrating on marketing national games to the widest possible audience. It is our strongest suit and we must move in that direction, since every business (and every university and conference, for that matter) seeks a distinctive and unique image to differentiate its product or sell its service.
Considering the notoriety that comes with such major deals as our $1 billion contract with the N.C.A.A., television's role in college sports is often criticized as adversarial, manipulative and detrimental to the health and welfare of athletes and their schools. Some say television's money breeds commercialism, the pressure to win at all costs, the resultant violations of N.C.A.A. rules and the abuse of student-athletes.
I find fault with this criticism; we in television are very sensitive to the issue of our medium's influence on college athletics. In the next five years, we estimate that the entire television industry will disburse between $1.2 billion and $1.5 billion to colleges and universities. But that money should be viewed by society and by college administrators as a positive force and as an enormous and attractive resource for higher education. It is money the educational institutions do not have to raise from taxpayers, parents, alumni and students, and it is money they can use for any purpose: to build new classrooms or dorms, to reduce tuition, or to pay coaches' salaries.
Traditionally, we have not involved ourselves in the expenditures of the rights-fee money by any of the organizations we do business with. And in the future we don't want to tell the N.C.A.A. how to spend its money.
But I have gone out of my way in the last few years to talk about television money as a resource for colleges. Besides being a television executive, I am a citizen, a taxpayer, and a father of three children, two currently in college. I would like to see this money used for broad educational purposes as well as athletic purposes. It is a major challenge for the colleges to use this money wisely.
Fortunately, I think the N.C.A.A. has the leadership to put this money to proper use. The N.C.A.A.'s executive director, Dick Schultz, recognizes that the $1 billion the N.C.A.A. will receive from CBS is an opportunity to create major reform. He has suggested that increased television money could go into a merit pool with each member school eligible for the money. If a school has a certain number of full scholarships in a variety of sports, they would receive X number of dollars. If athletes have a graduation rate that is equal to or above the rest of the student body or above a certain minimum, they would qualify for so many dollars. This kind of approach may help to restore the balance between education and athletics and help to reduce the win-at-all-costs attitude at colleges and universities today.
I also think university presidents now better understand that they are in a business whether they like it or not. They have an obligation to conduct their end of the business in a professional manner. I have talked to people like Chancellor Martin Massengale of Nebraska and Dr. Edward Foote, president of Miami, and they understand that presidents need to have some control over the use of the money television is providing.
There is no real disagreement between the colleges and the television industry, and I think college presidents now understand that the so-called domination of television over college sports is a myth. Yes, there are instances where television does ask colleges to kick off a football game at 2:43 or 7 P.M. or noon, but they are free to say no. If they do, however, we are also free to take our business elsewhere. If we are going to pay two institutions a million dollars to play a football game, we want them to play during a time period when we can televise them; if they don't want to play during that time period, then we are not going to pay them. This isn't blackmail; this is Economics 101.
The relationship with television is a good business proposition for the schools if they manage and administer the television money properly. We see them now bringing into their administrative and athletic departments people trained in business evaluations and opportunities. Financial consulting services are also available. Institutions are treating college sports as an important business, and we strongly encourage them to do so.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: CBS CORP (92%); NATIONAL COLLEGIATE ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: CBS SPORTS; CBS INC

SUBJECT: ATHLETICS AND SPORTS; TELEVISION; COLLEGE ATHLETICS COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (92%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (92%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); SPORTS (89%); CABLE TELEVISION (89%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (89%); CABLE INDUSTRY (89%); BASKETBALL (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (78%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (76%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (76%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); STATISTICS (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (69%); BASKETBALL TOURNAMENTS (69%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (66%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (66%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (66%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (64%); 

PERSON: PILSON, NEAL H MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 



45 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 10; Page 7, Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1405 words

HEADLINE: PERSPECTIVES: Office Construction;
As Building Slows, So Will Tax Growth

BYLINE: By ALAN S. OSER

 BODY:
LOOKING east and looking west in Manhattan, it is hard to find new office projects starting. That foreshadows low figures for completions in 1992 and 1993. For New York City, this is one sign of the impending slowdown in the remarkable rate of growth in tax revenues from Manhattan office buildings - sobering news for fiscal managers.
During the strong construction years of the 1980's, 79 new office buildings were produced in Manhattan. Taken together, those buildings in this fiscal year are paying the city $400 million in property tax and an additional $98 million in commercial occupancy tax.
But it now is clear that there has been too much new construction for the market's need - especially in West Midtown. There, a special six-year zoning bonus enacted in 1982 by the administration of Mayor Edward I. Koch caused a splurge of construction. The new buildings eased development pressures on the East Side and opened a new section of Manhattan for office growth, as they were intended to do. They represent a generally positive long-term development for the city, but meanwhile the market is having a hard time digesting the space. 
While office completions in most of the 80's were running from 5 million and 7 million square feet a year uptown and downtown, they now are falling to levels reminiscent of the mid-70's. In those years, completions ranged from zero to 2 million square feet. Construction picked up in 1978.
The pattern appears to be repeating itself. ''Significantly less space will be completed in the early 90's than in the 80's,'' said Raymond T. O'Keefe, executive vice president of Cushman & Wakefield, the office-leasing firm.
Joseph DeLuca, managing director of the realty group at Chemical Bank, described the demand for construction loans in Manhattan as ''off drastically.''
To be sure, office development has not stopped dead in its tracks. On the East Side, construction has started on the 900,000-square-foot 40-story building at 450 Lexington Avenue, at 45th Street. It will house a rebuilt midtown postal facility in its base. The developers - Sterling Equities, Gerald D. Hines Interests and Prudential Insurance -already have a major tenant in the law firm of Davis Polk & Wardwell. Completion is likely in 1992, or perhaps a bit earlier. On the West Side, the Rockefeller Group is likely to start 745 Seventh Avenue this year. This 57-story, 1.3-million-square-foot structure will be the western anchor of Rockefeller Center, between 49th and 50th Streets. The owners completed the site assemblage in January when they reached a deal to buy out the lease of an F. W. Woolworth store. The building could be ready for occupancy in 1993 or 1994.
BUT there are not many other buildings going into construction, and the situation calls attention to just how heavily New York City has relied on office development and a healthy demand for space to support its budgets.
Assessments on existing properties have been rising smartly, high-priced sales of occupied buildings have brought sharply higher assessments and the new construction has been the icing on the cake.
The City Council, moreover, seized the opportunity of market health to shift an even greater share of the tax burden from owners to office properties. It took advantage of the right to shift up to 5 percent of burden from one class of property to another during most of the 80's.
Higher taxes have helped shove up office rents, making it still harder to absorb excess space.
Nevertheless, the city has revenue problems. Just last month Mayor David N. Dinkins warned of an impending shortfall of $1.8 billion in revenues with which to balance the budget now in planning for fiscal 1991. The gap was $700 million greater than he had predicted only six weeks earlier. In future years, it may be even harder to balance budgets.
The surge in building prices, and the activity in building sales, has already slowed. Attention has centered on whether the Japanese will continue to be as active as purchasers of Manhattan real estate in the 90's as they were in the 80's. If the dollar continues to rise in relation to the value of the yen, Japanese investment may slow.
LAST year, for example, Mitsubishi Estate Company bought a 51 percent interest in the Rockefeller Group for $846 million. And the Paine Webber building at 1285 Avenue of the Americas was sold for $550 million to a partnership that is 80 percent owned by Nippon Life. For the city, sales mean money from taxes on transfers, as well as higher assessments in time.
But the stock market collapse in 1987, and the subsequent retrenchments and even failures on Wall Street have taken their toll on the real estate market. It was the financial sector and allied businesses that spurred the city's growth in the 80's. Advertising firms were merging and enlarging as well. Now it is the law firms that are the principal shoppers for major office space, and the customary prime tenants in the new midtown buildings.
Some brokers say there is no shortage of major space seekers. Forty of them are said to be in the market for about 40 million square feet. The question is, how soon do they require the space? Currently the vacancy rate for prime office space is about 14.3 percent downtown and 13 percent midtown, according to the Real Estate Board of New York. These rates are about 6 points higher than the comparable rates three years ago. Availabilities in so-called secondary space are running higher - about 15 percent midtown and 20 percent downtown, according to recent Cushman & Wakefield data.
The city's total office inventory is probably around 360 million square feet. Some brokers put the total availability figure at 60 million square feet in new and occupied buiildings.
Those figures explain why new construction has slowed. ''When there has been a fair amount of building for a while developers sit back and say, 'Let's wait,' '' Mr. O'Keefe said. ''Also, it's harder to find new sites.''
One broker, who asked not to be identified, said that part of the problem in finding tenants is that owners are insisting on rents that pay yields based on 100 percent of the development cost. They have put little or no equity into projects. But the market does not justify the rents they had projected.
If it were easier in New York City to find properly zoned sites within the central business district, land prices might be more moderate. Development costs and asking rents would in turn be lower and the city would be in a better competitive position to hold tenants it has lost to other regions. The need for tax abatements to keep the city competitive would subside.
The city's reliance on a strong Manhattan office market is demonstrated by figures prepared by the Real Estate Board.
IN 1985, Manhattan office buildings produced $1.05 billion in revenue, or 25 percent of all the money collected from the property tax citywide. In the current fiscal year (fiscal 1990, ending June 30), they will have produced 29 percent, or $1.9 billion. For fiscal 1991, the current subject of budget preparations, the projection is 31 percent - $2.2 billion of the $7 billion the Dinkins administration expects to collect.
These numbers are not the full picture, it is true. They are not ''net,'' so they do not show how much revenue was lost from property the new buildings displaced. Nor do they take account of the indirect economic gains and job growth associated with new development, or the social consequences, sometimes undesirable, that growth engenders in a highly developed city.
The winding down of the development cycle was most recently confirmed in the February issue of Real Estate Forum. The publication found 1989 office completions to total 7.35 million square feet. The figure for 1990 is projected to be 5.7 million and for 1991 it was only 1.56 million.
Brokers, for their part, feel that the winding down in new construction is on the whole a favorable development until the excess space is absorbed. But at City Hall, where officials are trying to deal with a budget crisis, the slowdown in growth of the office sector is viewed with concern.
''I think it may last for two or three years, but then there will be a turnaround,'' said Sally Hernandez-Pinero, the Deputy Mayor for Finance and Economic Development. ''But we won't be where we were in the boom years. We're coming down so big because we were up so high.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (82%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (82%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (57%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (57%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

COMPANY: DAVIS POLK & WARDWELL LLP (82%); CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (57%); CHEMICAL BANK (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MANHATTAN (NYC); NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); PROPERTY TAXES OFFICE PROPERTY (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); OFFICE & WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LEASING INDUSTRY (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (68%); 

PERSON: OSER, ALAN S; O'KEEFE, RAYMOND T



46 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 12NJ; Page 18, Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: ART;
Helping Black Artists Start Their Careers

BYLINE: By VIVIEN RAYNOR

DATELINE: NEWARK

 BODY:
NOW in its last two weeks, the exhibition ''Against the Odds'' has successfully inaugurated the ''new'' Newark Museum and at the same time celebrated black art in an unusual way. The first must have been the easier task, since the museum can make anything look good now that Michael Graves has transformed it from an old lady down on her luck into a ''dish.''
Except for some minor changes and the addition of a side entrance, the building looks pretty much as before on the outside. Inside, however, it is scarcely recognizable, what with the new spaces and windows and, finally, the collection on permanent display. 
A $20 million project that has been in the works for more than 20 years, the renewal called for the unification of four separate buildings. Yet the results seem effortlessly achieved and are a bit reminiscent of an Italianate villa, although the black and white floor tiles are vinyl and the marble facing some walls is simulated - substitutions that reflect budgetary constraints.
The museum may be new and improved, but that's not to say it has become a place where visitors fear to tread; on the contrary, it invites them to tread all over.
''Against the Odds'' fills the galleries surrounding the center court. Organized by the curator of painting and sculpture, Gary Reynolds, and his assistant, Beryl Wright, the exhibition numbers more than 130 paintings, sculptures, drawings, prints and photographs by some 30 black artists working mainly in the 1920's and 30's.
Some, like Hale Woodruff and Lois Mailou Jones, have become famous, but during this period most were getting their first break participating in exhibitions staged by the Harmon Foundation. Founded in 1922 by the real-estate magnate William E. Harmon, this organization is the show's real subject, with half the catalogue's 300 or so pages filled with essays on it by David Driskell, Clement Alexander Price, Richard J. Powell, Deborah Willis and the curators.
The foundation's purpose was general philanthropy until 1925, when it turned its attention to black artists. Then, in collaboration with the Commission on Race Relations, a body organized by the Federal Council of the Churches of Christ in America, the Harmon began dispensing awards for distinguished achievement, staging juried exhibitions, purchasing art and generally going where no institution had gone before. It lasted until 1967, under the direction of Mary Beattie Brady.
Call it paternalism or not, the Harmon's intention was to encourage an ethnic expression comparable to that of jazz that was of a piece with the heady cultural atmosphere prevailing in Harlem and the efforts of individuals like the dealer Edith Halpert. Nevertheless, the United States was still a cultural backwater, and black artists still had an unspoken consensus to reckon with. Hence, the participants in this show reflect the same influences as those sustained by their more conservative white counterparts.
But white critics were, on the whole, not insensitive to the problem of black artists struggling to be themselves and make a living. Romare Bearden, however, contended that the Harmon patronized black artists by encouraging them ''to accept standards that are both artificial and corrupt.''
The Harmon was a good thing, as the W.P.A. was a good thing. But evidently nobody commented on the sheer absurdity of trying to admit black Americans to a scene that had already been overturned by Cubism, a movement that would not have been possible without African art - coals to Newcastle.
The catalogue leaves the reader better informed about the situation but as depressed as ever about the way the scene is affected by sociological, psychological, economic - anything but esthetic - forces.
Aside from paintings of masks by Malvin Gray Johnson and Ellis Wilson, Africanness is mostly expressed in the appearance of the models - but without the narcissism afflicting much figuration of the 1960's and 70's. Examples are the portrait of a beautiful, fashionably dressed young octoroon woman, the study of an old black woman mending socks and a genre scene of young black men carrying on in a bar - all, unbelievably, the work of the same painter, Archibald John Motley Jr. An early convert to Abstract Expressionism, Hale Woodruff is here represented by, among others, Nabi-influenced landscapes, two of them skillful watercolors, one a rather clumsy oil. Sargent Claude Johnson, Palmer Hayden, Laura Wheeling Waring and the sculptors Richmond Barte, Nancy Prophet and Augusta Savage are some other ''names.''
But the most memorable are Beauford Delaney and William Henry Johnson, both of whom spent time in Europe and both of whom were felled by mental illness late in life, together with Allan Crite. It is hard to choose between Delaney's barely touched-in pastel of a man's head and his self-portrait, a tour de force of impasto. Johnson, too, is an expressive impastoist, but his best effort is the relatively thinly painted portrait of a boy.
One of the few artists in the show still working, Mr. Crite is at his best in the dour profiles of a young black couple walking on a snowy street and a triptych of a black Holy Family flanked by choristers, where all but the Wise Men are haloed in gold leaf.
A show that will travel to Charleston, S.C., after closing here on April 15, it provides much food for thought. Situated at 49 Washington Street, the Newark Museum is open Tuesday through Sunday from noon to 5 P.M.

GRAPHIC: Photo; ''Octoroon Girl'' by Archibald John Motley Jr.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: HARMON FOUNDATION (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEWARK MUSEUM

SUBJECT: ART; REVIEWS; ART SHOWS MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); PAINTING (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); SCULPTURE (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); FOUNDATIONS (78%); RACE & RACISM (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); CHARITIES (74%); RELIGION (73%); PHILANTHROPY (63%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (52%); 

PERSON: RAYNOR, VIVIEN



47 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 12NJ; Page 20, Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: NEW JERSEY OPINION;
Keeping Up the Fight For Clean Air

BYLINE: By Jim Florio; Jim Florio was elected a United States Representative eight times before becoming Governor of New Jersey.

 BODY:
AS a new Governor in Trenton, I find that the ongoing debate in Washington over the Clean Air Act is even more disheartening than a similar debate I took part in as a young Congressman in 1976 and 1977.
It's more disheartening because the bill as it now stands throws the responsibility for controlling air pollution into the laps of the states, without giving us the ability to stop it.
For New Jersey the result may well be devastating. We have some of the most polluted air in the country. According to the Environmental Protection Agency, American plants spew 2.7 billion pounds of toxics into the air. New Jersey has the second highest concentration of toxic air pollution in the nation (after Rhode Island), with 5,173 pounds of toxics released per square mile. 
But even if we control air polluters in our own state, which we are beginning to do, we may still lose the battle for clean air. That's because air pollution ignores borders.
Every day we breathe toxic pollutants generated outside our state. It's similar to the New York garbage that sullied our beaches last summer.
Efforts to strengthen the bill by amendments seem likely to fail, as seen by the recent defeat of a provision that would restore language from the original Clean Air Act allowing the Federal Government to impose minimum air pollution standards on all states. Without that measure, states with tough laws like New Jersey will be out on their own looking for a way through the smog.
Of course, that doesn't mean we shouldn't have tough standards. But the lax regulations in other states may mean that some businesses will opt to set up shop elsewhere.
I'm willing to make that choice because I realize that without a clean and safe environment we have nothing. But it's not a choice that I, or the people of New Jersey, should have to make.
Because there is a vacuum on Federal leadership, governors have been forced to take the initiative. At the National Governors Association meeting this winter, I signed a compact with the Governors of Pennsylvania, Delaware, North Carolina and Virginia, as well as with the government of Washington, D.C., to have areawide pollution standards.
The version of the Clean Air Act being considered by the Senate creates serious problems for individual states. For example, the bill extends the first-phase smog reduction period and lets car manufacturers out of the second phase if only 11 cities still have air problems. One polluted city is one too many, whether it's in New Jersey or California - not only because every one of us deserves clean air but also because smog doesn't respect city limits.
The current bill also suffers by no longer requiring car manufacturers to produce alternative-fuel cars. We can't make New Jerseyans own such cars unless they're reasonably priced. And they won't be unless the Federal Government encourages their development.
Fuels like ethanol, methanol and compressed natural gas burn much more cleanly. We should encourage developing the technology necessary for such fuels. Such environmental technology also generates new jobs, a lesson we've learned in New Jersey from our recycling efforts.
In terms of toxic emissions, the bill does little. It only requires factories to use existing technology. If that technology works, great. If it doesn't, too bad. The bill contains no goals for reducing toxic emissions. So plants have no incentive to find and use different technologies. Again, this is an area for national leadership.
I hope my former colleagues in the House can strengthen the bill. My own experience with the Superfund legislation taught me that no battle is lost until you give up. We didn't get strong measures into the law until we hung tough.
I can't think of one issue that more Americans agree on than the need for clean air. Two decades ago, the environmental movement was considered slightly faddish, a byproduct of the 60's. Today it's a consensus issue. The character Hope on the television show ''Thirtysomething'' is an environmental activist. And it doesn't get much more mainstream than that.
Unfortunately, you don't need to watch television to see the results of pollution in New Jersey. Because we suffer from past mistakes, we have been leaders in protecting and cleaning our air, land and water.
Other states can learn from us. The leaders of those not yet polluted should learn to preserve their clean air. Industrial states like our own can learn that a healthy economy is indeed compatible with a healthy environment.
The first Clean Air Act went through with few changes because the popular support was so clear. That was in 1970, the year of the first Earth Day.
My hope is that the many activities surrounding the 20th anniversary of Earth Day later this month will create enough momentum to pass a strong 1990 Clean Air Act, not the polluted version now being considered.

GRAPHIC: Photo; New Jersey has the second highest concentration of toxic air pollution in the nation (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY

SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION; CLEAN AIR ACT; LAW AND LEGISLATION AIR QUALITY REGULATION (93%); AIR POLLUTION (93%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (91%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); AIR QUALITY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); SMOG (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (69%); AUTOMAKERS (63%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (60%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (60%); 

PERSON: FLORIO, JAMES J (GOV)



48 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 April 1, 1990, Sunday, National Edition

SECTION: Section 8; Page 1, Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1329 words

HEADLINE: FOCUS;
A Tale of Two Cities: One Thriving, One Struggling

BYLINE: By SUSAN DIESENHOUSE

DATELINE: LOWELL, MMASS.

 BODY:
Despite a slow economy and soft real estate market, this once depressed mill city turned high-technology superstar has more construction going on now than ever - about $173 million in residential, commercial, infrastructure and cultural projects.
Yet Lawrence, another old blue-collar city only 10 miles northeast, has relatively little, even though both cities are on Route 495, the beltway around Boston, and are about 25 miles from Boston.
Lowell has attracted almost $1 billion - including $170 million in state and Federal grants - since 1975 for projects that have been completed, are in progress or being planned. Among them is a planned $350 million expansion of the University of Lowell.
Lawrence attracted investment of about $100 million during its growth period in the 80's but its image is that of economic stagnation, obscure location and the site of three days of racial unrest in the summer of 1984. 
''The two cities are virtually in the same location, but Lowell is in the mainstream of the region's economic vitality while Lawrence is a decade behind and trying to catch up during a downturn,'' said Alden S. Raine, the state Secretary of Economic Affairs.
Lowell has had vacant land for expansion, scenic canals and stately historic downtown buildings. Above all, perhaps, it has had effective local government and political clout at the state and Federal levels, which Lawrence has only recently begun to have.
Lowell's local government has worked closely with business and educational leaders and it has a modern planning department and ''strong ties to the seats of power in state and Federal Government enabling them to take advantage of the boom of the late 70's through mid-80's,'' Mr. Raine said.
Among the players in what became known as the city's ''delivery system'' have been former Senator Paul E. Tsongas, a tireless booster of his hometown; Representative Chester G. Atkins; Gov. Michael S. Dukakis, whose father grew up here, and his former economic adviser, Frank Keefe who had been the city planner here.
Mr. Tsongas recalled that while he was in Washington he spoke with City Manager Joe Tulley, three times a week and that ''without him having real power and being willing to work with me, none of this could have happened.''
Until 1984, on the other hand, Lawrence had what Mr. Raine called a bizarre, anachronistic form of local government. Five aldermen, elected to run five departments of government, became competing power brokers solidifying ethnic divisions and never setting up a modern development department. But in recent years there has been a new, strong-mayor form of local government, a development department has been set up and a State Senator from the city, Patricia McGovern, has gained influence as head of the Ways and Means Committee. Lawrence's Mayor, Kevin J. Sullivan, says that the state Attorney General, James M. Shannon - a native Lawrentian and a resident - is only one of several new forces on the state and Federal level with ties to Lawrence.
''Lawrence has suprassed Lowell, at least in political clout,'' he said, and the city government also now has ''an excellent relationship with the business community.''
Lowell, set up as a planned industrial city in 1826, went through an economic and spiritual depression from the 20's through 60's as textile manufacturers moved South. But in the 70's, Mr. Tsongas teamed up with local leaders to encourage economic growth, historic preservation and an intellectual/artistic presence.
In 1975, they set up the Lowell Development and Financial Corporation to help refurbish downtown buildings. Bankers who balked at contributing to the $350,000 in seed money were told by Mr. Tsongas, then a Representative, that ''as a member of the House Banking Committee, I would ''use my influence to do them damage.'' City leaders won state funds to rebuild the downtown as an urban park with restored historic buildings interspersed with parks and museums. In 1978, Congress made the historic downtown part of the national park system, adding funds for tourist facilities that now attract over 300,000 visitors a year.
In 1975, the State Legislature formed the University of Lowell with a base in engineering, science and business. Last year, despite a severe fiscal crisis, it set up the Toxic Use Reduction Institute at the school.
In 1978,the city won a $5 million Federal grant that helped induce Wang Computers to establish its international headquarters here. Wang attracted other high-technology firms and has been a local philanthropist.
In the 1980's, a Hilton Hotel was built downtown, two old auditoriums were renovated and made into theaters and $1.5 million was committed for art work for public places; six pieces already are in place, one is finished and awaiting installation and seven works have yet to be completed.
Current construction projects include the $60 million renovation of the downtown Massachussetts Mill into 420 rental apartments; the $63 million renovation of Boott Mill into offices; a river walkway connecting Boott Mill to the university; parks, two garages, a cultural center, an outdoor performance center, an industrial museum and the revival of a trolley line.
Congress Group Properties of Boston, developers of the 700,000-square-foot Boott Mill, last December sold an $8 million equity participation to Mission First Financial, a subsidiary of Southern California Edison, and earlier this month signed a 10-year lease for 55,000 square feet with Alliance Technologies of Bedford, an environmental engineering firm now based about 18 miles northwest of Boston. The first 108,000 square feet will be ready this summer and the rest by 1992.
Much of the city's success was ''luck and timing,'' Mr. Tsongas said. In the 50's and 60's, its failure to undertake urban renewal saved the historic downtown for future restoration. ''We moved to set up the urban park months before any other city and won Federal grants before the Reagan Administration turned off the spigot of funds to the cities,'' he said.
But some say the city's luck may have run out. Like the rest of the state and much of the Northeast, it is in an economic slowdown: unemployment is up to 5.8 percent, wages are falling along with commercial rents and residential prices. Commercial vacancy rates are up to about 20 percent and residential rental vacancy rates are at 17 percent, city officials say. Reversals and layoffs at Wang, whose business was expected to fill a quarter of the 250-room Hilton, have hurt the hotel and its California lender recently foreclosed after the city refused it a loan.
But new companies are moving in because the city is attractive and seems able to deal with its problems.
''Unlike the rest of the state,'' said Robert M. Bradway, chief operating officer of Alliance Technologies, ''this city's leadership has come to grips with the current economic problems and has a very complete plan to build up the comercial base.''
As for Lawrence, many firms pass it by, as much for its image as for actual conditions, said Samuel E. Oddo, vice president of Codman & Associates, a Boston real estate firm.
''Lawrence has basic problems of address and character that don't attract the high-tech labor market,'' he said. ''It had riots downtown. The feeling is, once you go there, you may as well go on to New Hampshire for the tax benefits. Its political leadership hasn't generated a lot of energy in the past.''
Mayor Sullivan, however, sees assets that will attract growth: accessibility to Boston and southern New Hampshire, good utility services, a $20 million park the state has agreed to build by 1991 and 400 new small businesses that have moved in in the last four years, including retailers, professionals and services. A $15 million, 175-unit mixed-income residential co-op is due for completion this summer within a walk of downtown.
''I think the 90's will be our growth era,'' Mayor Sullivan said.

GRAPHIC: photos: The Boott Mill complex, currently being renovated into office space in Lowell, Mass.; Heritage Commons, one of few residential projects under way in Lawrence. (The New York Times/Rick Friedman)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: LOWELL DEVELOPMENT&FINANCIAL CORP (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LOWELL (MASS)

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; HOUSING; OFFICE BUILDINGS REAL ESTATE (91%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); MAYORS (83%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (78%); CITIES (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); GRANTS & GIFTS (55%); 

PERSON: DIESENHOUSE, SUSAN PAUL E TSONGAS (72%); ALDEN S RAINE (61%); 



49 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 1, 1990

SECTION: Section 7; Page 7, Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1701 words

HEADLINE: 'A COMMUNIST TO THE MARROW OF MY BONES'

BYLINE: By GEORGE BALL; George Ball was Under Secretary of State in the Kennedy and Johnson Administrations and the United States Ambassador to the United Nations in 1968.

 BODY:

MEMOIRS
By Andrei Gromyko.
Translated by Harold Shukman.
Foreword by Henry A. Kissinger.
Illustrated. 414 pp. New York:
Doubleday. $24.95.
The atmosphere at Andrei Gromyko's funeral last year seemed cruelly poignant: few of the Soviet Union's elite made even pro forma appearances. Because of the timing of his death, Gromyko was fortunate; he was spared knowledge of the collapse of everything he had so assiduously worked for throughout his fanatically dedicated life as a Soviet diplomat and, for 28 years, as Foreign Minister. One wonders what his ''Memoirs'' would have been like had he written it amid the ideological rubble of 1990 - or if he would have written it at all. 
In the light of recent events, this book, published in the Soviet Union in 1988 and ably translated by Harold Shukman, has eerie overtones of a moldy chronicle inscribed in the archaic hieroglyphics of Soviet doctrine. Gromyko writes that he was ''a communist to the marrow of my bones,'' and rhapsodically describes the system's achievements with a pride and assurance sharply out of tune with the skeptical voices now echoing from Moscow:
''I respect the profound learning of Marx, Engels and Lenin, and the great spirit of our people as they build the communist society. When I cast my gaze over our great country, I feel I want to share my sense of confidence in tomorrow. What gives me that confidence? First, the fact that we have a wonderful people who are capable of solving the most difficult problems. Secondly, we have a wise and perceptive party, closely bound to the people. Thirdly, we have a leadership worthy of the great tasks it has set before society at this crucial stage in its development and in the international situation.''
These words, and similar sentiments expressed throughout this book, make clear beyond doubt that Gromyko was not merely a disciplined diplomat but a true believer. This discovery should not surprise anyone who ever dealt with him officially, certainly not the many Americans who found it difficult to do business with him when he was Foreign Minister. For here is a man who can proudly recount in his memoirs that when Stalin asked him to identify the ''main social elements that [President Franklin D.] Roosevelt can count on for support inside his country,'' he replied as though he had the ultimate truth:
''The American President above all defends the interests of his own class, of course - the bourgeoisie. His domestic policies may encroach to some extent on the interests of the large monopolies, and right-wing extremists sometimes make the absurd accusation that he is sympathetic to socialism, but it's only a propaganda ploy by people who don't want the USA to have good relations with the USSR.''
Gromyko's conviction that history is dictated by the ''scientific principle'' of Communist doctrine sometimes leads him into historical gaffes. For example, he continually emphasizes that the decisive political clout in the United States belongs to the arms makers, and since Dwight D. Eisenhower was a general, Gromyko's ideology compels him to believe that Eisenhower was their tool. Thus he asserts that when Eisenhower entered the Presidential race in 1952 it was ''with the support of big corporations and companies involved in arms production that his victory was secured.'' Then he writes that during Eisenhower's eight-year term ''arms production speeded up steadily.''
Of course, that is a shocking distortion of history, for during Eisenhower's two terms America's defense budget shrank from $50.3 billion in 1953 to $47.4 billion in 1961 - and those figures make no allowance for inflation. But if Gromyko gets his facts wrong, he at least has the good grace to note with approval Eisenhower's warning in his farewell address against the industrial-military complex.
The most fascinating mystery that ''Memoirs'' might have resolved for American readers is how Moscow envisaged the repeated crises between the Soviet Union and the United States. But on this point Gromyko tells us little that has not already been revealed through other sources - including recent meetings between Soviet and American experts.
He explains that the Korean War began because ''the puppet government of South Korea was being egged on by the USA to start war on North Korea.''
In describing the origins of the Bay of Pigs episode, he says: ''The aggressive intrigues of imperialism continued to provoke serious crises in various parts of the world, and in April 1961 American mercenaries mounted an invasion at the Bay of Pigs in Cuba.''
Later, he writes, during the discussions preceding the Cuban missile confrontation, President John F. Kennedy told him that the Bay of Pigs adventure was ''a mistake'' and that he was ''restraining those who are in favour of actions which could lead to war.'' Yet in spite of Kennedy's reassuring words, Gromyko still defends the emplacement of missiles in Cuba on the ground that the United States was threatening an invasion and thus the Soviet Union was entitled to ''strengthen [Cuba's] defensive capability - precisely that, its defensive capability.'' (His principal concern regarding that crisis, however, is to make it clear for the record that he at no time explicitly denied to the President or to Secretary of State Dean Rusk that there were missiles in Cuba.) Elsewhere he remains an unrepentant apologist for the Russians' bloody intervention in Hungary in 1956:
''I must emphasise as strongly as I can that the help given to Hungary by the Soviet Union was absolutely justified. The forces that were bent on overthrowing the Hungarian leadership intended to liquidate the social order and restore the previous system that had been responsible for making Hungary a bridgehead for Hitler's aggression against the Soviet Union and many other countries.''
Not only does he defend the 1956 Soviet intervention in Hungary but also the events of 1968, when Red Army tanks rolled into Czechoslovakia.
''By 1968 the country occupied a stable position among the fraternal states. . . . Then suddenly the forces that were at one with the previous order, when power had been in the hands of politicians who had cared nothing for the people's welfare or the country's true national interests, decided to turn back the clock - and to do so with guns in their hands and without regard to casualties.''
In spite of the fact that Mikhail S. Gorbachev's Soviet leadership was later to repudiate most of these views toward the end of 1989, Gromyko writes:
''If I were asked what I wish our country and its people for the foreseeable future, I would say this. The leadership under Gorbachev should continue to head the country. This leadership is capable of solving the historically important questions of both economic construction and the country's social development. It is also dealing with complex foreign policy tasks and is defending the cause of peace with initiative and conviction.''
Hovering like an angry cloud over all the pages of this book is Joseph Stalin - a personality who holds a curious fascination for Gromyko, a man Gromyko regards as ''a tragically contradictory figure . . . who created a monstrously arbitrary state machine that sent multitudes of innocent Soviet people to their deaths.'' He admits of Stalin that ''anyone who knew and observed him is bound to compare his knowledge and impressions of him in the past with what is now generally known, and I am of course no exception.'' He believes that the ''overwhelming majority'' of Soviet citizens ''would say that, at a certain time, the people believed in Stalin'' and that, during World War II, ''most people would probably agree that Stalin led the country against the fascist aggressors with energy.'' Yet ''it should also be remembered that for nearly thirty years Stalin ran a repressive apparatus which, as is now clear, had a dual task: to destroy a host of innocent persons as 'enemies of the people,' and by means of a sophisticated system of illegality to hide all trace of its crimes. People perished at the hands of executioners who were then themselves destroyed. This chilling picture is now being revealed in its entirety, as is the fact that Stalin himself stood at the top of the structure.''
Gromyko's attitude toward Stalin will be a subject for psychohistorians to ponder for many years to come. They will no doubt spin elegant theories as to why, in the early chapters of his book, he discusses Stalin's character and achievements, and then, as though by some psychic compulsion, returns to the subject in a whole new chapter at the end. For me, there is an odd parallel here between Gromyko's fascination with Stalin and Albert Speer's fascination with Hitler. Both Gromyko and Speer were technicians patronized by tyrants at an early age, Gromyko at 30, Speer at 28. Though recognizing the evil the two dictators perpetrated, and frustrated by the failure of their masters to follow their sound advice, neither man could altogether liberate himself from the Mephistophelean spell.
Yet in each case, beyond the ideologue and the witness to tyranny was the complete technocrat, the diligent counselor and unyielding servant of an evil system - so colorless in the case of Gromyko that his rise to Foreign Minister and key membership in the Politburo seem almost an afterthought. Only such a faceless person, concealing his real feelings behind a mask of passivity, could have survived the succession of regimes and the purges that accompanied them.
In the end, though he carefully avoided making enemies, Gromyko had no real friends and, once he had been used, he was casually discarded with the same lack of feeling he had displayed to the world. In 1985 he was eased out of the Foreign Ministry by Mr. Gorbachev and given the ceremonial post of the presidency. Gromyko would have been the last to complain or even be surprised at his fate. As he had put it years before, comparing the Soviet system with the Bermuda Triangle, ''Every now and then someone disappears.'' As with the victims of the Triangle, the timing of Gromyko's disappearance will remain a matter for reflection and conjecture.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Foreign Minister Andrei Gromyko with Nikita Khrushchev, the Soviet leader, in New York, 1960.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: MEMOIRS (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (92%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (64%); 

PERSON: BALL, GEORGE; GROMYKO, ANDREI A ANDREI ANDREEVICH GROMYKO (96%); 



50 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 2352 words

HEADLINE: Homeless And Mentally Ill;
Ill, Possibly Violent, and No Place to Go

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN

 BODY:
On a recent morning near the subway platform where a deranged homeless man was beaten to death in January, a young man in sweatpants and jogging shoes came upon social workers passing out food to mentally ill people who live in Central Park.
He introduced himself as Johnny and asked for a sandwich.
Told that the food was for people with emotional problems, he fumbled in a pocket for papers: a discharge from the Bellevue psychiatric ward, a prescription for medicine to treat schizophrenia, an unused referral to a shelter.
 
'Opposed' to Medication
Johnny, who would give no last name, said he was afraid of shelters and ''opposed'' to medication. Social workers guessed that he might have a breakdown, possibly a violent one, within two weeks - the time it would take for his last shot of medication to wear off. Meantime, they said, there was no good place to put him - no temporary quarters more inviting than a shelter armory, no halfway house, no ready permanent housing. 
He clearly did not need hospitalization. So they handed him a sandwich and another piece of paper, with a number to call when the crisis came.
Based on surveys of shelter residents, mental health experts estimate that at least 25 percent of the city's homeless people suffer persistent mental illness. Fifteen percent more have either some symptoms or a history of mental illness.
The source of the problem is of little dispute. Beginning in the 1950's, with advances in antipsychotic drugs, American psychiatric hospitals began releasing patients not needing permanent care. The policy, called deinstitutionalization, was hailed as a victory for patient rights.
Roughly a decade after thousands of former mental patients in New York began to lose their homes to a booming real-estate market, parks and subway stations are continuing to fill with people like Johnny.
With scant public money, voluntary agencies in New York have learned how to rescue, rehabilitate and house them. But the promise made when state psychiatric hospital doors were flung open has not been kept: Homeless and mentally ill, they still have no place to go.
Now, amid growing public frustration, their plight is confronting governments and courts on new and potentially decisive terms.
In a class action suit awaiting decision in State Supreme Court in Manhattan, advocates for the homeless are arguing that the law requires the city and state to create special housing for the homeless mentally ill.
In Albany, after years of bureaucratic squabbling, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo has proposed to spend $30 million on the first phase of an accord with the city to build just the kind of special quarters being sought in court.
At the same time, though, the fiscally strapped administration has proposed the sharpest cuts in years in community mental health programs. The reductions, say private groups that are fighting them, could flush more mentally ill people into the streets at a time when state psychiatric beds are quickly being eliminated and the use of crack among the emotionally disturbed homeless has risen beyond levels that clinicians are prepared to handle.
''Things are not going to remain quiet,'' said Cynthia Dames, executive director of the Coalition of Voluntary Mental Health Agencies. ''You're going to see a reduction of services by the summer, and by late summer, you're going to see more crises in emergency rooms. These people don't go away.''
Though he defends the proposed cuts as fiscally unavoidable, the state's Commissioner of Mental Health, Dr. Richard C. Surles, shares this sense of urgency. ''The tragedy would be not to do it now that we can,'' he said. ''It may not be so affordable a few years from now.''
 
Who Is Responsible? And Who Will Pay?
In New York State, the number of people in public psychiatric hospitals in 1955 was 94,175. In 1984, it was 23,109. In January, state beds for mental patients numbered 15,599. That number is expected to drop by 150 each month.
In theory, as people left mental institutions, the stark violent wards that typified the worst of them were to be replaced by more humane residential care. But when such care failed to materialize, many mentally ill people, including some former state hospital patients, found cheap refuge in single-room-occupancy hotels. Then New York real-estate values exploded. Many of those rooms, along with other housing occupied by poor mentally ill people, disappeared.
Guesses at the city's homeless population range from 60,000 to more than 80,000, including those in shelters. While such figures suggest that at least 15,000 mentally ill people might need special housing, state officials give somewhat lower estimates.
Clear as the problem has been, efforts to house the homeless mentally ill have until recently faltered not only on financing but on a series of jurisdictional disputes.
The state blamed city development policies. The city blamed the state's rush to shrink psychiatric hospitals. Mental health agencies disclaimed responsibility for housing and housing officials disclaimed responsibility for mental health.
Since the early 1980's, the homeless mentally ill have been a ubiquitous muttering presence: slung over benches, crumpled on grates, led on mysterious crusades by shopping carts filled with scraps of other people's lives.
The issue of their care has gained attention mostly in short violent jolts: when one former psychiatric patient pushed a young accountant into a subway train, when another hacked passengers on the Staten Island Ferry with an ornamental sword, when a third bludgeoned to death an usher at St. Patrick's Cathedral.
The homeless man who attacked Rodney Sumter beneath Columbus Circle died anonymously on Jan. 23. But the man's beating by Mr. Sumter, an unemployed construction worker who had worked with the homeless, suggested that frustration with bizarre street people had caught up to fear of their potential violence. Mr. Sumter argued that he had beaten the man in self defense, and two weeks ago, a Manhattan grand jury decided not to bring any charges against him.
Fears of violence are likely to be fueled by the growing use of crack among the homeless mentally ill.
As visits by homeless people to the psychiatric emergency rooms of city hospitals have risen steadily, those tied to crack shot from 11 percent in 1987 to an estimated 45 percent last year, said Dr. Luis Marcos, vice president for mental hygiene of the Health and Hospitals Corporation.
But more than violence, mental health experts say they are concerned about an overwhelming lack of specialized care. So segregated are services, doctors say, that drug-treatment centers now routinely reject mentally ill people while mental health programs turn away patients they suspect of using drugs.
As public sentiment has seemed to tip from concern toward dismay and anger, voluntary agencies say the notion has persisted that they should somehow sweep clean streets that are littered with the mistakes of the mental health system.
''Everybody thinks in terms of Band-Aid solutions: 'Let's get these people out of the subways!' '' said Sam Tsemberis, who directs Project Help, a team that hospitalizes homeless mentally ill people who might endanger themselves or others.
Instead, the job is one of ginger courtship. Battles are fought in the endless paperwork and telephone calls required to gain Social Security numbers or Medicaid for people who often have no address, no identication and little certainty about who they are.
 
Some Victories, Many More Defeats
The victories are people like Bradley K.
At 39 years old, Bradley is a gentle man with missing teeth and eczema. He remains uneasy with strangers. But those who spent three years coaxing him from rock outcroppings near a playground in Central Park say he bears little resemblance to the wild-eyed man who often scared passers-by.
''I just had other things on my mind,'' he said of the days before Project Reachout, which scours the Upper West Side for mentally ill homeless people, put him up in an apartment. ''I don't remember now. Personal things.''
But for each Bradley, Reachout workers say, there are dozens more Brendas.
When a Reachout van finds the woman who calls herself Brenda Seabrook one frigid morning near the park's southern edge, she peers back with the barest hint of recognition through ragged swaths of clothing. After giving her sandwiches for months, Reachout workers only learned they had established a relationship the day she tossed an empty soda can at one of them.
''She talked to me once,'' says Margarita Lopez, a Reachout worker who has visited Brenda for four years.
Days later, when a reporter encountered her after midnight in a nearby subway station, Brenda snapped words from a hidden trove, seeming as gregarious and articulate as she had been withdrawn. Her story zigzagged from childhood in Ocala, Fla., through nursing school in Newark and the death of a daughter in Plainville, N.Y. She stumbled trying to explain her reluctance to seek help.
''I'm not even living,'' she said. ''I know that. I'm not even part of the system.''
Even for those more willing than Brenda, entry into the system is arduous.
One of the plaintiffs in the suit being tried in State Supreme Court, John H. Heard, complained that starting in 1987, he was shuffled out of hospitals four times without once being helped to find permanent housing.
At the end of his first visit to South Beach Psychiatric Center on Staten Island, he was given $20, he said. The next time, he received only a list of city shelters and subway fare.
''When it was raining or really cold, there were times when I felt like picking up a brick and throwing it through a window,'' he said. ''I felt like maybe if I went to jail, maybe life would be better.''
Lawyers for the Coalition for the Homeless, which brought the suit, argue that under the state's 1977 Mental Hygiene Law, state hospitals must discharge patients to secure housing with ready treatment. The city's cavernous armories, they argue, fall far short of that. Although eight of the shelters offer modest mental health programs, they say, the familiar gamut of problems like bureaucracy and violence menace the mentally ill especially.
 
When Sanctuary Is a Dingy Hallway
Late one Saturday night at the armory on Fort Washington Avenue and 168th Street in Washington Heights, sanctuary was a dingy hallway. In one yellow plastic bucket seat, Evelio Gonzalez, of Havana, New York and mental hospitals in both cities, sat chatting in Spanish to no one in particular. Nearby, Eladio Mendez, 48, said he would like to leave the shelter, but needs the medicine he gets there.
''It's like being a P.O.W.,'' he said. ''You just don't want to go down on the streets. We're going into a biblical, biblical thing.''
In making their case, the coalition's lawyers entered the armory as evidence, giving Justice Edward H. Lehner a tour one night last month.
Instead of the shelters, the lawyers have proposed a settlement that would require the Governor to budget for special housing for 10,000 people. But state lawyers have rejected the proposal.
State lawyers have acknowledged the need for new housing. In court, said an assistant attorney general, Arnold D. Fleischer, they have have argued narrowly that ''there's nothing in the mental hygiene law that requires the state to create specific numbers of housing or specific types of housing.''
Lawyers for the plaintiffs praise the new state and city plans but call them insufficient.
Similar suits have been brought in more than 20 states. In Oregon, Oklahoma and Arizona, courts have ordered mental health officials to establish new community residences, group homes and treatment programs. A judgment in the New York case is not expected for several months.
 
Sure of the Goal, Not of the Method
Behind the debate, mental health officials and advocates say there is strong consensus on how the problem should be addressed if there is the money.
To the delicate task of coaxing mentally ill people off Manhattan's streets, voluntary groups have marshaled a small phalanx of what are called outreach teams. Collectively they represent a model to mental health experts around the country, said Irene Levine, the director of the homeless mentally ill at the National Institutes of Mental Health in Bethesda, Md. Yet while the teams cover most of Manhattan and part of Brooklyn, the three other boroughs are virtually ignored.
For the clients that the teams bring in, therapists have pioneered methods to help them readapt to life indoors. What mental health experts call the rules of indoor living - saving money, bathing, locking doors - are taught sporadically at city shelters and four places called transitional living communities run by the Human Resources Administration. This year, there is money to house 129 people.
In search of an alternative to shelters, the administration will begin to set up reception centers this year for more vulnerable homeless people including the mentally ill. If successful the centers are expected to shelter a few hundred people.
''The idea is to find a model that would get people to come in off the streets,'' said Dr. Frank R. Lipton, the administration's chief of psychiatry.
Keeping them off the streets, experts say, will require permanent housing that is flexible, private and equally unthreatening. So far, only a handful of such places have appeared in Manhattan, mostly at private initiative.
The city-state accord reached last fall seeks to fill the gap by housing 5,225 more homeless mentally ill New Yorkers by 1992.
To create 3,500 apartments by converting single-room-occupancy hotels and refurbishing buildings in different communities, state officials say they will need about $30 million in each of the next three years.
Mental health officials differ on how much of the immediate need the plan would address. Some say less than a third; some say half. But for even the first year, the financing is not entirely certain, Dr. Surles said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bradley K., who was coaxed from living in Central Park by Project Reachout workers, talking with Margarita Lopez, a case worker. (The New York Times/Angel Franco) (pg. A1); The plight of New York's homeless mentally ill, like Brenda Seabrook, who spends much of her time in Central Park, is confronting city and state governments on new and potentially decisive terms. ''I'm not even living,'' she said. ''I know that. I'm not even part of the system.'' (The New York Times/Angel Franco) (pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: A special report

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: HOMELESS PERSONS; MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS; SURVEYS AND SERIES HOMELESSNESS (92%); MENTAL ILLNESS (92%); MENTAL HEALTH (90%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (89%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (78%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (78%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (78%); SCHIZOPHRENIA (77%); RESIDENTIAL CARE (77%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (76%); BEHAVIOR DISORDERS (76%); REAL ESTATE (74%); HOSPITALS (72%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (72%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (65%); SUITS & CLAIMS (62%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); LITIGATION (60%); CLASS ACTIONS (60%); 

PERSON: GOLDEN, TIM



51 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1641 words

HEADLINE: Upheaval in the East;
WEST EUROPEANS NEAR A CONSENSUS ON EAST-BLOC TIES

BYLINE: By ALAN RIDING, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BRUSSELS, April 1

 BODY:
The disintegration of the Eastern bloc, though generally welcomed across Western Europe, is challenging the European Community's vision of the future just when it seemed to be moving confidently along a path toward economic and eventual political union.
Senior government and community officials say that over the last four months, the need to make room for East Germany and help Eastern Europe's other emerging democracies has threatened to distract the 12-nation group from its task of creating a single market by the end of 1992.
But a consensus has now emerged on how to deal with Eastern Europe: rather than being treated as a 13th member, East Germany will join the community simply by being absorbed by West Germany, and broad new association agreements will be worked out with other Eastern bloc nations.
 
Meeting Set for April 28
This scenario is to be presented to the heads of state and government of the 12 countries when they hold a special summit meeting in Dublin on April 28. If the plan is approved, experts here believe, much of the new uncertainty over whether the community will soon join the United States and Japan as the world's great economic powers should evaporate. 
The officials say the community is also concerned that, with German reunification, Bonn might lose interest in European integration or, alternatively, that a single Germany will be so rich and powerful that it will completely dominate the community.
The result has been something of a crisis of identity as community members and the European Commission, the bloc's influential executive body, struggle to redefine their objectives in what is coming to be known as the ''new architecture'' of Europe.
 
Gloom Begins to Lift
''One of the great illusions is that the community can continue as it is,'' one Western diplomat said.
This period of tension has been characterized most sharply by a wave of distrust between France and West Germany, the countries that have long served as the motors of European integration. Yet, no less unexpectedly, the gloomy mood at the community's headquarters here has begun to change over the past two weeks.
''People ask if the community has lost its way and the answer is no,'' said Peter Ludlow, director of the Center for European Policy Studies, an independent research center. ''Its structures have proven to be strong and, far from slowing down the process, the German issue has given a big push to integration.''
With an intimidating list of unresolved problems and unfulfilled dreams on the agenda, such confidence is still hard to find here. But after long months of standing at a crossroads and >studying the map of Europe, the com-munity's leading members, notably France and West Germany, appear to have agreed on the direction they should take.
In broad terms, it involves choosing the ''little Europe'' path - that is, maintaining the 12-nation bloc, with its 320 million inhabitants and $4.3 trillion gross product, and moving rapidly forward beyond the single-market stage to full economic and monetary union and closer political cooperation.
The community's members are France, West Germany, Britain, Italy, the Netherlands, Belgium, Denmark, Luxembourg, Greece, Spain, Portugal and Ireland.
The drive toward faster integration has been led by France's President, Francois Mitterrand, who views it as the best way of ''anchoring'' a united Germany to the West. In this, he has been supported by Italy and Spain and by Jacques Delors, president of the European Commission.
''We must be strong if we are to be generous to others,'' Mr. Delors told the European Parliament in January, alluding to new pleas from Eastern Europe for assistance. ''We must be strong if we are to have any hope of overcoming the national antagonisms which may well re-emerge in Europe.''
The turning point came only on March 23, when the West German Chancellor, Helmut Kohl, traveled to Brussels to reassure the community that Bonn not only remained committed to European integration but also favored early economic and monetary union and even new moves toward political union. He cemented that position in remarks on Friday after meeting with Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher in London.
 
A Push From Germany
''In five years, it will be completely evident that this German union will mean a push and not a decline for the community,'' he told reporters in Brussels last month after a three-hour, closed-door meeting with the commission. ''We don't want to be the Fourth Reich. We want to be European Germans and German Europeans.''
Having been a target of criticism throughout Western Europe in recent weeks, Mr. Kohl seemed to take special pleasure in suggesting that the main resistance to community integration came not from him but from Mrs. Thatcher.
He used a metaphor to argue that she would not prevail. ''The Rhine only flows in one direction and I have never met anyone who can make it flow in another,'' he said. ''Nobody can dam it. And so it is with Europe. If anyone were to make a dam, it would burst its banks and bring destruction all around.''
At the Dublin summit meeting, Mrs. Thatcher is nonetheless likely to disagree once again with her 11 colleagues, less on the proposals for dealing with Eastern European countries than on economic and monetary union, which will involve the creation of a regional central bank and a common currency.
 
Anathema to Thatcher
While supporting the establishment of a single market and the elimination of internal borders by the end of 1992, Mrs. Thatcher believes economic and monetary union would undermine Britain's sovereignty. And the mere mention of an eventual European political federation is anathema to her.
Despite her objections, the community has already called a conference for December to negotiate changes needed in its founding agreement, the 1957 Treaty of Rome, to permit economic and monetary union. Several governments also want another conference to be held simultaneously to prepare greater political integration.
Since community rules require unanimous approval of treaty changes, Mrs. Thatcher may try to block them. The view here is that, if necessary, the community will move ahead without her. ''How can she hope to stop this machine?'' Mr. Ludlow asked. ''Since 1985, she has simply been dragged along.''
 
Testing the Members' Resolve
Community officials said that while Mrs. Thatcher reportedly hoped events in Eastern Europe would slow the integration process, the changes there may have had the opposite effect: early economic and monetary union is now seen as a test of the community's willingness to press ahead despite the convulsion in Europe.
The economic focus is possible because of confidence that the single market will be largely completed by 1992. Disagreements remain on tax questions and problems linked to the elimination of border controls, like drug trafficking, terrorism and illegal immigration. But the 12 nations have already approved 60 percent of the 279 directives prepared by the commission to create the market.
More complicated in the short term are the arrangements needed to smooth East Germany's entry into the community. Even when unified with West Germany, it would need a period of transition before it can adhere to community rules on quality control, subsidies and the environment.
This in turn has raised the question whether the 12 will share the cost of rebuilding East Germany, an issue of greatest concern to Ireland, Spain, Portugal and Greece. As the poorest members of the community, they fear that aid programs for Eastern Europe could divert resources that might otherwise go to their most backward regions.
 
Urgent Need for Institutions
Nonetheless, the proposal to conclude association agreements with Eastern European countries reflects the community's recognition that the tumultuous events of recent months have created an urgent need for new institutional arrangements throughout Europe.
Inevitably, the 12 countries have also been caught up in the broader debate about the ''new Europe,'' which has variously included calls for a European Confederation, a federation of nations and an enlarged community as well as for transformation of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and abolition of the Warsaw Pact.
If community leaders agree in Dublin on a strategy for the future, however, they could help stabilize what is now a fluid situation. The plan calls for the association agreements with six Eastern European countries to be complemented by similar accords with the European Free Trade Area, which embraces Austria, Switzerland, Finland, Sweden, Norway and Iceland.
''This is a good arrangement,'' a senior community official argued, ''because the E.F.T.A. countries want to be part of the common market but don't want political union, while the East-bloc countries are not ready for a common market but want political ties to the West.''
 
Defining Political Union
By opting to ''deepen'' rather than ''widen'' its structure, albeit leaving open the door to new members after 1993, the community has also assumed the challenge of defining its own political future. Today, its goal is said to be political union, but there is no consensus on what that means.
Until now, political cooperation has at most involved a sporadic coordination of foreign policy. France's idea of giving the community a security role, on the other hand, has found little echo among governments anxious to preserve a strong United States presence in Europe through NATO.
Yet, perhaps more significantly, as the debate goes on over whether the 12 will ever become a United States of Europe, the decisions being made each day here to create a single market are quietly transferring more and more sovereignty from member states to the community.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); WESTERN EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (91%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); BELGIUM (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN EUROPE (73%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (91%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; WEST GERMANY; FRANCE; EAST GERMANY; EUROPE, EAST

SUBJECT: GERMANY, REUNIFICATION OF EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); APPROVALS (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); 

PERSON: RIDING, ALAN JACQUES LUCIEN JEAN DELORS (56%); 



52 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 2007 words

HEADLINE: Pulling Families Out of Welfare Is Proving to Be an Elusive Goal

BYLINE: By MICHAEL deCOURCY HINDS

 BODY:
Two years ago Congress overhauled the welfare system on the premise that people on public assistance did not need handouts so much as they needed a helping hand to find and keep a job.
Now, as states try to comply with a central provision of the law that became effective yesterday, sparks are flying as idealistic policies confront tight budgets.
Under the law, states must now provide one year of subsidized child-care and medical benefits to welfare clients who get jobs outside the home, with the additional costs to be shared by the states and the Federal Government. Some public policy analysts say the effort was crippled even before states began to address these latest requirements.
These critics say that welfare clients will not receive enough money to pay people to care for their children while they work and, more broadly, that the law does nothing to solve the nationwide shortage of child-care options already faced by working parents. Furthermore, they fear that when the 12 months of child-care and medical benefits expire people will be pushed back into the welfare system. 
 
Effects on Other Services
Some states have found that the only way they can put the benefits into effect is at the expense of other social services. Massachusetts and Minnesota, for example, say that to get money for the new benefits they will have to take child-care sudsidies away from the working poor, forcing some parents to quit jobs and go on welfare at much greater public expense.
No Federal official has a clear picture of what all the states are doing to come up with the additional money as well as the child-care services they are now required to have.
''Some of the welfare data systems out there are real nightmares,'' said David Rich, an aide to Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, the New York Democrat who was the principal sponsor of the Family Support Act of 1988.
 
'Nobody Knows How It Will Play'
Roberty J. Ivry, the senior vice president of the Manpower Demonstration Research Corporation, a nonprofit social science research organization in New York that has a Federal contract to study the impact of the welfare changes over the next eight years, said, ''There are major changes in the law and nobody knows how it will play out.''
The experts' uncertainty is echoed among welfare recipients. For example. Miriam O. Jugger of Tallahassee, Fla., said she thinks the new benefits will be enough to help her get off public assistance. The single mother, who has been on welfare since her son was born last May, already has subsidized hous-ing and strong support from her family.
 
'I Don't Want Any Handouts'
She hopes the benefits will make it possible for her to get a job in a fast-food restaurant while she finishes her last year at Florida State University, where she has a B-minus average. Then she wants to work her way through law school.
''I don't want any handouts,'' said the 21-year-old Ms. Jugger. ''If I can work, I can make it.'
But others say the new benefits are not enough.
''I wanted to go back to work, but I couldn't find something without having an education for anything,'' said Debbie Ayres, a 22-year-old mother of two small children who lives just outside Flint, Mich. She said she was forced to drop out of an adult education program three times last year because she had trouble keeping a baby sitter who would work for the state fee of 85 cents an hour. Ms. Ayres said her sister would babysit this spring so she could take a five-week course in retail sales and get a job paying the minimum wage of $3.80 an hour, plus commissions.
But she worries that her earnings, combined with the state's new child-care subsidy, will not be enough to pay for child care. The state will provide up to $350 a month for her two children for one year, depending on her income.
An informal survey of 1,500 licensed providers of child care, recently conducted by the Michigan Community Coordinated Childcare Association, a nonprofit educational organization, suggests that such care, where available, would cost from $260 a month in the least expensive family setting to $1,375 a month in child-care centers.
The welfare law covers recipients of Aid to Families with Dependent Children, which includes 3.3 million women who head households, 425,000 men who head households and 7.3 million children under 18 years old.
 
Annual Benefits Are Locked In
Previously, when families left welfare for work, most states provided up to three months' of subsidized child care and Medicaid coverage as long as family income met state criteria. Now, under the Family Support Act of 1988, these benefits are locked in place for one year.
In addition to the child-care and medical benefits, the law requires that states establish job training and education programs by Oct. 1 and that the programs be offered throughout the state by Oct. 1, 1992. So far, 27 states have begun offering job training.
The law requires parents of children over the age of 3, or over the age of 1, at a state's option, to seek work or to enter the educational or job training programs as a condition for continuing to receive benefits. Previously, a parent receiving welfare was not expected to work until the youngest child reached the age of 6, and there was no requirement that parents be given job training or education.
A provision of the law already in effect requires states to make greater efforts to make absent fathers pay child support, with steps like mandatory payroll deduction plans.
States that do not comply with the law lose Federal matching money under the plan and, theoretically, could lose all other Federal welfare subsidies.
Over the next five years, under matching money provisions of the law, the Federal and state governments will share the cost of the program about equally. An estimated $2 billion a year will go to job-training and education and greater enforcement of child support laws. Child-care and medical benefits will cost more: there is no ceiling on these costs.
The Federal Family Support Administration, which oversees welfare, could not give an estimate for the cost of these benefits but said the Government had budgeted $489 million for child care under the new law.
The flaws in the new benefits program are widely recognized.
''The benefits are a move in the right direction, but they obviously are not a fix,'' said Gina Boyd, staff manager of the Aid for Families with Dependent Children Policy Bureau in the California Department of Social Services. ''We do recognize it is a problem that people are only eligible for the benefits for one year and we are worried about what will happen to people. Some will transition to other subsidy programs, some will rely on relatives for child care, some will fall through the cracks and recycle through welfare again.''
Many of those families falling through the cracks wind up in the office of Nancy Claxton, the administrator of the Child Development Program in California's Orange County Department of Education. ''I don't know where we are going to put all these children,'' Ms. Claxton said.
She said that 3,000 children whose parents are working but poor are already on waiting lists for subsidized child care in Orange County, and that the new welfare law would add 6,000 more children to the waiting lists as their parents exhaust their one-year benefits for child care and medical aid. Around the state, 135,000 children of the working poor are on waiting lists for child-care subsidies.
Ms. Claxton refers to the state's revamped welfare program, called Greater Avenues for Independence, as ''Greater Agony to Insanity.'' Part of the problem is that California is also trying to cope with a projected $2 billion deficit in its budget in its 1991 fiscal year, which begins July 1. The state's welfare system, second only to New York's in size, serves 592,000 families at an annual cost of $4 billion.
 
States Already Give Transition Benefits
Some states, including New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, have been offering child care and medical benefits during a welfare recipient's transition from the welfare rolls to self-sufficiency, and officials said their programs would not change much after April 1.
''In Connecticut we have been providing unlimited transitional benefits for several years,'' said Claudette J. Beaulieu, a spokeswoman for the State Department of Income Maintenance. She described the program as ''economic development, not welfare,'' in a state with such a low unemployment rate that businesses will hire people who are usually considered surplus labor.
About 37,000 families receive welfare, and the state provides subsidies of up to $325 a month for each child for as long as parents need them and do not earn too much to qualify.
The benefits offered in the transitional year may have the most impact in poor states with low welfare grants. ''It's the most exciting thing I've ever seen,'' said Andrew P. Hornsby Jr., commissioner of the Alabama Department of Human Resources. The state pays the nation's smallest welfare grant, $118 a month for a family of three. Alaska pays the most, more than $800 for the same size family, according to a 1989 report by the House Ways and Means Committee.
But Massachusetts and Minnesota, two states that have had relatively generous and successful welfare-to-work programs, have had to cut optional programs for the working poor to finance mandatory programs for welfare recipients. Gov. Michael S. Dukakis of Massachusetts has proposed eliminating 4,000 to 5,000 child-care subsidies for the working poor next year, and Minnesota has already eliminated child-care benefits for about 120 families.
''We had to find the money, so we had to kick working poor folks off child-care subsidies,'' said Paul Timm-Brock, director of the Assistance Payments Division in the Minnesota Department of Human Services. ''Some of them quit their jobs and went back on welfare.''
That is what Nancy K. Murphy did. The 28-year-old single mother had been working for three years as a children's photographer in shopping malls near her home in Clearwater, Minn. The job had good benefits and a company car, but her weekly pay of $160 entitled her to state subsidized child care for her 16-month-old son, Spencer.
Last November, the state began complying voluntarily with the new welfare law, and it soon ran out of money to provide the required transitional benefits for welfare families.
Without her $200-a-month subsidy for child care, which often cost $300 a month, Ms. Murphy said she was unable to pay her bills. She quit her job in February and applied for public assistance. She expects to receive, on a monthly basis, a $437 welfare grant, $90 in food stamps and Medicaid coverage. And, when she enters a job training or educational program, the state will pay all day-care costs.
''I saw an ad for my job in the paper and it made me sick,'' Ms. Murphy said.
Welfare changes apparently, will not occur without growth pains.
''The law establishes dramatic new principles in American welfare practice by giving people an entitlement to job training and an entitlement to child care to help them get off welfare,'' said Michael B. Katz, director of the Urban Studies Program at the University of Pennsylvania and author of ''The Undeserving Poor: From the War on Poverty to the War on Welfare'' (Pantheon Books; 1990). ''But, for now, it allows states to punitively force women into the work force with low-paying jobs without guaranteeing them adequate child care or a future.''
Senator Moynihan, who describes the law as a good first step, says it will take a decade to assess its effectiveness.
''It's what the governors asked for, and most of the states are just roaring ahead,'' he said. ''Whether other people get in the spirit of this legislation and try to make it work or sit around and complain about it remains to be seen. But there will not be another bill in this century, so let's do the best thing for the children.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Miriam O. Jugger has been on welfare since her son, Ishmail, was born last May. She hopes the new benefits will make it possible for her to get a job while she finishes her last year at Florida State University. (The New York Times/Bob O'Lary) (pg. B8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: RESEARCH CORP TECHNOLOGIES INC (63%); FLORIDA STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); FLORIDA STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; FAMILY SUPPORT ACT OF 1988; WELFARE RECIPIENTS, EMPLOYMENT OF INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); FAMILY (90%); CHILD CARE (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CHILDREN (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); PARENTING (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (75%); PARENTS (73%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (70%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (70%); SINGLE PARENTS (67%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (65%); SCIENCE NEWS (61%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (61%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (61%); RESTAURANTS (60%); 

PERSON: HINDS, MICHAEL DECOURCY



53 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 678 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL REPORT;
STOCKS PLUMMET ON TOKYO MARKET

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Monday, April 2

 BODY:
The two-month erosion of confidence in Japanese financial markets grew more serious today, as share prices and the yen plunged in value, causing the second-worst delcine on the Tokyo Stock Exchange.
Most worrying to many analysts is not just the fact that the markets have fallen steadily and at times wildly this year, but that each new battering is shaking the market's foundation of confidence. If the turmoil grows more serious in Tokyo, it is feared that panic could well spread to New York and other primary financial centers.
On Monday, the closely-watched Nikkei 225-stock average fell by 1,978.38 points, or by 6.6 percent, to 28,002.07. The Tokyo market's worst day was a 14.9 percent plunge on Oct. 20, 1987, when the Nikkei fell by 3,836.48 points. 
 
Imbalance of Sell Orders
But in a sign of how seriously unsettled the markets have become, many shares were not even able to open for trading today, the first day in the new Japanese fiscal year. There was such a heavy imbalance of sell orders, that over half the shares listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange were shut down in the morning, a frightening sign of market paralysis. By late afternoon, about three-quarters of the shares could trade.
In addition, the stock-index futures markets were not able to open for trading. They fell their daily allowable limit immediately, and so could not function. Those closings added to invester concerns, analysts said, casting a dark shadow over the markets that is not likely to clear up soon.
Stock prices were pushed lower by many of the same factors that have been worrying the market all year. The dollar soared against the yen early today, hitting a peak of 160.35 yen, its highest level in more than three years. Analysts have said that even many large Japanese institutions have been selling yen and moving their capital into the United States and West Germany.
The Bank of Japan has intervened heavily in recent weeks and increased interest rates sharply in an effort to defend the yen, but is has failed to arrest the slide in the currency.
Market interest rates also leapt higher early today, causing bond prices to plummet and raising fears that the Bank of Japan would be forced to boost interest rates yet again.
''It's when all these things coincide that the market comes apart,'' said John Charlton-Jones, a trader at James Capel Pacific, a brokerage concern here.
''The market remains fundamentally weak and we see little hope it is going to turn around,'' said Liam Newberg, an analyst with Merrill Lynch.
Another factor was a front-page arrtile in theNihon Keizai Shimbun, Japan's leading economic daily, saying that Japanese insurance companies had plans to sell huge amounts of Japanese stocks. Specifically the report claimed that the Dai-Ichi Mutual Life Insurance Company, one of Japan's largest, was preparing to sell 200 billion yen worht of shares, about $1.26 billion worth. The report was later denied by Dai-Ichi Mutual Life. ''The report was not exactly true, but the fact that it had such an impact shows just how vulnerable the market really is,'' said a senior executive at the Nomura Securities Company. ''There is just no buying sentiment.''
The market tumble leaves stock prices down more than 25 percent since the beginning of this year.
 
Hong Kong Issues Fall
HONG KONG, Monday, April 1 (Reuters) - A surprise increase in interest rates here and a drop in the Tokyo stock market caused a heavy slide in stock prices today.
The Hang Seng index fell by 59.34 points, or by 2 percent, in the first 45 minutes of trading, to 2,938.64. In Japan, the Nikkei 225-stock average ended the morning session down by 1,720.13 points, or 5.7 percent, to 28,260.32. The index ended the trading day at 28,002.07, down by 1,978.38, or by 6.6 percent.
A 1 percent rise in interest rates, bringing the prime lending rate to 11 percent, took effect today. ''This morning's losses are 80 percent interest rates, 20 percent Tokyo,'' said Ravi Narain, an analysist at Peregrine Brokerage, a prominent securities house.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (52%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (95%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); BANK OF JAPAN (52%); TOKYO STOCK EXCHANGE (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: TOKYO STOCK EXCHANGE

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); JAPANESE YEN (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); FUTURES (78%); BONDS (75%); INSURANCE (73%); INTEREST RATES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); CENTRAL BANKS (66%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES



54 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1397 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

International A3-11
 
The European Community's identity has been challenged by the transformation of Eastern Europe. But a consensus has now emerged to absorb East Germany and to try to form broad pacts with other Eastern bloc nations. Page A1
 
Study proposes deeper U.S. troop cuts in Europe A8
 
Belfast's Catholics still despair of ever seeing an end to discrimination, violence and joblessness, even with the dramatic changes in Eastern Europe and South Africa. A1
 
The violence at the London riots, in which 133 demonstrators and police officers were injured on Saturday, was the work of a small minority of protesters, the police and politicians of all the major parties agreed. A11 
 
Soviet military forces in Lithuania were increased as the Kremlin turned up the psychological pressure on the republic to retreat from its claim of independence. A1
 
The deferral of South African talks has emphasized the differences in the ways President de Klerk and Nelson Mandela must maneuver to satisfy their constituencies. A1
 
Mugabe wins decisively in Zimbabwe's election A9
 
P.L.O. military forces in Lebanon have been re-established eight years after Israel drove the guerrillas out of the country. P.L.O. hard-liners are now urging Yasir Arafat to use their forces against Israel. A3
 
Protesters for Soviet Jewry urge direct flights to Israel B3
 
Tokyo stock prices plunged again, and the yen suffered a sharp decline in value. The market's tumble added to a growing sense of fear that the markets may spin out of control. A1
 
Tiananmen Square was closed to the general public as authorities moved to block any renewed protests. Overseas dissidents had called on Chinese to mount a peaceful protest. A3
 
Ulan Bator journal: diplomatic post warms to mare's milk A4
 
The American invasion of Panama, according to arguments expected today from General Noriega's lawyers, was an extraordinarily violent case of illegal arrest that deprived the General of his right to due process. A12
 
National A12-15, B8
 
A law to help people get off welfare and into the work force is poorly conceived and creating problems for financially strapped states, critics say. A1
 
Black civil rights organizations, including the mighty N.A.A.C.P., are struggling to adapt to a more diverse black America, more complex issues and increased competition for members. B8
 
Congress's Democratic leadership seems to have strengthened its stature with recent victories involving the Senate's clean air amendment and the child care measure in the House. A13
 
Capital press and officials jab, but with jokes A13
 
Report outlines options for energy policy D2
 
The White House's position on taxes may be becoming more flexible, according to lawmakers who deal with senior Administration officials on tax issues. The lawmakers say, though, that they haven't heard directly from the President. D1
 
A ''junk bond revival'' may be in the offing. The market for the high-yield bonds seems to have stabilized, and investors are beginning to creep back into it. D1
 
The stock market was strong and resilient in the first quarter, and for the most part, negative forecasts for the quarter did not hold up. D1
 
Major personnel shifts at CBS include the ascension of Jay Kriegel, a lawyer with no background in television, as a leading programming strategist, and the departure of Brent Musburger, the sports anchor. CBS announced yesterday that Mr. Musburger would not be rehired. D1, C8
 
Idaho's Governor, Cecil Andrus, who recently vetoed what would have been the most restrictive abortion law in the nation, describes himself as an independent-minded leader of an independent-minded state. A14
 
Many new abortion bills are pending in legislatures across the nation. The measures include the banning of abortion for the purpose of sex selection and the requirement of parental consent for minors seeking abortion. A14
 
Limits on flight attendants' weight are the focus of a lawsuit against American Airlines that accuses the company of age and sex discrimination in its ''grooming policy.'' A12
 
Amtrak's waste disposal practice of routinely dumping raw sewage onto tracks is being challenged by Congressional bills and a lawsuit. A15
 
Bus driver is shot in road attack A15
 
Georgia journal: auto tags offer state unnerving lottery A12
 
Regional B1-7
 
Mentally ill homeless people still have few places to go, years after the doors of state psychiatric hospitals were flung open, mental health experts say. A1
 
State budget talks dissolved after an eight-hour private meeting between Governor Cuomo and legislative leaders broke down in a new round of angry public accusations. B1
 
The use of smaller courtrooms is one of the novel solutions that city court administrators are using to cope with an increasing caseload. In some Bronx courtrooms, even the ''In God We Trust'' signs have been miniaturized. B1
 
48 of the Happy Land fire dead returned home to Honduras in coffins flown to San Pedro Sula. Survivors of those killed at the club met the cargo jet amid outbreaks of grief. B1
 
G.O.P. seeks gubernatorial candidate and money B3
 
Bronx economy gaining vigor after setbacks B7
 
For harassed toll collectors, cars and fumes just keep coming B2
 
Magazines about New York struggle against a slump D10
 
Middletown is not the quiet city it used to be. This traditionally middle-class city in the middle of Connecticut now faces some ominous problems, including homelessness and police corruption. B1
 
Hemlocks and pines threatened by predatory insects B2
 
Business Digest D1
 
SportsMonday
 
Baseball: Viola and Franco glad to be home C2
 
Mets top Yanks C2
 
Basketball: Two roads to top C1
 
Scouting the finalists C1
 
Stanford women capture title C1
 
Nets woeful against Bullets C3
 
Knicks struggling C3
 
Henderson in Duke's link to success C6
 
Rebel guards similar and different C6
 
Column: Berkow on final teams C6
 
Features: Sports World Specials C2
 
Question Box C8
 
On Your Own C12
 
Golf: Nicklaus wins Senior debut C1
 
King wins by 2 shots C8
 
Hockey: Wisconsin takes championship C8
 
Islanders travel in fast company C11
 
A year of parity in N.H.L. C11
 
Rangers-Islanders: Bad blood renewal C11
 
Devils enjoy Soviet influence C11
 
Horse Racing: Hopes rise for Summer Squall C9
 
Outdoors: Trout opener C12
 
Rowing: Chasing Harvard C3
 
Tennis: U.S. in Davis semifinals C9
 
Arts/Entertainment
 
Works by Vincent van Gogh are on display in unparalleled number in two museums in the Netherlands as part of the commemoration of the centenary of the artist's death. C13
 
Charles Durning, the actor who is playing Big Daddy in a Broadway production of ''Cat on a Hot Tin Roof,'' seems the essence of quiet, relaxed charm, the antithesis of Big Daddy. C13
 
Theater: ''Neddy'' C15
 
Music: Met's ''Rheingold'' C15
 
Katherine Supove, pianist C18
 
Dance: The past without jokes C13
 
Word and Image: Koppel and the Romanian Revolution C16
 
Drifter takes on a small town C16
 
Warnings on global warming C18
 
Obituaries D13
 
Robert Breen, producer
 
Herman Levin, jewish lay leader
 
Editorials/Letters/Op-Ed
 
Editorials A16
 
The ghost at freedom's party
 
Idaho's law, rapists' rights
 
David Anderson: Office light
 
Letters A16
 
Tom Wicker: A choice in Idaho A17
 
William Safire: The grave consequence A17
 
Stephen P. Pizzo: The real culprits in the thrift scam A17
 
Muhammad Yunus: Credit as a human right A17

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); GERMANY (91%); EASTERN EUROPE (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); LITHUANIA (79%); PANAMA (79%); LEBANON (79%); ZIMBABWE (79%); 

CITY: BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (56%); LONDON, ENGLAND (55%); TOKYO, JAPAN (50%); 

COMPANY: ULAN BATOR RAILWAYS (53%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (84%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (84%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); DISCRIMINATION (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (75%); POLITICS (74%); DUE PROCESS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (71%); RIOTS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); PUBLIC POLICY (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (61%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (56%); RELIGION (56%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 



55 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 355 words

HEADLINE: National Debt Becomes Beast That Ate America;
Elusive Peace Dividend

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In your excellent editorial on how to spend the peace dividend (''$150 Billion a Year,'' March 9) you unfortunately come a cropper on one crucial point. You accept the Gramm-Rudman law!
You suggest that we could free $150 billion a year by 1999 and you wisely urge investment in the future - in human resources of education and health and in our deteriorating infrastructure of highways and airports. It is indeed on a wide range of public investment that our own prosperity and that of our children and grandchildren will depend. 
But then, after stating that ''cutting back the mountainous deficit, per the Senate resolution . . . is misguided and unnecessary,'' you explain that under Gramm-Rudman, the deficit ''will be eliminated by the mid-90's . . . If it is the wrong target, it would not seem to err by much.''
That, though, is exactly the issue. The deficit is just about the $150 billion a year that you foresee in an eventual peace dividend. If we eliminate the deficit according to Gramm-Rudman - without more smoke and mirrors, or sealing President Bush's lips - it is precisely the peace dividend that will be gone before it is even realized, and with it our vital public investment.
And whether or not private saving and investment are adequate, as I suggest, or insufficient, as is frequently asserted, how can you be so sure that cutting the budget deficit would increase them? If the Federal Government leaves us less to spend - either by giving us less or taxing us more -we will certainly consume less. But if as a consequence we do not buy that new Chrysler, will Lee Iacocca decide to build a new plant or, more likely, cut his investment spending?
Most analysts see at best a period of slow growth for the United States ahead. If the fiscal austerity of further reductions in the budget deficit pushes us into a recession, we can be sure that all saving and investment, public and private, will take the hit, and with it all the more of our prospects for the future.
 
ROBERT EISNER
William R. Kenan Professor
of Economics, Northwestern U.
 Evanston, Ill., March 11, 1990

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: IF AS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); GRANDCHILDREN (70%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 



56 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 271 words

HEADLINE: National Debt Becomes Beast That Ate America

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Your March 18 editorial says the Federal Government's ''deficit-reduction path seems right.'' What deficit-reduction path? There has been no deficit reduction. You concede that ''budget gimmicks'' evade the deficit-reduction law. They sure do. The actual deficit is accurately reflected in the annual growth of the national debt. That has grown between $225 billion and $300 billion in every one of the six years through 1990. Keep in mind these have been years of peace and economic growth, years when the increase in the national debt should have been declining. How much will the debt grow each year when the next recession hits?
You say nothing about the immense cost of this $3 trillion national debt. Thanks to huge annual deficits, interest costs on that debt have skyrocketed to $175 billion a year. Here is the most rapidly rising cost of our national government. It is already second only to military spending. Within 10 years it will be our biggest cost.
This is also the one cost of government we cannot reduce by a penny, the one cost we must pay in full and on time. And it is useless. It doesn't educate even one child, build a house for a single homeless family, provide medical assistance to save one human life or a dime's worth of environmental protection or national defense.
The Administration and Congress continue to be guilty of political cowardice and gross irresponsibility. And now you chime in to say this budgetary irresponsibility ''seems right.'' For Shame.
 
WILLIAM PROXMIRE
Washington, March 18, 1990
 The writer was Senator from Wisconsin from 1957 to 1988.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: THE ADMINISTRATION&CONGRESS (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING NATIONAL DEBT (94%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); FAMILY (75%); WRITERS (73%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); HOMELESSNESS (51%); 

PERSON: WILLIAM PROXMIRE WASHINGTON (61%); 



57 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: Metro Matters;
The Eternal Aim To Make Cities More Livable

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
Far-sightedness in state and local government seems to be defined nowadays as anticipating next week's budget deficit forecast. In that context, a 15-month contract authorized last month by the New York City Transit Authority is positively visionary.
The contract is for work on the Second Avenue subway. It will not complete the 14-mile route. Rather, transit officials plan to spend $2 million to maintain and secure the one mile that was bored before the project was abandoned in 1975 during the city's last fiscal crisis. 
That transit officials have not forgot the future altogether is grounds for optimism among planners. So is the belated debut of the city's Office of Strategic Planning, inspired by Mayor Edward I. Koch's Commission on the Year 2000 - which was a response, in part, by Mr. Koch to complaints that vision was not one of his things.
So, too, in one sense, is Mayor David N. Dinkins insistence on planning expertise, rather than political acumen, as the primary qualification for the City Planning Commission chairmanship - itself the subject of a search that, after nearly five months, qualifies as long term.
Last week another effort was begun to shape the metropolitan area's future, this one by the Regional Plan Association, a nonprofit research group.
In 1929 the association published its ''Regional Plan of New York and Its Environs,'' a futuristic blueprint. Most of its proposed network of roads ringing the region were built, but plans to expand commuter rail lines were scrapped during the Depression.
A second regional plan in 1968 promoted redevelopment of downtowns, a strategy credited with speeding the rejuventation of New Brunswick, N.J.; Stamford, Conn., and White Plains, and with the potential revivals of Jamaica, Queens, and downtown Brooklyn.
The name of the proposed third plan and the cover photograph on the prospectus are illuminating. The first two regional plans were blandly titled (in contrast with the Commission on the Year 2000's report, which, despite significant caveats, was boldly called ''New York Ascendant).''
The third plan, due to be produced in stages over five years, is to be called ''The Region Tomorrow.'' The title does not imply any judgment as to what tomorrow will be like. Nor does it mention the word plan.
Both omissions may represent a concession that previous plans could not have anticipated the epidemics of AIDS and crack, just as the next plan is unlikely to predict with precision the impact of events in Europe or Hong Kong on business and immigration in the New York region or the consequences of crises still waiting to occur.
The cover photograph for the Regional Plan Association prospectus is of the gleaming Philip Morris building rising behind the rusted, but since restored, viaduct around Grand Central Terminal in midtown Manhattan. It is a graphic reminder that New York City is likely to remain the driving force behind the region's economy. It is also emblematic of the city's struggle to balance growth with tradition and with overtaxed public works. The back cover features three photographs: a schoolteacher, two children and a retiree.
The plan's goals include making the region more competitive in the global economy, easing access to airports, forging new transit links, particularly in Rockland and Orange Counties and between Englewood and Elizabeth in northern New Jersey, improving the enviroment, encouraging cooperation among overlapping government jurisdictions and eliminating obstacles to affordable housing.
Another goal is to make the region more ''equitable'' - a mission addressed recently by a committee of the association in a report called ''Bridging the Social Chasm.''
That report recommends that a regional agency be created to help replicate programs that have successfully shepherded poor people into the economic and social mainstream; that policies be considered to promote racial, ethnic and income integration, and that forums be convened to create a consensus on solutions to poverty.
''It's not our natural business,'' acknowledged William B. Shore, senior vice president of the Regional Plan Association.
But the association is filling a vacuum again. No government organization represents the entire metropolitan area. Moreover, as a private group, the association is singularly equipped, said Richard Ravitch, the businessman, former public official and defeated mayoral candidate who will be chairman of a panel overseeing the plan.
''Planning,'' he said, ''is not the strong suit of the democratic political process.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS311920 COFFEE AND TEA MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2095 ROASTED COFFEE (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: 2ND AVENUE DESIGN (58%); GRAND CENTRAL MARKETS (50%); NEW YORK CITY TRANSIT AUTHORITY (80%); CITY PLANNING COMMISSION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: REGIONAL PLAN ASSN

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); BUDGET FORECASTS (78%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (77%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (77%); COMPANY STRATEGY (76%); GREAT DEPRESSION (75%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (65%); IMMIGRATION (50%); 

PERSON: ROBERTS, SAM EDWARD I KOCH (56%); 



58 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 972 words

HEADLINE: 48 Who Died in Bronx Fire Return Home

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO

DATELINE: SAN PEDRO SULA, Honduras, April 1

 BODY:
Accompanied by the President of Honduras and other government officials, survivors of those who died in the Happy Land fire in the Bronx gathered on the runway here today to meet the cargo jet carrying the dead. It landed shortly before noon.
As doors swung open, revealing 48 coffins within, some survivors embraced in clusters, some screamed in grief and still others collapsed in sobs on the runway.
The plane arrived in unrelenting heat. About 40 Honduran Red Cross volunteers, carrying first-aid kits and jugs of water, offered assistance. They put out chairs for people, and one woman who was seated bent over, crying, while a relative fanned her with a piece of cardboard. A man was carried away on a stretcher. 
A young woman, the girlfriend of Marco Tulio Gamoneda, a 23-year-old victim who attended Bronx Community College and worked part-time at a supermarket, shouted, ''Bring the Honduran flag out, so everyone knows these are Hondurans.''
The coffins, packed in wooden crates, were unloaded in fours and laid out in three rows on the runways. Bouquets were placed on each coffin. The families walked between the rows, looking at the pieces of paper. Some fell on the coffins, crying. Msgr. Jaime E. Brufau, the Bishop of San Pedro Sula, said a short prayer as relatives gathered around. Burials were planned Monday in 11 towns throughout northern Honduras.
The dead are among the 87 people who were trapped and killed eight days ago in an arsonist's fire at the Happy Land Social Club, an illegal operation in the Bronx.
 
Suspect Facing 170 Charges
The police say the man charged with setting the fire, Julio Gonzalez, was trying to kill his estranged companion, Lydia Feliciano, the coat-check clerk at the club. Ms. Feliciano was one of five people who escaped the fire.
A grand jury has indicted Mr. Gonzalez on more than 170 counts in connection with the fire, including 87 counts of murder.
A DC-10 jet chartered by the American Red Cross flew the 48 bodies to Ramon Villeda Morales International Airport here, about 150 miles north of Tegucigalpa, the Honduran capital. From the airport, relatives followed military trucks or private hearses carrying the coffins to municipalities dotting the Northwest of the Central American country.
Eight coffins with destinations in coastal towns as far as 275 miles to the north were transported by a Honduran Air Force DC-3 passenger plane whose seats had been removed. Relatives followed on another military flight and by land.
The flights were a concession to families of the victims during an emotional morning in which mourners openly shared the pain of receiving the bodies and also vented anger at the Honduran Government, which many perceived as not having done enough in response to the tragedy. The Government had originally planned to move all of the coffins from the airport by truck, which would have meant a six-hour trip to some of the farther towns. But officials relented under pressure. Many of those complaining were among the 130 relatives who had arrived earlier from New York and were anxious to take the bodies to their families in Honduras, eight days after they had identified the dead at Public School 67 in the Bronx.
 
'People Don't Understand'
''This is a highly emotional situation,'' said Maj. Napoleon Santos, a coordinator for the Honduran armed forces. ''People don't understand procedures in a moment like this.''
The bodies were taken away in three trucks. Those destined for the towns of Trujillo and Ceiba were taken by plane.
The President of Honduras, Rafael Leonardo Callejas Romero, and the commander of the Honduran armed forces, Gen. Arnulfo Cantarero Lopez, arrived at the airport shortly before the chartered cargo jet carrying the bodies touched down. Forty men from the 105th Military Brigade were also on hand, along with more than 250 relatives.
The President, who had declared three days of mourning for the fire victims, attributed the blaze to ''an irrational act'' by an individual and thanked the City of New York for ''understanding human nature and extending their hand.''
 
President Expresses Sorrow
''We are so sorry,'' he said as he shook hands with relatives. ''We hope you have the strength and faith to accept an act like this.''
But one of the mourners, Alexander Morales, a friend of 32-year-old Francisco Gonzales, who worked in construction, said: ''We don't need the President. What we need is to take the bodies to their houses.''
Mr. Morales, who was accompanying Mr. Gonzalez's widow, Marina Sanchez, who lives in Honduras with the couple's two children, 6 and 4, criticized the Honduran Consulate in New York for not helping families until days after the fire.
''They could have helped immediately with documentation,'' he said. ''The families needed it for moral support. Instead they got there after everything was taken care of.''
Salvador Rodezno, a representative of the Honduran Embassy in Washington, who was at the airport, said: ''Everything was in the hands of the American Red Cross. In the United States, you can't just intervene. There are a series of regulations that need to be followed. The Government of Hondurans has given the best cooperation to Hondurans there. I haven't slept more than six hours in the last eight days.''
 
Immigration to U.S. Rising
The President estimated that 100,000 Hondurans were living in the United States, and immigration has increased recently because of Honduras's economic problems. ''The economic problems have made them go look for jobs,'' he said.
Sara R. Alvarez, who lost a nephew in the Bronx fire, said: ''Our nephews and children were there because there's no work here. If there's work, it doesn't pay anything. Everything is expensive. Our currency has been devalued. Our external debt is huge.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Forty-eight coffins containing bodies of people who died in the blaze at the Happy Land Social Club were laid out yesterday on a runway in San Pedro Sula, Honduras, to be claimed by relatives before being taken to their hometowns. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HONDURAS (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); CENTRAL AMERICA (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: BRONX COMMUNITY COLLEGE (87%); 

ORGANIZATION: HAPPY LAND SOCIAL CLUB

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BRONX (NYC); NEW YORK CITY; HONDURAS

SUBJECT: FIRES AND FIREMEN; ARSON; NIGHTCLUBS AND CABARETS AIRPORT RUNWAYS (90%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (90%); FIRES (90%); AIRPORTS (89%); ARSON (89%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); AIRLINES (77%); AIR FORCES (77%); MURDER (77%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (76%); WOMEN (75%); VOLUNTEERS (71%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (71%); FIRST AID (70%); COASTAL AREAS (70%); GRAND JURY (69%); INDICTMENTS (64%); ARMED FORCES (60%); 

PERSON: NAVARRO, MIREYA JULIO GONZALEZ (60%); 



59 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 7, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: Bronx Economy Gaining Vigor After Setbacks

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK

 BODY:
More than a decade after the Bronx hit an economic bottom rarely experienced in urban America, a slow infusion of business investment has invigorated its retail areas, pushed up commercial rents and pumped new life into some of its derelict industrial real estate, business people and city officials say.
One aspect of the business investment came to light in a tragic way on March 25 with the fire at the Happy Land Social Club, operated in a two-story structure on Southern Boulevard, off Tremont Avenue. Records showed that the club was part of an entire block of buildings owned by Alex DiLorenzo 3d, a real-estate investor who paid $885,000 for the buildings in 1985.
The response to the fire has been a call for greater scrutiny, not only of social clubs but also of the people who own the buildings. Mr. DiLorenzo had subleased the Bronx buildings to Little Peach Realty, a large management concern, that in turn leased it to Elias Colon, the club owner who died along with 86 other people in the blaze. 
 
A Wave of Investment
''I have no sympathy for investors who gouge our neighborhoods and plead ignorance about the decaying condition of their buildings,'' said Fernando Ferrer, the Bronx Borough President, in an interview.
But merchants and real-estate executives in the Bronx, which is still trying to shed its national status as a symbol of urban blight, said speculation in buildings like the one that housed the Happy Land club is highly unusual in a wave of investment that began in the mid-1980's. In large part, they said, the investment has been good news for New York City's poorest borough.
One example of the investment is under construction at 161st Street and Grand Concourse, across from the Bronx County Courthouse. There a new shopping mall, the Concourse Plaza Shopping Center, is to be completed by the end of this year. The $100 million project, which is to include a 10-story office building, is the borough's first large-scale, privately financed real-estate venture in more than 20 years.
 
'A Happy Surprise'
''Our project is turning out to be a happy surprise,'' said Bernard Rosenshien, a New Rochelle developer who has financed the Bronx project and designed it to resemble suburban malls he has built in Westchester County, in Connecticut and in other states.
A Waldbaum's supermarket is to anchor the shopping center, which is to include 40 other stores, the developer said. He added that he had decided to enlarge his original plan because of higher than expected demand for space by national retail chains.
Elsewhere in the Bronx, particularly along the retail streets of the Hub - a commercial cluster surrounding the intersection of 149th Street and Third Avenue - and farther north along Fordham Road near the Grand Concourse, retail activity is brisk, rents are rising and merchants expanding.
In the South Bronx, along the Harlem River waterfront, and in other sections where manufacturing concerns have been in a steady decline for decades, brokers say investment in industrial buildings reached boom proportions in the mid-1980's and has only begun to slacken in recent months. Instead of manufacturing, many of the buildings are being used as warehouses for food distributors, theatrical supply concerns and financial service companies.
''Suddenly, a lot of people who would not have thought about investing in the Bronx in the past are putting their money here,'' Mr. Ferrer said.
 
Refurbished Apartments
One reason for the rising level of business investment is a far bigger commitment by New York City to rehabilitate housing. With a total of $5.1 billion budgeted to rehabiltate abandoned, city-owned residential properties, the Bronx, with the city's largest share of abandoned buildings, is getting the biggest share of the funds.
In all, 45,000 apartments are being rebuilt in the city, with 20,000 of them in the Bronx. Officials said close to half the work in the Bronx had already been completed and that all of it was scheduled to be completed by 1993.
As a result, merchants report a surge in business from tenants of refurbished apartments, some of whom have moved to the borough for the first time.
''This store takes off first thing in the morning and doesn't stop until closing,'' said Dick Desanto, manager of the Sears store on Fordham Road between Webster Street and Park Avenue, which itself is being remodeled.
Another retailer in the Bronx, the Ray Department Store, at 149th Street and Third Avenue, has acquired an adjoining lot and is more than doubling its size. The store's manager, Leon Cohen, said the expansion was prompted by sales increases that have been ''very steady over the last three years.''
Over all, retail sales in the Bronx have increased since the mid-1980's. The New York City Finance Department said receipts from the city's sales tax collected in the Bronx rose 28 percent from 1985 to 1989, to $191 million. The rate of increase was roughly the same as the rest of the city.
Investing in industrial properties in the Bronx has been particularly strong in loft buildings and warehouses. Since the early 80's, several large New York City companies, including Zaro Bakeries, Faberware and Hudson Scenic Studio, have rented large blocks of space in the Port Morris, Hunts Point and other industrial sections.
John Ritter, vice president of Sholom & Zuckerbrot Realty, which specializes in commercial and industrial space in Brooklyn, Queens and the Bronx, said demand for industrial space had slackened in the last six months as the city economy has cooled off.
Nonetheless, he said recent leases signed for Bronx warehouses had gone for $40 a square foot, 10 times more than what it would cost a decade ago.
''Property in the Bronx has climbed more dramatically over the last 10 years than anywhere else in the city,'' he said, adding that the main reason was that values for such property had ''fallen so far'' in the 1970's.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A week after the fire at the Happy Land Social Club left 87 dead, flowers were still being placed in front of the Bronx club. Coffins carrying 48 of the dead arrived yesterday in Honduras (The New York Times/Chester Higgins Jr.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); HONDURAS (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: CONCOURSE PLAZA SHOPPING CENTER (57%); HAPPY LAND SOCIAL CLUB (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: HAPPY LAND SOCIAL CLUB

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; BRONX (NYC)

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; OFFICE BUILDINGS; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RENTING AND LEASING; REAL ESTATE; FIRES AND FIREMEN REAL ESTATE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RETAILERS (90%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (78%); CITIES (78%); PROPERTY LEASES (77%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); TRENDS (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); FIRES (76%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); INTERVIEWS (70%); SUBURBS (66%); 

PERSON: DILORENZO, ALEX 3D; LUECK, THOMAS J



60 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 8, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1636 words

HEADLINE: Drive for Civil Rights in U.S. Faces New Agendas

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS

 BODY:
From Selma to Greensboro to Nashville, the South is awash in remembrances of the alphabet soup of civil rights groups -N.A.A.C.P., S.C.L.C., CORE, S.N.C.C. and others that made history a quarter of a century ago.
But around the nation, the groups that survive, even the mighty National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, find themselves struggling to adapt to a more diverse black America, more complex issues and increased competition for members.
Some see signs of renewed interest in civil rights issues among young blacks, and the N.A.A.C.P. in particular is stepping up its activity in its youth and college chapters. But interviews with blacks around the country indicate that changes in black America, its successes at least as much as its failures, are diminishing the roles of the traditional civil rights groups.
 
'Battlefield Has Shifted'
Although a vast majority of blacks see a continued role for traditional civil rights organizations, the growing power of blacks in politics and the emergence of a strong black middle class have provided other options for effecting political and social change. 
''I think the battlefield has shifted,'' said Sherman E. Stimley, a 45-year-old lawyer in Houston. ''Most of the issues now have to do with economics, and I don't know if young blacks perceive the traditional organizations as able to address those issues.''
In Chicago most traditional black organizations, from Operation PUSH to smaller community groups, are battling dwindling interest.
''The movement has collapsed,'' said Lu Palmer, chairman of the Chicago Black United Communities. ''Different people have different definitions of the movement. Black people are pulling back.''
 
'We're Fighting Each Other'
The Rev. Clyde Brooks, president of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference in Chicago, whose membership has sunk to 3,700 from 20,000 in the early 1970's, added: ''We're fighting each other. We're critical of this and that, and one has to raise the question, 'Is there a community anymore?' ''
Many of the reasons that civil rights organizations are struggling can be seen here in New Orleans. The city has a black Mayor and has had one since 1978. Blacks dominate the City Council and the school board. With so much political power held by blacks, the action tends to gravitate there instead of toward civil rights groups.
''Some of the young people feel they don't have anything to fight for,'' said the Rev. S. L. Harvey, who was on hand when the S.C.L.C. was founded in 1957 and who, at the age of 71, still heads its struggling New Orleans chapter. ''Things are kind of easy for them. Some of them say they don't want to hear what happened a long time ago.''
 
Divisions Among Blacks
The local N.A.A.C.P. chapter has a rich history dating from 1915, and its chapter presidents have included the late Ernest N. Dutch Morial, who was the city's first black Mayor. About 3,000 residents pay the dues, usually $10, that make them members of the N.A.A.C.P.
But Shirley Porter, who has been the branch president for 10 years, said only 35 or 40 members were active participants, and she admitted that the organization needed new directions and new blood.
''We're really the only organization that's still alive and well, so I guess it's still up to us to push for change and promote change,'' she said. ''But we know our agenda has to change, and I'm sure our national convention in Los Angeles this year is going to come up with a whole new agenda.''
The problem reflects the increasingly fractured state of black America. Roger Wilkins, a professor of history and American culture at George Mason University in Fairfax, Va., said that in the era of segregation blacks shared the same problems.
''It didn't matter if you were rich or poor.'' he said. ''You couldn't go downtown and eat in a restaurant; you couldn't sit where you wanted in the theater or go to the hotel. Now the stronger elements in the community no longer suffer the way the poorer ones do. It's harder to find the commonality of interests.''
Thus in New Orleans, groups like the N.A.A.C.P., the S.C.L.C. and the National Urban League draw criticism from both rich and poor blacks.
 
Concern for the Black Poor
Carl Galmon, a 47-year-old gadfly, says black elected officials and civil rights groups alike have lost touch with the black poor.
''It's embarrassing to see black elected officials and people heading up civil rights organizations capitulating to folks who have been our oppressors, just to sit at a table for a social event,'' he said. ''The N.A.A.C.P. here ought to close up shop; the S.C.L.C., too. They're not doing anything to get African-Americans involved in the economic mainstream.''
The most successful blacks often find the groups either irrelevant to their lives or mired in old approaches to new problems.
''There's almost a paint-by-the-numbers script that you can rely on N.A.A.C.P. leaders to deliver,'' said Keith Butler, 34, an investment banker educated at Harvard. ''They're telling the white community that it's whites who are responsible for the position black people find themselves in. They're telling the black community to rely on the leadership of the N.A.A.C.P. to tell whites they're responsible for the position black people are in. I'm not sure either group is listening to them.'' Whatever Happened to . . . ? Many groups, like the Student Non-Violent Coordinating Committee, no longer exist. And CORE, the Congress of Racial Equality, which under Roy Innis is openly hostile to the traditional civil rights agenda, bears little resemblance to its earlier self.
The N.A.A.C.P. remains the largest and most powerful organization by far, with 1,700 chapters and 500,000 members, matching its all-time high after dipping in the 1970's. Its influence at the national level is probably as significant now as it has ever been, and in many communities the N.A.A.C.P. remains the dominant voice on civil rights issues.
In the past few years, it has begun to accentuate economic issues in a way it never did before. Its main vehicle is its Fair Share program, which negotiates agreements with national and regional businesses to increase minority hiring and the use of minority contractors.
''Really, over the past three or four years, we've come to realize that economic empowerment is the means we must use to raise the living standards of black Americans, not just civil rights standards and civil rights laws,'' said Dr. William F. Gibson, chairman of the N.A.A.C.P.
He denied that there was any significant diminution of the N.A.A.C.P.'s impact but conceded that today's issues posed difficulties that those of the past did not. ''You had a central focus when you were dealing with a bill to relieve discrimination in public accommodations, when you had segregated lunch counters and black and white water fountains,'' he said.
 
A Surge in New Groups
Still, it is hard to find an N.A.A.C.P. chapter without concerns about bringing along new leadership. In Atlanta, which once had one of the nation's most vibrant chapters of the N.A.A.C.P., the local chapter's dwindling influence has been widely publicized.
In Memphis, which has long had one of the strongest local chapters, Maxine Smith has been in charge since 1962. ''I hoped I would have been replaced two decades ago,'' she said. ''The drive in the young is not the same it was when I returned to a completely segregated society here.''
Over the past two decades, there has been an explosion in the number of black organizations. For example, a guide to black organizations printed by Philip Morris Companies Inc. includes dozens of black professional organizations - for black entertainment technicians, black female entrepreneurs, black women in higher education, black public administrators. Nearly all of them started since the 1970's. Black social organizations and fraternities are increasingly active, as are groups of black professionals like the ''100 Black Men,'' a group that works with youths in at least nine major cities.
''There are more blacks in the mainstream today, and the thrust is from the inside out instead of outside in,'' said State Representative Irma Brown of Little Rock, one of six blacks in the Arkansas Legislature.
 
Black Conservatives' View
The most extreme sign of disaffection comes from the small but increasingly vocal group of black conservatives who say the traditional civil rights agenda, focusing on racism and race-based remedies like affirmative action instead of economic and social change within the black community, is not only out of date but also harmful to black aspirations.
''They're locked in the past,'' said Robert L. Woodson, president of the National Center for Neighborhood Enterprise in Washington. ''All they're doing is celebrating history. Their concern on racial and social justice while ignoring economic marketplace strategies has harmed us in a most profound way.''
But even Mr. Woodson concedes that the civil rights agenda dating to the era of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. has a sacrosanct place for blacks.
''Civil rights is a threshold issue, an emotional issue for blacks,'' he said. ''If you don't come right on civil rights, you don't get a hearing on anything else.''
For many blacks, that sentiment and continuing racial friction insure the relevance of groups like the N.A.A.C.P., as part of a broad array of black voices.
''If you had asked me 10 years ago, I might have questioned whether or not they were still effective,'' said Brenda Siler, who works in public relations for the American Association of Retired Persons in Atlanta. ''But it is obvious that there has been a resurgence of a lot of racism, which has demonstrated their work is not done.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Shirley Porter, branch president for the N.A.A.C.P. in New Orleans, at the Dillard University bookstore, which she manages. ''We're really the only organization that's still alive and well, so I guess it's still up to us to push for change and promote change,'' she said of the N.A.A.C.P. (The New York Times/Matt Anderson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%); GREENSBORO, NC, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: UNITED INC (53%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSN FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLOR PEOPLE (NAACP) NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE; 

SUBJECT: BLACKS (IN US); CIVIL RIGHTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES CIVIL RIGHTS (94%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (92%); POLITICS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); LAWYERS (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); TRENDS (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); CITIES (64%); CITY GOVERNMENT (64%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (64%); MAYORS (60%); 

PERSON: APPLEBOME, PETER MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); 



61 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 2, Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 378 words

HEADLINE: SPORTS WORLD SPECIALS: BASKETBALL;
National Pastime Hearing Footsteps

BYLINE: By ROBERT McG. THOMAS Jr.

 BODY:
IF you are one of those whose hearts jump when Michael Jordan leaps, and if you plan to be among the millions who will be glued to their television sets for the collegiate showdown between Duke and Nevada-Las Vegas tonight, you'll hardly be surprised that a recent poll has confirmed what you and television executives have known all along: basketball is booming.
In the telephone survey conducted by the Gallup organization in mid-February, basketball, which had held steady as the favorite spectator sport of about 10 percent of the American population in periodic polls from 1948 to 1981, was listed as the favorite sport to watch by 15 percent of the 1,235 adults surveyed, putting it within a point of baseball, the No. 2 spectator sport, Football, which replaced baseball as the favorite sport in the 1960's, continued in the No. 1 position with a 35 percent following, statistically indistinguishable from 38 percent in the 1981 poll.
The good news for baseball, whose popularity had dropped steadily and steeply from 39 percent in 1948, is that the decline seems to have leveled off. It remained at the 16 percent level, the same as in the 1981 survey. 
The bad news is that its popularity is concentrated among those over the age of 50 and among those who say they are only lukewarm sports fans.
Basketball, by contrast, was especially popular among younger people, black fans and those who consider themselves hard-core fans, a group, incidentally, the survey found to have a disproportionate representation of black fans.
Although the more than 50 percent increase in the popularity of basketball from its 9 percent rating in 1981 to 15 percent in the 1990 poll was just outside the survey's 4-point margin of error, the increase clearly reflects the sport's growing appeal over the last decade.
The results of the survey, to be sure, were studded with the inevitable contradictions found in such polls.
For example, when asked how interested they were in following professional or college sports, 30 percent said they had no interest at all. Yet when asked about their favorite sports to watch all but 13 percent identified a specific sport, indicating that the popularity figures included those with no interest in their own ''favorite'' sports.

GRAPHIC: drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (88%); 

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: GALLUP ORGANIZATION (57%); 

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL BASKETBALL (92%); POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); SPORTS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); SPORTS FANS (76%); 

PERSON: THOMAS, ROBERT MCG JR MICHAEL JORDAN (92%); 



62 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1163 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
New York's Magazines In a Slump

BYLINE: By RANDALL ROTHENBERG

 BODY:
For magazines, New York has be-come a town without pity.
Faced with reduced advertising from a troubled retailing industry and a cluttered field, publishers of several city and regional magazines in and around New York have bailed out or changed their strategies.
Last week, 7 Days, a weekly journal of news, style and culture aimed at New Yorkers in their 30's, was put on the block. The vitriolic New York humor magazine Spy is also seeking a buyer or primary investor, as is Long Island Monthly. And Conde Nast Publications said recently that it would reposition Details, a chronicle of New York's downtown demimonde, as a men's magazine, presumably to make it more attractive to advertisers. 
These and other publications that cover New York are suffering from a severe slump in retailing, the primary advertising category for city magazines as well as newspapers. Indeed, travails in retailing and suffering among city magazines are national phenomena. Publishing executives describe a domino effect, in which retail empires like the Campeau Corporation, which owns Bloomingdale's, Jordan Marsh and other department store chains, are saddled with debt, curtail their ad expenditures and frighten their suppliers into zipping their own purses.
''It's a scary time in the city magazine business,'' said Thomas O. Ryder, the president of the American Express Publishing Corporation, which owns New York Woman, L.A. Style and Atlanta magazines. ''With the bankruptcy of Campeau and the downturn of fortunes of department stores, anything that sells through those chains is nervous.
''Any time people are nervous, they begin to hold onto their marketing money more tightly,'' Mr. Ryder added. ''So you've got everybody from fashion people to beauty and fragrance people tightening up their spending. The guys feeling it most are the small city books.''
In the New York area, the problem is particularly acute. Retail advertising linage in New York City newspapers, a barometer of the state of the retail industry, was down by 13.6 percent in January from the year before, according to Media Records, an industry research group. Among newspapers in New York's suburbs, retail advertising was off 7.7 percent.
For New York area magazines, the picture is grim. So far this year, ad pages are down by 27 percent in New York Woman, 16 percent in Manhattan,inc. and 12 percent in New York magazine, according to tabulations by New York magazine. The April issue of Spy has only half the ad pages of the April 1989 issue.
Outside of New York, through March, ad pages at L.A. Style were down by 12 percent from 1989; New England Monthly's were off by 21 percent and those for D, in Dallas, were down by 22 percent, according to Media Industry Newsletter, an industry publication.
But counting pages can be misleading. Increased ad pages can mask discounted rates and declining revenues; conversely, advertising rate increases and new circulation can make up for shortfalls in ad pages. Although 7 Days says its ad pages are running about even with last year, the prospectus being circulated for it by the Jordan Group, a communications consulting firm, says the publication's ad revenues are 10 percent higher than they were at the same point last year.
Still, when ad pages are down in an entire publishing category, it shows clearly that less overall advertising is available to be shared. And the burden generally falls on smaller publishers, who cannot cut the same deals with advertisers that large companies like American Express or Time Warner Inc. can.
This has been one of the challenges facing some of the newer city magazines. Shortly after they made their debuts, in 1987 and 1988 respectively, Spy and 7 Days were dubbed ''hot books'' by advertising executives. But one rule of the publishing jungle is that when the economy worsens, the hot books turn cold and advertising executives turn to deal-making and a reliance on the primary magazines in a category.
''When I came to New York magazine in 1980, the principal universe was us, The New York Times Magazine, The New Yorker and Avenue, which was just starting,'' said Edward Kosner, the editor and publisher of New York. ''From three or four magazines, now you have seven or eight. The market got too cluttered. There isn't enough business to go around.''
While 7 Days was growing, its profit picture was clouded because most of its circulation is controlled -provided without charge to a defined and demographically desirable list. The magazine tested converting those free subscriptions to paid, and succeeded in getting a third of its 75,000 subscribers to pay.
Publishing experts close to the magazine say its strategy was similar to that of many trade publications, which give away a large portion of their circulation to a core audience that trade advertisers must reach. Manufacturers of kitchen supplies, for example, might willingly advertise in a magazine given away to restaurant owners.
The strategy is also becoming a favored one among publishers of niche-market newspapers. Local weekly ''shoppers,'' filled with reprinted press releases and supermarket ads, are being replaced by newspapers distributed without charge that contain more sophisticated journalism and a larger retail advertising mix. The publishers of these papers try to show the interest of their readers by asking them to send in cards requesting the subscriptions.
When he started 7 Days, Leonard N. Stern, its owner, considered it a newspaper. His intention was to sell advertising in packages with ads in The Village Voice, another newspaper he owns, utilizing The Voice's sales staff and achieving other economies of scale in production and distribution. But ad executives saw 7 Days as a magazine. That required a different approach to marketing and eliminated the economies that might have been achieved between it and The Voice.
It also made competing for dollars tougher, pitting 7 Days against New York magazine and national publications. And publishing executives say that in consumer magazines, when an advertiser is forced to choose between two publications, it will naturally pick the magazine whose readers pay.
Despite the challenges, several companies remain interested in 7 Days and the New York market. The New York Times Company, for example, has developed plans for a weekly magazine, tentatively entitled Blocks, that would be distributed to Manhattan residents with the newspaper every Thursday. Although company executives would not comment publicly, it is known that the concept is similar to 7 Days's and includes regular service features on real estate, restaurants and children.
Straight Arrow Publishers, the owner of Rolling Stone, has expressed interest in 7 Days. Mr. Ryder of American Express Publishing said he would consider acquiring it. And Time Warner, which owns regional magazines in the South and recently acquired Sunset, a Western regional magazine, is said to be a suitor.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NORTHEAST USA (78%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CAMPEAU CORP (69%); AMERICAN EXPRESS PUBLISHING CORP (67%); CONDE NAST PUBLICATIONS INC (57%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available PUBLISHING (91%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (90%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (89%); PRINT ADVERTISING (89%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (89%); RETAILERS (89%); DEPARTMENT STORES (89%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (66%); 



63 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 1990
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1252 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Hold Up in Tough Quarter

BYLINE: By RICHARD D. HYLTON

 BODY:
The first quarter was a period of surprises for many financial analysts. The stock market showed remarkable strength and resilience in the face of some troubling developments, and for the most part, negative forecasts for the quarter did not hold up.
''All the things that one could say would be very negative if they happened, did happen in the first quarter, and yet the market came out in pretty good shape,'' said Laszlo Birinyi, head of Birinyi Associates, a market research firm in New York.
Indeed, Mr. Birinyi, like most Wall Street analysts, was pleasantly surprised to see that corporate earnings in the quarter were not nearly as bad as had been predicted late last year. Another surprise was that the unexpected rise in interest rates did not have an overly adverse impact on the market. In addition, the sharp declines in the Japanese stock market have not had a significant effect on Wall Street, as many analysts had feared. 
 
Dow Off 1.7%
''Everyone always wondered what would happen to the United States market if the Japanese market cracked,'' said Byron Wein, the chief market strategist at Morgan Stanley & Company. ''And here the Japanese market has declined by 25 percent, and while our market did not have a terrific quarter, it did not go down totally in sympathy with theirs.''
End-of-the-quarter buying by institutions looking to round out their portfolios was not enough to offset a jittery bond market on Friday. For the quarter, the Dow Jones industrial average posted a loss of 45.99 points, or 1.7 percent.
Broader indexes fell slightly more. The Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks lost 3.8 percent, to 339.94, and the New York Stock Exchange composite index fell 4.2 percent, to 186.85.
The big winner on the Big Board for the quarter was the Storage Technology Corporation, a Louisville, Colo., maker of high-performance disks and tape subsystems for computers. Its stock rose 82 percent, or $9.625 a share, to end the quarter at $21.375.
Sales and revenues of the disk maker, which emerged from Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings in 1987 after a reorganization, have grown much faster than the industry average. Revenues advanced 11 percent in 1989 alone, and investors have come to recognize the success of some of its new products. Last month, the company raised $120 million in a public offering that was oversubscribed. Underwriters sold 6.5 million new Storage Technology shares, although only 5 million had originally been offered.
Leading the Big Board losers was the Amdura Corporation of Denver, a hardware distributor and the country's largest distributor of automotive after-market products.
Amdura lost 75 percent of its market value, or $4.50 a share, to end the quarter at $1.50. The troubled company registered large losses in the third quarter of last year, has yet to release its fourth-quarter earnings and is suffering from a severe shortage of cash. Amdura recently had to reschedule payment on $100 million of debt, and one executive said on Friday that it may soon seek Chapter 11 protection.
The executive, D. Scott Ross, who is head of investor information, described Amdura's problems as a ''liquidity crunch.''
On the American Stock Exchange, the top performer was Lazare Kaplan International Inc., based in New York, a diamond merchant whose income has risen with expanded international sales. Its shares soared 84.4 percent in the quarter, or $6.75 each, to close at $14.75.
Another big Amex winner was the New Line Cinema Corporation, the producer of the five ''Nightmare on Elm Street'' movies and current hits like ''House Party'' and ''Teen-Age Mutant Ninja Turtles.'' New Line posted a gain of 81.3 percent, advancing to $10.875 a share.
A big loser on the American exchange was the Incstar Corporation, a maker of medical diagnostic equipment, whose shares fell 70.9 percent, to $3.125 each, after quadrupling the number of outstanding shares through acquisitions and other transactions. The company, based in Stillwater, Minn., reported sharply lower profits.
In the over-the-counter market, the Peerless Manufacturing Company, a Dallas-based maker of industrial air filters, registered the biggest gain. Peerless stock rose $15.25 a share, an increase of 119.6 percent, to end at $28. The company's quarterly earnings tripled.
The big over-the-counter loser was the Amcor Capital Corporation, an Irvine, Calif., agricultural company that manages more than 1,600 acres of California grape farms. Amcor stock fell 98.7 percent, to 25 cents a share, after the company reported liquidity problems.
 
Debunking Session
In addition to the surprising performance of the market during the quarter, some analysts said the period was instructive because several widely held assumptions were debunked.
Monte Gordon, a market strategist at the Dreyfus Corporation, said the last three months ended the belief the Japanese and American markets were so interconnected that a fall in one would cause a similar reaction in the other.
Many analysts had long argued that the Japanese Ministry of Finance would prevent significant declines in the Tokyo equity market by encouraging large-scale buying, but that did not happen.
''The Japanese market had always been seen as invincible because of the support of the Ministry of Finance,'' Mr. Gordon said, ''but now that has changed.''
The period was also eventful for the American securities houses. The bankruptcy of the Drexel Burnham Lambert Group was the most significant development, and it added to the disarray in the junk bond market.
But beyond Drexel's quick demise, Wall Street found that its troubles lingered as most brokerage firms continued to retrench because of flat or declining income and the sharp fall-off in the mergers and acquisitions business.
 
Impact of Real Estate
A number of big banks and publicly traded companies were battered in the quarter by the continuing reappraisal of the residential real estate market.
The big losers included stocks of some regional banking companies. The Bank of New England Corporation was the fourth-biggest loser on the Big Board for the quarter, beaten down by its huge portfolio of nonperforming real estate loans. The bank announced huge write-offs, dismissed its chairman and is trying to sell some of its businesses. Its stock lost 50.6 percent of its value, and ended the quarter at $4.625 a share.
Among the most encouraging signs through the quarter was the strength of the dollar and the overall economy.
''In the first quarter, we established clearly the role of the Fed in the monetary market,''Mr. Gordon said, pointing to the Federal Reserve's clear focus on fighting inflation. ''In addition, it became clear that the United States economny is stronger than people thought and, in the first quarter, it emerged as an oasis of quality.''
 
Strength in Blue Chips
Some analysts suggested that the strong performance of some of the large and previously out-of-favor blue-chip stocks, like I.B.M. and the General Motors Corporation, indicated that the economy was doing better than most experts had predicted.
The stock of the International Business Machines Corporation was up 15 percent over the quarter, to $106.125, and General Motors' shares climbed 13 percent, to $45.875.
''There are indications that the stock market is going to be O.K.,'' Mr. Birinyi added. ''I do not think you can have a really bad stock market and have good results coming out of an I.B.M. and General Motors.''

CORRECTION-DATE: April 3, 1990, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day yesterday about the stock market's recent performance omitted a reason for the decline in the Incstar Corporation's share price. The company paid a large one-time dividend during the first quarter.

GRAPHIC: charts of winners and losers on Big Board, Nasdaq and Amex (pgs. D1 & 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (81%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (64%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (64%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (64%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (64%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (64%); SIC3559 OTHER SPECIAL INDUSTRY MACHINERY (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (75%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (84%); PRESILIENT LLC (81%); MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (68%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (64%); AMDURA CORP (60%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BONDS (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (75%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); COMPUTING EQUIPMENT WHOLESALERS (66%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (60%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (58%); INTEREST RATES (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%); 

PERSON: HYLTON, RICHARD D LASZLO BIRINYI (59%); 



64 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2229 words

HEADLINE: Strategist Quietly Gains Power Amid CBS Shifts

BYLINE: By BILL CARTER

 BODY:
Only a few years after being brought into the exclusive circle entrusted with resuscitating CBS, Jay L. Kriegel, a lawyer and one-time political aide with no background and little interest in television, has quietly emerged as the key strategist of the network's effort to pull itself out of the broadcasting basement.
Running last in prime-time and evening news ratings, CBS has adopted what amounts to a simple strategy: improving its programming and streamlining its operations to concentrate on broadcasting. The execution is far more complicated, and many people inside and outside the company wonder how Mr. Kriegel has come to be the man who seems most responsible for putting the strategy into effect.
Laurence A. Tisch is the company's chief executive and largest stockholder, the man who essentially owns CBS. Also in the inner circle is Howard Stringer, president of the CBS Broadcast Group, who was tapped in 1988 to bring his producer's skills, acquired in 20 years in the news division, to the job of running the network. 
 
A Slide in Prime Time
Another key executive is Jeff Sagansky, the new president of the entertainment division. He was selected in December to devise programs to pull CBS out of its five-year prime-time slide.
But many CBS employees say not one of those men is the hands-on management figure at CBS now. Instead, they point to Mr. Kriegel, an unorthodox power player who was once chief of staff for Mayor John V. Lindsay of New York. In that job, Mr. Kriegel played an important and much debated role in the disclosures of police corruption in New York City in the early 1970's.
''To take nothing away from Howard Stringer, Jay Kriegel runs the company,'' one longtime employee said bluntly. ''Larry makes the command decisions, but very few things happen here that Jay doesn't decide.''
Mr. Kriegel, who is 49 years old, is senior vice president of CBS, a job he has held since January 1988. ''I came from out of nowhere,'' Mr. Kriegel said, adding that he thinks of himself as a partner with Mr. Tisch and Mr. Stringer in a three-sided CBS leadership group.
Mr. Kriegel brings to the partnership a talent for quiet administration of power. Although he says he has been visible enough recently that there should be no confusion about his role, he then jokes: ''I'm mysterious, and I want to stay that way. That's part of the craft - no fingerprints.''
He flatly denies that he is running CBS and emphatically dismisses suggestions that he threatens Mr. Stringer. ''There is Kremlinology at every large institution,'' he said.
Mr. Stringer said he had ''a good relationship'' with Mr. Kriegel. ''I need him,'' Mr. Stringer added. ''If he wasn't there, I'd have to invent him. To have someone that smart, who knows Larry so well, frees me up to do what I have to do - concentrate on our programming.''
Mr. Tisch did not respond to several requests for an interview.
Though not officially defined, Mr. Kriegel's duties are wide ranging. He is in direct charge of the company's efforts to gain legislative help in Washington, especially in winning a stake in profits from program syndication, now legally untouchable for the networks. But he also heads business development for CBS, an area that gives him broad influence over the company's future. He was deeply involved in the recruiting and hiring of Mr. Sagansky, who had been president of Tri-Star Pictures. Influence That Stems From Ties to Tisches Mr. Kriegel's power springs from his close 20-year relationship with Mr. Tisch. In the early 70's, after leaving city politics, Mr. Kriegel was director of special projects for the Loews Corporation, a company controlled by the Tisch family. With Mr. Tisch he made a bid to buy The Daily News in 1982. When Mr. Kriegel formed a consulting business, Mr. Tisch became a client after he took over CBS in 1986.
''Jay is really the only person who can tell Larry anything that he's likely to listen to,'' one longtime CBS employee said.
Some industry analysts find rather amazing the very fact that Mr. Kriegel, a virtual unknown even to them, has become a partner at the top decision-making level of CBS. Both he and Mr. Tisch have been criticized, inside and outside CBS, for being interlopers in the world of broadcasting. ''These guys simply aren't broadcasters,'' one longtime CBS employee said. ''That's their main problem.'' CBS is buried even deeper in last place as the current prime-time season comes to an end - it has fewer real hits on its schedule than even the three-night-a-week network, Fox Broadcasting - and its news division is slumping. The problems prompt some analysts to question whether the strategy Mr. Tisch is pursuing, and Mr. Kriegel appears to be implementing, can possibly work.
The critical view holds that Mr. Tisch has sold important parts of the company, including the records and publishing divisions, without a coherent plan for the future, which is cloudy for all television broadcasters because of intensified competition.
''You have to question what CBS is doing,'' said John Reidy, media analyst of Smith Barney, Harris Upham & Company, ''when one of their prime competitors is looking at the marketplace and getting into every other kind of business, including direct-broadcast satellite.''
NBC, the competitor to which Mr. Reidy was referring, has been aggressively pursuing positions in cable, pay television and, most recently, the delivery of programming directly to homes by satellite. Mr. Reidy also pointed to ABC's interests in cable and its expanding role in foreign broadcasting as examples of ambitious approaches.
For its part, CBS is following what it calls a ''broadcasting first'' strategy, an approach that Mr. Kriegel concedes does not sound visionary. ''Larry tends to be a contrarian, not a faddist,'' he said. ''The business press expects everyone to have a grand strategy for the future. We don't have one. Our strategy is to be cautious, and we're not defensive about it.''
That means, he said, selling assets unrelated to the core activity of broadcasting, finding executives to create programming that will take the network out of last place, and making deals that enhance the network's main business. One such prospective deal could be an arrangement with the Cable News Network, part of the Turner Broadcasting System, to merge resources on foreign news coverage.
 
'Lousy Ratings'Vs. 'Good Value'
Ed Atorino, a media analyst for Salomon Brothers, said he had been advising clients to ''stay away'' from CBS stock. His simple reasons: ''lousy ratings, rising costs.''
But the critical view is not unanimous. Some analysts, including Lisa Donneson of County Natwest Bank, have upgraded their forecast for CBS Inc. in the last year. Ms. Donneson recommends it to investors as her best media prospect.
''It's a very good value,'' she said. ''Profits were up last year.'' Ms. Donneson also gives CBS good marks for its so-called sports strategy, under which it has spent about $3.5 billion in the last two years for rights to big events. CBS believes sports will bring in viewers while it is trying to fill many holes in its entertainment programming.
Despite his doubts about the company's overall strategy, Mr. Reidy also has a ''buy'' recommendation on the stock. He considers it likely that the networks will win concessions on the syndication rules. Such a change could transform the economics of the business, he said, and perhaps make CBS a desirable property for a buyer like the Walt Disney Company, if Mr. Tisch ever decided to sell.
Mr. Kriegel contends that he and Mr. Tisch actually have more faith in the future of broadcasting than the top executives of the other networks.
Records and publishing, and even most cable opportunities, make little sense, he said, if the goal is to strengthen the core broadcasting business. But under this strategy a deal with Turner Broadcasting would be most advantageous.
No specifics of a CBS News-CNN arrangement have been worked out. If such a deal simply adds to the reach of CBS News by bringing coverage from locations where CBS has no presence, the news division would be unlikely to object, one news executive said. Mr. Kriegel said that would be the only basis on which a deal would be made. ''If it doesn't strengthen CBS News, we won't do it,'' he said.
But some people in the news division fear a CNN alliance could bring further staff reductions, like those disclosed by one executive last week, as Mr. Tisch looks for ways to economize.
 
Treating Bruises,Recruiting Generals
When he first came to CBS, Mr. Kriegel earned some high marks within the news division for trying to smooth morale battered after large-scale layoffs in 1986. He is also considered largely responsible for the hiring of David W. Burke as CBS News president. He also aggressively supported Dan Rather, the ''CBS Evening News'' anchor, after a confrontational interview with George Bush during the 1988 Presidential campaign.
Indeed, there is speculation in the news division that Mr. Kriegel will be crucial to all future decisions about the department - and Mr. Rather. The division now faces greater scrutiny because ratings for the evening newscast have fallen.
The most significant move the company has made in the last year, Mr. Kriegel said, was the hiring of Mr. Sagansky. Three weeks ago, in announcing the network's development plans for the fall season, Mr. Sagansky said his goals were to be different, to attract star performers and producers and to broaden the base of CBS viewers, which has grown older and less desirable to advertisers. Mr. Kriegel said Mr. Sagansky would not have to worry about interference or second-guessing from him.
In truth, what Mr. Kriegel does at CBS is much more reminiscent of a political operative than of a broadcast executive: he talks, he proposes and he schmoozes with other executives, with managers of CBS's affiliated stations, with Hollywood producers.
Most people at CBS, even some of the network's best-known personalities, decline to talk about Mr. Kriegel at all, or discuss his role only if they are not identified. He is regarded not necessarily with antipathy - indeed, many people at CBS say they find him engaging and likable - but with uncertainty. The extent of his perceived power is clearly a cause of some concern.
As to criticism that he does not have a broadcasting background, Mr. Kriegel admits that he was not ''a child of television'' or even a ''traditional viewer of television'' and that he came to CBS knowing little about the business. ''I still don't know a lot about TV,'' he said.
But he has been busy learning, he said, the way he learned about politics. At countless breakfasts and lunches, he has culled insights and advice from the most prominent minds in the industry. Historical Footnote From a Political Past Mr. Kriegel, a native of the Flatbush section of Brooklyn, is a graduate of Amherst College and the Harvard Law School. He joined the Lindsay staff after the Mayor was first elected in 1965. He calls politics ''the highest calling'' and considers the late 1960's ''a remarkable historial period.''
But not all the memories are wonderful. In 1971, he became a key witness in the Knapp Commission hearings on police corruption. It was at a late-night meeting in his office in City Hall that a frustrated police officer, Frank Serpico, first reported to any city official the incidents of corruption he had witnessed.
Mr. Lindsay's political enemies accused Mr. Kriegel of lying to protect the Mayor by changing his testimony about whether he had informed the Mayor of Mr. Serpico's allegations of corruption. Mr. Lindsay came to his aide's defense, calling him ''a man of unbending integrity and decency.''
Mr. Kriegel survived the incident and remained on the staff. He now says the publicity growing out of his testimony surely set him back.
Politics remains not only a special love - a single, softball-sized ''Lindsay for Mayor'' campaign button resides in the center of the bulletin board that covers the back wall of his office - but a crucial talent.
Jack Valenti, the president of the Motion Picture Association of America and Mr. Kriegel's main adversary in the fight over television syndication, has observed Mr. Kriegel up close. ''Jay is a political pro,'' he said. ''Someone who can wake up in the morning and sniff the air and tell whether it's fair or foul.''
Many of those who have worked with, or against, Mr. Kriegel agree that he is extremely bright, a quick study and a capable executive. The big question is whether he is a capable broadcasting executive.
''I still don't think Jay knows the business,'' one industry executive said. ''If you're going into the entrails of television to make a deal, I just don't think Jay's the one to do that.''
Not surprisingly, Mr. Kriegel remains confident: ''I think being the underdog, taking contrarian positions, can be very attractive. People tend to magnify the difficulties and then are stunningly surprised when people pull an upset.''
No such upset is in sight at CBS, but Jay Kriegel, looking out from under the rim of his CBS baseball cap, sees only the rosiest shades ahead. ''It's a wonderful company. It's a wonderful period. It's a terrific challenge.''
The one sentence that no one would question is the last.

GRAPHIC: photos: Jay L. Kriegel, a lawyer and one-time political aide, has emerged as the strategist of CBS's effort to pull itself out of the broadcasting basement. (The New York Times/Jim Wilson) (pg. D1); Laurence A. Tisch, chief executive of CBS Inc. (The New York Times); graph of ratings for NBC, ABC and CBS from '84 to '90 (Source: A.C. Nielsen Company) (pg. D9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PRIME TIME FREEWARE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CBS INC

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); EXECUTIVES (88%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (54%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (51%); CORRUPTION (50%); 

PERSON: CARTER, BILL; KRIEGEL, JAY L HOWARD STRINGER (89%); 



65 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: Efforts to Speed U.S.-Japan Trade Talks Are Working

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 1

 BODY:
An accelerated effort to ease trade friction between the United States and Japan is yielding results, with recent agreements to open Japanese markets to American telecommunications equipment and supercomputers and the possibility that an accord on satellites will be reached this week.
Over the weekend, talks on opening the Japanese satellite market to American products were near a successful conclusion but were temporarily adjourned as the two negotiating teams sought further instructions on a technical point from their Governments. The talks are to resume Monday, and an announcement is possible on Tuesday.
A new test of how far Japan will go in meeting American trade demands will come this week as negotiators meet at the State Department for a fourth round of talks on ''structural impediments'' - the more pervasive obstacles to trade that stem from public policies and cultural habits. These include, for example, land-use policies that make doing business in Japan extremely costly, or levels of spending on such things as housing, schools and public works so low that domestic growth is dampened and dependence on exports for economic growth is increased. 
 
Concessions Promised
Japanese officials said their negotiators would bring concessions in their briefcases, but it remains to be seen how far these would go in narrowing a $49 billion imbalance in trade between the countries last year. Over the last decade, the gap was nearly $400 billion.
Both sides are racing to meet a mid-April deadline for an interim report that could influence feelings in Congress, where frustration over Japanese policies that block imports is rising. A final report is due in July.
''Japan has, to some degree, opened its market,'' the United States trade representative, Carla A. Hills, said in a recent interview. ''But we need to have them open it much more, and when people ask how much more, I say I want them to respond to the competitive criteria of price and quality.''
Some of the Japanese seem to have heard Washington's message. ''The mounting discontent in the U.S. Congress against the huge Japan-U.S. trade imbalance can be said to be a hair trigger,'' the Japanese Foreign Minister, Taro Nakayama, said recently. ''Deterioration of sentiments towards Japan appears to be spreading nationwide in the U.S.''
In the background on Capitol Hill is legislation recently introduced by Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana and chairman of the Senate subcommittee on trade, that increases the chances of reprisal by subjecting the structural impediments to the Super 301 provision of 1988 trade law, which sets rigorous negotiating targets and deadlines.
The Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act of 1988 provides a structure for the United States to identify and retaliate against unfair trade practices. Last year the United States decided to pursue intensive negotiations with Japan over its trade practices in supercomputers, satellites and wood products.
Under the law, if the Japanese markets in these sectors are not open by June 16, the United States may retaliate by imposing up to 100 percent tariffs on selected imports from Japan.
Political stakes are also high in Tokyo, where factions of the ruling Liberal Democratic Party have protested some American demands, particularly one that seeks to eliminate a law that delays the opening of large stores for up to 10 years. The law is intended to protect Japan's many small retailers.
 
Pressure on 2 Sides
Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu is walking a tightrope between opponents within his party and President Bush, who stepped up the pressure on Japan at a meeting with Mr. Kaifu in Palm Springs, Calif., a month ago.
That meeting is coming to look more and more like a turning point in the long history of trade disagreements between the countries. Mr. Taifu, who had just won election, promised to make changes in structural reforms a priority of his new Cabinet, and seems to have at least partly delivered on that pledge.
To win support in Parliament, the Japanese leader has argued that the reforms are needed not just to ease frictions with Washington but to help Japanese consumers.
Polls suggest that he is getting public support. One survey by Nihon Keizai Shinbun, a leading business newspaper, found that more than 80 percent of 10,000 Japanese surveyed agree wholly or in part with American criticism that the Japanese economy should be more open.
 
Not as Difficult
This suggests that trade concessions may not be as difficult to achieve as many in the Government and the ruling party have been saying.
In addition to seeking a relaxation of restraints on big retailers, who are usually more willing to risk introducing new products, including goods directly imported from abroad, the United States wants, among other changes, a much tougher Japan Fair Trade Commission.
 
Moving Rapidly
While preparing for the new negotiating round on structural impediments, the two Governments have moved rapidly to bridge differences in other areas.
For example, the Governments, facing retaliation threats, have just concluded a preliminary market-opening telecommunications agreement that could help American companies sell more equipment and services to Japan. And on March 23, they announced a preliminary agreement on measures to open the Japanese market to the most powerful American-made computers.
The Japanese have shown some flexibility in discussions about market barriers in wood products. An assistant United States trade representative, Don Phillips, is to lead a negotiating team to Tokyo next week to make another attempt to resolve the issue.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (98%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; JAPAN

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET TALKS & MEETINGS (92%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (87%); LEGISLATION (86%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (72%); LAND USE PLANNING (69%); INTERVIEWS (68%); IMPORT CONTROLS (64%); 

PERSON: FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H MAX BAUCUS (58%); 



66 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: Report Outlines Options For U.S. Energy Policy

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
For the first time since the late 1970's, the Federal Government has begun trying to develop a comprehensive energy policy - a system of strategies, goals, inducements and penalties covering everything from how much oil should be produced domestically to the amount of light each watt of electricity should yield.
But the first report in this effort, a compendium of opinions compiled by the Energy Department and scheduled for release this morning in Washington, contains a welter of conflicting advice and hints at a rough road ahead.
The report comes at the midpoint of an 18-month process to develop legislative proposals. It contains written submissions from 1,000 individuals and organizations and summaries of the testimony of 379 witnesses at 16 hearings held in locations like Atlanta, Honolulu and Boise, Idaho. 
 
A Case for Efficiency
The compendium leaves for later the job of putting goals in order of importance and making choices between alternatives. But it clearly sets the stage for action on energy efficiency.
''People are not willing to pay more for energy, either environmentally or economically, unless they are first convinced that you have no choice,'' W. Henson Moore, Deputy Secretary of Energy, said in a telephone interview Friday. ''They say, 'What are you doing to increase the efficiency in the use of energy, so we do not have to do this?' You're never going to get a consensus until you establish your credibility in that area, that you're really serious about efficiency.''
Still, the report offers no conclusions about how efficiency should be achieved. Its first section, for example, notes that vehicle fuel economy, prodded by Federal standards, more than doubled between 1970 and 1987, but that at current fuel prices, a 10 mile-a-gallon improvement in gas mileage would save a typical driver only $94 a year. The options identified by those who testified range from making the standards more stringent to abandoning them altogether.
 
Critical Time for Oil
The effort to establish a comprehensive plan, which is supposed to conclude next January, comes as domestic oil production has fallen and imports have rapidly approached 50 percent of demand for the first time. Some experts have predicted that market conditions once again favor price control by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.
In addition to those trends, some parts of the country appear to be approaching a critical juncture in electricity production. As demand increases, these regions face decisions about whether to build more plants or reduce demand through efficiency, or accept a higher likelihood of occasional blackouts. Other pressing policy questions include how to reduce air pollution from energy use.
As part of the process of gathering the contents of the report, James D. Watkins, the Energy Secretary, and Mr. Moore held meetings that included the Secretaries or Under Secretaries of Agriculture, Transportation, Treasury and Interior, as well as the heads of the Environmental Protection Agency and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, and the White House science adviser.
More hearings are contemplated, with competing interests offering their positions on what the policy should include.
The 230-page interim report charts the view of business executives, academicians, advocacy groups and other experts on the problems and possibilities for oil, gas, coal, nuclear fission and fusion, renewable energy sources, scientific research, technology transfer, waste handling, air and water pollution from energy extraction and use, and even energy education.
To this, the Energy Department added five white papers written by Government laboratories and others covering the greenhouse effect, the potential for renewable energy and the limits of energy efficiency.
Mr. Moore said that the effort was the most comprehensive he had seen the Federal Government undertake. ''The closest thing to it was in the Carter Administration,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: IDAHO, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOISE, ID, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ENERGY DEPARTMENT (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: ENERGY AND POWER ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); TESTIMONY (88%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (77%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); TRENDS (76%); WITNESSES (74%); LEGISLATION (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (68%); IMPORT TRADE (65%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (62%); AIR QUALITY (60%); EXPORT TRADE (60%); AIR POLLUTION (50%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); 



67 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 6, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 428 words

HEADLINE: Association of Retirees to Abandon Credit Union Venture

BYLINE: By MICHAEL QUINT

 BODY:
The credit union of the American Association of Retired Persons, created nearly two years ago with high hopes of becoming a giant in the financial services industry, announced last week that it would go out of business.
When it was created in May 1988, bankers and credit union officials expected that the association's 29 million members would provide a huge base of relatively wealthy customers. While the credit union grew large by credit union standards, with 90,000 customers and assets of $150 million, it never reached the size expected. 
Operating with no employees except a president and a secretary, the credit union kept expenses to a minimum but never developed a lending ability. Deposits were invested in short-term securities, a practice that analysts said prevented it from offering rates as high as those available from many other banks and savings institutions that use deposits to make loans, which pay much higher interest rates than short-term securities.
 
Return of Deposits
The credit union's decision to close was initially reported in the American Banker, a trade newspaper.
The credit union said it would stop accepting deposits and accounts, and would transfer its credit card business to a commercial bank. Its growth apparently slowed in recent months.
Deposits and interest - which were insured by a federally backed insurance fund - will be returned to credit union members.
''The decision to phase out the credit union was based on a lack of participation by members of A.A.R.P.,'' said Bob DeFillippo, a spokesman for the association.
 
Encountered Resistance
Because the credit union conducted all its business with depositors by mail, ''it encountered resistance from people over 50 who wanted to do business with a live person,'' said Jack Blake, director of information at the Credit Union National Association, a trade organization based in Madison, Wis.
The most popular product of the credit union was its Visa card, held by about 75,000 customers. That card will become an affinity credit card managed by Banc One, in Columbus, Ohio. Horace B. Deets, executive director of A.A.R.P., said the change in status for the credit card meant it would be available to all A.A.R.P. members, not just those who join the credit union.
Mr. DeFillippo said the terms of the VISA card would be unchanged, with a $10 annual fee, a 15.6 percent interest rate on advances, and special eligibility standards to accept retired persons whose incomes are low, but whose net wealth is high enough to make them a good credit risk.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

CITY: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); MADISON, WI, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); CREDIT UNION NATIONAL ASSOCIATION (53%); AARP INC (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ASSN OF RETIRED PERSONS (AARP) AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF RETIRED PERSONS; 

SUBJECT: CREDIT UNIONS CREDIT UNIONS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (89%); CREDIT CARDS (89%); INTEREST RATES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (77%); AFFLUENT MARKET (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (73%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); 

PERSON: QUINT, MICHAEL BOB DEFILLIPPO (65%); 



68 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 7, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 353 words

HEADLINE: BRIEFS

 BODY:

Debt
 
* General Electric Capital Corp. is offering $300 million in 8.85 percent notes due in 2005 at various prices through Goldman, Sachs & Co. The notes, which are rated triple-A by both Moody's Investors Service Inc. and the Standard & Poor's Corp., can be sold back to the company on April 1, 1994.
* Pitney Bowes Inc., Stamford, Conn., has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for $400 million in debt securities and warrants. 
* Alberta, Canada, is offering $500 million in 9 1/4 percent notes due in 2000 at 99.875 to yield 9.269 percent through Morgan Stanley & Co. The noncallable notes are rated Aa-1 by Moody's and AA+ by S.& P.
 
Preferred Stock
 
* Coast Savings Financial Inc., Los Angeles, has withdrawn a registration statement for $150 million worth of convertible preferred stock because of market conditions.
 
Common Stock
 
* Baltimore Gas and Electric Co. has filed for two million shares through Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc.
* Baroid Corp., Houston, is offering 11 million common shares, 8.8 million of them in the United States, at $10 a share through Merrill Lynch Capital Markets.
* Dataflex Corp., Edison, N.J., is offering 1.12 million shares at $9.50 a share through Oppenheimer & Co.
* Gendex Corp., Milwaukee, a manufacturer of X-ray equipment, is offering 785,000 shares at $11.75 a share through Blunt Ellis & Loewi Inc.
* Irish Investment Fund Inc. is offering five million shares at $12 a share through Salomon Brothers Inc.
* McCaw Cellular Communications Inc., Kirkland, Wash., has filed for 2.4 million shares through First Boston Corp.
 
Ratings
 
* Boeing Co.'s senior debt rating has been increased to AA, from AA-, by S.& P. The company is based in Seattle.
* Connecticut's general obligation bond rating has been lowered to AA, from AA+, by S.& P., which cited regional economic problems and recurring budget problems. Last week, the agency lowered New York State's ratings.
* First Chicago Corp.'s senior debt rating has been lowered to A, from A+, and subordinated debt rating to A-, from A, by S.& P.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (93%); MS (NYSE) (84%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); PBI (NYSE) (72%); XRAY (NASDAQ) (67%); BOE (LSE) (66%); BAB (BRU) (66%); BA (NYSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (93%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (93%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (93%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (93%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (93%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (93%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (93%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (72%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (72%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC3579 OTHER OFFICE MACHINES (72%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (69%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (68%); NAICS339114 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (67%); SIC3843 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (67%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (66%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (66%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (78%); ALBERTA, CANADA (57%); MARYLAND, USA (55%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (93%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CAPITAL CORP (93%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE INC (91%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); MORGAN STANLEY (84%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (72%); PITNEY BOWES INC (72%); MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (70%); BALTIMORE GAS & ELECTRIC CO (69%); BAROID CORP (69%); DATAFLEX CORP (68%); OPPENHEIMER & CO INC (67%); DENTSPLY INTERNATIONAL INC (67%); SALOMON BROTHERS INC (66%); AT&T MOBILITY LLC (66%); BOEING CO (66%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FINANCIAL RATINGS (91%); COMMON STOCK (90%); DEBT NOTES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); PREFERRED STOCK (89%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (79%); PUBLIC DEBT (79%); BUDGETS (79%); BONDS (79%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); SECURITIES LAW (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); IRRADIATION APPARATUS MFG (76%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); CONVERTIBLE SECURITIES (69%); 



69 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 8, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL REPORT;
A Roller Coaster Quarter for Foreign Markets

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
The up-and-down performance of the world's stock markets in the first quarter of 1990 has left international portfolio managers with some tough investment decisions.
With the Japanese stock market plunging 23 percent through March, the question is whether the bottom is close enough to risk a return to the market.
Gavin Dobson, president of Murray Johnstone International, a Chicago-based international money manager, said yes. He said he thought that interest rates were nearing their top and that the Tokyo market did not have much further to fall. So he has started picking up some blue-chip stocks like Hitachi and Sony. 
''In the first quarter, the key strategy decision was to be out of Japan in January, February and March,'' said Mr. Dobson. ''And another key decision will be when to get back in.''
George Noble, the portfolio manager of Fidelity Overseas Fund, disagrees. He said he thought the weak yen and the bickering inside the Japanese Government over economic policy leave the stock market vulnerable. Even though $1 trillion - about one-quarter of the market's value -has been wiped out this year, Mr. Noble said he thought there was still room on the downside, perhaps as much as an additional 15 percent.
 
Uncertainty Over Eastern Europe
The other question is Eastern Europe. Is its economic development going to be worth as much to companies in Europe as the rush to record highs in the West German and the Austrian stock markets implies? ''The big bets have been very much anti-Japanese and pro-Europe,'' Mr. Noble said.
Mr. Dobson of Murray Johnstone counsels making investment with caution. ''Europe is wonderful,'' he said, ''but don't get carried away by the euphoria.''
Mr. Noble said he was more interested in choosing stocks by company or industry than by country.
After Japan's spectacular decline, the first quarter will be remembered for the way the rest of the world's stock markets resisted Tokyo's siren call to another crash. Surprisingly, the decline is still viewed as a reaction to problems generally peculiar to Japan.
According to the Financial Times-Actuaries World Indices, the Tokyo market fell 31.4 percent in dollar terms in the first quarter, far outdistancing its competitors in decline. The stocks the Financial Times index follows in each country may be different from those included in each market's major local index. Therefore, the increases or decreases in the Financial Times index may not match those of each country's local index. The adjustment into dollars also will change the movement of the index.
The Tokyo market's fall was 34 times the decline in France, 11.5 times the fall in Switzerland, 8 times the decline in the United States, 6 times the decline in Britain and nearly twice the plunge of its closest rivals, Spain and New Zealand.
In fact, Tokyo's decline helped some markets, as investors looked for other places to invest. Brokers in Japan and Europe said Japanese institutions and special investment funds had been pouring money into the stock markets in West Germany and Austria. They are grabbing up stocks in companies likely to prosper with the development of Eastern Europe, including automobiles, construction and utilities.
 
The Nikkei's Plunge
On Thursday and Friday, as Tokyo's Nikkei index fell 273.41 and 1,045.71, the West German market reached two all-time highs, leaving it up 11.3 percent for the year, based on the Financial Times index in dollars. Traders said the flow of money from Japan was helping to set those records.
Rising interest rates and the plunge in Japan meant the world's stock markets together did not do well in the first three months, falling almost 15 percent on average. But Europe, with the stampede for Eastern European profits and help from the small markets in Norway, Denmark and Ireland, did much better, falling only 1 percent. Without the drag of Britain, which has high interest rates, an economy heading for a recession and a stock market down 5.3 percent, Europe would have posted an increase, on average. The United States was down 4 percent.
The top performers of the quarter, except for West Germany, were small stock markets. Austria was No. 1, up 53 percent in dollar terms, after rising 90 percent all last year. The country's largest bank, Creditanstalt, the state-controlled Austrian Airlines and Oesterreicherische Brau A.G., a major brewer, led the way.
Mexico, still riding high on an improving economic outlook and its debt agreement with its commercial banks, rose 18.4 percent, after finishing No. 1 for 1989, just ahead of Austria, with a 101 percent leap.
Bolstered by economic reform, oil prices and a revival in shipping, Norway jumped 17.9 percent.
One surprise was Hong Kong. Since the Chinese Government crushed the pro-democracy movement last June, many market analysts have been worried about Hong Kong's market, particularly because control of the British colony reverts to China in 1997. But the market has climbed back quietly, shrugging off the decline in Japan. For the quarter, it ranked seventh of 24 markets, up 5.3 percent.

GRAPHIC: graphs of how stock markets around the world fared during first quarter of '90

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (65%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (65%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); JAPAN (94%); FRANCE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AUSTRIA (72%); EASTERN EUROPE (69%); GERMANY (69%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (65%); FINANCIAL TIMES-ACTUARIES WORLD INDICES (73%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); BONDS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (72%); INTEREST RATES (56%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN GEORGE NOBLE (70%); GAVIN DOBSON (62%); 



70 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 2, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 9, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 839 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: PUBLISHING;
More Books Offering First Aid for Planet

BYLINE: By Edwin McDowell

 BODY:
For authors and publishers of books about the environment, this is anything but a silent spring. Shelves are brimming with books about the dangers of pesticides, toxic waste and rain forest destruction, and how it supposedly takes 20 trees to keep one baby in disposable diapers for two years.
One reason for the surge in such books is the 20th anniversary of Earth Day, on April 22. The Waldenbooks and B. Dalton bookstore chains are running two-week Earth Day promotions, with environmental titles prominently displayed. The Doubleday Book Shops also plan a two-week promotion, and will donate part of the proceeds from the sales of those books to the Nature Conservancy, a group that buys parcels of undeveloped land for preservation. 
 
Steadily Growing Demand
But Earth Day is not the only reason for the proliferation. The book-buying public's appetite for works about the environment has been growing steadily over the years. And a new focus on environmental subjects at colleges and universities has helped to increase demand for books that can be used in courses.
Publishing executives are betting that the thaw in East-West relations will result in greater concern about environmental problems. ''Policy makers will finally realize that questions of long-term economic growth and international security are intertwined with the world's resources,'' said Charles C. Savitt, president of Island Press. Island, of Washington, publishes books on the environment exclusively, and Mr. Savitt said its sales doubled in each of the last four years.
Environment books are now so important that Waldenbooks plans to group them in one section in each of its 1,100 stores, and many independent bookstores are adding environment sections. The Elliott Bay Book Company, a large independent bookstore in Seattle, has had such a section for about a decade. ''Sales have grown every year,'' said Kristine Anderson, the co-manager of Elliott, ''and this year we are selling more copies of more titles than ever.''
For publishers, the scramble to acquire some of these books is starting to resemble the competition for a celebrity biography or blockbuster novel.
This summer, for example, three big publishers plan to go head-to-head with books on the murder of Francisco (Chico) Mendes, the leader of the Brazilian rubber tappers' union who was killed in 1988 for his efforts to protect the rain forest. Houghton Mifflin will publish ''The Burning Season'' by Andrew Revkin; Little, Brown plans ''The World Is Burning'' by Alex Shoumatoff, and Doubleday will bring out ''Rain Fire'' by Marcio Souza. The environmental implications of the Mendes murder are also discussed in a coming book from the Sierra Club, ''Lessons of the Rainforest,'' edited by Suzanne Head and Robert Heinzman.
Many of the current crop of books are written under the auspices of environmental organizations, and most are printed on recycled paper. But Harper & Row San Francisco, the publisher of ''2 Minutes a Day for a Greener Planet,'' said problems posed by bleaches and chemicals used in the recycling process made printing on recycled paper impractical. It is planting two trees in the rain forest for each tree used to produce the book.
The most successful of the new environment books has been ''50 Simple Things You Can Do To Save the Earth,'' a self-published handbook from the Earthworks Group/Publishers Group West. After a first printing of 26,000, there are 1.6 million copies in print, and the book has been a best seller for eight weeks.
Much of its success is the result of its modest $4.95 price, plus the fact that it is written in everyday language. ''We wanted it to be very accessible, not in any way didactic or political,'' said Julie Bennett, who helped to develop the book with John Javna, the overall editor.
Its recommendations to readers include turning down the water heater to 130 degrees, because every 10 degrees saves 6 percent of the energy required; saving water by installing low-flow faucet aerators and shower heads, and taking one's own shopping bags to the supermarket, since the authors say it takes a 15-year-old tree to make 700 grocery bags.
It will take publishers years to build a solid backlist of titles by environmentalists and naturalists similar to those of the Sierra Club or Houghton Mifflin. Some houses may not be willing to invest the time and money.
''We're clearly seeing people trying to jump on the Earth Day bandwagon, and some of the publishers who are in it today because it's a fad will be gone tomorrow,'' Mr. Savitt said. Mr. Javna said he was also worried that ''the commercial exploitation of the environmental issue will make people numb.''
But the issues are unlikely to fade, publishers say, because each year there will be another Earth Day as a reminder. And the next United Nations Conference on the Environment and Development is set for 1992 in Brazil, where the dwindling Amazon rain forest is a serious concern to nearly everyone interested in environmental issues.

GRAPHIC: drawing; chart of books on the environment

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (65%); SIC5942 BOOK STORES (65%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ELLIOTT BAY BOOK CO (65%); NATURE CONSERVANCY (56%); NATURE CONSERVANCY (56%); 

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT; BOOKS AND LITERATURE BOOKSTORES (91%); PUBLISHING (91%); WRITERS (90%); EARTH DAY (90%); DEFORESTATION (89%); RAIN FORESTS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); BOOK REVIEWS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); BOOK PUBLISHING (78%); LITERATURE (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (78%); PESTICIDES (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); BESTSELLERS (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (73%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (73%); FOREST PRODUCTS GATHERING (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); ANNIVERSARIES (56%); 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN CHARLES C SAVITT (65%); 



71 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: America's Catholic Bishops Move Closer to Pope on Women's Issues

BYLINE: By PETER STEINFELS

 BODY:
A committee of Roman Catholic bishops in the United States, revising a major statement on the Catholic Church and women's concerns, has retreated from the liberal tone and content of important sections in a draft issued two years ago.
In a new draft of what is intended to be a pastoral letter to American Catholics, the bishops reaffirm in detail the church's official prohibitions of artificial contraception and the ordination of women. While not entirely foreclosing further discussion on these issues, the new draft, released today, takes a position closer to that of Pope John Paul II, who has insisted these are questions on which debate is closed.
Although the 1988 draft also affirmed the church's positions on these points, it acknowledged the widespread dissatisfaction they had provoked among Catholic women, and called for further discussion of these issues among Catholics at all levels. 
 
Framework for Church Policy
While both drafts strongly assert the equality of women, the latest revisions are considered significant because conservatives and liberals alike view the issues of ordination and contraception as symbolic of the church's attitude toward change. Pastoral letters are not strictly binding on Catholics, but they do serve as the framework for church policy, providing authoritative guidelines for Catholic educational efforts, for preaching, for training of seminarians and for programs of the National Conference of Catholic Bishops.
In practice, there is great variation on how Catholics respond to these statements. On the issue of contraception, for example, the new draft recognizes that many Catholics have long departed from strict church teachings and use birth control.
The earlier draft, after presenting the Vatican case against ordaining women, acknowledged that some Catholics ''do not find all the arguments'' of the Vatican ''to be convincing,'' and added, ''Continuing reflection, dialogue and even controversy in regard to the ordination of women demonstrate the value of further study.''
At the same point in the new version, the bishops simply call for more ''reflection on the meaning of ministry'' without specifying women's ordination, but suggesting that this reflection will bolster the traditional teaching.
The new draft also mutes earlier criticism of the role of sexist attitudes in the church itself, and abandons a format that allowed roughly a third of the earlier version to consist of summaries of Catholic women's testimony to the committee. This format was adopted in reponse to objections raised about an all-male committee writing on women's issues.
The new document does repeat the strong condemnation, contained in the draft released by the bishops in April 1988, of the ''sin of sexism,'' expressed in violence against women, sexual exploitation and economic discrimination.
And, like the earlier draft, the revised version urges that women be swiftly admitted to all leadership positions in the church except those requiring ordination to the priesthood.
 
'Sin of Sexism' Denounced
Some conservatives reacted to the condemnation of the ''sin of sexism'' by complaining that the bishops were ''inventing a new sin.''
But Bishop Joseph L. Imesch of Joliet, Ill., chairman of the committee drafting the letter, said: ''We didn't invent anything. We just named what was already there.''
Bishop Imesch said that to avoid ''engaging in a great deal of self-flagellation'' the new version toned down the first draft's statements that sexist attitudes had colored many actions by the church throughout its history. But he added, ''I don't think we want to avoid the reality of sexism in the church.''
In at least two respects, the new document strengthens the first draft's call for greater church sensitivity to the concerns of women. It asks every diocese to establish a commission to assure the rights of women in the church and to develop a plan for addressing the issues raised in the statement.
It also acknowledges the criticism that much of the language used in traditional prayers and preaching appears to exclude women. Although the bishops tell the faithful to respect biblical traditions and be cautious in changing language used in referring to God, it endorses ''expressions that respect both the 'masculine' and 'feminine' attributes of God.''
 
Consultations With Women
The attempt to write a pastoral letter on women's concerns has been under way since 1983 and has involved extensive consultations with Catholic women throughout the United States.
Last year the Pope published a major statement on womanhood that heavily influenced the bishops' new text. But Bishop Mathew H. Clark of Rochester, a member of the drafting committee, said the committee had not received any directives from the Vatican about revising the first draft.
Other American bishops had pressed the committee, he said, to make it clear that the bishops stand behind the church's rejection of contraception and women's ordination in the new version. Bishop Clark, frequently identified as a liberal in the hierarchy, said he did not consider the new draft ''substantially different.''
By dropping the format of citing ''voices of affirmation'' and ''voices of alienation'' among the many women who gave testimony to the bishops, Bishop Imesch said that the document avoided repetition, although he added that it ''loses some vitality by becoming more didactic and less dialogical.''
The extensive use of women's testimony in the first draft allowed the committee to take note of diverging views without having to take an explicit stand on them.
 
Liberal and Conservative Fears
Both conservative and liberal churchwomen have periodically urged the bishops to abandon the project. Conservatives fear that the bishops will be swayed by feminist arguments, and liberals fear that the Pope's reassertion of traditional views would predetermine the outcome.
Sister Maria Riley, who deals with women's issues at the Center of Concern, a left-of-center educational and advocacy group in Washington, echoed the liberals' view yesterday.
While praising the bishops for listening to reactions to their earlier work, she said, ''But it is obvious that they really aren't able to respond to the implications of what they heard, and even what they wrote, because of the present patriarchal structure of the church.''
Bishop Clark said the drafting committee had received more than 100 substantial reports of diocesan discussions of the 1988 draft. The committee, which was unable to rewrite the statement in time for last November's meeting of the bishops' conference, hopes that a final vote on the letter can be taken at the meeting next November.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); HOLY SEE (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF CATHOLIC BISHOPS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH

SUBJECT: WOMEN; BIRTH CONTROL AND FAMILY PLANNING CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (99%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (97%); RELIGION (96%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (93%); LIBERALISM (90%); CONTRACEPTION (90%); WOMEN (90%); CONSERVATISM (78%); GENDER EQUALITY (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); 

PERSON: STEINFELS, PETER POPE JOHN PAUL II (74%); 



72 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2276 words

HEADLINE: German Union Instills Vision Of a Great Continent Reborn

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PARIS, March 31

 BODY:
When European business leaders describe their vision of Europe, they usually talk of building a bigger, more united, more dynamic continent. German unification fits neatly into that vision.
Chief executives at several of Europe's largest corporations said, in a series of interviews, that the unification of West Germany and East Germany would be the crucial first step toward a merging of Western and Eastern Europe that could result in a family of nations larger and more dynamic than today's Western Europe.
''The European challenge is to restore the Europe of 1914, when Europe was the biggest economic power in the world and had the best-educated population, one that is twice the population of the United States and four times the population of Japan,'' said Hans-Jorg Rudloff, chairman of Credit Suisse-First Boston, a leading investment bank in London.
But German unification may hurt some countries and companies, the European executives warn. As investment money flows into East Germany, it might be harder for struggling African and Latin American nations to attract funds for development. 
Similarly, the stream of West German capital that has poured into factories in southern Europe may largely be rechanneled toward the East, halting the investment benefits enjoyed recently by Spain and Portugal, for example.
Still, the executives view German unification as a welcome prospect in general. After complaining for years about slow European growth, a malady they called Eurosclerosis, executives say a greater Europe will provide vast opportunities for growth. It will also give European companies a stronger foundation for competing against American and Japanese corporate giants.
West Germany is expected to spend hundreds of billions of dollars to rebuild East Germany and bring its living standards up to the much-envied levels of the Federal Republic. That will require stepped-up production by West Germany's potent industrial machine; ''the locomotive of Europe'' will have to pull all of the continent to faster growth.
Some Western European business leaders worry that unification will make West German companies even more formidable competitors. Titans like Siemens, Daimler-Benz and Deutsche Bank will expand their reach, and British, French and Italian executives say their companies will have to work hard to stay in fighting trim.
These business executives assert that German unification should in no way slow the European Community's plans to drop all internal trade barriers by late 1992, creating a single central bank and currency for the 12 nations.
Instead, they say, European unification should be accelerated so that a united Germany is created under a large, watertight European roof.
Rather than gloating at the collapse of Communism in Eastern Europe, some of the eight modern knights of capitalism interviewed say it is a time of unusual responsibility for the West.
''We have to pay the bill,'' said Carlo de Benedetti, chairman of Olivetti, the Italian company that makes office automation equipment and personal computers. ''The bill has to be paid by the ones who have the money and not the ones who don't have the money.'' A Bigger Market Open to Everyone LARS RAMQVIST Recently chosen chief executive of Ericsson, the Swedish telecommunications company.
German unification is bound to be the first step toward building a great, united Europe, East and West. This united Europe will be 700 million people, according to the old definition of Europe from the Atlantic to the Urals.
In the beginning, it will be tough to do business in East Germany, but long-term it will be a bigger market that will open up to everyone. What's important in all this is that it is the first step in a bigger Europe, and that will be positive for Swedish industry. Running 'Like Mad' To Stay Competitive SIR DENYS HENDERSON Chairman of Imperial Chemical Industries, Britain's largest chemical company.
There is a pent-up demand to improve standards of living, not just in East Germany but in the East bloc as a whole. There is a somewhat naive view that it is going to create a massive new market overnight in the East bloc. My view is that it's great, but you are not going to switch overnight from a totalitarian economy to a market economy.
In the short term, it might make it slightly easier to compete against German industry. The Germans are committed to achieving unification and there will be a cost to that absorption. If their capital priorities are directed toward the East bloc, it might mean some distractions about what they hope for in other parts of the world: Asia and the United States.
In the long term, it will make German competition tougher because the German market will be an even bigger market. In a decade when demography is going to be a problem in terms of getting new skilled workers into the economy, it will give the Germans access to a very skilled work force. After the absorption period has gone through, that will put German industry in a very strong position. We will have to run like mad to improve our productivity, our technological base and international presence to compete satisfactorily.
The negative part is that it is just possible that West Germany's absorption of East Germany's ostmark may produce higher inflation in West Germany, which will undoubtedly produce higher interest rates. This will be matched in other parts of the world, and that means the United States and Japan. That could produce a slowdown in growth. Solving the Problems Left by Communism CARLO DE BENEDETTI Chairman of Olivetti, the Italian office machine and computer company.
The real unification in terms of willingness and spirit is a fait accompli. The consequence of this is that we are at a turning point for Europe.
I think we should negotiate politically with Germany that it is in the best interests of all of the community's partners to speed up the process of European integration before a negative climate appears in other European countries that Germany is too powerful, too arrogant.
We couldn't be more happy seeing the total and irreversible collapse of Communism, ideologically and practically. Communism has failed because it hasn't been able to solve the real problems of those countries in terms of democracy, economic freedom, social structure, consumer satisfaction.
The real news is that we have to be the ones who will be in charge of solving those problems. The challenge for the Western world, for the capitalistic world and specifically for Western Europe, will be to help solve those problems. Renewing a Nation In Need of Repair PERCY BARNEVIK Chairman of Asea Brown Boveri, a Swiss-Swedish company that is Europe's largest electrical engineering group.
During a short-term transition period, German unification could create some problems, such as higher inflation and, consequently, higher interest rates.
Medium-term, the reconstruction of East Germany represents enormous business opportunities. We estimate that 600 billion Deutsche marks will be needed for housing, 40 billion for new power plants, 8 billion for new telephone lines and 100 billion to 150 billion marks to renew the transportation system. This means larger markets for both West Germany and the European Community.
Industry and governments have to act quickly to support East Germany to build an adequate industrial infrastructure. Only this will keep the East Germans there. A mass migration could thus be avoided.
Environmental issues are a top priority. East Germany urgently needs new equipment to reduce toxic emissions. Its power plants are 35 percent less efficient than those in the West.
At first, West German companies will be more absorbed with East Germany and thus have to slightly reduce capacity available for other markets. At the same time, suppliers from other Eastern European nations will have a harder time supplying East Germany as their trade system changes to hard currency dealings. Product quality will play an increased role.
In the second phase, the position of West German industry will be improved because of the larger market and better production-sharing possibilities with East Germany. This will create tougher competition for non-German companies.
There is a real risk that West German interests are, for the moment, somewhat diverted toward East Germany. As a result, some people in Brussels are afraid of a slowdown in the integration process. This need not be the case if the other European Community members insist strongly enough. West Germany has the capacity to go both ways at the same time. Balancing Emotions Against the Realities MICHEL FRANCOIS-PONCET Chairman of Compagnie Financiere de Paribas, a French banking group.
German unification is a complex and a not-so-complex situation. East Germany is about 10 percent of West Germany in terms of gross national product, but it's at least 25 percent in terms of population. It is one-fifth in terms of productivity ratios. Therefore, you have a set of problems balancing the political emotions and the consequences on East Germany of issues like unemployment.
German unity will mean a different economic balance in Europe. It will become a country of 80 million people, and the game will not be exactly the same.
For some French companies, there is already a certain feeling of inferiority. It varies from one company to the next. Unification will create a larger market for industrial companies in Germany; it gives them a more powerful base. French companies will have to maintain their cool and not hesitate to take chances. More Consumption And a New Impetus JEAN-LOUIS BEFFA Chairman of Saint-Gobain, the Paris-based glass and packaging company.
German unification is a very positive development. It expands the market. It's going to be a new impetus for economic demand.
When the Common Market was formed, everyone worried about what would happen to French industry as opposed to German industry, but basically it was a positive factor. It will be the same now. It will be good for the good companies, whether German of French. The dynamic companies in France are already reacting and signing agreements.
If all goes quickly and in the right direction, the so-called German question will be solved and we will be in a position to integrate Europe and more quickly. I am in favor of not slowing down European integration and support pushing for German reunification within the European Community.
When a country like East Germany starts growing, its people will improve their housing, buy cars, buy packaging, and all that is going to help us. Showing Willingness To Transfer Wealth HANS-JORG RUDLOFF Chairman of Credit Suisse-First Boston, a London-based investment bank.
If what the Germans have is economic and monetary union, then it will be nothing else than a huge investment program. A lot of money will have to be invested in industrial stock, streets and railways.
Germany being a first-class borrower, if it starts borrowing heavily, whether for companies or government, it will clearly divert investment money from other areas. What we will see is a competition for capital all around the world. All this will happen when monetary policy all over the world is very tight and when there is a huge debt burden out of the 1980's to pay off or refinance. It will create a big competition for savings.
I'm not talking about East Germany alone, but the entire East, and that includes the Soviet Union. If you divert huge streams of capital to these areas, wherever these funds are diverted from will have to tighten their belts.
Will unification be inflationary? My answer is no. The Germans have a superb tradition of handling inflation. They are always willing to make the sacrifice to avoid inflation.
Will it be impetus for growth? Yes. But will that additional growth be negated by less growth in other areas of the world? That could very well be.
No one should have the illusion that it is good enough to applaud the liberation of 120 million people from 40 years of dictatorship, praising our own system and how we proved beyond any doubt that the capitalistic liberal system is superior in economic terms to the 80-year-old Marxist system. To applaud that is not good enough. Now we have to help these people who aspire to the same living standards that we have. We have to show that we're willing to transfer some of that wealth. New 'Marshall Plans' To Prime the Pumps CORNELIS VAN DER KLUGT Chairman of Philips N.V., the international electronics group based in the Netherlands.
German unification is inevitable. It will strengthen Germany, and therefore it will also strengthen the European Community. Everyone is hell-bent to make sure that it doesn't slow down European integration. We should never slow down European integration - it's already 30 years late. But it might slow down if everyone places their priorities elsewhere.
There is no longer an Eastern bloc. Some countries will move fast, like Hungary. Others will move almost as fast, like Czechoslovakia, and then there is the next layer: Poland, the Soviet Union, Romania, and Bulgaria, countries that will come later. In countries where there is so little and such low purchasing power, the interest for business will be the initial infrastructural projects, which will be done with money from our side.
These improvements will bring these countries to a higher productivity, which will give them possibilities to export to Western Europe and to increase their material well-being. This is a long-term process, with the initial business based on a Marshall Plan-type of approach.

GRAPHIC: photos: Sir Denys Henderson: Chairman of Imperial Chemical Industries - ''That will put German industry in a very strong position. We will have to run like mad to improve our productivity, our technological base and international presence.'' (Camera Press); Carlo de Benedetti: Chairman of Olivetti - ''I think we should negotiate politically with Germany that it is in the best interests of all of the community's partners to speed up the process of European integration.'' (Associated Press); Hans-Jorg Rudloff: Chairman of Credit Suisse-First Boston - ''The European challenge is to restore the Europe of 1914, when Europe was the biggest economic power in the world and had the best educated population.'' (Pg. A1); Michel Francois-Poncet: Compagnie Financiere de Paribas - ''Unification wil

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SIN (SWX) (57%); SIE (LSE) (57%); SIE (FRA) (57%); SIE (BIT) (57%); SI (NYSE) (57%); DEUT (JSE) (56%); DBK (FRA) (56%); DBK (BIT) (56%); DBETN (JSE) (56%); DBA (ASX) (56%); DB (NYSE) (56%); CSGN (SWX) (56%); CS (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); GERMANY (98%); WESTERN EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (88%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); SPAIN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); PORTUGAL (73%); FRANCE (52%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (56%); PARIS, FRANCE (52%); 

COMPANY: SIEMENS AG (57%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (56%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; EAST GERMANY; WEST GERMANY

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; GERMANY, REUNIFICATION OF EXECUTIVES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); INTERVIEWS (77%); LIVING STANDARDS (75%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); TRENDS (73%); FAMILY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; HENDERSON, DENYS (SIR); DE BENEDETTI, CARLO; RUDLOFF, HANS-JORG



73 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: Starving Children of Malawi Kill Leader's Boast of Plenty

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LILONGWE, Malawi

 BODY:
For the 26 years of his authoritarian rule in Malawi, President H. Kamuzu Banda has insisted that human rights, white power in a black state and coziness with South Africa are minor matters compared with the full stomachs of his people. Now, as it turns out, many young and infant Malawians do not have full stomachs either.
''Only Ethiopia, a land of ecological depletion and frequent drought, has levels of child malnutrition comparable to those in Malawi,'' says a report by the United Nations Children's Fund, which the Malawian Government, usually reluctant to highlight such shortcomings, helped write.
This sliver of land, which looks lush and green, has long boasted of figures attesting to food self-sufficiency on a national level, a rare feat in Africa. But these statistical claims mean little, said international aid workers, who reported not only extraordinary levels of mortality from child malnutrition but also high levels of stunted growth among those who survive. Since the mid-1980's, despite claims of self-sufficiency in food, Malawi, like most of black Africa, has had to import food, the workers said. 
 
Conformity Is Demanded
Like everyone else in this country who talked with a reporter, they insisted on anonymity. In a society where surveillance is constant - a benign joke about the President can land you in jail - political conformity is also mandatory.
To enter the outdoor market in Zomba, the town where Parliament sits and the university is situated, shoppers on a recent day had to possess or buy at the gate a membership card in the sole legal party, the Malawi Congress Party.
''The politics is so byzantine that even we Malawians don't understand it,'' an educated Malawian said.
The tangible results of Dr. Banda's policies are particularly visible in this capital, which was built and paid for by the South African Government of John Vorster early in the 1970's. In its sleek buildings designed by the South Africans, Government bureaus are headed largely by expatriate professionals. For example, the head of the central bank is a German, and the man who runs the public works department is a Scot.
 
Aid From South Africa
The South Africans have their only embassy in black Africa here and they give military aid and, Western diplomats said, training to the Young Pioneers, a paramilitary governmental youth group.
Though Dr. Banda has long been appreciated in the West as a pro-Western anti-Communist, his Government's record on human rights was criticized by the State Department in its annual human rights report last year.
The United States, which gives $2 million in military assistance and $20 million in economic aid, generous amounts for the African aid program, made one of its harshest assessments of human rights on the continent here. The State Department report said the observance of human rights in Malawi had ''deteriorated, as a leading political dissident was murdered, and arbitrary detention continued to be used to suppress any sign of dissent.''
The report said there were ''life-threatening conditions in prisons; lack of fair trials; interference with privacy; severe restrictions of freedom of speech and press, assembly and government; and serious discrimination against northerners.''
 
Many Reported Tortured
Amnesty International said last year that many of the political prisoners were tortured. It said that a number of political prisoners arrested in the 1960's were still believed to be held and that those arrested in the 1980's included the country's only neurosurgeon, Dr. George Mtafu, and the country's best known poet, Jack Mapanje. In jail since 1986, Brown Mpinganjira, deputy chief of information, was locked up for providing information to foreign journalists.
Last year, West Germany and the United States made a special plea to Dr. Banda for two of the political prisoners, Mr. Mapanje and Dr. Mtafu. Diplomats from both countries said the approaches were angrily rejected.
International aid workers stationed here said the high infant mortality rate - one in three children under 5 dies -and the 55 percent rate of stunting among those who survive have long been masked by Malawi's reputation among Western donors for being self-sufficient in food. The reputation was no longer justified by 1987 and perhaps before, the workers said, The false sense of well-being was further accentuated within Malawi, they said, by an annual ritual that involves the octagenarian Dr. Banda making a highly publicized crop inspection at the beginning of every year. Of course, the corn that he was always pictured alongside was as ripe and tall as that in any lavish agricultural catalogue. Left unsaid, the aid workers said, was the fact that Dr. Banda, a physician, was steered to plots that had been specially endowed with high-yielding seeds and expensive fertilizer.
In a rare act of defiance last year, several hundred farm workers who had toiled on corn intended for presidential viewing but were not its beneficiaries cut down the high-bred corn the night before it was due for scrutiny. Dr. Banda was diverted elsewhere, the aid workers said.

GRAPHIC: map of Lilongwe, Malawi

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MALAWI (99%); SOUTH AFRICA (95%); AFRICA (93%); ETHIOPIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: LILONGWE, MALAWI (58%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (57%); UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MALAWI

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; POLITICAL PRISONERS; FOOD; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; DIET AND NUTRITION MALNUTRITION (90%); STARVATION (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); POLITICS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); FOOD CHARITIES (76%); DISASTER RELIEF (76%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (76%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (75%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (75%); DEFENSE SPENDING (75%); NUTRITION (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (64%); 

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE; BANDA, H KAMUZU (PRES) H KAMUZU BANDA (90%); 



74 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 885 words

HEADLINE: Court to Decide Damage Award Issue

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 2

 BODY:
The Supreme Court agreed today to decide whether a jury's award of punitive damages can be so excessive or disproportionate as to violate the Constitution's guarantee of due process of law.
The Justices accepted an appeal by a California life insurance company of a $1.04 million judgment by a jury in Alabama. The plaintiff was a woman who learned only after she was hospitalized with a kidney infection that the policy on which she had been paying premiums had been canceled. She was left without coverage for $3,800 in medical bills, representing more than half her annual take-home pay of $6,700. 
Whether the Constitution places any limits on punitive damages is a question of major concern to the insurance industry and to manufacturers that face frequent product liability suits. While people can also be found liable for punitive damages, most such lawsuits are against corporate ''deep pockets'' that can afford to pay the growing number of multimillion-dollar judgments.
Punitive damages, in contrast to compensatory damages, are meant to punish or to set an example that will deter similar behavior in the future. Each state has its own laws and procedures for the awarding of punitive damages. In response to lobbying by the insurance industry and other business groups, the trend in state legislatures in recent years has been to place ceilings on the size of punitive damage awards in certain cases.
 
Browning-Ferris Case Cited
In a number of rulings beginning in 1986, the Supreme Court has skirted the question of whether the constitutional concept of due process requires that punitive damages bear some relation to the actual damages, or at least that the jury act according to some guidelines.
Last June, for example, the Court decided an appeal brought by Browning-Ferris Industries Inc., a big commercial waste-collection company, which was ordered in an antitrust case to pay $6 million in punitive damages to a competitor that had suffered $51,000 in economic damage. The Court rejected the argument by Browning-Ferris that the punitive damages violated the Eighth Amendment, which prohibits ''excessive fines'' and ''cruel and unusual punishments.''
The majority ruled that for procedural reasons, the question of whether punitive damages are limited by the Constitution's due process guarantee was not properly presented in the Browning-Ferris case.
But in concurring opinions, four Justices indicated that they would like to decide the question in an appropriate case. The four, Justices Sandra Day O'Connor, Antonin Scalia, William J. Brennan Jr. and Thurgood Marshall, indicated considerable sympathy with the argument that unlimited punitive damages are unconstitutional.
 
Alabama High Court Ruling
The case the Court accepted today, Pacific Mutual Life Insurance Company v. Haslip, No. 89-1279, is an appeal from a ruling by the Alabama Supreme Court, which rejected the insurance company's due process arguments.
The company, based in California, does not sell group medical insurance. But an agent in its Birmingham office, Lemmie L. Ruffin Jr., also worked as an agent for an unrelated health insurance company. In 1981 he solicited the business of Roosevelt City, a small town near Birmingham, Ala., to issue both life and health insurance policies for its employees.
He collected the premiums, some of which the employees paid in cash. But the employees did not know that he did not forward the premiums to the insurance companies. He kept the money himself and did not tell the town that its policies were in arrears, and later that the policies had been canceled.
The situation came to light in 1982 when one of the employees, Cleopatra Haslip, was hospitalized and learned that she had no medical insurance. She was left with bills she could not pay. According to the lawsuit she and three other employees filed against Pacific Mutual, charging fraud, breach of contract and bad faith, her credit rating was ruined and she suffered mental anguish.
The jury awarded Ms. Haslip $1.04 million, without specifying which portion of the award was intended as punitive damages and which was designed to compensate for Ms. Haslip's mental anguish.
 
Insurer's Arguments
In its appeal to the Supreme Court, Pacific Mutual is arguing that a jury's power to award unlimited punitive damages permits jurors ''to punish selectively'' and to ''indulge bias, prejudice and any wealth-redistribution inclinations they may have.''
The company also makes a narrower argument, that an employer should not be liable for punitive damages in connection with the wrongdoing of an employee. If Pacific Mutual prevails on this question, the Court may not find it necessary to address the broader punitive damages question. The case will be argued next fall. Today the Court also refused in four separate appeals to rule on whether people injured in car accidents can sue the automobile manufacturer for not installing an air bag. Such suits have been brought under state laws that permit negligence suits for ''design defects.''
But several state and Federal appellate courts have ruled that these lawsuits are pre-empted by a Federal transportation regulation that gives automobile manufacturers the choice of installing air bags or other automatic restraints.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RSG (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS562212 SOLID WASTE LANDFILL (83%); NAICS562111 SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (83%); SIC4953 REFUSE SYSTEMS (83%); SIC4212 LOCAL TRUCKING WITHOUT STORAGE (83%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLIC SERVICES INC (83%); PACIFIC MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO (60%); ALABAMA SUPREME COURT (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US); PACIFIC MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO

SUBJECT: DAMAGE SUITS; INSURANCE; LIFE INSURANCE; HEALTH INSURANCE; JURY SYSTEM DAMAGES (94%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (94%); INSURANCE (91%); DUE PROCESS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); VERDICTS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); LIFE INSURANCE (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); APPEALS (89%); CRUEL & UNUSUAL PUNISHMENT (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PRODUCT LIABILITY INSURANCE (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (77%); BUSINESS TORTS (76%); PRODUCT LIABILITY (74%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (73%); TRENDS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); LOBBYING (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (62%); SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (50%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, LINDA ANTONIN SCALIA (58%); 



75 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 478 words

HEADLINE: Iraq's Murderous Threats

 BODY:
Brazen blackmail - that's how Iraq's President, Saddam Hussein, reacts to being caught red-handed trying again to build nuclear weapons. Now he threatens to destroy half of Israel with chemical-armed missiles if Israel attacks his weapons factories. The threat from a leader who already has mercilessly used chemical arms cannot go unanswered by civilized powers. 
It's not too late for the U.S. and other suppliers to deny Iraq further military capabilities and in the process to send a tough message to any other leader willing to practice mass murder. As a cooperative U.S.-British ''sting'' arrest showed last week, suppliers can keep critical parts and material out of proliferators' hands. And civilized powers can also impose broad economic sanctions on states that violate basic international norms.
The six people arrested in Britain are suspected of smuggling U.S.-made krytrons into Iraq. These devices can be used innocently in office copiers - or to separate stages of a missile. They are particularly suited to triggering nuclear weapons.
The seizure aroused concerns that Iraq had renewed efforts to develop nuclear weapons. Those concerns had been laid to rest in 1981 when Israeli bombers destroyed a French-supplied nuclear research reactor outside Baghdad that was suspected of making plutonium.
Iraq has reason to be insecure. It fears the hostility of Iran, Israel and Syria. Intelligence officials believe it has long sought to develop its nuclear capability as a counter to nuclear-armed Israel, and out of fear that Iran also would go nuclear. What intensifies concern now is that Iraq has built new fixed launchers for ballistic missiles on an airfield within range of Tel Aviv and Damascus.
Iraq is years away from producing its own nuclear warheads. But it used missiles to attack Iranian cities after starting an eight-year war. It also has chemical weapons, which it used on Kurds in Iraq and on Iranian troops and civilians.
Then, anxious to check Iran, Western states responded with diplomatic protests but continued to supply Iraq with advanced weapons. That weak reaction and subsequent feeble attempts at restraint cannot have persuaded Mr. Hussein that he had much to fear from the outside world.
Supplier nations, including the Soviet Union, need to demonstrate otherwise. They might begin by tightening cooperation to prevent the transfer of missile technology. The 40-nation Conference on Disarmament needs to complete a treaty banning chemical weapons. And suppliers can impose economic sanctions against Iraq and other outlaw states that employ chemical or nuclear arms.
The U.S. and others that have long subordinated proliferation to other security concerns need to take dead aim against Iraq. If Iraq is worried about Israel or its other neighbors, there's a wiser course than to make murderous weapons: Make peace.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SYRIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (57%); 

CITY: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;IRAQ; ISRAEL, STATE OF; MIDDLE EAST

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; CHEMICAL WARFARE; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES MILITARY WEAPONS (94%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (94%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); EXTORTION (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DISARMAMENT (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); SMUGGLING (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (74%); ARRESTS (74%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (73%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (73%); ARMED FORCES (70%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); 



76 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 273 words

HEADLINE: Auto Pollution Has Decreased for a Decade;
Raise Tax on Gas

 BODY:
To the Editor:
I agree, the damage we are doing to the earth's environment and our health by increasing dependence on private automobiles is deplorable (''Big Wheels: How Dreams of Clean Air Get Stuck in Traffic,'' Week in Review, March 11). It is all the more tragic as it could be greatly reduced. 
Also, with more than 20 percent of our trade deficit going to feed our fuel-wasting habit, legislative inaction is compromising national strategic interests. Our inability to decrease this wastefulness will deplete the wealth that has made the United States a superpower and allowed our democratic institutions to stand as an example for the world.
The slower we are to act, the further our landscape will adapt to transportation economics: suburban sprawl increases, cities decay, forests become shopping malls, and the cost of mass transportation climbs. With each year, the risk increases that changes will not be democratically chosen but an economic force, possibly a disaster, affecting all Americans.
We are a society where it is expensive to own a car and cheap to drive one. Any shift in this equation would thus be a change for the better for our society.
However, ''no new taxes'' and the failure of most of our citizens to attribute any of the world's problems to their own consumption-oriented life style make the outlook grim.
Instead of shifting the responsibility to the states, Washington should impose a substantial uniform Federal excise tax on gasoline, to be phased in over a period of years. Disposing of the additional cash should prove no problem.
 
WHARTON SINKLER
 Philadelphia, March 11, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; AIR POLLUTION; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; TAXATION LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FUEL TAX (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); EXCISE TAX (78%); AIR QUALITY (78%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (78%); GASOLINE (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); SUBURBS (68%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (65%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (56%); RETAILERS (53%); 

PERSON: SINKLER, WHARTON



77 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 311 words

HEADLINE: Independents Offer an Education Aid Bargain

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In ''Fiscal Fire in New York'' (editorial, March 14), you say education spending in New York State is ''up 84 percent in seven years.'' But not across the board. Higher education -both public and independent - has experienced much smaller increases. Independent institutions actually received $19 million less from the state this year than in 1986. Indeed, the state's independent colleges and universities have lost 20 percent, or $87 million, to inflation since 1986 in direct institutional aid.
New York's disinvestment in independent institutions of higher education poses a serious threat to one of the state's important assets. Our institutions enroll 290,000 students a year, produce 64 percent of all baccalaureate and higher degrees in the state and grant 60 percent of all such degrees earned by minorities.
While the state and city university systems serve vital missions and need adequate funds, independent colleges and universities cost New York only 12.7 percent as much to educate a student. Clearly, a very good investment for the state.
All of higher education has suffered in the state budget process in recent years. In 1982 higher education represented 13.4 percent of the state budget; today it accounts for only 11.6 percent. And the independent institutions have suffered a double decline since their share of higher education expenditures have declined 22 percent since 1986.
In tough financial times it is tempting to sacrifice investments that pay off in the future. Higher education is such an investment. What is at stake is New York's ability to maintain the highly skilled work force to compete in a global economy and to achieve a society that is open to those who have been excluded from full participation.
 
JONATHAN F. FANTON
President
New School for Social Research
 New York, March 15, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE CANAL CORP (92%); NEW YORK STATE ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED CHILDREN INC (92%); NEW YORK STATE ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITIES CORP (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; STATE AND LOCAL AID (US); FINANCES COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (92%); EDUCATION FUNDING (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); LABOR FORCE (72%); DIVESTITURES (70%); 

PERSON: FANTON, JONATHAN F



78 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 1, Column 5; Science Desk

LENGTH: 2249 words

HEADLINE: Research in 'Virgin' Amazon Uncovers Complex Farming

BYLINE: By WILLIAM K. STEVENS

 BODY:
OVER thousands of years, scientists have discovered, ancient inhabitants of the Amazon and their present-day descendants have evolved a sophisticated blend of agricultural and forestry techniques to shape and reshape the region's vast forests, savannas and river valleys to their needs.
In an earlier form, the scientists say, the system enabled the ancient Amazonians to build a civilization whose size, power and achievements far outshone the conventional picture of the ancients as small, primitive tribes living on the edge of existence. And they say in its present form, the system has enabled the descendants to prosper in a way that eludes many settlers who follow more modern practices - without disrupting the ecology of the tropical forests.
Even while the scientists strive to learn more about this remarkable system of resource management, they and others are starting to search for ways in which it might be applied to help head off the destruction of the Amazonian forests. And at a time when expanding populations and growing poverty are overwhelming third world economies, they believe, the system could enable millions of poor peasants to make a good, secure living based on self-renewing resources. 
Beyond that, the scientists say, the techniques can be used to tap the tropical forests - while leaving them basically intact - for a broad range of export products that under ideal circumstances could bring billions of dollars into the debt-ridden economies of the Amazonian countries. The potential export products include foods, medicines, natural fertilizers, pesticides, body-care products and fragrances. A study last year by American experts on the Amazonian forests calculated that these products would be more profitable than the widespread logging and cattle ranching that today are largely blamed for progressive destruction of the forest.
There is ''a whole range of possibilities that could be carried out based on what ancient people did for thousands of years,'' said Anna C. Roosevelt, an anthropologist and archeologist at the American Museum of Natural History who has investigated the ways of the Amazonian ancients in depth. Dr. Roosevelt, a great-grandaughter of Theodore Roosevelt and winner of a MacArthur Foundation award, was the co-organizer of a symposium on the past, present and future of the Amazon at the annual meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science in late February in New Orleans.
The practices of present-day Amazonian natives offer ''thousands of ways of making the living forest more valuable than the destroyed forest,'' said Darrell A. Posey, an American anthropologist who works for the Goeldi Museum in Belem, Brazil, and who has lived with the natives in the forest and observed their agricultural and forestry techniques closely.
In one such technique, for instance, Amazonian Indians have learned to manage agricultural plots so that over a period of decades years they evolve in pre-planned phases from cleared farmland back into thick forest. The plots move through stages in which conventional crops predominate at first, but then wild species of useful plants and trees are encouraged to encroach gradually. These are tapped for a variety of uses, including medicine, insecticides and pesticides. Eventually the forest reclaims a given plot. Meanwhile, other plots are in varying phases. The result is that the forest continually renews itself even while sustaining its exploiters.
Some agencies concerned with development in the Third World have begun exploring the feasibility of applying the techniques of traditional cultures more widely. ''I think it's time we started looking for some new ways of doing business,'' said Thurman Grove, a Cornell University ecologist who has been detached for two years to help the United States Agency for International Development find ways to adapt the traditional techniques to modern use. ''Mother Nature has a lot of tricks,'' he said, and ''old cultures have already run a lot of the experiments.''
The challenge, Dr. Grove said, is to learn how to augment the natural systems so that they can be made productive enough to sustain a large population without, as was true in ancient times, relying so much on labor-intensive methods. ''That's a field where I think we are in a very nascent state,'' he said.
Scientists who have studied the present-day application of these techniques and skills are finding that they provide a more reliable and sustainable living over the long term than can be achieved by neighbors who rely on modern cash-cropping. Ancient SocietyA Civilization Of Chiefdoms The system evolved through millennia of practical experimentation in response to changing conditions. In archeological investigations that over the last 10 to 15 years have challenged a number of conventional beliefs about both the Amazonian forest and its inhabitants, Dr. Roosevelt and others have traced the origins of the natives' manipulation of the Amazonian environment back thousands of years.
The conventional beliefs have held that the ancient native populations were small, scattered, primitive and sickly, and that the forest itself was mostly virgin and undisturbed and was poorly suited to sustainable agriculture. But at their peak in the centuries around the birth of Christ, according to archeological evidence that is still unfolding, the ancient Amazonians forged a civilization of agricultural chiefdoms that lasted 2,000 years - a vast, powerful rural economy that some scientists believe sustained millions of people.
Many of them lived in settlements of up to 4,000 people, built atop huge earthen mounds to keep them away from floods. The mounds were linked by causeways, and other causeways led to fields where corn, the staple crop, was grown. The natives of this era carried out their agriculture in the forest, in reclaimed swamps and on alluvial plains along the rivers. It sustained them well enough, said Dr. Roosevelt, to produce a populace that, on the basis of the archeological study of skeletons, was on the average tall and healthy.
There have been people in the Amazon forest about as long as the forest itself has existed, or since the end of the Pleistocene 10,000 years ago, and they have exploited it intensively, said Dr. Roosevelt. But their manner of exploitation has allowed the forests to regenerate so completely, she said, that they have fooled some into thinking they are virgin. This is so even though at their peak, the ancient Amazonians greatly outnumbered their modern descendants.
''What people did in ancient times may be ecologically sensible,'' said Dr. Roosevelt. ''At least we know the forest survived.''
With the arrival of Europeans in the 1500's, a new chapter opened. The Spanish established new economies on the flood plains, and cattle ranching emerged as a major economic activity that survives to this day. This was the forerunner of today's industrial-age exploitation of the forest. Driven by economic pressures, millions of acres of Amazon forest have been exploited for timber or burned and converted to cropland that, under presently employed methods of cultivation, plays out after two or three years and then sustains no one.
The Spanish conquest also brought disease that wiped out most of Amazonia's native population, with 85 percent of the people in some localities dying out within the first year of contact. Many of the survivors fled to the interior, where, in response to new conditions, their peculiar blend of present-day agricultural and forest management evolved from the ancient ways. Farms in the JungleForest to Field And Back Again In one application of this approach to what scientists call agro-forestry, the Kayapo tribe of Brazil, studied by Dr. Posey, operates as follows:
A circular field is prepared by felling several large trees at key junctures so that their crowns fall on the periphery of the circle. This also brings down smaller trees that have been weakened by notching. They, along with the leafy crowns of the big trees, also fall on the perimeter, providing nutrients for the highest-consuming plants, which are to be concentrated around the edges.
Yams, potatoes, manioc and other tubers are planted between the fallen tree trunks. On a windless day just before the year's first rain, the dead, felled trees are burned under carefully controlled conditions. The rains wash the fresh ashes into the soil, where the tubers' root systems are already established.
In this new field, crops are planted in concentric rings radiating out from the center: Sweet potatoes and yams in the middle, mixed corn and rice next, then manioc, then more yams. The outer zone contains papaya, banana, pineapple, mango, cotton and beans. In an older field in its later stages, the corn and rice have disappeared, the potato-yam zone has been expanded and manioc continues. The forest begins to encroach on the field. Gradually, fruit trees, palms and medicinal herbs move into the field.
Eventually, the forest re-covers the field entirely. Each phase of reforestation has its own inventory of useful plants and animals.
Other fields in both Peru and Brazil follow much the same pattern, with varying mixtures of crops, according to scientists from the New York Botanical Garden's Institute of Economic Botany, who have studied the practice extensively. The institute is in the forefront of study about such matters.
For a given plot to go from first cultivation back to forest takes 10 to 15 years, said Wil De Jong, an international fellow at the institute, who has taken part in field studies in the Amazon. ''Then it's continued for a longer time as forest,'' he said, ''maybe 50 or 60 years.'' During some stages of cultivation, he said, the plots propagate a number of forest species. ''People are preserving their resources by actually multiplying them,'' he said.
 
Supermarkets of a Sort
Among the Kayapo, said Dr. Posey, an ''enormously wide range'' of plants are brought from vast areas of forest and re-planted on small plots of three acres or less. Most have multiple uses as, for example, natural fertilizers and pesticides, insect repellants, building materials, medicines and food. ''These islands are sort of supermarkets concentrated in specific places,'' Dr. Posey said.
In creating the islands, he said, the Indians actively reshape the environment, transplanting forest species to the savanna in a sort of ''mix-and-match'' kind of ecological management. The Forest Economy Cash Crops Vs. Self-Sufficiency One demonstration of the effectiveness of the native way of farming as compared with modern ways has been documented by Jane L. Collins, an anthropologist at the State University of New York at Binghamton. Working in the Peruvian Amazon, she compared the performance of natives who pursued the old ways with the modern, cash-crop pursuits of migrants who had moved into the local region from elsewhere in the country.
In the modern application, she found, cash-cropping tends to force farmers who pursue it ''to be hooked up to the markets differently'' from the practitioners of native agro-forestry. That is, the cash-croppers, relying on one crop and on debt financing to produce it - as is commonly the case in many parts of the world - tend to ''be more dependent on cash, so they need to get more out of the land over the short term.''
The natives, on the other hand, tend to produce for their own use to a greater extent and to be less reliant on the market. Although they do sell some of their crop, they have a more stable, long-term source of sustenance. ''The migrants don't have the agro-forestry management skills,'' said Dr. Collins, ''and often there are lots of incentives to go other ways.'' For instance, she said, the government provides loans for cattle ranching, which encourages farmers to clear-cut land for pastures. ''If push comes to shove,'' she said, ''they can sell the cleared land and move on.'' Their one-crop practices are also more destructive to the soil, she said: ''That's why it gets worn out.''
 
Question of Compensation
Pharmaceutical companies have long exploited the medicinal properties of plants discovered from native cultures, said Dr. Posey, and the potential for broadening that exploitation into other areas is considerable.
In a study reported last year in the British journal Nature, Charles M. Peters of the Institute of Economic Botany, Alwyn H. Gentry of the Missouri Botanical Garden and Robert O. Mendelsohn of Yale University calculated that the long-term economic value of products taken from the living forest, excluding field crops that might be grown there, is about double that of the timber that might be harvested from it and the cattle that might be raised on cleared land.
Already, as awareness grows, Dr. Posey and many others are worrying about what might happen to the native peoples if the outside world begins tapping their intimate, detailed knowledge of the Amazonian environment in earnest. Will they expropriate the expertise, denying compensation to those who have developed it? That would be ''nothing more than another form of neo-colonialism,'' said Dr. Posey, who last week, in a sign of the times, attended an international conference on ''intellectual property rights'' in York, England.
The traditional systems of resource management and the knowledge that undergirds them, he says, ''are rare and priceless resources.''

GRAPHIC: drawings; photos: Some Indians prosper as farmers without destroying Amazon ecology; a village near Santarem, Brazil. (Anna C. Roosevelt) (pg. C12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;AMAZON JUNGLE

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; FORESTS AND FORESTRY; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES SCIENCE NEWS (92%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (92%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (90%); RAIN FORESTS (90%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); SCIENCE POLICY (78%); FARM LABOR (78%); DEFORESTATION (78%); HISTORY (78%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); ARCHAEOLOGY (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); FERTILIZERS (73%); PESTICIDES (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (70%); FOUNDATIONS (67%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (67%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (66%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (65%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (65%); TALKS & MEETINGS (64%); GRANDCHILDREN (50%); 

PERSON: STEVENS, WILLIAM K ANNA C ROOSEVELT (63%); THURMAN GROVE (62%); 



79 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 9, Column 1; Science Desk

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL COMPUTERS;
Trips Through Geography and Time

BYLINE: By PETER H. LEWIS

 BODY:
AS the school year wanes, it is time to put two educational software programs on the honor roll of the class of 1990.
PC USA, for I.B.M. PC's and compatibles, is a computerized atlas that can help students learn about the United States. It is a companion product to an earlier program, PC Globe, which is also highly recommended.
PC USA is more than a geography program. It is also a data base of statistics and other information on each state, plus the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. The user can highlight a particular state or region and call up a variety of facts about it, ranging from broad economic statistics to the number of lawyers for every thousand people. 
On a purely geographical level, the map of the United States can be broken down into its states. One view might show all of the major cities. Another might highlight the principal natural features, including rivers, mountains and lakes.
The idea of merging maps with data bases is not new, but most such programs, called geographic information systems, are expensive and highly complex. PC USA and PC Globe contain a wealth of data, but they remain accessible to pupils from elementary school on up.
The map is the entry point to both programs. The user can ''point and shoot'' at the map to select a state, using either a mouse or keyboard commands, or select states from a list. We pointed and shot at Texas, a large target, which brought a map of the state to the screen and automatically loaded the underlying data base about the state.
In one view, the state's largest cities were shown. In another, the rivers, plateaus, lakes, elevations and other natural features were displayed. At this level, the program does not show any advantages over a more conventional printed atlas.
The real strength of PC USA, and of PC Globe as well, is in the data base. The user can call up information about government, history, tourist attractions, population, age distribution, education, crime, health, ethnic groups, natural resources and agriculture, taxes, principal products, highways, and even telephone area codes and ZIP codes. Much of the information can be broken down further to the city level.
Even more useful, the data on one state can be compared with similar data on another, and the results are displayed in graph form. For example, one might wish to compare average teacher salaries in Texas with those in other states. The user can select the states to be compared or compare the ''active'' state, in this case Texas, with the 10 states that rank highest or lowest in any given category.
PC Globe has similar capabilities, but on a broader scale. Both programs are easy to use. Each time we start, we wind up spending hours just browsing through their many features.
PC USA and PC GLOBE are $69.95 each and can be ordered from PC Globe Inc. of Tempe, Ariz.; phone (602) 894-6867. Both require a minimum of 512 kilobytes of memory and a color graphics adapter. A mouse is helpful but not necessary.
For the Apple Macintosh, the star of this year's class is Culture 1.0, The Hypermedia Guide to Western civilization.
Like PC USA, Culture 1.0 combines a data base with a sort of map. However, the terrain in this case is time: a time line of history and culture, in fact. Unlike conventional time lines, which are linear, the time line in Culture 1.0 is multidimensional. It lets you see, and even hear, events and cultural developments in an interrelated way that more accurately reflects the way history unfolds.
Hypercard, a software utility that is included with each Macintosh, is an ideal educational tool. It allows links to be forged among related bits of information. Used with a data base, Hypercard permits the user to roam through text, pictures and sound, guided only by his or her imagination and interests.
In the case of Culture 1.0, the underlying information and essays have been compiled over the last 20 years by Dr. Walter Reinhold, a professor of music history and the humanities at New York University.
In his classes, and in Culture 1.0, Professor Reinhold urges students to consider historical events in context, not in isolation. It is one thing to memorize the dry fact that Beethoven was a Romantic composer who lived from 1770 to 1827 - snore - and quite another to see him, hear a passage of his music (even in computer beeps) and place him amid the political, theological and artistic environment in Europe at the time. Who were his contemporaries? What great painters and architectural masterpieces might Columbus have admired before setting off for the New World?
From any starting point, the user can explore the history, music, philosophy, architecture, politics and art of the major periods of Western history from ancient times to the 19th century. The 20th century will be added later this year, the program's developers say.
For those who prefer a more structured way to explore the program, Cultural Resources offers a $35 companion guide called ''Interdisciplinary Lessons Covering Various and Sundry Things Every Secondary School Student Should Learn and Every College Student and Graduate Should Know.''
Culture 1.0 for the Macintosh is $175 from Cultural Resources Inc. of Cranford, N.J.; phone (201) 709-1574. It requires about five megabytes of hard disk space.

GRAPHIC: drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PC GLOBE INC (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: PC GLOBE INC

SUBJECT: GEOGRAPHY; DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); PERSONAL COMPUTERS; SOFTWARE PRODUCTS COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); GEOGRAPHY (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); EDUCATIONAL SOFTWARE (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (77%); INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (76%); MOUNTAINS (76%); SCIENTIFIC SOFTWARE (76%); STATISTICS (76%); POPULATION SIZE (76%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); ETHNICITY (71%); ETHNIC GROUPS (61%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (50%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (50%); WAGES & SALARIES (50%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, PETER H



80 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: Business Digest

 BODY:

Companies
Shearson Lehman Hutton will post a loss of as much as $917 million for the first quarter, the largest such deficit in Wall Street history. [Page D1.]
First Executive reported a larger-than-expected loss for the last quarter of 1989, reflecting the turmoil in ''junk bonds.'' [D1.] 
Fleet/Norstar Financial reported a $200 million increase in the level of its troubled loans. With the continuing bad reports, many large banks are expected to have weak first quarters. [D1.]
The president of Eastern Airlines is expected to outline a new proposal aimed at persuading unsecured creditors to back away from their tough stand of last week. [D3.]
H. F. Ahmanson agreed to acquire the Home Savings Bank of New York in a stock deal valued at about $300 million. [D7.]
Chrysler has asked 100 senior executives to invest a greater share of their wealth in the company's stock. [D5.]
Southland lost more than $1 billion in the fourth quarter of 1989 and may be forced into bankruptcy. [D4.]
Trammell Crow received $456 million from the Equitable Life Assurance Society of the United States to allow the refinancing of more than 150 of its commercial properties in the Southwest. [D6.]
A group led by Donald Trump is bidding for parts of Bonwit Teller as is Galeries Lafayette, a French store chain. [D3.]
Questions were raised about whether the head of Pathe Communications, who was convicted of fraud in Italy, would go through with his bid for MGM/UA. [D22.]
Torchmark withdrew its $6.4 billion offer to acquire the much larger American General. [D11.]
Canada's children's book publishing industry has flourished unexpectedly. [D18.]
 
International
Japan outlined proposals to curb some of the more pervasive policy and cultural obstacles to American imports, in an effort to reduce trade tensions with the U.S. [D1.]
Chancellor Kohl said no decisions had been made on proposals for German monetary union. [D8.]
 
Economy
The nation's economy remained in a slump in March, although the rate of decline slowed as production and new orders for export rose significantly, according to a report by the nation's purchasing managers. [D3.] Construction spending rose 2.6 percent in February, the Commerce Department reported. [D3.]
The chairman of the S.E.C. criticized an anti-takeover law pending before the Pennsylvania Legislature. [D2.]
 
Markets
Stock prices shook off another sharp drop in the Tokyo market and the Dow fell 6.76 points, to 2,700.45. Volume fell to 124.4 million shares, the fourth-lowest level of the year. [D10.]
Treasury securities prices dipped in light trading, despite the big drop earlier in Japanese equity prices. [D16.]
The dollar ended mostly higher against leading foreign currencies despite a wave of profit taking. [D17.] Prices of most pork futures rose by their daily limits. [D17.]
 
Today's Columns
The world's stock markets have shown remarkable complacency in the face of Tokyo's collapse. Market Place. [D1.]
Increasing activity relating to the environment has been one of the biggest changes in the oil industry, said Lodwrick M. Cook, chairman of Arco. Talking Business. [D2.]
Richardson, Myers & Donofrio has been working with the state of Maryland on a campaign to persuade children to delay the start of sexual activity. Randall Rothenberg: Advertising. [D19.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (56%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (56%); NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (55%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (55%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (55%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (55%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (55%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (54%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (53%); 

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (84%); EASTERN AIR LINES INC (57%); HOME SAVINGS BANK OF SILER CITY SSB (56%); TRAMMELL CROW CO (55%); SA DES GALERIES LAFAYETTE (54%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS COMPANY LOSSES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TAKEOVERS (79%); NEW ORDERS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BONDS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); SAVINGS & LOANS (76%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (73%); FUTURES (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); EXPORT TRADE (68%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); CURRENCIES (67%); EURO (66%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (66%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (65%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (64%); PUBLISHING (63%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (63%); PORK (63%); MONETARY UNIONS (61%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (60%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (57%); LIFE INSURANCE (52%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (51%); BOOK PUBLISHING (50%); 

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (50%); 



81 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 842 words

HEADLINE: Weak Profits Seen for Banks Hurt by Real Estate Loans

BYLINE: By MICHAEL QUINT

 BODY:
With the almost daily reports of losses from bad real estate loans, many large banking companies are expected to report weak profits for the first quarter.
The latest banking company to disclose bad news was the Fleet/Norstar Financial Group of Providence R.I. Although Federal regulators are not finished with a special examination of real estate lending at the company, Fleet/Norstar said results of the examinations so far point to a sharp rise in the level of troubled loans to at least $600 million from $400 million at the end of the year.
Fleet/Norstar, the 16th-largest banking company in the country, did not say how much its earnings would be reduced by the rise in troubled loans. But some analysts estimated that the company's reserve for loan losses would rise enough to eliminate most of the company's profit for the first quarter. 
In parts of the country, where real estate prices have weakened after several years of rapid incrases in real estate lending by banks, like New England and the Southeast, Federal regulators have been conducting special examinations, using tougher standards than bankers were expecting.
Other banks to have recently announced real estate losses following visits from examiners include the Bank of Boston Corporation, the Bank of New England Corporation, the Shawmut National Corporation, all in Massachusetts, the Southeast Banking Corporation and Barnett Banks Inc. both of Florida, and the Hibernia Corporation, Louisiana.
Other banking companies, including Citicorp, the Chase Manhattan Corporiaton, the First Chicago Corporation, and the NCNB Corporation have warned investors that problems with real estate loans are likely to increase. Steep declines in stock prices and rating reductions at the First Fidelity Corporation, the UJB Corporation and the Summit Bancorporation, all of New Jersey, are signs that heavy real estate loan losses are expected at those companies as well.
James McDermott, director of research at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, a securities firm that specializes in banking companies, said the median earnings gain for the first quarter would be about 3 percent above last year's quarter, with substantial declines among the largest banks and only modest increases for banks in California and the Midwest. In 1989, the median earnings gain for the 175 banks followed by Keefe Bruyette was 12 percent.
Analysts also said that bank profits were hurt by the cut in the prime rate to 10 percent from 10 1/2 percent on Jan. 7. Although the prime rate fell, the rates banks pay to borrow money did not decline as many expected. Earnings were also weakened by a slowdown in business loan demands, and the more cautious attitude bankers have about making loans when the economy is slowing.
 
Fees for Corporate Takeovers
Among large banks, a drop in fees earned from financing for large corporate takeovers, and lower profits from trading of bonds and foreign exchange will limit earnings, banking experts said.
In the case of Fleet/Norstar, Olivia Asher, an analyst at Merrill Lynch & Company, estimated that earnings could be near zero in the first quarter, assuming that troubled loans rise by about $400 million to a level of $800 million, and the company adds about $275 million to its reserve for bad loans. Fleet/Norstar estimated its troubled loans increased $200 million, to $600 million March 31, but might rise more as examinations are completed at other parts of the company.
John W. Flynn, Fleet/Norstar's chief financial officer, said that ''we don't have the slightest idea'' what the level of troubled loans will be at the end of the quarter. He said the $200 million increase in problem loans so far has come primarily from banks in Maine, Long Island and Syracuse, where the examinations are mostly completed. Those three banks account for less than a quarter of the assets and earnings of all Fleet/Norstar's subsidiary banks. Examinations are too incomplete to estimate any increase in bad real estate loans at Fleet/Norstar's bank's in Rhode Island, Connecticut, New Hampshire, Albany and Buffalo, which account for about three-fourths of its banking business.
To cushion the financial impact of the increase in bad loans, Fleet/Norstar said it earned $90 million of one-time profits by selling nearly half of its credit card businessand restructuring its pension plan.
Because Fleet reduced its real estate lending sooner than other New England banks, its losses are expected to remain significantly below other large New England banking companies. Analysts said that Fleet was benefiting from the diversity of its businesses outside the New England market.
''In the next few years, as the banking industry consolidates, Fleet will emerge as one of the winners in New England,'' Ms. Asher said. ''They are in a strong position to gain market share at a time when other banks are weakened and pulling back.''
Fleet stock fell 62.5 cents yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange closing at $21.25, or about 27 percent below its peak price last year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (95%); BAC (LSE) (95%); 8648 (TSE) (95%); JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); PNC (NYSE) (66%); COF (NYSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (95%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (66%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (66%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: RHODE ISLAND, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (78%); NORTHEAST USA (73%); CALIFORNIA, USA (67%); MIDWEST USA (54%); 

CITY: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (95%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); SOUTHEAST BANKING CORP (67%); BANK OF NEW ENGLAND CORP (67%); NCNB CORP (66%); NATIONAL CITY CORP (66%); PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (66%); CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORP (66%); KEEFE BRUYETTE & WOODS INC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: FLEET/NORSTAR FINANCIAL GROUP

SUBJECT: FINANCES; COMPANY REPORTS; FORECASTS REAL ESTATE (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (89%); TAKEOVERS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); PRIME RATES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PROFIT WARNINGS (78%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (74%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (69%); INTEREST RATES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); 

PERSON: QUINT, MICHAEL JIM MCDERMOTT (50%); 



82 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 864 words

HEADLINE: Japan Acts To Raise Imports

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 2

 BODY:
In an effort to reduce trade tensions with the United States, Japan outlined proposals today to curb some of the more pervasive policy and cultural obstacles to American imports.
The measures would increase opportunities for American and other foreign companies, for example, by allowing the opening of more supermarkets and department stores, which tend to stock foreign goods. They would also put more Government money into housing and public works, which could use foreign goods and services like those offered by American construction companies.
Some of the Japanese proposals were discussed during a 15-minute telephone conversation this morning between the Japanese Prime Minister, Toshiki Kaifu, and President Bush, after which Mr. Bush said he was ''encouraged by recent progress.'' 
 
'Utmost Efforts' Reported
According to Taizo Watanabe, spokesman for the Japanese Foreign Ministry, Mr. Kaifu described the ''utmost efforts'' he had been making to resolve trade issues since his meeting with Mr. Bush in Palm Springs, Calif., on March 2 and 3.
At those talks the President warned that trade problems could poison the relationship of the two countries, and Mr. Kaifu, who had just been re-elected, pledged to make the resolution of those problems the highest priority of his new Cabinet.
Initial American reactions were cautious. In recent years, the Japanese have prepared a number of trade packages that have not yielded promised results. Although it has been falling modestly since 1987, the United States trade deficit with Japan is still running at $49 billion a year.
''I am pleased that Japanese negotiators seem to have come to Washington with some substantive offers, but I caution against declaring a breakthrough until we have had time to study the fine print,'' said Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana, chairman of the Senate Finance Committee's trade subcommittee.
 
Aid to Japanese Stressed
To win political support at home for his potentially far reaching measures, Mr. Kaifu has argued that such changes are needed not just to ease frictions with Washington but also to help Japanese consumers, whose living standards have not kept up with Japan's stunning rise as the world's No. 2 economic power.
This point was echoed by Mr. Watanabe, who told reporters here that the proposals were made ''for the interest of improvement of quality of life for the Japanese public.''
Japanese newspapers and public opinion polls now show strong support for market-opening measures, suggesting that trade concessions may not be as difficult to achieve as many in the Government and ruling Liberal Democratic Party have been saying.
Mr. Watanabe was part of a 64-member delegation beginning a fourth round of talks on ''structural impediments'' that both countries have identified as broad-based barriers to trade.
Both sides are racing to meet a mid-April deadline for an interim report that could influence attitudes in Congress, where frustration over Japanese policies that block imports is rising. A final report is due in July. Measures Sought by U.S. Although details were not available, the Japanese, according to American and Japanese officials, outlined measures to their American counterparts that would stiffen antitrust enforcement, allow large retail stores to open in major cities after 1992 and increase expenditures for public construction.
Such measures are among those sought by the United States to increase general business opportunities for Americans in Japan and help redress the trade deficit.
But the Structural Impediments Initiative, which was started by the two Governments last July, is a two-way affair. For their part, the Japanese want the United States to help reverse the big American trade deficit by cutting the budget deficit, increasing savings, improving the education of workers, and increasing and expanding corporate research and development.
According to Japanese press reports, Tokyo has made some 90 recommendations to the United States, some of them specific and personal, like calling for a reduction in the number of credit cards in the United States, an increase in the gasoline tax, cuts in executive bonuses and the withdrawal of homeowner tax deductions.
The United States, in turn, handed Japan a proposal for 270 policy changes, prompting Asahi Shinbun, one of Japan's leading dailies, to comment that Washington wants to ''remake Japan.''
 
Satellite Accord Reported
In the last 10 days the United States and Japan announced market-opening accords in supercomputers and telecommunications, and today, according to Japanese officials, there was an agreement ''in principle'' on opening the market in communications satellites.
But an American trade official said that Washington was still waiting to hear on a ''fairly important point'' from the Japanese side, adding that from the United States viewpoint, ''there is no agreement.''
Still, American officials acknowledged that substantial progress had been made in this sector. Such an agreement could help companies like Hughes Aircraft and the aerospace division of the Ford Motor Company. General Motorsd (Hughes Aircraft)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (97%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PALM SPRINGS, CA, USA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; JAPAN

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET IMPORT TRADE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); LIVING STANDARDS (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (72%); RETAILERS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); KAIFU, TOSHIKI (PRIME MIN); FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H GEORGE W BUSH (79%); MAX BAUCUS (58%); 



83 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 649 words

HEADLINE: Talking Business; with Cook of Atlantic Richfield;
Oil Industry's Environment Role

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA

 BODY:
Lodwrick M. Cook is chairman of the Atlantic Richfield Company of Los Angeles, one of the nation's most profitable oil companies. He discussed environmental and other issues during a recent visit in New York.
Q. What has changed in the oil business since this time last year?
A. One change is the increasing activity relating to the environment, particularly the Clean Air Act. The main thing we have been concentrating on is the alternative fuel section as it relates to gasoline. We introduced reformulated gasoline, EC 1, last fall. We substituted for unleaded regular in Southern California and it does produce a cleaner burn and reduces emissions. We think it is important to clean up the cars that are out there today, and that is what our reformulated gasoline will do. 
Q. What else is different?
A. The outlook for crude oil prices has changed. We think the price of crude will increase with inflation, which would put it at $25 a barrel by 1995.
Q. What is your feeling about conservation as we become more dependent on imported oil?
A. I know what triggers it, I just do not know how to get there. Higher prices trigger it. You could have taxes go up. I am supporting a tax of 9 cents a gallon in California to provide money to improve our transportation infrastructure. But it is still 50-50 whether it will be approved.
Q. Is conservation good for the country?
A. It is obviously good for the country and what is good for the country is good for ARCO, so I will not argue against conservation. Having said that, though, a gasoline tax to offset the deficit is not a good idea. If it were used to improve the transportation infrastructure of the country, I would support it and it would also have a conservation effect.
Q. What about regulation? What is the role of Government-mandated conservation, such as mileage reguirements?
A. I think it is appropriate. I think it was a mistake to go off the 55 miles per hour speed limit.
Q. What do you think is an attainable automotive fleet average? We have had people say it should be 50 miles per gallon.
A. It would take a long time to get the fleet up there. It would take a lot of small cars. Directionally the country has been going the wrong way, backing off mileage standards, speed limits, not emphasizing insulation in housing.
Q. What is the lingering impact of the Valdez spill on Alaska?
A. It has improved; a lot of the hysteria is gone. There are issues that remain, including whether Exxon is doing the right job. But you have to remember that the oil business pays 85 percent of Alaska's budget
Q. What about double hulls for tankers?
A. I think we are going to have to go to double hulls. The American people are saying to me that they will be more comfortable if we have double hulls because there are certain kinds of accidents where they are helpful. The Valdez was not one of those. It would have ripped through both hulls.
Q. How much is greater concern for the environment, such as double hull ships, adding to your costs?
A. We have announced a $600 million reserve to take care of environmental things that we need to go back and clean up. Some of these go back 20 or 30 years and we do not operate there anymore, but under the law we are responsible. To retrofit a double bottom on a ship costs $20 million. To make reformulated gasoline will probably require $300 million to $400 million in refinery changes.
Q. What about solar energy? Have you written it off completely?
A. As a company investment, yes. I personally feel solar will have an energy role in the next century as an important niche. The technology was fine, we were as good as anybody. But to produce the panels, we needed a factory setting, and we are not good at that. We built two solar farms and they worked fine, but we lost money even with a Government subsidy. We lost $200 million over 10 years.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lodwrick M. Cook

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: TALKING BUSINESS (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (96%); BP (LSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (96%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (96%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (96%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: BP PLC (96%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; ENVIRONMENT; AIR POLLUTION OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); GASOLINE (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); FUEL TAX (78%); AIR QUALITY (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); OIL SPILLS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (76%); SPEED LIMITS (74%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); BUDGETS (73%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (71%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (70%); MOTOR VEHICLES (69%); APPROVALS (68%); INFRASTRUCTURE (67%); 

PERSON: HOLUSHA, JOHN; COOK, LODWRICK M LODWRICK M COOK (93%); 



84 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 6, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: Trammell Crow Will Refinance 150 Properties

BYLINE: By THOMAS C. HAYES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DALLAS, April 2

 BODY:
The Trammell Crow Company, the nation's largest commercial real estate developer, said today that one of the largest United States insurers had provided $456 million to allow the refinancing of more than 150 of its commercial properties, mainly in the Southwest.
The deal with the Equitable Life Assurance Society of the United States is the largest of its kind, and some analysts called it an important vote of confidence in the recovery of real estate markets in Texas.
Rumors had circulated in Texas in recent weeks that Trammell Crow was on the brink of bankruptcy because of difficulty in reaching agreements modifying its bank debt on dozens of properties in the Southwest, the weakest sector of its nationwide operation. Executives of Trammell Crow, who had denied the rumors, said the financing by Equitable removed the biggest uncertainty over the company's operations. 
 
'A Very Important Deal'
''This was a very important deal for the Trammell Crow Company,'' said David G. Schulman, director of real estate research at Salomon Brothers in New York. ''It shows that they can finance in Texas.''
The money provided by Equitable is in the form of a 10-year mortgage through its real-estate financing and management company. The insurer is also one of the nation's largest commercial real-estate companies, with $35 billion invested for its own account and for other investors, including several pension funds.
Trammell Crow has an interest in 3,300 properties. The overall equity value of those properties is $3 billion, and Trammell Crow's stake is about half the total, or $1.5 billion, said a person close to the company.
''We are not immune from having certain projects impacted in other areas of the country, but for us the concentration of underperforming properties was clearly here in the Southwest,'' said Robert A. Whitman, chief financial officer of Trammell Crow, which is based in Dallas.
Douglas A. Tibbetts, president of Equitable Real Estate Investment Management Inc., in Atlanta, said, ''We saw several months ago some stabilization in the Southwest markets and had an interest in taking a major position in the recovery.''
Analysts cautioned that the latest deal, although a good sign for Trammell Crow, did not mark a shift in investors' views on the nation's generally overbuilt commercial real-estate markets. Weakening occupancy and lease rates have lowered commercial property values in many regions, most recently in the Northeast.
In effect, the deal with Equitable enables Trammell Crow to convert equity in some of its most valuable industrial properties, built in the early 1980's, into cash to repay past-due and nonperforming loans on 67 properties built in the mid-to-late 1980's.
 
Refinancing Loans
Mr. Whitman said Crow was using $350 million from Equitable to refinance original loans with interest rates averaging 11.3 percent on 90 properties built in the early 1980's. The growing equity from those 90 properties is being used as collateral for an additional $106 million from Equitable that was paid to lenders on the 67 properties that were behind on debt payments.
In addition to the 10-year mortgage on the 157 properties, Equitable also received rights to a percentage of cash flow and profits generated by the properties. Most are in Texas, Arizona and Colorado.
None of the dozen banks involved in the agreement was forced to record a loss as a result of the restructuring, Mr. Whitman said. Citicorp is Crow's largest bank lender. Some insurance companies, which held mortgages on Crow properties built in the early 1980's, agreed to waive rights to pre-payment penalties in exchange for taking full payment on the unpaid portions of the mortgages.
People familiar with terms of the transaction said that although Trammell Crow had traded away a portion of its equity to Equitable, it had increased its equity position by roughly the same amount in properties for which bank debts were reduced.
Over all, 17 million square feet of space was involved, with 70 percent of it in warehouses and other industrial property. The other properties included about 20 percent in retail space and 10 percent in office projects.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LUV (NYSE) (85%); EQM (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (96%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (96%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (96%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (96%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (96%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: TRAMMELL CROW CO (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRAMMELL CROW CO; EQUITABLE LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY OF THE US

GEOGRAPHIC: ;TEXAS

SUBJECT: FINANCES; REAL ESTATE REAL ESTATE (95%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); INSURANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (78%); LIFE INSURANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); PENSION FUNDS (70%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (70%); 

PERSON: HAYES, THOMAS C MARGARET C WHITMAN (53%); BURKE W WHITMAN (53%); BURKE W WHITMAN (53%); MARGARET C WHITMAN (53%); 



85 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 10, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 626 words

HEADLINE: Dow Off Only 6.76 Despite Tokyo's Plunge

BYLINE: By ROBERT J. COLE

 BODY:
After shaking off another sharp decline in the Tokyo stock market, stock prices on the New York Stock Exchange bounced back yesterday in slow trading, with the Dow Jones industrial average ending the day at 2,700.45, down 6.76 points.
Volume fell to 124.4 million shares, the fourth-lowest level of the year, with 434 issues advancing and 1,122 issues declining.
At around 9:30 A.M., the Dow was down 38.52 points, to 2,668.69, because of the sharp drop in the Japanese market.
''The market made a nice comeback,'' said Peter G. Grennan, head of stock index futures trading for Shearson Lehman Hutton. 
Part of the recovery, he said, came from pension-fund investments placed at the start of the second quarter. More importantly, he said, ''as each week goes by and the economy improves, our market looks more attractive'' than many leading foreign markets.
One indication that the economy was mending slowly came from the National Association of Purchasing Management, which said that its index of economic activity rose to 48.8 percent in March, an improvement but still under the 50 percent level that would mean real expansion.
Unlike Japan, Mr. Grennan said, ''our market is not the one to sell and raise cash.''
 
Rumors in Japan
Rumors published in Tokyo by Japan's leading business newspaper, Nihon Keizai Shimbun, helped unsettle the Japanese market. The report suggested that some of the biggest life insurance companies in Japan might sell huge blocks of stock in American companies. In spite of denials by the Government, analysts said they expected Japanese investors to move money out of stocks and into bonds anyway.
In a continuing sign that American investors expect further declines in Tokyo, ''put'' warrants (or rights to buy a particular stock at a specified price in the future) on the American Stock Exchange advanced in heavy trading. And Japanese stocks traded here fell, including Mitsui, which dropped 6 3/4, to 104 1/2, and Tokio Marine, down 1 1/2, to 42 1/8, both on the over-the-counter market.
Most industry groups showed weakness, including gold, banking, insurance, chemicals, machinery and stockbrokers. Among the stronger groups were the beverage stocks and some computer stocks. Oil issues were mixed.
Compaq Computer, one of the most widely followed computer stocks, rose 2 1/8, to 97 5/8, after it announced a faster controller device. But in a sign of how nervous investors are about the continuing trend toward weak profits reports, Network Equipment Technologies plunged 6 3/8, to 23 1/2, with 1.75 million shares trading after the maker of advanced communications products said it expected a drop in fourth-quarter earnings.
Among the oil issues, Unocal rose 1 3/4, to 33 5/8, after Moody's Investors Service upgraded its debt while British Petroleum fell 1 3/4, to 63.
 
Slide in Transportation
The Dow transportation stocks slid 4.26 points, to 1178.88, with Burlington Northern down 1, to 36, in brisk trading, the only transportation issue to change as much as a point.
Amax, the metals company, headed the Big Board's most active list, rising 1/2, to 28 1/4, on 2.04 million shares. Amax has said it does not know why its stock is so active but Wall Street professionals have repeatedly mentioned takeover rumors.
Motorola rose 1, to 66, in heavy trading after a court lifted an injunction issued in a patent-infringement case involving Hitachi of Japan. Pfizer fell 1 5/8, to 59, on 1.09 million shares, in continued investor concern over the liability claims arising out of its Shiley heart valve.
Among other leading market averages, the Amex market-value index fell 2.38, to 359.37; the Standard & Poor's 500 fell 1.24, to 338.70, and the Nasdaq composite fell 2.36, to 433.18.

GRAPHIC: Favorite Stocks chart

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8766 (TSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (54%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (54%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); TOKIO MARINE HOLDINGS INC (54%); NYSE MKT LLC (53%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK EXCHANGES (92%); STOCK INDEXES (92%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CHEMICALS (89%); BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); INSURANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); FUTURES (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); SECURITIES BROKERS (72%); PENSION FUNDS (69%); LIFE INSURANCE (64%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (60%); 

PERSON: PETER G GRENNAN (58%); 



86 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 16, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 230 words

HEADLINE: BRIEFS

 BODY:

Debt
* Associates Corp. of North America, New York, is offering $250 million in 9 1/8 percent notes due in 2000 at various prices through Salomon Brothers Inc. The notes are rated Aa-3 by Moody's Investors Service and AA-by Standard & Poor's Corp.
 
Common Stock
* Offshore Pipelines Inc., Houston, has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for an initial public offering of 3.6 million common shares through Prudential-Bache Capital Funding.
* Peerless Productions Ltd., Aventura, Fla., is making an initial public offering of 350,000 units at $6 a unit through Jersey Capital Markets Group Inc. The units consist of 6 common shares and 6 redeemable common-stock purchase warrants. 
 
Ratings
* Control Data Corp.'s senior debt rating has been increased to BB-, from CCC+, by S.& P. The company is based in Minneapolis.
* Fleet/Norstar Financial Group's senior debt rating has been lowered to A+, from AA-, by S.&P. The company is based in Providence, R.I.
* Phillips Petroleum Co.'s senior long-term debt rating has been increased to Baa-1, from Baa-2, and the company's subordinated debt rating to Baa-2, from Baa-3, by Moody's. The company is based in Bartlesville, Okla.
* Star Cablevision Group's senior subordinated debenture rating has been lowered to CCC, from B-, by S.& P. The cable system operator is based in Fond du Lac, Wis.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ARB (NYSE) (70%); COP (NYSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (93%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (72%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (72%); SIC1623 WATER, SEWER, PIPELINE, & COMMUNICATIONS & POWER LINE CONSTRUCTION (72%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (70%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (70%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (70%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (70%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (70%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (69%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (69%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (69%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (69%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (69%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (69%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (69%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (69%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (69%); 

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (78%); 

STATE: OKLAHOMA, USA (78%); WISCONSIN, USA (78%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (76%); MINNESOTA, USA (53%); 

CITY: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATES CORP OF NORTH AMERICA (93%); SALOMON BROTHERS INC (91%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (72%); OFFSHORE PIPELINES INC (72%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (72%); CAPITAL MARKETS GROUP INC (71%); ARBITRON INC (70%); CERIDIAN CORP (70%); CONOCOPHILLIPS (69%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS COMMON STOCK (91%); DEBT NOTES (90%); STOCK OFFERINGS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (79%); BONDS (79%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (77%); CABLE INDUSTRY (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (71%); SUBSCRIPTION WARRANTS (69%); 



87 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 3, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 21, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 261 words

HEADLINE: Pension Fund Rating Shift

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO, Calif., April 2

 BODY:
The California Public Employees Retirement Systems, considered by some to be the nation's most influential pension fund, said today that it had started a system to evaluate corporate performance that will help it with investment decisions.
The fund, also known as Calpers, is the nation's largest public pension fund, with $56 billion in assets. 
''No one has a crystal ball, and this is not a magic key to prosperity,'' said Gray Davis, California State Controller and a Calpers trustee. ''But it offers a rational, objective and meaningful analysis of how a company is performing alongside its competitors.''
The new rating system evaluates three key areas - stock returns, fundamental economic performance and corporate governance - and is being used to review Calper's investment portfolio, Mr. Davis told a meeting of the Council of Institutional Investors in Washington.
The fund said it would initially rate companies in which Calpers has investments and then broaden the evaluations to other corporations.
Calpers is the first pension fund to put into effect an objective monitoring system for comparing companies within an industry, a spokesman for Mr. Davis said.
The system evaluates portfolio holdings for short- and long-term stock returns and five-year measurements of return on investment. It also factors in operating margins, asset turnover, and cash flow-asset ratios.
The plan provides institutional investors a method to evaluate current proxy proposals, said Mr. Davis, who is also co-chairman of the Council of Institutional Investors.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (95%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); 

CITY: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CALIFORNIA PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM (95%); CALIFORNIA PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: CALIFORNIA PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; INSTITUTIONAL INVESTORS; CORPORATIONS PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (92%); PENSION FUNDS (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (78%); CASH FLOW (77%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); BONDS (72%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%); 

PERSON: GRAY DAVIS (91%); 



88 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1585 words

HEADLINE: SENATORS APPROVE CLEAN AIR MEASURE BY A VOTE OF 89-11

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHABECOFF, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 3

 BODY:
After a decade-long stalemate over clean-air legislation, the Senate passed a compromise bill tonight intended to reduce acid rain, urban smog and toxic chemicals in the air. The vote was 89 to 11.
The bill, crafted in nearly a month of closed negotiations between White House aides and Senate leaders, met President Bush's demand for a less costly solution to the nation's clean air problems than the initial Senate plan.
It came after the Senate narrowly beat back a number of challenges in recent days that would have toughened the measure and raised the cost of pollution control.
The measure, the first attempt to toughen air pollution legislation since the 1970 Clean Air Act was amended in 1977, would require auto makers, chemical manufacturers and coal-fired power plants to make substantial investments in equipment and processes to lower pollution. The bill is likely to add more than $20 billion a year to the estimated $33 billion cost of meeting current pollution laws, according to Administration estimates. 
 
Senate Gave Way to Bush
In arriving at the compromise, the Senate leadership acquiesced to Mr. Bush on several points. These included less stringent requirements for reducing tailpipe emissions and for controlling toxic chemicals in the air.
The full House of Representatives has yet to take up a clean air bill. The one being drafted in committee would impose stricter controls than the Senate measure in some areas.
Both industry and environmentalists remain dissatisfied with crucial elements of the Senate compromise.
Industry contends that the costs are still too high and will result in lost business and jobs. Electric utilities say that scientists have not confirmed acid rain as the cause of serious damage and that rates charged to customers will soar as a result of the new requirements. Chemical companies have said huge costs will be borne to achieve relatively small advances in protecting public health. And car makers insist that the law will require technology that has not yet been developed.
But by lowering the cost of the new clean air requirements, the compromise bill met some of the demands of industry, which had contended that the original Senate bill would have imposed excessive costs on their operations. The Bush Administration estimated that the initial Senate bill would have cost $42 billion, but Democratic and some Republican lawmakers said the estimate was too high.
 
Environmentalists Not Satisfied
Environmentalists complain that the changes in the law will be inadequate to protect public health and the environment. But the compromise retained many of the elements sought by them, including substantial reductions in the pollution that leads to acid rain.
In the House, the Energy and Commerce Committee is currently writing a somewhat different bill to amend the current law.
Like the Senate bill, the House measure would also address acid rain, smog and toxic air pollution. But the legislation emerging from the House committee would be more stringent than the Senate version in several ways.
For example, the House would require the Environmental Protection Agency to impose a plan for achieving air quality standards in areas where state governments are unable or unwilling to do so. This provision was part of the initial Senate proposal that was eliminated in the compromise between the Senate and the White House.
The House committee may complete its work on the bill this week. House leaders say action on the floor could take place later this month or early next month. Once the House endorses its own clean air measure, the differences with the Senate will be worked out by House and Senate conferees.
 
Mitchell Praises Measure
The Senate majority leader, George J. Mitchell of Maine, a leading Congressional advocate of a more stringent clean air measure for over a decade, said the bill passed today would be ''a dramatic expansion of current law.''
''This is a very strong bill,'' Senator Mitchell said.
Senator Robert C. Byrd of West Virginia, a former Democratic leader, said that he voted against the bill because it did not include provisions for coal miners who would lose their jobs because of the measure's acid rain provisions. ''I cannot vote for legislation that can bring economic ruin to communities throughout the Appalachian region and the Midwest,'' he said.
The debate in the Senate divided regions of the country that would be affected in different ways by changes in the law. Areas that would bear most of the burden of cleaning up acid rain, particularly in the Midwest and Appalachia, contended they were being unfairly asked to bear all the cost of solving a national problem. Areas with concentrations of chemical plants complained that the costs imposed by the new provisions would require some of those plants to close.
While President Bush's commitment to a stronger clean air law opened a path out of the long legislative deadlock, his opposition to the original Senate bill as too expensive had threatened to undermine Congressional efforts. But White House aides and Senate leaders, headed by Mr. Mitchell, crafted a compromise agreement after nearly a month of intense negotiations.
The Senate bill, like the legislation being drafted in the House, addresses the three unsolved problems that continue to afflict much of the nation: acid rain, smog, and toxic chemicals in the air.
Acid Rain. The Senate bill would require 111 coal-fired power plants, most of them in the Midwest, to reduce sulfur dioxide emissions by a total of 10 million tons in two stages. Sulfur dioxide is the principal component of acid rain. The requirement would cut current sulfur emissions by about 50 percent.
Smog. More than 100 major cities are still not in compliance with the requirements of the Clean Air Act of 1970 for reducing the pollution that causes urban smog. The original 1975 deadline for compliance has been extended twice by Congress.
This legislation would again provide for an extension depending on the seriousness of the problem in the individual cities. Los Angeles, with the most extreme problem, would get an additional 20 years. New York, Houston, Chicago, Philadelphia, Baltimore, Milwaukee, San Diego and Hartford would have 15 years to comply. Other areas would have 5 or 10 years.
Cars in the most polluted cities would be required to burn reformulated gasoline that emits less pollution for each gallon used.
In a change from the current law, cities would be required to make annual reductions in smog levels - 4 percent a year for the first six years and then 3 percent a year until they are compliance. But the compromise agreement with the White House would waive the 3 percent a year reduction indefinitely if the cost of achieving the levels was excessive.
Airborne Chemicals. While the original bill required the Environmental Protection Agency to control toxic chemicals in the air so as not to pose a threat to public health, only seven such chemicals have been regulated in the last 20 years. The Senate bill would require all major sources of pollution of some 200 chemicals to install the ''maximum available control technology'' to reduce such pollution. If there is still a large health risk after the controls are installed, additional measures might be required.
Among the other provisions of the Senate bill is a requirement that all use of chlorofluorcarbons, chemicals that scientists say are causing the destruction of ozone in the upper atmosphere be phased out by 2000. Atmospheric ozone protects the earth from harmful ultraviolet radiation from the sun. 11 Senators Voted No These are the Senators who voted against the legislation tonight:
 
Robert C. Byrd, Democrat of West Virginia
Alan J. Dixon, Democrat of Illinois
Jake Garn, Republican of Utah
John Glenn, Democrat of Ohio
Jesse Helms, Republican of North Carolina
James A. McClure, Republican of Idaho
Don Nickles, Republican of Oklahoma
John D. Rockefeller 4th, Democrat of West Virginia
Paul Simon, Democrat of Illinois
Steve Symms, Republican of Idaho
Malcolm Wallop, Republican of Wyoming Fuel Efficiency Backed In a related development today, the Senate Commerce Committee approved by a 14 to 4 vote, a requirement to require all automobiles achieve a fuel efficiency of at least 40 miles a gallon by the end of the century as a means of reducing carbon dioxide emissions. Carbon dioxide from the burning of fossil fuels is accumulating in the atmosphere and, many scientists say, will cause a substantial warming of the earth in the next century by absorbing radiation from the sun.
The fuel effiency provision had been removed from the Senate clean air bill in negotiations with the White House. Daniel Becker, a Washington representative of the Sierra Club, said before tonight's Senate vote that the provision was the most important immediate step that Congress could take to address global warming.
David Hawkins, a lawyer for the Natural Resources Defense Fund who was an assistant administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency in the Carter Administration, said before the vote that environmentalists were not asking Senators to vote for or against the clean air legislation. He complained that ''skilled vested interests'' had weakened the bill to the point where it would not meet the nation's air quality needs in the future. The best hope of adequate legislation would come on the floor of the House, Mr. Hawkins said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: CLEAN AIR ACT OF 1970

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BUSH ADMINISTRATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; MIDWESTERN STATES (US)

SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FINANCES; AUTOMOBILES; SMOG; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; SULFUR DIOXIDE; HAZARDOUS AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES; CHLOROFLUOROCARBONS; OZONE; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; URBAN AREAS; CHEMICALS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; COAL; ACID RAIN AIR QUALITY REGULATION (94%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (92%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (91%); SMOG (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); AIR QUALITY (90%); ACID RAIN (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CHEMICALS (89%); CHEMICALS MFG (89%); AIR POLLUTION (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (88%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (88%); AUTOMAKERS (88%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (88%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (88%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (78%); CHEMICALS REGULATION & POLICY (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (74%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (73%); POWER PLANTS (73%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (64%); 

PERSON: SHABECOFF, PHILIP; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 



89 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1277 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

International A3-13
 
A delegation of Lithuanians conferred with President Gorbachev's closest political ally amid signs that both sides want to end the impasse created after the Baltic republic declared its independence last month. Page A1
 
News analysis: Foreign Minister Eduard A. Shevardnadze arrived in Washington for meetings with President Bush and Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d, and Administration officials said he faces some tough talk on Lithuania this week. A1
 
Nothing but nice things to say of Gorbachev A8
 
U.S. urged to emphasize economic strength A5
 
East Germany's sluggish work ethic is causing West German businesses to rethink how much they will benefit from reunification. A1
 
East German parties aiming for a cabinet by April 15 A8
 
Bulgaria adopts election laws and names leader A9
 
American and Japanese officials said they had reached a basic agreement to allow foreign producers to compete for the satellite business of the Japanese Government and its public-sector entities. D1 
 
China has made new demands on the U.S. in discussing terms for the release of the dissident Fang Lizhi, American officials said. Mr. Fang is living in the American Embassy in Beijing. A12
 
Chinese protest leader escapes to the West A13
 
34 killed in bomb blast at Hindu rite in Punjab A3
 
News analysis: The Iraqi leader, Saddam Hussein, who has locked horns anew with Israel and with the Western powers that tacitly supported his war against Iran, is casting himself as the Arab world's defender. A6
 
Israel puts a satellite in orbit a day after threat by Iraqis A6
 
Lebanon's currency hits all-time low A7
 
A group of alienated young Britons who feel passed over by the Thatcher era seem to have found a target for their anger and despair in an unpopular new Government tax. A3
 
The South African Government began deploying army troops in Natal's strife-torn black townships as Nelson Mandela and some other black leaders voiced misgivings but not outright objections over the move. A10
 
Rehoboth journal: Fearful tribe raises flag of freedom A4
 
House approves special aid for Nicaragua and Panama A10
 
Central American leaders call for demobilization of contras A10
 
Cubans parade hardware to jam TV Marti A13
 
National A14-23, B5
 
A compromise clean air bill was passed by the Senate by a vote of 89 to 11. Following a decade of legislative stalemate, the bill is intended to reduce acid rain, urban smog and toxic chemicals in the air. A1
 
The salvagers of a sunken ship thought that their dream of fabulous riches had come true last summer. But now, several insurance companies are trying to prove they own a big piece of that dream. A1
 
The vulnerability of technology to intruders operating beyond American borders and laws came into question as three Australians were charged with tampering with computers in the United States and Australia. A1
 
The residents of Ponca City, Okla., an oil-refinery city, counted their sorrows as well as their riches after reaching one of the largest settlements ever recorded in a lawsuit over environmental contamination. A14
 
Concern abates as oil in river passes Pittsburgh A15
 
Vermont leader will not run again A14
 
A tough stance on the death penalty has become a central focus of campaigns across the country. Candidates are vowing that they would be more vigorous than their opponents in applying the death penalty. A16
 
The ''Stealth'' fighter plane was hampered by pilot error and missed a critical target on its first combat mission in Panama, Pentagon officials said as they provided the first public pictures of the aircraft. B5
 
The judge in the Iran-contra trial of John M. Poindexter angrily ordered the jury sequestered during its deliberations after two jurors reported contacts with the press. A20
 
New AIDS experiments stir hope and wariness A22
 
Study shows that antiviral drug aids children with Chicken Pox A23
 
U.N.L.V. journal: Campus put on the map by a team A14
 
Regional B1-4
 
New York State's highest court ruled that the state must pay welfare recipients a monthly shelter allowance that bears ''a reasonable relation'' to the cost of their housing. A1
 
Cuomo and G.O.P. sketching accord on an income-tax cut B2
 
Revenue steps proposed to balance Connecticut's budget B2
 
Imelda Marcos's rackeetering trial began in a Federal courthouse in Manhattan with raucous and contentious opening statements by the prosecution and defense. A1
 
Robert Golub was found guilty of second-degree murder in the death of 13-year-old Kelly Ann Tinyes, a year after the girl's battered and mutilated body was found in a sleeping bag in his family's basement in Valley Stream. B1
 
Music played as police found bodies in 1971 B2
 
The owner of the building that housed the Happy Land Social Club surrendered on a year-old arrest warrant as the Dinkins administration said it would padlock 38 social clubs operating illegally. B1
 
Schools Chancellor Fernandez is moving to require all public schools in New York City to prepare budgets for public scrutiny and is setting tougher standards for hiring district business managers. B1
 
Voting-machines lobbyist says official sought a bribe B3
 
Liquor and cigarette advertisements aimed at blacks are being whitewashed in Harlem by the pastor of the Abyssinian Baptist Church, and advertising companies are putting up public service ads in their place. B1
 
Twin sisters accused of bilking blind man B3
 
Business Digest D1
 
The Living Section
 
Food
 
At the family table, a tale of freedom C1
 
Wine Talk C1
 
Imagine! A seder without gefilte fish C6
 
Living
 
From Calvin Klein, winning simplicity C1
 
Metropolitan Diary C2
 
Arts/Entertainment
 
The stress of being an author and married to Salman Rushdie C17
 
From nobody to somebody in art C17
 
Met Opera names summer arts presenter C14
 
Theater: Soviet company's ''King Lear'' C17
 
Music: Bach sung in concert, not church C13
 
Word and Image: Biography of Beauvoir C21
 
Book Notes C21
 
Dispute over PEN gala C22
 
Sports
 
Baseball: Mattingly wants new deal B9
 
Basketball: Knicks top Cavaliers B9
 
College rules changes B10
 
Column: Berkow on Runnin' Rebels' victory B9
 
Hockey: Islanders hope LaFontaine stays healthy B9
 
Gartner sparks Ranger offense B9
 
Devils' playoff spot is no surprise this time B10
 
Education
 
Lessons B6
 
In U.S. school spending, the question is how much B7
 
Obituaries B8
 
Arthur A. Houghton Jr., ex-president of Steuben Glass
 
Editorials/Letters/Op-Ed
 
Editorials A24
 
Radical reforms in Moscow
 
Relief for the AIDS disaster
 
Topics: Savage and racism
 
Letters A24
 
Russell Baker: Paralyzing polls A25
 
Garrison Keillor: Thanks for attacking the N.E.A. A25
 
John J. Shanahan and Thomas S. DeLuca Jr.: Home pork A25

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); LITHUANIA (93%); ISRAEL (92%); CHINA (92%); IRAQ (92%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (90%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); PANAMA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); NICARAGUA (79%); LEBANON (79%); BULGARIA (78%); BALTIC STATES (73%); CENTRAL AMERICA (72%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (70%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (70%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); APPROVALS (76%); LEGISLATION (73%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (73%); ELECTION LAW (73%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (72%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (72%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (69%); ETHICS (69%); INSURANCE (67%); ARMIES (67%); BOMBINGS (65%); AIR QUALITY (63%); ARMED FORCES (61%); SMOG (60%); ACID RAIN (50%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (50%); 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 



90 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 7, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 326 words

HEADLINE: Lebanon's Currency Hits All-Time Low; Mediation Bid Ends

BYLINE: By IHSAN A. HIJAZI, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BEIRUT, Lebanon, April 3

 BODY:
Lebanese saw the value of their money sink to a new low today as mediators trying to end more than two months of Christian fighting ended their mission without success.
The Lebanese pound dropped on the free market here in relation to the United States dollar and other foreign currencies, selling at 585 pounds to $1. This compares with 556 to $1 at the end of last week. 
''The fluctuation in the value of our national currency is political, not economic,'' an official at the central bank in West Beirut said. The informant, who declined to be further identified, argued that once the political and security situation stabilizes, ''so will the rate of our pound.''
The currency has been dropping ever since civil strife broke out in Lebanon 15 years ago. But the latest losses were seen as a reaction to the bitter fighting since the end of January between Christian army troops and rival militiamen who are also Christians.
The Lebanese pound's losses coincided with an announcement by a three-man committee that it had concluded its shuttle between the adversaries - Gen. Michel Aoun, who commands the army, and Samir Geagea, head of the Lebanese Forces militia.
The announcement did not say what results the two Maronite Catholic monks and a lawyer had achieved. It said a report has been submitted to Patriarch Nasrallah Butros Sfair, the head of the Maronite church, and that it is up to him to determine the next step.
The cleric was reported to be planning to summon leaders of the sect, the largest Christian group in lebanon, to a special meeting to discuss the sharpening crisis. General Aoun and Mr. Geagea are both Maronites.
Mr. Geagea today spelled out his stand unequivocally, rejecting General Aoun's claim to power and supporting President Elias Hrawi. He said the way to a solution in Lebanon is to recognize President Hrawi, who is based in West Beirut and supported by the Syrians.
LAST GRAF CAN BITE IN PART OR WHOLE.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: LEBANON (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: BEIRUT, LEBANON (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LEBANON

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); CIVIL WAR (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); RELIGION (78%); MEN (77%); ARMIES (74%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); ARMED FORCES (67%); 

PERSON: HIJAZI, IHSAN A MICHEL AOUN (55%); 



91 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 8, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: Upheaval in the East;
Nothing but Nice Things to Say of Gorbachev

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, April 3

 BODY:
A week after the Kremlin barred foreign correspondents from the crisis in Lithuania, they were invited today to get their news directly from the new office of the presidential press secretary and its inaugural occupant, Arkady Maslennikov.
Waiting in an office just past the the Spassky gate of the Kremlin, Mr. Maslennikov turned out to be a smiling, confident, garrulous practitioner of the art of making a President sound omniscient and irreplaceable.
This is an art labored at endlessly inside the Washington Beltway but long neglected here across centuries of such negative image making as Ivan the Terrible and Brezhnev the Stagnant.
The creation of the spokesman's post was further evidence of President Mikhail S. Gorbachev's intention to cut a new executive swath for himself clear of many of Communism's traditional Kremlin shadows. 
 
The Human Touch
''All sides of the life of the country - political, economic, cultural, social - are included in the sphere of President Gorbachev's attention,'' the 58-year-old former journalist was soon declaiming of his boss.
He disclosed how Mr. Gorbachev has his ranking ministers seeing not only to the failing economy and the Lithuanian crisis, but also to the police confiscation and slaughter of that poor farmer's five pregnant milk cows that angered people so the other day in the north Caucasus and to those earnest army veterans proposing still another memorial medal for the nation.
The latter is the stuff of human interest stories, and Mr. Maslennikov appeared well aware that Mr. Gorbachev, for all his dynamic chase after a brighter national future, is often criticized for being aloof from the people. The spokesman also showed the requisite knack for never allowing his client to be less than galvanic in any single sentence.
''If necessary, the President will create operative groups for leadership and coordination of the activities of various bodies of power in various different directions,'' Mr. Maslennikov said, in a typical answer to one question about the new powers recently enacted for Mr. Gorbachev.
Lest anyone imagine a napping President in the Kremlin, he also took care to describe ''minimal differences and maximal coordination of forces'' under Mr. Gorbachev's baton as participants at one presidential meeting ''concentrated their attention on the questions of the perfection and renewal of the Soviet federation.''
Mr. Maslennikov, an economist by education who worked more than 20 years as an editor and correspondent for Pravda, the Communist Party newspaper, was fatalistic about the notion of a ''first 100 days'' for Mr. Gorbachev's new presidency, noting that a honeymoon from criticism is something unaimaginable in these chaotic days in the nation.
''Whatever you do those 100 days are going to pass anyway,'' he said. ''At least that's the way I see it.'' The press secretary was Pravda's London correspondent when he first met the future President in 1984 when Mr. Gorbachev visited the British capital as party secretary and drew one of his early favorable bursts of Western publicity as the Communist most likely.
Last summer, Mr. Gorbachev had him installed as the press spokesman at the Supreme Soviet, or parliament, and this week he promoted him, an ascension reflected in the spokesman's self-confidence, in which he was even willing to plead ignorance and stare unapologetically back at a questioner.
''I don't know of any big events in the next two or three days,'' he said, speaking like the spokesman of a government that has such a daily diet of crises that manufacturing news, as in the current doldrums reported from Washington, can only seem a distant luxury.
 
Salary? 'I Don't Know'
''I don't know what his salary is,'' he answered another questioner, not bothering to say he would get back with an answer.
''From the time I have worked with President Gorbachev I have not noticed any health problems,'' he replied to another of the staples of Western presidential press coverage slowly seeping within Moscow's executive beltway.
''I think our President is a physically strong man, strong enough to deal with the nation''s responsibilities,'' he said, the West-Wing-like forthrightness seeming to grow with each reply.
By the end of the new press secretary's hourlong debut, none of the correspondents were complaining about being thrown out of Lithuania. They crowded around smiling at him, begging further tidbits and getting his office phone number and the name of his secretary, Yelena Gregorievna Bobish, the better to begin seeking luncheon dates.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The new Soviet press secretary, Arkady Maslennikov, holding his first news conference yesterday. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); LITHUANIA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; GOVERNMENT INFORMATION POLICIES; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT POLITICS (89%); JOURNALISM (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); WRITERS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); ARMIES (68%); VETERANS (64%); 

PERSON: GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; CLINES, FRANCIS X; MASLENNIKOV, ARKADY MIKHAIL S GORBACHEV (96%); ARKADY MASLENNIKOV (78%); 



92 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: China Ties New Demand to Dissident's Fate

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 3

 BODY:
Stiffening resistance to American efforts to free the dissident Fang Lizhi, China has made new demands on the United States in discussing terms for his release, American officials said today.
The United States tried again recently to arrange the release of Mr. Fang, who has taken refuge at the American Embassy in Beijing, but China still refuses to let him leave the country, the officials said.
Indeed, they said, after the United States met one of China's original conditions for Mr. Fang's release, allowing the resumption of some World Bank loans, China issued another demand: that the United States resume exports of military goods and high-technology products to China.
State Department and White House officials said they saw no prospect that Mr. Fang would leave the Embassy in the near future because Chinese authorities were tightening their political control over the country to prevent protests and demonstrations as several important anniversaries approach. 
 
'He Is Not Isolated'
Chinese authorities have demanded that Mr. Fang write an ''admission of guilt,'' acknowledging that he helped organize the demonstrations in Tiananmen Square in May and June last year. American officials said Mr. Fang was unlikely to admit guilt now after having railed against the Chinese Communist Party, complaining of arbitrary, dictatorial rule, corruption and nepotism for several decades.
Mr. Fang, an astrophysicist, continues his work and study at the American Embassy and is able to correspond with scientists all over the world, Administration officials said. ''He is not isolated,'' one official said.
Another American official said of the Chinese: ''It's in their interest to resolve the case, to regain the confidence of intellectuals in China, to gain the respect of the world community, to revitalize scientific exchanges with the outside world and to improve bilateral relations with the United States.''
A program assistant at the National Academy of Sciences, Derek S. Wilson, said the Academy suspended scholarly exchanges with China after the Tiananmen Square crackdown. Most of the programs are still suspended, although the Academy has sent several social scientists back to China in the last few months, he said. Chinese Deported by U.S. On a separate matter, Administration officials confirmed today that President Bush had not issued an executive order to protect Chinese students in the United States, even though he says repeatedly that he has issued such an order.
Administration officials said the difference between an executive order and the President's action was one of semantics, not policy.
The term ''executive order'' refers specifically to a Presidential proclamation with the force of law published in the Federal Register. On Nov. 30, when he vetoed a bill to allow Chinese students to remain in the United States, Mr. Bush said he had directed the Attorney General to ''insure that no nationals from the People's Republic of China be deported against their will.''
Mr. Bush's directive has not been published in the Federal Register, does not have the force of law, can be changed without public notice and protects only those Chinese who were ''present in the United States on June 5, 1989.''
Chinese who took part in the Tiananmen Square demonstrations in early June were obviously not in the United States at that time. Immigration lawyers said the Immigration and Naturalization Service had arrested, detained and deported some Chinese who supported the student demonstrators, came to the United States and sought political asylum after June 5.
 
Assertions on Executive Order
Representative Nancy Pelosi, Democrat of California, the author of the bill vetoed by Mr. Bush, said he should issue a formal executive order if he truly has no intention of sending Chinese students back to China.
In a television interview broadcast by NBC News on Feb. 28, Mr. Bush bristled at criticism of his China policy. ''I put into effect an executive order that's broader than the legislation that was so touted,'' he said.
Likewise, in a news conference on March 13, Mr. Bush said, ''The approach I took, accomplishing something by executive order that the Congress wanted to do dramatically later on through legislation, was the proper approach.''
In a handwritten letter to Senator Connie Mack, Republican of Florida, on Jan. 24, Mr. Bush said, ''The executive order, in my view, protects the Presidency and does better by the students.''
But White House and State Department officials confirmed that Mr. Bush had not issued an executive order. Asked why the President continually boasted of having issued an executive order, Douglas A. Davidson, a White House spokesman, said: ''He is the executive, and he ordered it. These distinctions are semantic. It has the same effect. It doesn't really matter how it's done, by a Presidential memorandum, directive or executive order.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS (69%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); TAIWAN (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

COMPANY: WORLD BANK (69%); AMERICAN EMBASSY (59%); NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (57%); WHITE HOUSE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA

SUBJECT: DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (75%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); VETO (74%); FOREIGN POLICY (74%); POLITICS (73%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); CORRUPTION (68%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); RIOTS (68%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (65%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (65%); DEPORTATION (60%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (55%); 

PERSON: FANG LIZHI; PEAR, ROBERT GEORGE W BUSH (54%); 



93 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: Besieged Vermont Governor Rules Out Race for 4th Term

BYLINE: By FOX BUTTERFIELD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BOSTON, April 3

 BODY:
Vermont's Governor, Madeleine M. Kunin, faced with budget problems and a backlash against a tough environmental planning law, announced today that she would not seek a fourth two-year term this fall.
The decision by Mrs. Kunin, a Democrat, puts her predecessor, Richard A. Snelling, in a strong position to regain the governorship. Mr. Snelling is currently the only Republican in the race.
Mrs. Kunin is the latest of several Northeast governors to be hurt by budgetary problems after a downturn in the region's economy. Michael S. Dukakis of Massachusetts and William A. O'Neill of Connecticut, both Democrats, have announced that they would not seek re-election, in part because of deficits and the political repercussions of tax increases they proposed. 
Gov. Mario M. Cuomo of New York has also come under increasing criticism for his inability to stop the flood of red ink in Albany, although he does not appear to be in any danger of losing his seat this year.
 
Having It All
Mrs. Kunin, who is 56 years old and the first woman to serve as Governor of Vermont, made her announcement in Vermont's capital, Montpelier.
In explaining her decision, the Governor said in a telephone interview that ''we have a climate today that says you can have it all,'' a climate fostered by an Administration in Washington that says ''you can have reduced taxes or no tax increase without losing anything.''
''Unfortunately, governors can't play by these rules if you face the budget realistically,'' Mrs. Kunin added. ''So there is bound to be some discontent.''
Garrison Nelson, a professor of political science at the Unversity of Vermont, called Mrs. Kunin's decision ''a smart move for her personally.''
He said he had learned of recent private opinion polls, taken by both the Governor and by Mr. Snelling's campaign office, indicating that Mrs. Kunin had fallen behind him in the governor's race.
Professor Nelson said that Mrs. Kunin had ''received a lot of unnecessary abuse'' in the past few weeks because of debate over how to handle the budget and a stringent state land use planning law she had helped to push through. The law requires towns to go through a rigorous planning process before approving new development that its critics say would diminish the power of communities to control their own growth.
 
Likely Democratic Hopefuls
The two most likely Democratic candidates for Governor are Lieut. Gov. Howard Dean and Peter Welch, a former State Senator. Both are believed to face difficulty against Mr. Snelling. Mr. Dean is not well known, and Mr. Welch is regarded as more liberal than most Vermonters.
But Mark Gearan, the executive director of the Democratic Governors Association, predicted that Mr. Snelling, who held the governor's office for four terms, could be easily beaten. ''Snelling is a has-been,'' Mr. Gearan said. In 1986, the last time he ran for office, challenging Senator Patrick J. Leahy, a Democrat, Mr. Snelling won only 10 of the state's 250 towns, Mr. Gearan said.
During her three terms in office, Mrs. Kunin closed a budget deficit she inherited from Mr. Snelling and increased state aid to education and child care.
But to finance her new programs Mrs. Kunin greatly expanded state spending. The approach appeared to work in the mid- to late-1980's, when Vermont was enjoying prosperity. But in the last two years the state has been faced with declining revenue in downturn similar to what is happening elsewhere in New England and in New York State, though on a smaller scale.
Mrs. Kunin has apparently been able to head off a deficit for this fiscal year, ending in June, through a series of budget cuts. But she has asked for tax increases to meet an expected shortfall for the fiscal year 1991.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Madeleine M. Kunin acknowledging an ovation after she announced yesterday that she would not seek another term. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: VERMONT, USA (97%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: MONTPELIER, VT, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;VERMONT

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (US); ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION BUDGETS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); POLITICS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); APPROVALS (73%); LAND USE PLANNING (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (65%); 

PERSON: KUNIN, MADELEINE M (GOV); SNELLING, RICHARD A; BUTTERFIELD, FOX PETER WELCH (57%); 



94 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 24, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: Moscow's Reforms: Turning Radical

 BODY:
The Soviet economy is sliding downhill so fast that Mikhail Gorbachev must jettison milquetoast reforms in favor of radical change. That will bring pain to Soviet workers. And that, in turn, will exact a political price. Even then, the economic outcome is uncertain. 
Americans, and the world, can do little more than watch anxiously, hoping for the best. What lies ahead for the Soviet Union is a rough road indeed.
With remarkable candor, Mr. Gorbachev says he wants to create ''market relations.'' First he tried piecemeal reform. But a collapsing economy has forced him to abandon that go-slow strategy. One reason is sabotage by bureaucrats who have remained firmly in control. Ed Hewett, an economist at the Brookings Institution, provides a telling illustration of their stifling grip:
As part of Mr. Gorbachev's earlier reforms, the Soviets legalized small private enterprises. But the would-be owners had to get licenses from the appropriate ministry. The ministries balked, or extracted bribes. And the few enterprises that got licenses had little access to credit or raw materials.
For all these reasons, the new owners had high costs and little competition. So they charged exorbitant prices, creating bitter resentment toward ''markets.'' Such sorry experiences have apparently convinced Mr. Gorbachev that piecemeal reform is unworkable. But comprehensive reform has its own perils.
Over the years, the Soviet Government has run huge deficits that were financed by pumping billions of rubles into the economy. The combination of excess rubles and low, controlled prices has created severe shortages of consumer goods. Swiftly decontrolling prices in this environment, in an attempt to create markets and bypass the bureaucrats, would create ruinous inflation.
So what will Mr. Gorbachev do? American Sovietologists list the following necessary ingredients for plausible reform:
Price Decontrol: Markets can work only if prices reflect realistic value. For the process to succeed, wages must be controlled, which means Soviet workers will suffer.
Monetary Reform: Price decontrol can work only if excess rubles are eliminated. That can be done by wiping out the existing ruble and replacing it with a limited supply of a new currency. Or it can be done by allowing inflation to eat up the value of existing rubles. Again, either way, Soviet workers will suffer.
Fiscal Reform: Monetary reform can work only if Government deficits are controlled. To do that will require eliminating subsidies to unproductive businesses. Some of these will go bankrupt. Layoffs, once again, would make workers suffer.
Even these painful measures won't suffice. Herbert Levine, a University of Pennsylvania economist, calls attention to the need also to create an efficient banking system and laws that guarantee the right to buy and sell property. To create competition, the Soviet Union has to figure out how to break up the huge state businesses and to get new ones to compete against each other.
To accomplish such changes will shake Soviet society. In Poland, real incomes have plummeted and the unemployment rate has skyrocketed since a similar program started in January - and there, unlike the Soviet Union, the Government enjoys popular support.
There is not much the United States can do about any of this. The Bush Administration can offer valuable technical assistance and, perhaps, trade credits. But even if the U.S. were willing to offer massive relief, that would only delay the necessary transformations. For all the distance Mikhail Gorbachev has brought his country in five years, the hardest part still lies ahead.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); POLAND (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

COMPANY: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (56%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; PRICES; EDITORIALS; WAGE AND PRICE CONTROLS; FINANCES ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); TRENDS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); CURRENCIES (64%); 

PERSON: GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S MIKHAIL SERGEYEVICH GORBACHEV (94%); 



95 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 24, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 503 words

HEADLINE: Relief for the AIDS Disaster

 BODY:
In a recent heartfelt speech, President Bush called for more compassion and less discrimination against victims of AIDS. That was welcome moral leadership, but AIDS, now pushing health care systems of big cities into crisis, demands much more from Washington. A bill pending in Congress recognizes the urgent need. 
More than 121,000 cases of AIDS have been diagnosed in the United States since 1981; it's estimated that a million people now are infected, with a high percentage likely to develop the disease. Medical care for each case costs tens of thousands of dollars, and the total for AIDS care may now be more than $5 billion annually.
Those bills are paid haphazardly, forcing hospitals to absorb huge losses. Private insurers shrink from the problem. The poor are entitled to some help from Medicaid, the Federal-local insurance program. But state reimbursement rules differ; rates aren't always sufficient to cover actual costs of treatment, and not all poor patients get covered. One recent study found that a quarter of AIDS patients have no insurance at all.
In addition to inflicting financial stress, AIDS may severely aggravate crowding in urban hospitals already troubled by drug-related illnesses and staff shortages. AIDS swells the numbers seeking hospital treatment; many remain when they no longer need the full range of hospital services. Some are in no shape to function completely on their own, but have no way to get help at home. AIDS leaves others unemployed and homeless. There is universal agreement on the need for more resources and for alternatives to the hospital: nursing homes, home-care services, hospices and apartment complexes that offer access to medical help. Use of such facilities and services to limit hospital stays can, typically, cut the cost of care to half or even a quarter of the usual $150,000 per case.
The new Federal legislation, introduced by Senators Edward Kennedy of Massachusetts and Orrin Hatch of Utah, would address the need. It calls for spending $300 million in the next two years in emergency relief for urban hospitals with high AIDS caseloads. The most afflicted are in New York, New Jersey, California, Florida and Texas, five states that account for 64 percent of all American AIDS cases.
The bill would provide $300 million more to communities that come up with comprehensive case management plans. Such money could equip smaller cities, where the problem remains in the early stages, to avoid the ruinous costs and crowding experienced by New York or Los Angeles.
Late last year, Congress quickly voted $4 billion in disaster relief for victims of the northern California earthquake and Hurricane Hugo. Cities bearing the brunt of the AIDS epidemic are experiencing similar disaster, even if not quite so sudden.
Perhaps more important, the Kennedy-Hatch bill would promote aggressive management of the AIDS-care crisis rather than reactive management. Continued neglect of that need compounds devastating disease with financial waste.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDICAID (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME (AIDS); FEDERAL AID (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION; EDITORIALS AIDS & HIV (93%); HOSPITALS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); DISASTER RELIEF (89%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (86%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); EPIDEMICS (78%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (77%); MEDICAID (77%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (77%); NURSING HOMES (77%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (72%); HOSPICE (72%); INSURANCE (69%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (64%); 

PERSON: HATCH, ORRIN G (SEN); KENNEDY, EDWARD M (SEN) ORRIN HATCH (78%); TED KENNEDY (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); 



96 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 24, Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 167 words

HEADLINE: Supercollider Stands at the Frontier of Science;
Pound Foolish

 BODY:
To the Editor:
To abandon the supercollider project in Waxahachie, Tex., as you suggest (''The Behemoth and The Boson,'' editorial, March 21) would be to abandon one of America's more important bids for supremacy in the complex, high-technological research that will dominate the economy of the 21st-century.
When the world entered the 20th century, the United States was striving for leadership of the industrial revolution, which it subsequently acquired and which resulted in the unequaled standard of living America has enjoyed for this century. Now you would have us enter the 21st century trying to save money on research and development.
For what purpose? To pay for more luxurious conferences for the Postal Service in the best hotels in the world? To finance the pet outmoded defense establishment of each member of Congress? To pay for an unneeded ''Star Wars'' defense system or let Congress waste, as it wastes most of our money?
 
WYLIE F. L. TUTTLE
New York, March 21, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: PHYSICS; RESEARCH; SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; SUPERCONDUCTING SUPERCOLLIDER LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (90%); PARTICLE ACCELERATORS (90%); SUPERCONDUCTORS (88%); SCIENCE NEWS (87%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (87%); LIVING STANDARDS (87%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (71%); PHYSICS (71%); POSTAL SERVICE (52%); 

PERSON: TUTTLE, WYLIE F L



97 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1563 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY;
Rocket May Open A New Era

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

 BODY:
A small company, working with the Pentagon and NASA, is scheduled to launch a 50-foot winged rocket from a B-52 flying over the Pacific Ocean today in a pioneering effort to provide a new way to send spacecraft into orbit.
If the launching is successful, it will represent a major step forward in the nation's efforts to develop a relatively low-cost and reliable rocket to place in space the small, lightweight satellites that could have a wide range of military, scientific and commercial uses. But if the rocket does not ignite and falls into the sea, or explodes, or fails in any other big way, it will be a severe setback not only to the dreams of its developer, the Orbital Sciences Corporation, but also to the nation's first generation of space entrepreneurs.
Instead of being fired from a pad on the ground, the rocket, called Pegasus, will be dropped from the right wing of the B-52 almost eight miles over the Pacific 50 miles off the central coast of California. All going as planned, it will ignite five seconds later and soar into a polar orbit with its cargo of two Government satellites. 
 
Others Have Tried
Other entrepreneurial efforts to develop low-cost space transportation have so far resembled something from ''America's Funniest Home Videos.'' Last fall a rocket built by the American Rocket Company lifted a few feet off its pad at Vandenberg Air Force Base, Calif., then toppled onto its side, where it burned, like a smoldering cigar, for hours. Pegasus has its risks as well. For one, there is some question as to whether its 22-foot wing will be able to withstand the acceleration to 5,800 miles an hour, or more than eight times the speed of sound.
But on paper, at least, Pegasus has a lot going for it. Space experts envision using the small satellites transported by efficient rockets like Pegasus for a variety of military communications and surveillance missions, for scientific experiments, and for commercial purposes like automatic navigation systems for cars, tracking fleets of ships and rail cars and manufacturing drugs and other materials in the low gravity of space.
The emerging new class of satellites that would be carried by Pegasus, often called ''lightsats,'' are roughly the size of television sets and weigh a few hundred pounds. Although it remains unclear how quickly lightsats will be developed, or how strong the demand for them will be, space analysts have high hopes for them. But Pegasus will never put the space shuttle out of business, or be a major competitor to the huge ground-launched rockets like the McDonnell Douglas Corporation's Delta or the Martin Marietta Corporation's Titan. All of those vehicles are designed to carry bus-sized satellites weighing tons and costing hundreds of millions of dollars.
As an air-launched, winged rocket, Pegasus requires less thrust to reach space than an equivalent-sized ground-launched rocket, since at launching it is already at a high altitude and a high speed. In theory at least, it is therefore a less-expensive form of space transport, even factoring in the cost of using an airplane to begin its voyage.
 
'Holds Great Promise'
''One of the many keys to developing a commercial space industry is reducing the cost per pound of payloads in orbit,'' said Peter Nesgos, a lawyer in New York who specializes in space issues. ''Any kind of launch system that can offer access to space at a reasonable cost will encourage further commercial space exploration. The Pegasus program holds great promise for that kind of launch service.''
If Pegasus works, the company said it could sell commercial launchings for $6 million to $7 million each, or about $6,000 per pound of payload. That would be a vast improvement over the $20,000 per pound to send a small satellite aloft on the only other rocket designed specifically for lightweight payloads, the ground-launched Scout rocket made by the LTV Corporation.
Some small satellites are sent aloft as secondary payloads on the space shuttle or on the heavy-lift boosters like the Titan and the Delta, but availability is often limited and the needs of the small-satellite user, including timing and the precise orbit, are invariably secondary to those of the large satellite owner.
An air-launched rocket also provides more flexibility than a fixed ground pad as to when and from where a payload can be sent into space. That capability is of particular interest to the military, which dreams of being able to put communications, intelligence-gathering and perhaps missile-defense satellites into the skies at short notice over battlefields and political hot spots.
 
Government Support
Orbital Sciences is generally considered the most credible of the upstart rocket companies, and the Pegasus project is getting a lot of attention from the Pentagon and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. The Pentagon's Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, known as Darpa, is paying Orbital Sciences $6.5 million for the launching. NASA is providing the B-52. The payload being carried by Pegasus consists of an experimental Navy communications satellite and a NASA satellite that will conduct atmospheric experiments.
While the European Arianespace consortium is now at least an equal competitor to the United States in heavy-launching capability, and the Japanese are catching up fast, Orbital Sciences and other companies have kept the United States ahead of the rest of the world in the development of low-cost rockets for small payloads.
If Pegasus works, it will be the first major success for the dozens of small companies that have sprung up in recent years in the belief that there is profit to be wrung from the void of space. Formed in 1982 by three young Harvard Business School graduates, the company, based in Fairfax, Va., has developed a somewhat diversified business base, mostly through the 1988 acquisition of the Space Data Corporation, a maker of suborbital ''sounding'' rockets, satellite tracking systems and weather balloons.
Still, like virtually every company in the business, Orbital Sciences exists in a precarious state. Although it has twice turned annual profits, it has generally run up big losses, including a $5.4 million loss for the first nine months of last year, the latest period for which figures are available. The company had revenues of $56.8 million in the period.
 
Stock Offering Canceled
Executives of Orbital Sciences, including David W. Thompson, the chief executive, declined to be interviewed for this article, as did the Pentagon and NASA officials overseeing the Pegasus program. Late last month, the company had to shelve indefinitely its plans for a public stock offering when an article discussing the company's risky outlook appeared in The Wall Street Journal on the day the offering was scheduled to begin.
In an interview last year, Mr. Thompson outlined a vision he calls ''microspace,'' or the idea that smaller and more affordable rockets and satellites will make space and space-oriented products and services appealing to governments, companies, even consumers.
''Our orientation is toward smaller and much more affordable systems that can make space accessible to a wider range of users than ever before,'' Mr. Thompson said. ''We want to make space economically relevant to a much larger fraction of the population.''
Orbital Sciences has survived by entering a series of partnerships with the Government and other companies. It is building the Pegasus vehicles as a joint venture with Hercules Inc., a leading maker of solid-rocket motors. It has also forged an alliance with Martin Marietta, with which it builds small boosters designed to lift satellites from the low earth orbits flown by the space shuttle and other launchers into much higher orbits.
Orbital Sciences' own backers have put $100 million into the company, and its joint venture partners have invested $100 million.
But until Mr. Thompson's vision of microspace comes to pass, the company remains overwhelmingly dependent on the Government as a customer and also to provide credibility. The Pentagon has already committed to using Pegasus for at least one more launching.
 
'The Anchor Customers'
''Darpa and NASA are the anchor customers for the products we've developed,'' Mr. Thompson said. ''They are the largest and most sophisticated consumers of space products, and other customers look to them as indicators of reliability.''
The company's continued credibility with the Government will depend to a great extent on the success of the first Pegasus flight. Pegasus is different from traditional rockets in design but not in technology. The three-stage vehicle uses solid-rocket motors of the general variety that have powered missiles and launchers for years. Its guidance systems are more or less off the shelf. The rocket casing is made of lightweight graphite composites built by Burt Rutan, the designer of the Voyager aircraft, which flew around the world three years ago on a single tank of fuel.
But Pegasus's winged design is a first for unmanned rockets, allowing the vehicle the extra lift to head toward orbit most efficiently from its horizontal airborne launching. Despite the questions about the wing's stability at extremely high speeds, people involved in the program say they are confident of the wing's strength.

GRAPHIC: photo: At Edwards Air Force Base last week, scientists from the Orbital Sciences Corporation made last-minute checks on a 50-foot rocket scheduled to be launched from a B-52 over the Pacific today. (The New York Times/Bart Bartholomew); diagram (pg. D7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LMT (NYSE) (84%); ORB (NYSE) (70%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS517410 SATELLITE TELECOMMUNICATIONS (70%); NAICS336415 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE PROPULSION UNIT & PROPULSION UNIT PARTS MANUFACTURING (70%); SIC4899 COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES, NEC (70%); SIC3764 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE PROPULSION UNITS & PROPULSION UNIT PARTS (70%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (70%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); PACIFIC OCEAN (90%); 

COMPANY: LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (84%); ORBITAL SCIENCES CORP (70%); MCDONNELL DOUGLAS CORP (60%); NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION (NASA); ORBITAL SCIENCES CORP; DEFENSE DEPARTMENT

SUBJECT: ASTRONAUTICS; ROCKETS AND ROCKET PROPULSION; COMMUNICATIONS SATELLITES; B-52 AIRPLANE; PEGASUS (SPACE BOOSTER) SPACECRAFT (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (90%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (90%); SPACE EXPLORATION (89%); AIR FORCES (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (78%); SPACE PROPULSION (78%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (77%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (77%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (76%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (76%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (71%); NAVIGATION SYSTEMS (71%); ARMED FORCES (70%); FLEET MANAGEMENT (66%); TRAINS (65%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (60%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (58%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W



98 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 588 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

COMPANIES
 
General Motors named Robert C. Stempel chairman and chief executive, succeeding Roger B. Smith, who will retire in August after nearly a decade in office. Mr. Stempel, an engineer, is the company's president and chief operating officer. The appointment had been expected. [Page D1.] 
 
Eastern's unsecured creditors voted to reject the carrier's latest reorganization plan and seek the appointment of a special trustee to sell the airline, people close to the creditors said. [D1.]
 
Orbital Sciences is scheduled to launch a 50-foot winged rocket from a B-52 flying over the Pacific Ocean today in a pioneering effort to provide a new way to send spacecraft into orbit. [D1.]
 
Time Warner shareholders are being treated to a bright chartreuse annual report with MTV-style graphics. The company said it wanted to catch people's attention. [D5.]
 
In determining whether the seven ''Baby Bells'' are allowed to create information services, an appeals court ruled that a more lenient legal standard should be applied. [D4.]
 
Schering-Plough will sell its Maybelline unit for $300 million to a group including the division's management and Playtex. [D4.]
 
Digital Equipment introduced work station products that analysts say will increase their graphics capability. [D4.]
 
Trump Shuttle customers are reaping a bonanza in a program that gives vouchers to those delayed 15 minutes or more. [D6.]
 
INTERNATIONAL
 
U.S. and Japanese officials reached a basic agreement under which foreign producers will for the first time be allowed to compete for the satellite business of the Japanese Government and its state-run companies. [D1.]
 
The arrest of three young Australian men for illegally tampering with computers in the U.S. and Australia by using international computer and telephone networks has raised new warnings about the vulnerability of the systems on which most aspects of modern life depend. [A1.]
 
ECONOMY
 
The main gauge of future economic growth plunged 1 percent in February, its steepest drop in nine months, the Commerce Department said. But analysts said the report was an aberration caused by a record 25 percent drop in building permits in February. [D6.]
 
The Pennsylvania State House passed the nation's toughest anti-takeover measure by an overwhelming vote. [D2.]
 
MARKETS
 
Stock prices rallied in brisk trading. The Dow advanced 36.26 points, to 2,736.71. [D8.]
 
Treasury note and bond prices moved marginally higher in sluggish trading. [D14.] Yields on C.D.'s and money market accounts at banks and savings institutions were mixed. [D15.]
 
The dollar finished mixed against major foreign currencies in light trading. [D16.]
 
Gold futures prices rose sharply as a burst of Middle Eastern buying sent the April contract up $5.50 an ounce, to $375.30. [D16.]
 
TODAY'S COLUMNS
 
Ever wonder why cellular mobile telephones cost so much to use? One corporate maverick says it knows the answer. Peter Passell: Economic Scene. [D2.]
 
The market for mortgage-backed securities has been troubled because of uncertainty created by the Government agency responsible for bailing out troubled savings associations. But there may be opportunities for shrewd investors. Market Place. [D8.]
 
Y.& R. re-entered the business of movie marketing by becoming the agency to plan and buy advertising for 20th Century Fox. Randall Rothenberg: Advertising [D18.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (92%); AUSTRALIA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (57%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (67%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); TAKEOVERS (79%); BONDS (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (76%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (75%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); LITIGATION (72%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (71%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (71%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); PRICE CHANGES (70%); SPACE EXPLORATION (70%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (69%); SPACECRAFT (69%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (68%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); GOLD MARKETS (67%); TREASURY SECURITIES (66%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (64%); FUTURES (64%); CURRENCIES (64%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); US DOLLAR (64%); BOND MARKETS (64%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (62%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (62%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (60%); APPEALS (52%); APPEALS COURTS (52%); BUILDING PERMITS (50%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (58%); 



99 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1103 words

HEADLINE: Recession Coming? Ask the Consumer

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ANN ARBOR, Mich.

 BODY:
When the United States economy succumbs to recession, as it sooner or later must, it is a good bet that Dr. Richard T. Curtin and his colleagues here at the University of Michigan will have seen it coming before almost anyone else.
Dr. Curtin makes his living by constantly monitoring consumer attitudes, and the consumer in this country accounts for fully two-thirds of all business activity. Predict what the consumer will do, logic dictates, and you will predict the course of the economy.
The Commerce Department now uses Dr. Curtin's monthly index of consumer expectations as part of its index of leading indicators, a group of 11 items designed to predict the nation's business cycle. 
Dr. Curtin's consumer survey appeared to do just that after the the October 1987 stock market crash. His findings convinced Susan M. Sterne, a financial consultant to institutions with large securities portfolios, to reject the common belief at the time that the crash would lead to recession. The Government's forecasting index fell five straight months and did not rebound until February 1988, signaling a recession. But Dr. Curtin's index of consumer expectations turned back up in December 1987. Sure enough, there was no recession. Attempts to measure sentiment, as against actual purchases, has an undeservedly poor reputation among economists as a predictor, Ms. Sterne said. ''But I think it's extremely valuable,'' she added.
The Federal Reserve Board, among others, pays $4,000 a year for the full survey package, including the monthly publication Surveys of Consumers, containing the expectations and other indexes of sentiment. The latest reading, for February, shows a distinct ''weakening'' but nothing unexpected or very severe, Dr. Curtin said.
The Michigan forecasting record shows that consumers are particularly adept at predicting broad trends, anticipating with high probability changes in unemployment rates by an average of nine months ahead of time, in interest rates by six months and in inflation by three months.
But good as its record is, Surveys of Consumers commands far less public attention than such official gauges of economic performance as employment, output, prices, foreign trade and even the privately compiled report on the views of industrial purchasing managers.
Indeed, the Commerce Department decided to add the Curtin index only at the beginning of 1989, although some version of the Michigan survey has been around since the end of World War II. Dr. Curtin, interviewed in his data-filled office on the edge of Michigan's main campus recently, does not lament the lack of recognition by the public on whose collective knowledge he has founded his career. The endorsement of 100 or so mostly corporate sponsors, who use the information to help plan things like production runs and strategies for marketing and investment, appears enough. Yet he says that many economists still disparage his work because they believe themselves superior judges of the future than a random assortment of citizens.
 
'Know Their Interests'
Although individuals often have a poor grasp of economics or may show little fiscal practicality, consumers in the aggregate have a way of groping their way to advantage.
''Even if unsophisticated in economics, consumers know their interests,'' Dr. Curtin contends. ''They may not know the latest figures for, say, housing starts or gross national product, but they know that a neighbor has lost his job or that paychecks aren't stretching as far as they once did.''
The Michigan surveys date from 1946, when a survey pioneer, George Katona, and some Agriculture Department colleagues left the Government for Ann Arbor. The surveys are grounded in the fact that since World War II large numbers of Americans have had money available for so-called discretionary purchases after paying for food, shelter and clothing.
Consumers thus were no longer passive creatures, but an increasingly powerful force whose collective decisions on when to buy expensive vehicles and appliances, purchases that could be put off, would come to have a significant impact on the economy.
This subjected the economy for the first time to widespread and repeated psychological influence, and before long the consumer had leapfrogged business and government to become the prime economic force.
Discretionary spending, much of which goes for cars and refrigerators, also tends to be a kind of investment because the items purchased last a long time and are often financed by loans against future income. This means that what consumers do with their discretionary income depends to a considerable degree on their economic expectations. 500 Telephone Interviews To compile the data each month a cadre of about 30 Michigan interviewers telephone at random 500 Americans and ask two dozen basic questions. Consumers are asked not only for their opinions but also the reasons they hold them, with their responses helping to anticipate possibly different reactions to the same economic phenomena, such as inflation, at different times.
Five of the questions make up the index of consumer expectations, part of the larger index of consumer sentiment, and further breakdowns categorize responses by age, census region and income level.
A similar, mail poll is conducted by the New York-based Conference Board, a business organization.
This kind of work has illuminated over the years some fundamental characteristics of the American psyche and some important shifts as well.
Conditions in the job market, for example, seem to be the most powerful single determinant of the consumer's mood. There has also been a big shift of consumer focus to prices. In the 1970's ''you couldn't talk to consumers without them mentioning inflation,'' Dr. Curtin said, and people unwittingly made inflation worse by buying merchandise before they really needed it just to beat the next price increase.
 
Consumers Adjust
Now, when prices start to accelerate, the assumption is that the authorities will put on the monetary brakes. Consumers, instead of scrambling to buy, turn cautious in the face of possible recession.
Dr. Curtin points to such evidence of how people learn and adapt to rebut fellow economists' suggestions that consumers are mere conduits for economic forces and that their behavior might become completely predictable, doing away with the need for surveys.
Interestingly, questions about consumers' intentions to buy - as opposed to what they expect conditions to be for buying - became less and less reliable during the 1970's and are now no longer asked.

GRAPHIC: photo: Dr. Richard T. Curtin, right, says he can predict the course of the nation's economy by monitoring consumer attitudes. He confers often with Lorraine Haller, one of his coding analysts. (The New York Times/Peter Yates)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (91%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FORECASTS; PRICES; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; CREDIT; INTEREST (MONEY); LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS; CONSUMER CONFIDENCE INDEX ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); TRENDS (74%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); MARKETING STRATEGY (68%); EMPLOYMENT (68%); INTEREST RATES (67%); INDUSTRIAL PURCHASING (65%); CENTRAL BANKS (64%); SPONSORSHIP (60%); MARKETING SURVEYS (57%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (55%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: CURTIN, RICHARD T (DR); HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR RICHARD T CURTIN (95%); 



100 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1208 words

HEADLINE: G.M. Picks Its Next Chairman

BYLINE: By DORON P. LEVIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DETROIT, April 3

 BODY:
Directors of the General Motors Corporation, in a widely expected move, announced today that they had chosen Robert C. Stempel, the company's president and chief operating officer, as the next chairman and chief executive. He will succeed Roger B. Smith, who will retire this August after nearly a decade in office.
Mr. Stempel differs in some ways from Mr. Smith. He is an engineer with a deeper understanding of cars and trucks than Mr. Smith, who, like most G.M. chief executives in recent times, came from the financial side. He is known to be more collegial and low key than Mr. Smith. 
In the style of executives successful at G.M., Mr. Stempel is not outspoken or flamboyant, and has been careful not to overshadow his superiors. As a result, it is not yet clear what kind of a mark he intends to make on the company. But, at age 56, he is still nine years from mandatory retirement, and it is widely expected that he will have a substantial amount of time at the helm. Mr. Smith is 64.
 
Top Structure Left Intact
The promotions of Mr. Stempel and several other executives become effective Aug. 1. Other than some changes in titles and reporting relationships, the main effect of the changes was to formalize Mr. Smith's departure and his replacement by Mr. Stempel. The top management structure remains largely intact.
Mr. Stempel said at a news conference today that he was beginning to prepare strategies with the six executives on the company's management committee.
Three of those executives received promotions yesterday and could be regarded as roughly equal in the highest positions under Mr. Stempel.
 
Promotions for Three
G.M. named as president Lloyd E. Reuss, 53, who was executive vice president; he will remain in charge of North American operations and will assume responsibility for component operations. John F. Smith Jr., 51, was named a vice chairman and elected a director, and will continue to oversee international operations. Robert J. Schultz, 59, was named a vice chairman and elected a director; he will continue to oversee GM Hughes Electronics, Electronic Data Systems and the company's technical staffs. The position of chief operating officer remains vacant.
Mr. Stempel is taking command of the world's biggest auto maker during one of the most difficult periods in its 75-year history. For the last decade G.M. has been losing a big share of the North American automotive market, partly to Japanese auto makers and partly to the Ford Motor Company.
In January, two large institutional investors - the California and New York public employee pension funds - expressed dismay over the competitive decline of G.M. and asked that they be consulted as the board chose a replacement for Mr. Smith. But G.M. declined to include them in the selection process.
Moreover, the United States auto industry is preparing for bargaining on a new contract with the United Automobile Workers union this summer at a time when relations with the union have grown tense because of G.M. plant closings.
The union sent a congratulatory message to Mr. Stempel in which its president, Owen Bieber, said of the union work force, ''The leader who fully taps this resource will be the leader who can decisively turn G.M.'s fortunes around.''
Since Mr. Smith's tenure began in 1981, in the midst of a recession, G.M. has struggled through a major reorganization of its United States operations and has made large acquisitions of the Electronic Data Systems Corporation and the Hughes Aircraft Company. G.M. has remained strong financially, partly because of diversification and partly because of a turnaround of its European auto business, which has started showing strong profits after years of losses.
 
How a Crisis Might Help
Indeed, the lack of an immediate crisis at G.M. could prove to be one of the biggest problems Mr. Stempel faces, said James Womack, research director of the automotive study project at Massachusetts Institute of Technology. ''G.M. never had a crisis like Ford or Chrysler, which forced those companies to make changes,'' he said. ''G.M. is dying the death of a thousand cuts. If this continues, G.M. simply will become less and less influential in the automotive business.
''It's time for a new G.M. and Stempel's first 100 days, as with any new officeholder, are terribly important,'' Mr. Womack said. ''He should offer a profound agenda before he starts getting bogged down in the details.''
Mr. Stempel, while declining to talk yet about specific tactics or strategies, said G.M.'s most important task was to ''profitably increase North American market share.''
Scott Merlis, automotive analyst for Morgan Stanley & Company in New York, said for G.M. ''the name of the game is to cut costs faster than rebates are going up in North America.'' He said G.M. must continue to streamline its capacity, which means ''converting some car plants to trucks; combining some car plants.''
 
Approaching the Top
The eventual promotion of Mr. Stempel to chief executive appeared increasingly likely after his appointment as president and chief operating officer in September 1987. Still, many wondered whether G.M. might cling to its preference for choosing leaders with backgrounds primarily in financial management, like Mr. Smith and his predecessor, Thomas Murphy.
In recent years, however, top automotive executives have been forced to prove their talent in several disciplines, said Philip Caldwell, a retired Ford chief executive who is now a senior managing director of Shearson Lehman Hutton.
Mr. Reuss may have to confront the new management team's most immediate and pervasive difficulties as he tries to match G.M.'s North American production capacity with the demand for G.M. vehicles. He acknowledged that G.M.'s current capacity was appropriate for a 40 percent share of the market, although G.M. now has only about 35 percent.
''We're expecting new Chevrolet and Buick products to pick up additional market share,'' he said.
Mr. Womack of M.I.T. said: ''Basically, G.M.'s domestic business can either lose money or lose market share. At the moment they've chosen to lose money, but the moment they drop rebates, they'll lose share.'' Most analysts share Mr. Womack's assessment that G.M.'s domestic automotive business currently makes little or no profit.
 
Summer Job as a Mechanic
Before being named president, Mr. Stempel ran G.M.'s Buick-Oldsmobile-Cadillac group and was general manager of the Pontiac and Chevrolet divisions. His first automotive experience was a summer job as a service station mechanic in Bloomfield, N.J. He got his start at G.M. as a chassis designer in 1958 and held engineering jobs at Oldsmobile, most notably as a designer of the 1966 Toronado, which was considered an innovative example of front-wheel drive.
In 1980 he became managing director of G.M's Adam Opel subsidiary in West Germany, which makes him one of the few top G.M. executives to have gained international experience.
Mr. Stempel has a bachelor's degree in mechanical engineering from Worcester Polytechnic Institute in Massachusetts and a master's degree in business administration from Michigan State University. He is married and has three children.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%); DTV (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%); NAICS517410 SATELLITE TELECOMMUNICATIONS (52%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (52%); NAICS541513 COMPUTER FACILITIES MANAGEMENT SERVICES (52%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (52%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (52%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (52%); 

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); NEW YORK, USA (65%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (91%); FORD MOTOR CO (84%); DIRECTV (52%); HP ENTERPRISE SERVICES (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION EXECUTIVES (92%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); RETIREMENT AGE (77%); MOTOR VEHICLES (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); PENSION FUNDS (72%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (72%); MANDATORY RETIREMENT (72%); 

PERSON: STEMPEL, ROBERT C; SMITH, ROGER B; STEMPEL, ROBERT C (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH); LEVIN, DORON P ROBERT C SMITH (93%); 



101 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Cellular Phones: Room for Three?

BYLINE: By Peter Passell

 BODY:
EVER wonder why cellular mobile telephones, the communications miracle of the 1980's, cost so much to use? One corporate maverick, Federal Digital Cellular, claims to know the answer: monopoly power. It is asking Federal regulators to make room for a third cellular phone competitor in each city.
There is, however, a giant catch: The slice of the airwaves the company wants is already being used by GTE Mobile Communications to operate air-to-ground pay phones on domestic airliners.
Putting this piece of radio spectrum up for grabs would put GTE's Airfones out of business. Perhaps more significant politically, it would threaten the interests of established cellular telephone companies, whose lock on mobile communications is now valued in the tens of billions of dollars. 
In the mid-1970's A.T.&T. estimated that by 1990 just 100,000 Americans would be willing to shell out $100 or more each month for the luxury of phones in their cars and briefcases. Competition-minded policy analysts thus thought they had scored a victory in convincing the Federal Communications Commission to make room for second cellular systems, independent of the local phone company, in every metropolitan area.
But the cellular phone has proved to be the biggest electronic hit since the Walkman. The investment firm of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette now predicts that the current army of 3.5 million cellular subscribers will mushroom to 26 million by 1998. Cellular phone companies must race to keep the supply of circuits ahead of demand.
It is not surprising then that franchise holders are not competing on the price of calling time. According to Paul Kagan Associates, a consulting firm, mature cellular systems enjoy a 60 percent profit margin on sales - five times the average margin for regulated public utilities.
Cellular franchises, by custom freely tradable once they have been assigned, now change hands for about $200 per resident. This figure implies that the right to run one of the two cellular systems in every big city is worth a staggering $37 billion.
One way to prevent consumers from being gouged would be to regulate rates. But the F.C.C. is loath to extend its reach in an area of rapid innovation and productivity improvement.
The alternative, Federal Digital Cellular argues, is to carve out enough room on the airwaves for a third competitor in each market. Little space would be needed, the company asserts. While the two current systems take up 50 megahertz of spectrum, a third using new digital technology could be squeezed into four megahertz.
As a practical matter, however, the only chunk of spectrum available is the one used for air-to-ground phones. In April 1988 the commission proposed to convert GTE's experimental license, issued in 1984, into what would amount to a permanent entitlement. Federal Digital Cellular is now petitioning to reopen the proceedings.
Some members of the commission staff are reported to be reluctant to undo a completed deal. And no one is eager to penalize GTE for its innovation in air-to-ground communications, or disrupt Airfone service to consumers. But a number of considerations may yet convince the regulators to think again.
Even by GTE's optimistic revenue projections, the potential value of a third cellular franchise in major markets is at least five times as great as the value of Airfone service. Air-to-ground service, moreover, could be accommodated on higher radio frequencies by using satellites. Indeed, one company, the American Mobile Satellite Corporation, is already licensed for the service and expects to be in operation this year.
Federal Digital Cellular's real ace in the hole, however, may lie in the White House. The Bush Administration has taken no public position on how best to allocate the contested chunk of spectrum, and is not likely to do so.
But as part of the effort to meet the Gramm-Rudman deficit-reduction targets in 1991, Administration budgeters projected $3 billion in revenue from a new system of auctioning communications rights to the highest bidders. And it is virtually inconceivable that the goal could be met without earmarking the most desirable portions of the unallocated spectrum to cellular phones.
A reopening of the proceedings would not necessarily mean victory for proponents of the third cellular option. But it would give them a chance to make their case - and perhaps make a side deal with GTE to drop out of the contest. After all, if additional cellular service is so much more valuable than current air-to-ground service, there ought to be some way to compensate GTE for its loss of the franchise and still come out ahead.

GRAPHIC: drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

INDUSTRY: SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (54%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (54%); PAUL KAGAN ASSOCIATES INC (53%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (55%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL DIGITAL CELLULAR

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES; CELLULAR TELEPHONES; RATES MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (94%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (93%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); TELEPHONE RATES (78%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (78%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (75%); FRANCHISING (72%); CITIES (72%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (66%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (58%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER



102 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 6, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 510 words

HEADLINE: Leading Indicators Plunge by 1%

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 3

 BODY:
The Government's main gauge of future economic growth plunged by 1 percent in February, its steepest drop in nine months, the Commerce Department said today. But analysts said the decrease was misleading.
The index of leading economic indicators - intended to forecast economic activity in the next six to nine months - wiped out three months of increases with the largest decline since a 1.1 percent fall last May. 
But analysts said the report was an aberration caused by a record 25 percent drop in building permits in February from January's 26.8 percent gain as builders took advantage of warm weather and tried to beat deadlines for new governmental regulations.
 
'Distorting Effects'
''It would have been down just two-tenths of 1 percent without the distorting effect of the building permits,'' said David Jones, an economist with Aubrey G. Lanston & Company, a dealer in government securities in New York.
Gilbert Benz, an economist with the Swiss Bank Corporation in New York, said the gauge would bounce back next month to its levels of late 1989 and early 1990. The index rose one-tenth of 1 percent in November, four-tenths in December and two-tenths in January.
Nevertheless, seven of the 11 statistics in the index were down, which analysts interpreted as meaning a soft economy, particularly in the manufacturing sector.
 
Rebound Called Unlikely
''February's leading indicators show a substantial industrial rebound is unlikely to occur in the next six months,'' said William K. MacReynolds, forecasting director for the Chamber of Commerce.
But Lanston's Mr. Jones said that ''recent signals suggest that while the goods-producing sector is still flat, it's not getting any worse and there's no evidence that its weakness is spreading to other sectors.''
According to a recent survey of 51 top economists by Blue Chip Economic Indicators in Sedona, Ariz., the gross national product - the nation's output of goods and services - will avoid a recession and grow 1.7 percent in 1990.
But the survey concluded that the economic outlook ''remains the most sluggish since the recession year of 1982.'' The economy grew 3 percent last year, although it slowed to 1.1 percent in the final quarter.
 
Other Data Show Declines
In addition to building permits, other statistics contributing to the index's decline in February were faster business delivery times, lower stock prices, a decline in plant and equipment orders, a decrease in the price of raw materials, a decline in the backlog of manufacturers' unfilled orders and a drop in an index that measures consumer confidence.
Three of the components were positive, including an increase in orders for consumer goods, a gain in the money supply and a drop in weekly unemployment claims.
One indicator, the length of the average workweek, was unchanged.
The various changes left the index at 144 percent of its 1982 base of 100. The index fell six-tenths of 1 percent from September through February after declining five-tenths of 1 percent the previous six months.

GRAPHIC: graph of leading indicators (Source: Commerce Dept.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEDONA, AZ, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: AUBREY G LANSTON & CO INC (69%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (92%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS; BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS ECONOMIC INDICATORS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BUILDING PERMITS (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); RECESSION (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (73%); MONEY SUPPLY (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (68%); 

PERSON: DAVID JONES (68%); 



103 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 4, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 621 words

HEADLINE: House Approves Latin Aid; Senate Troubled by Priorities

BYLINE: By SUSAN F. RASKY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 3

 BODY:
The House approved a special spending bill today that provides nearly all the money President Bush requested for Panama and Nicaragua, including $30 million to demobilize and resettle the Nicaraguan rebels.
But the $2.4 billion bill for additions to 1990 spending faces a difficult passage through the Senate, and the maneuvering over it in both chambers foreshadows bigger battles on foreign aid later this year, when Congress takes up the 1991 budget.
The $2.4 billion includes $420 million for Panama and $300 million for Nicaragua. Mr. Bush had requested $500 million for Panama, but under an agreement with the Administration, $30 million of that sum was allocated for aid to Africa to replace a similar amount that had been taken from the African account and used for an initial package of aid for Panama earlier this year. 
The bill also includes more than $1 billion in additional spending for domestic programs including food stamps, veterans affairs, low-income-energy assistance and fighting forest fires. Most of this total spending was offset by rescinding money that had been approved last year as part of the 1990 Pentagon budget.
 
Where to Allocate Resources?
Lawmakers are divided on priorities. Many are torn between the obligation they feel to address long-neglected domestic needs, to assist the emerging democracies in Eastern Europe, and to aid Latin American nations whose economies are in shambles as a result of American economic or military action.
Before the House agreed to the spending bill, 362 to 59, it defeated a series of amendments by Representative James A. Traficant Jr., Democrat of Ohio, that would have cut the foreign-assistance money by 5 percent. "I know I'm going to be called a demagogue or un-American, but I'm tired of seeing the money go all over except to America," Mr. Traficant said. "I'm not going to vote for another cut in programs for American kids, for housing, for education, for infrastructure."
On Monday, the Senate majority leader, George J. Mitchell, Democrat of Maine, served notice that he would oppose the President's full request until the Administration provides a comprehensive long-term plan spelling out American foreign aid objectives and explaining how they are to be met, given current budget constraints.
Mr. Mitchell did not specify what amount of aid he would favor or when the Senate might act. But in a letter to Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d, Mr. Mitchell sharply criticized the Administration for making "piecemeal" special requests without any thought to an overall strategy.
"The Administration asks that we approve a one-shot infusion to Panama and Nicaragua by cutting the defense budget," Mr. Mitchell said in a floor speech. "But they provide no information for the long-term needs in Panama and Nicaragua. And what about Eastern Europe? What about other parts of the world?"
 
Deadline Likely to Pass
Even the House's seemingly straightforward approval involves complications that make it unlikely that the aid money will be in place by April 25, when the newly elected government of Violeta Barrios de Chamorro is to take power in Nicaragua. None of the money in the House bill can be spent until a separate piece of legislation setting guidelines for the assistance is approved. That legislation is stalled in committee pending discussions between the Administration and House members over aid to El Salvador. The House Speaker, Representative Thomas S. Foley, Democrat of Washington, said:
"I do not think all of the funding has to be provided immediately. I think the important thing probably is to provide some assurance to the Governments of Panama and Nicaragua that we are going to provide assistance."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: NICARAGUA (97%); PANAMA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (69%); LATIN AMERICA (58%); 

COMPANY: ADMINISTRATION&HOUSE (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; NICARAGUA; PANAMA

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FOREIGN AID; LAW AND LEGISLATION; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE LEGISLATION (91%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); POLITICS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); CIVIL WAR (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); BUDGET CUTS (76%); ENERGY ASSISTANCE (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (68%); FOREST FIRES (53%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); TRAFICANT, JAMES A JR (REPR); RASKY, SUSAN F GEORGE W BUSH (90%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (79%); 



104 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1298 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-17
 
The president of Estonia said that President Mikhail S. Gorbachev personally warned him against the Soviet republic's following Lithuania in declaring independence. Page A1

 
Youths in Estonia are defying the Soviet military A16

 
A Soviet crackdown in Lithuania could wipe out much of the progress that has been made in Soviet-American relations in the last year, Secretary of State Baker told Foreign Minister Shevardnadze. A16

 
News analysis: As Nelson Mandela prepares to meet with President F. W. de Klerk, doubts persist about the readiness of the A.N.C. to undertake serious negotiations with the government in South Africa. A1

 
King Baudouin I of Belgium was temporarily suspended from power by the civilian Government after he declared that he could not in good conscience as a Roman Catholic sign a new law permitting abortion. A14 
 
 
To ease harsh drought, Greeks try prayer A17

U.S. panel is told of Pan Am security flaws A8

 
The top economic policy makers from the U.S. and its six main industrial allies will discuss the momentous political and economic changes that have swept the world when they meet in Paris Saturday. D1

 
The Israeli Labor Party said it had acquired sufficient commitments to command a majority in Parliament and form a new Government. A10

 
Bonn to investigate two concerns over Libyan deal A11

 
A new Constitution for Hong Kong was approved by China, giving the territory some autonomy after it returns to Chinese control in 1997. The Chinese legislature also approved a new law on joint ventures. A6

 
Airline workers protest in Nepal A12

 
Talks to end El Salvador's civil war will begin in May under an agreement signed by representatives of the U.S.-backed Government and the rebel movement opposing it. A3

 
Honduran says contras will disarm A3

Castro is unbending on Cuba's future A5

 
NATIONAL A18-27, B10-11
 
T. Timothy Ryan Jr. was confirmed by the Senate as the nation's top regulator of the savings and loan industry, enabling the Government to resume seizing insolvent institutions and continue the giant bailout. A1

 
Industry is wary on Senate's clean-air measure D1

 
The war on drugs in Washington has failed, Bush Administration officials have concluded. The fingerpointing has begun, with Federal and city officials blaming each other for the drug crisis in the nation's capital. A1

 
Washington at Work: Tower replays loss of coveted job A24

 
Crimes motivated by prejudice would be recorded by the Federal Government for the first time under legislation approved by the House and sent to President Bush. A1

 
Substitutes for chlorofluorocarbons, widely used substances that are destroying the Earth's protective ozone layer, could contribute significantly to long-term global warming, scientists say. A18

 
Some of Kansas City's black students can transfer to predominantly white suburban schools at the state's expense, a Federal court ruled. The decision is stirring partisans in the city's long-running legal battle. A18

 
What can go wrong in census? 2.3 million undelivered packets A18

 
Protest focuses on abortion issue A19

 
The Charles Stuart murder case is still being investigated. In a bitterly contested move, prosecutors are trying to force Mr. Stuart's lawyer to testify before a grand jury. A20

 
The risk of heart attack was substantially cut when middle-aged men were given help to stop smoking, lower their blood pressure, lose weight and go on cholesterol-lowering diets, a study found. B11

 
Minnesota moves to curb cigarette machines A23

Gene that causes spinal disease is isolated B10

Bush favors bill on AIDS immigrants B10

Two researchers spell ''I.B.M.,'' atom by atom B11

 
REGIONAL B1-8
 
Tardiness has its rewards at P.S. 94. It means the opportunity to be taken in hand by Barbara Williams, the security guard - and matriarch - of the overcrowded, understaffed school in the northern Bronx. A1

 
The president of Baruch College, which operates the nation's largest business school, announced his retirement amid uncertainty over the school's accreditation. B1

 
Donald J. Trump's Taj Mahal casino had an auspicious opening. But it came amid concern over the future of Atlantic City's $3-billion-a-year casino industry and the viability of the city. B1

 
Mr. Trump bought the lease of Bonwit Teller's flagship store in Trump Tower. Most of the retail chain will go out of business, including the main store in Manhattan. D1

 
Representative Bruce A. Morrison has changed from an underdog to the generally acknowledged front-runner among Democrats in the Connecticut gubernatorial race now that Gov. William A. O'Neill has withdrawn. B1

 
State Republicans' message that they are battling for lower taxes against a big spending Governor is finding resonance in communities like Camillus, N.Y., a suburb of Syracuse. B1

 
Board of Education officials have been asked by the hard-pressed New York City government to prepare cuts of $190 million in their budget, an amount the officials say could mean teacher layoffs and more crowded classrooms. B3

 
Rikers Island worker is shot to death during robbery B3

Witness says Marcos strived to hide co-op deal B3

Prosecution rests in slaying of New Jersey family B3

Playland was run as a political club, jury says B5

 
BUSINESS DIGEST D1

 
THE HOME SECTION
 
How the West was furnished C1

Annuals for summerlong color C1

Lauren, de la Renta, Roehm C1

Close to Home C2

Opulent new look for bedrooms C5

Parent & Child C8

Collections by four designers C13

 
ARTS/ENTERTAINMENT
 
Heated debate on endowment C14

Theater: Plays by wrights C15

Play about a cancer death C18

Arena Stage head quitting C19

Music: ''The Ring'' as comics C15

''Nabucco'' at Carnegie Hall C22

Dance: Eiko and Koma C20

Word and Image: ''The Outsiders'' on television C15

Memoir by Molly Haskell C19

Canada is revealed to itself C20

 
SPORTS
 
Baseball: Relief for Righetti D28

Basketball: Knicks top Bullets D25

Column: Vecsey on women's basketball D25

Golf: A formula for Masters D25

Hockey: Rival coaches with similar styles D25

 HEALTH B12

 
Personal Health
4,000-year-old treatment revived to heal wounds
 
OBITUARIES
 
Sarah Vaughan died of lung cancer at her home in the Los Angeles suburb of Hidden Hills. A singer who brought an operatic splendor to her performances of popular standards and jazz, Miss Vaughan was 66 years old. A1

 
C. R. Smith, pioneer of aviation as head of American B13

Edward Oelsner, ex-president of steamship line representative B13

 EDITORIALS/LETTERS/OP-ED
 
Editorials A28

 
Behind fog, cleaner air
King Robert of Zimbabwe?
Trial city
Taxing apartment dwellers
 
Letters A28

 
A. M. Rosenthal: We are warned A29

Tom Wicker: Overkill in Panama A29

Roman Szporluk: Gorbachev's need - a diminished Russia A29

Walter F. Wouk: Hidden crisis in Social Security A29

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); LITHUANIA (94%); ESTONIA (94%); FRANCE (79%); NEPAL (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); HONDURAS (79%); CHINA (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%); CUBA (67%); BELGIUM (56%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); EARTH (64%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (50%); 

COMPANY: PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (69%); BUSH ADMINISTRATION (57%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); LEGISLATION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); APPROVALS (86%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CIVIL WAR (77%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); BAILOUTS (74%); CLIMATOLOGY (73%); DRUG POLICY (73%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (72%); SCIENCE NEWS (71%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (71%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (69%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (68%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (68%); CITY GOVERNMENT (68%); RELIGION (68%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%); JOINT VENTURES (64%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (64%); GLOBAL WARMING (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); CITIES (50%); SAVINGS & LOANS (50%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); TIM RYAN (51%); 



105 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 5, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 685 words

HEADLINE: CASTRO UNBENDING ON CUBA'S FUTURE

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HAVANA, April 4

 BODY:
Thumbing his nose at a changing world, President Fidel Castro is embellishing one of his sturdiest themes, the resolute defiance of tiny Cuba against its gargantuan neighbor, the United States.
Now all but alone in the vanguard of hard-line Communist leaders, Mr. Castro is asking his people to join him in resisting the political and economic change that has swept his closest allies even as he prepares to ask for greater sacrifice, Calling Cuba ''the symbol of resistance, the symbol of the defense of revolutionary ideals,'' Mr. Castro rejected any profound restructuring of Cuban society at a news conference on Tuesday. ''The road of concessions is the road of submission,'' he said.
If Cubans have to fight, alone and to the death to preserve their revolution, Mr. Castro insisted they would do so proudly. ''If you ask, are we going to adopt a capitalist system, we will say no,'' he said in a two-hour performance Of those who speculate on the demise of his Government, he said, ''I am sure they are wrong.'' 
 
Change Called Necessary
But for all the Cuban leader's fervor about the correctness and durability of his revolutionary course, diplomats from both East and West in Havana say that to avoid economic catastrophe Mr. Castro's Government must quickly see its way to change.
''The Cubans are trying their best to get hard currency,'' a Soviet official said. ''This is their No. 1 problem. I think the Cubans in the future must develop deeper economic relations with the West, but the only way I see is by improving relations with the United States.''
Asked whether the Soviet Union, with serious economic difficulties of its own, would maintain its huge aid program to Cuba, the Soviet official said, ''I don't think it is possible for us to cut off our aid abruptly.''
Even though he said current levels of Soviet aid would likely last at least five more years, the official said the Cuban Government must ''take into consideration the situation'' and ''look for higher efficiency in our cooperation.''
 
Russian Expresses Frustration
In January, when an interruption in Soviet shipments to Cuba temporarily caused shortages of bread and other food items, speculation was rife that President Mikhail S. Gorbachev of the Soviet Union, weary of Cuban oratory interpreted as critical of his policies, had decided to rein in Mr. Castro by reminding him of his economic dependency on Moscow.
Denying that there was any such message, the Soviet official nonetheless expressed frustration with what he said was the Cuban Government's failure to use its resources properly and build stocks of critical staples.
''Because of this, everything depends upon the arrival of our ships,'' the official said. ''The Cubans must take some steps to deal with this situation. They should have done this long ago; we have been telling them this all along.''
Western diplomats here agree that Cuba desperately needs to produce foreign exchange, but there is an increasing sense that with important economic relationships dissolving in Eastern Europe, it will not be able to develop hard currency earnings quickly enough to keep its economy from crumbling.
 
Serious Problems Predicted
''They face a whole range of problems and shortages even if the Soviets do what they can to help,'' said a Western diplomat who spoke on the condition of anonymity. ''There are going to be some very, very serious economic problems. They have already started, but next year will probably be the crunch.''
The diplomat credited Mr. Castro with taking good propaganda advantage from the United States' mostly unsuccessful trial efforts to broadcast television programs to Cubans recently, but said distractions of that kind will quickly be followed by daily reminders for the Cuban people of their economic hardships.
''For the moment he has blurred the image of standing alone on the lonely island,'' the Western diplomat said. Referring to the United States television broadcasts, he added, ''TV Marti has sailed up and rescued Robinson Crusoe, but the real serious problems he faces haven't gone away.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CUBA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CUBA; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (85%); POLITICS (78%); TRENDS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); CURRENCIES (64%); 

PERSON: FRENCH, HOWARD W; CASTRO, FIDEL (PRES) FIDEL CASTRO (93%); 



106 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 28, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 392 words

HEADLINE: Why Tax Apartment Dwellers More?

 BODY:
With New York City's budget gap widening, a painful rise in the real property tax rate becomes inevitable. Property valuation under present law makes the pain much worse for apartment house dwellers and commercial tenants than for homeowners. The impending increase can force attention to the need for reform. 
An unfair valuation system requires apartment house owners and their tenants - including residents of co-ops and condos - to pay $4.17 per $100 of market value. The typical homeowner, however, pays only 84 cents per $100. The reason for this striking disparity is political timidity.
The city's appraisers have long favored low valuations for single-family homes because their owners, receiving tax bills directly from the city, are not only numerous, but quick to respond angrily to increases. In 1975 the State Court of Appeals, noting the unfair appraisals, ruled that the law required all properties to be taxed according to a fair estimate of their true market value.
Instead of changing the valuation process, members of the Legislature changed the law that mandated equality. They replaced it in 1983, with a law that divides properties into four major classes - homes, apartment houses, public utility property and commercial property. Each class was expected to contribute the same fraction of total real estate taxes it paid under previous law.
But the law gave New York City the right to vary the share of total tax revenue that homeowners pay by 5 percent a year and limited the increase in valuation of any individual home. Instead of using the 5 percent flexibility to raise the valuations of Class I, the ''homes'' class, to approach the valuation standard of the other classes, the city used it to lower Class I values, thus widening the gap.
If Mayor David Dinkins, the Legislature and the City Council raise the real estate tax to close the budget gap, they need to remedy its glaring flaw by requiring the city to increase Class I's share of total tax by 5 percent a year while reducing other classes proportionately. And any cap on valuation increases ought to apply to all properties.
Inequitable taxes discourage investment in apartment houses and create immediate problems for commercial and industrial tenants. Requiring homeowners to pick up more of their share would serve the economy as well as fairness.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: TAXATION; REAL ESTATE; HOUSING PROPERTY TAX (92%); REAL ESTATE (91%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX ASSESSORS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (78%); TAX LAW (78%); CITIES (78%); MAYORS (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (73%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (72%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (72%); APPEALS COURTS (53%); 



107 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 28, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 298 words

HEADLINE: Sit-In Movement Had Origins Outside the South

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''Pioneer of Sit-In Movement Remembered'' by Prof. Louis Jolyon West (letter, March 15), on Clara Luper's 1958 Oklahoma City sit-in with a group of black schoolchildren at the lunch counter of a large drugstore, contains at least one factual error and one critical omission.
The error is in the sequence of the sit-ins he discusses. The Wichita, Kan., sit-ins at the Dockum Drug stores took place for several weeks in the spring of 1958, and the management desegregated the stores by early summer. I was president of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People youth chapter that led the Wichita demonstrations.
The Oklahoma City sit-ins occurred in the fall of 1958 and, as the letter suggests, Clara Luper was a driving force as the youth N.A.A.C.P. chapter's adult adviser. The omission, however, is that adequate attention has never been given to the role of my Oklahoma City counterpart, the courageous Barbara Posey, then 16 years old, who daily faced down harassment in leading the Oklahoma City N.A.A.C.P. youth chapter in those sit-ins. Now Dr. Barbara Jones, she is an economist at Prairie View State University in Texas.
Someday the connection between these Kansas and Oklahoma sit-ins and the so-called first sit-ins in Greensboro, N.C., in 1960 - also sparked by N.A.A.C.P. youth movement people - will be understood (see Aldon Morris's ''Origins of the Civil Rights Movement,'' New York, 1984). Until then, the origins of the civil rights movement will have a Southern emphasis, which makes dramatic stuff for book prizes and television documentaries, but ignores the struggle for justice by blacks elsewhere in the country.
 
RONALD WALTERS
Professor of Political Science
Howard University
 Washington, March 19, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: OKLAHOMA, USA (94%); KANSAS, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (94%); WICHITA, KS, USA (88%); GREENSBORO, NC, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (57%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;OKLAHOMA CITY (OKLA)

SUBJECT: DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; BLACKS (IN US); CHILDREN AND YOUTH COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (77%); CHILDREN (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); RIOTS (70%); CIVIL RIGHTS (69%); LITERATURE (62%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (50%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (50%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%); 

PERSON: WEST, LOUIS JOLYON (PROF) CLARA LUPER (69%); 



108 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 29, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: IN THE NATION;
Overkill in Panama

BYLINE: By Tom Wicker

 BODY:
On the same day the U.S. invaded Panama last December, the Lithuanian Communist Party declared its independence from the overall Soviet party. In an article on Dec. 22, 1989, I pointed out that the news from Lithuania had been ''little noticed among the headlines'' about Panama.
In the same article, President Bush was urged to provide quick and ''convincing evidence'' in support of a major reason he had given for the invasion - ''eminent danger to the 35,000 American citizens in Panama'' from the Government controlled by Manuel Antonio Noriega.
As usual, both in the press and in the public mind, the dramatic use of armed force in Panama was rewarded with greater attention (and an inflated poll standing for Mr. Bush) than were nonviolent and faraway political events. But more than three months later, it's clear that that first step in Lithuania's movement for national independence was of more lasting importance than any of the sins and threats of General Noriega. 
It's not so widely realized that Mr. Bush has not yet provided the evidence to prove his claim of ''eminent danger'' to Americans in Panama. In the continued absence of such evidence, or any White House effort to provide it, it's reasonable to conclude that there isn't any, or not much.
The trigger for the invasion was the killing of a single U.S. soldier while he was running a Panamanian roadblock in a restricted zone. That was deplorable but insufficient cause either to envision a real threat to the lives of 35,000 other Americans, or to warrant a costly military invasion of a sovereign nation. Mr. Bush and Administration spokesmen also spoke of danger to the Panama Canal. But Gen. Colin Powell, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, has pointed out that 14,000 U.S. troops, a force ''quite adequate'' to defend the canal from General Noriega, were in Panama before the invasion. That force, on the face of it, also seems adequate to the defense of all American residents against whatever threat existed.
Nor was the operation a necessary anti-drug action. Even if General Noriega was up to his neck in illicit drug traffic as late as 1989, the huge dollar cost of a military operation involving 24,000 troops would have been better devoted to providing drug treatment slots in the U.S. Now additional millions must be spent to make up for economic losses inflicted on Panama by the U.S. during and before the invasion.
No wonder, then, that William Webster, the Director of the C.I.A., has said that ''we made a mistake in overemphasizing the importance of Noriega.'' And no wonder that lawyers for the dictator charge that Operation Just Cause - the ludicrous code name for the invasion - was ''outrageous'' and ''the first time the U.S. has invaded a country and leveled it to arrest one man.'' Such drastic ''justice,'' they might have said, was never considered in the cases of the brutal Anastasio Somoza of Nicaragua, or any of the several murderous generals who have ruled Guatemala, or Papa and Baby Doc Duvalier in Haiti.
General Noriega's lawyers further claim that because of these circumstances all charges against him ought to be dismissed. But an illegal arrest - which is essentially what the defense contends the general suffered -has never been grounds for dropping charges against a defendant; and recently the Supreme Court ruled that the U.S. Constitution does not protect a foreigner against the actions of U.S. agents in a foreign country.
Sending 24,000 troops to bag Manuel Noriega nevertheless is likely to stand in the history of overkill higher even than Ronald Reagan's Grenada operation. This long after the invasion, for example, Washington is not able to state with any certainty how many Panamanian civilians died; some estimates range into the thousands and most of them substantially exceed the official U.S. death count - 202 civilians and 314 soldiers.
Even taking the latter figures at face value, and adding the 23 American soldiers killed in the invasion, 539 people lost their lives as the primary human cost of putting handcuffs on one thug. But when a defense lawyer referred to ''indiscriminate'' U.S. firepower, Judge William M. Hoeveler protested that ''a war was going on - why do you say it was indiscriminate?''
He did not say what word would have been better, or how a ham-fisted exercise in executive muscle-flexing could be distinguished as a war.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OP-ED

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); PANAMA (95%); LITHUANIA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PANAMA

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PANAMA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; MILITARY ACTION POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); ARMED FORCES (86%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); EVIDENCE (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (68%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (68%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (65%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (62%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (60%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); WICKER, TOM GEORGE W BUSH (67%); 



109 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 29, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: ON MY MIND;
We Are Warned

BYLINE: By A. M. Rosenthal

 BODY:
Once more we have been clearly warned and once more we have a choice.
We can accept the plain warning of mass murder to come, and act to prevent it. Or we can say again that no man could be that evil, no nation could follow his madness, he is bluffing - and do nothing.
The first choice will mean that the major nations of the world will lose a profitable business - the death trade. 
The other choice will mean that peace will not come for generations to one of the most important areas of the world, perhaps never. Quite likely, hundreds of thousands of people will die as the result of our decision.
In fact, the new warning is a direct threat to the lives of millions, not thousands. But even now the civilized mind cannot encompass that.
No, even though that first warning, which came from Adolf Hitler, resulted in the death of scores of millions.
Hitler proclaimed what he intended to do - wipe out the Jews and then rule the world. But until the day he started the war against the world -even after - the world said he could not mean it, impossible.
A half-century later, a new statement of intent to kill - this one from Saddam Hussein, dictator of Iraq. He rules absolutely and commands one of the largest armed forces - air, ground and missile - in the world.
He wants to wipe out the Jews of Israel and rule the Middle East. He has made that as clear as ''Mein Kampf.''
Nations in other parts of the world already toady to him and his power. What will they do then? Dictator Hussein told the world that he would annihilate ''half of Israel'' with missile-delivered chemical weapons if Israel ''tries to do anything'' against Iraq, now only a few years from the nuclear bomb.
Please, no delusions about timing. If already he intends to use missiles and chemical weapons, against Israel as he did against Iran and his own Kurdish population, Saddam Hussein will not wait passively until Israel attacks.
He will decide when the moment has come, because of Israeli loss of strength or allies, to strike for the ultimate goal, annihilation of Israel. Then he will do what every dictator does - claim provocation by the enemy.
Afterward the great powers will try to forget who gave him the missiles, chemicals and the nuclear technology. They all did - the United States, Britain, the Soviet Union, China, France, Germany, Italy and Japan. For love of money they gave these things to him.
Mass murderers like Hitler and Hussein have a deep urge to tell the world of their blood lusts. That is their weakness - but only if the rest of the world believes, and acts.
The Western powers and the Soviet Union have it within their power to stop Hussein before he strikes.
All exports and imports involving Iraq should be embargoed - all, arms, technology, food, oil - and seized as contraband whenever found. All air traffic to and from Iraq should be banned, all.
In a year or two this would break Iraqi economic power. But it would leave him with the missiles, chemical bombs and nuclear technology sold to him by the West and the Communist world.
The only way to deal with that is to make it officially clear that if he uses those missiles and weapons of hell against Israel he can expect strong and swift military retaliation from the nations that armed him.
But united action is not likely. Neither the Soviet Union nor our allies show any appetite for anything that would reduce their Middle Eastern profits. They seem hungrier than ever.
American business also knows how to crowd around the Iraqi trough. American electronic technology helps the Iraqis turn out their long-range missiles.
But even alone the U.S. could stop the death trade. It would take the political courage to carry out two steps - the declaration of embargo against Iraq, and a clear statement that any country that did continue to sell materials or technology of war to the Iraqis would face heavy economic penalties from the United States.
These are precisely the steps needed to stop Iran and Syria from being paymasters and safe havens for the terrorists. That never happened; all we have had are mutters and whines.
Still, just faintly possibly, Iraq's open threat to use chemical weapons again might stir the Bush Administration to take world leadership and initiative at last.
The least the rest of us can do is shout out to believe this man Hussein - he intends to kill.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OP-ED

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (95%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); IRAQ (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); ITALY (55%); FRANCE (51%); GERMANY (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; ISRAEL

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; EMBARGOES; MISSILES; CHEMICAL WARFARE EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (67%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, A M; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); 



110 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1225 words

HEADLINE: Behind Atlantic City's Glitz Lies Decay 878>

BYLINE: By WAYNE KING

DATELINE: ATLANTIC CITY, April 4

 BODY:
The grandmotherly ladies on the three-acre casino floor cooed, ''Donald, Donald, there's Donald,'' when Donald J. Trump sauntered onto the floor to open the Taj Mahal on Monday, but most of them continued to pump money into his slot machines without letup.
The result was that the Taj, as everyone calls Mr. Trump's $1 billion extravaganza, broke all records for an opening day of play, $925,000 in just eight hours.
It was an auspicious opening for the huge casino, billed as the world's largest, though that claim is contested in both Las Vegas and Monaco. Yet it came amid a tide of concern for the future of Atlantic City's $3-billion-a-year casino industry, and indeed for the viability of this city.
The casino industry is at a crisis point, with most analysts saying that the clientele is at the saturation stage. And the city has yet to benefit substantially from the 12 years of casino gambling that was supposed to save it from decay. 
''People look at Atlantic City and say it's a toilet,'' said Seth Grossman, a City Councilman who is one of seven candidates running for mayor next month in a campaign dominated by questions of corruption and racial politics. ''I say you're looking at the future of urban America.'' That is perhaps hyperbole, but Atlantic City is perhaps given to excess. Mr. Trump bills his new casino, his third, as ''the eighth wonder of the world.''
At the opening Monday, only the casino's 3,010 slot machines were taking in real money. Other players had to be satisfied with ''funny money'' - scrip used to test operations monitored by New Jersey's Casino Control Commission, which approved the Taj Mahal for full-scale operation today and its official grand opening on Thursday.
''I think Donald is fixing to make some money,'' said Al Glasgow, publisher of Atlantic City Action, a gaming industry newsletter, and a consultant to Mr. Trump and other Atlantic City casinos.
''Donald Trump is the baby boomer's Howard Hughes,'' he said.
The image of the button-downed Mr. Trump is at odds with the eccentricities of Mr. Hughes, the billionaire who shuffled about with his feet in tissue boxes to protect himself from contamination. But there is no question that Mr. Trump now dominates the Atlantic City gambling industry in the same way that Mr. Hughes dominated Las Vegas in the 50's and 60's.
 
A Pervasive Influence
With the opening of the Taj Mahal, Mr. Trump now controls nearly a third of the town's gaming tables and 40 percent of its top-line hotel rooms and convention space.
So pervasive has the Trump influence become on the casino industry in Atlantic City that the Casino Control Commission held months of hearings before granting Mr. Trump a license for the Taj Mahal, and before that, allowing him to buy the failed Atlantis.
He is allowed to operate the Atlantis as only a hotel, since with the Taj Mahal he has reached the state's limit of three casinos. The others are the Trump Castle and the Trump Plaza.
Not everyone thinks the Taj Mahal will be another winner for Mr. Trump. One industry analyst, Marvin B. Roffman, recently questioned the Taj Mahal's prospects for success because of the $1 million a day that the casino must bring in to meet its huge debt.
Mr. Trump reacted to the criticism by demanding a retraction and an apology. When Mr. Roffman refused, his Philadelphia brokerage firm, Janney Montgomery Scott, dismissed him.
 
'We'll Break Every Record'
A smiling Mr. Trump flashed a victory sign in his big hall, but bridled a bit at questions about the casino's chances for success. Analysts say it may not be all that difficult for the casino to take in $1 million a day, given that the Trump Plaza, half the size of the Taj Mahal, logged a gross win of $850,000 a day last year.
''I think we'll break every record in the business,'' Mr. Trump said.
Beyond the question of what effect the Taj Mahal will have on the gambling industry - some analysts warn that if the Taj Mahal succeeds, other casinos could fail - the opening comes at a time when Atlantic City is at a critical crossroads.
Three recent Mayors have been convicted of corruption, and the incumbent, James L. Usry, is awaiting trial. Crime is rampant, racial tensions are intense, half the city's population receives public assistance, residents continue to leave the city and vast areas have been boarded up or bulldozed in the face of a critical housing shortage.
The 12 casinos here represent more than $5 billion worth of glass, concrete and steel, but Atlantic City is a small town. In the last census, it had about 37,000 people, down 20 percent since 1976, when casino gambling was approved, and still declining. By most estimates, the population will be down to about 30,000 when the new census figures are released.
But the city supports 33 million visits a year from gaming patrons - about 7 million people making multiple trips to the gaming tables - and that makes Atlantic City what Councilman Grossman calls ''a small town with the visibility and problems of a metropolis.''
''And we still only have the voting power of a small town,'' he added. #48,000 Work in Casinos The town is the workplace of about 48,000 casino employees, some 7,000 of them in the Taj Mahal alone.
The taxes on the casinos provide about two-thirds of the town's annual tax income of about $130 million. It is not the lack of tax income that plagues the city, its critics say.
''It's a lack of leadership,'' said City Councilman Jim Whelan, another candidate for mayor, who admits he is not without bias. But he is not alone. Spurred by the city's long history of corruption, including the charges that Mayor Usry took a $6,000 bribe from a Boardwalk vendor, the Assembly is considering legislation to put control of the city government in the hands of a state-controlled commission.
That, says Councilman Grossman, is not only a denial of local self government, but also a result of state prosecutors trying to make a name for themselves by prosecuting city officials.
''What causes mayors in Atlantic City to go to jail is that we're a prosecutor's dream,'' said Mr. Grossman, who is also such a sharp a critic of the incumbent Mayor that he is often accused of racial politics. Mr. Usry is black and Mr. Grossman is white.
 
'What You Must Do'
Mr. Grossman is not the only one accused of racial politics.
This week, a four-page circular distributed in the predominantly black section of town and attributed to Mr. Usry made what appeared to be an overtly racial appeal.
''There is nothing that anyone can say about me,'' the circular read, ''that you don't already know - for the color of my skin tells the true story. Deep down in your heart you know what you must do and on May 8, 1990, you will do it.'' The circular asks ''my people'' to re-elect Mr. Usry.
The Mayor was in New Orleans attending the Conference of Black Mayors. An administrative assistant, Rosalind Norrell-Nance, said, ''He doesn't even know there had been any flak about it,'' and said there would be no immediate response to accusations from other candidates that the appeal was clearly racial.
Ms. Norell-Nance said Mr. Usry would be back for the official opening of the Taj Mahal on Thursday. ''The Mayor is very optimistic the Taj will bring a very positive force to gaming and to the city,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Despite 12 years of casino gambling that was supposed to save Atlantic City from decay, it still has racial and labor problems, unemployment and a housing shortage. A vacant home stands near the new billion-dollar Taj Mahal casino. (The New York Times/John Sotomayor)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (95%); GLASGOW, SCOTLAND (52%); 

COMPANY: ATLANTIC CITY ACTION (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: TAJ MAHAL CASINO HOTEL (ATLANTIC CITY, NJ)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ATLANTIC CITY (NJ)

SUBJECT: GAMBLING; CASINOS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; HOTELS AND MOTELS CASINOS (95%); GAMING (91%); TRENDS (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (74%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); MAYORS (71%); APPROVALS (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: TRUMP, DONALD J; KING, WAYNE DONALD TRUMP (90%); 



111 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 10, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 505 words

HEADLINE: As Bush Hails Progress by Blacks, Veto Is Seen on Rights Bill

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, D.C., April 4

 BODY:
As his Administration threatened to veto new civil rights legislation, President Bush tonight told a black audience that he dreamed of the day that a black man or woman would occupy the White House.
''The day will come - and it is not far off - when the legacy of Lincoln will finally be fulfilled at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, when a black man or woman will sit in the Oval Office,'' Mr. Bush told a dinner honoring the 20th anniversary of The Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, a research group devoted to the role of blacks in America.
He continued, ''When that day comes the most remarkable thing about it will be how naturally it occurs.'' 
The President's comments came only hours after the Senate Labor and Human Resources Committee approved, 11 to 5, and sent to the floor a bill that would strengthen Federal protection against racial harassment on the job and would shift back to employers the burden of proof on a key issue in some employment discrimination cases.
 
Bill to Counteract Court Rulings
The bill, which was drafted to reverse several Supreme Court rulings last year, would also sharply limit lawsuits that challenge court-approved agreements on affirmative action plans to reduce discrimination.
In a letter to Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, Attorney General Dick Thornburgh threatened to recommend a veto of the bill saying the Administration opposes ''any legislation that would encourage quota systems or otherwise divide our society along racial lines.''
Members of the audience tonight said the President's statement and Mr. Thornburgh's letter were contradictory. Eleanor Holmes Norton, a law professor at Georgetown University, said: ''All I can say is the President forgot one item. He forgot to explain himself for his untimely action. Blacks will find it unacceptable for the President to come to dinner and then go home and veto bills that are critical to our progress.''
 
'Very Unkind Action'
Ronald Brown, the national chairman of the Democratic Party, said, ''I am particularly distressed in view of the gracious nature of the press appearance that we've seen another example of kinder and gentler rhetoric and very unkind action by the Adminstration.''
Roger Wilkins, a professor of history and American culture at George Mason University in Fairfax, Va., went through the ballroom at the Washington Hilton pointing out the statements to other dinner guests.
Mr. Brown, who was on the dais, described the civil rights act in an interview as the most important piece of civil rights legislation in 25 years and said the Administration threat to veto it was ''a disgrace.''
In his speech Mr. Bush also teased Jesse Jackson, who was in the lobby of the hotel at the time of the address. Mr. Bush spoke of his visits to black ghettos, saying he wondered which of the children could someday reach the Oval Office. ''Jesse,'' the President said, ''I'm talking about little kids. I'm not talking about 49-year-old guys. Let's not rush it.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: JOINT CENTER FOR POLITICAL & ECONOMIC STUDIES (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: JOINT CENTER FOR POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC STUDIES

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: BLACKS (IN US); LAW AND LEGISLATION; DISCRIMINATION; LABOR; AFFIRMATIVE ACTION; SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT VETO (92%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (90%); LITIGATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (78%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (75%); HISTORY (75%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); BURDENS OF PROOF (73%); EMPLOYMENT (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (71%); LAW SCHOOLS (70%); APPROVALS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); SUPREME COURTS (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); ANNIVERSARIES (56%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); HOLMES, STEVEN A; THORNBURGH, RICHARD L (ATTY GEN) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); ELEANOR HOLMES NORTON (58%); TED KENNEDY (58%); JESSE JACKSON (58%); 



112 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 1990

SECTION: Section C; Page 1, Column 3; Home Desk

LENGTH: 1233 words

HEADLINE: GARDENING;
For Annuals, a Renaissance

BYLINE: By LINDA YANG

 BODY:
THE title, ''The Importance of Being Annual,'' seemed innocuous enough. Yet when Steven Frowine delivered his talk on annual flowers in October at the New York Botanical Garden, it came smack in the middle of a symposium on perennials, the plants that have been in the horticultural limelight for close to a decade.
But garden fashions come in waves. And notwithstanding the clamor for perennials, the consistent rise in interest in annuals has not gone unnoticed by commercial suppliers. ''Annuals are inexpensive and give gardeners immediate gratification and quick effects,'' said Mr. Frowine, who is the nursery merchandise director of the W. Atlee Burpee Company in Warminster, Pa. ''Traditionally, perennial flower beds were not supposed to be tainted with other plants, but I think that attitude's really changing now.'' 
Annuals differ from perennials in that they go from seed to flower to death within a year, while perennials can live for several years. True annuals, like marigolds and morning glories, are stalwart bloomers, and are further distinguished from perennials by their ability to add carefree color, nearly nonstop, all summer.
''The feeling we get from commercial growers is that the market boom in perennials is not quite what it was,'' said Terry Humfeld, the executive director of the Professional Plant Growers Association in Lansing, Mich. ''I suspect that people are now finding that perennials are not exactly the low-maintenance plants they sought, and it's hard to plot a garden filled with color all season.''
Mr. Humfeld's group specializes in growing annuals and other similar mass-flowering plants better known as bedding species. These are sold as seedlings at garden centers and nurseries, and include the many colorful geraniums and begonias, which regularly outsell all other kinds of flowers.
While interest in perennials grew through the 1980's, annuals ''continued to go like gangbusters,'' said Alvi Voigt, a professor of agriculture economics at Pennsylvania State University who monitors the industry for the grovers' association. He said bedding-plant sales for the 50 states were about $61 million in 1970. By 1979, they had more than quadrupled, to $285 million. Although not all of the 1989 figures have been tallied, Professor Voigt said the numbers he has seen have led him to expect conclude that the decade's sales total will again show a quadruple increase in sales.
''In the last few years, we saw that some of our most popular annuals were used for special situations,'' said Klaus Neubner, the vice chair man and executive vice president of the Park Seed Company in Green wood, S.C.
There was, for example, globe am aranth or gomphrena, an easily grown, lollipop-shaped flower with white, rose or purple blossoms that are superb for dried arrangements. ''Four years ago, we sold a few thou sand dollars' worth'' of these plants, Mr. Neubner said. ''Last year, sales increased 10 times.''
William John Park, the company's chairman, added, ''We were certainly surprised to experience this rise of interest in this kind of flower.'' And so, Park added to its spring catalogue this year the annuals he lichrysum, a bright yellow bloomer, and Crepis rubra, which has pink blossoms. Both plants are described as especially useful for cutting and drying.
In This year's Burpee catalogue, of fers the number of annuals listed increased at atleast 10 percent more annuals than last year's. ''We wanted to give people more of a choice,'' said Su zanne Bayles, one of the company's owners. ''In particular, we wanted to fill a niche that the garden centers don't.''
Two years ago, the Burpee cata logue began listing several old-fash ioned annuals, like mignonette, a fra grant lavender-hued flower that was popular during the early years of the company, in the late 19th century. Among the more unusual flowers this year are abelmoschus, with pink or red flowers resembling those of its cousin, the hibiscus, and melampo dium, with star-shaped bronze-or ange flowers.
''People seem to be looking at their gardens in a different way,'' said Antoinette Serrell, horticulturist for Thompson & Morgan. Ms. Serrell fields the public's questions for this British mail-order seed company, which has offices in Jackson, N.J. There is definitely more attention be ing paid to annual flowers that were not widely used before, she said.
Ms. Surrell said she has noticed more interest in the annual poppy, for example, which blooms in orange as well as shades of yellow, rose and crimson. Also more popular recently is the annual candytuft, a compact plant with clusters of pink, crimson, red, purple or white flowers that have long-lasting, sculptural seed heads.
''I suspect that once perennials are finished flowering, gardeners want something special to replace them,'' Ms. Surrell said.
Christopher Cohen and Rita Wong are two backyard gardeners who, in recent years, have given over more of their plots to annuals. Mr. Cohen, a landscape architect, and Ms. Wong, an architect, have a This Brooklyn couple's 25-by-40-foot garden is on a sunny site behind their row house in the Park Slope section of Brooklyn.
''We found that in this small space, it was tricky orchestrat ing a good sequence of bloom with perennials, and we really wanted to fill it with long-lasting color immedi ately,'' said Ms. Wong said.
The couple - she's an architect, he's a landscape architect - are partial, in particular, to old-fash ioned varieties like four-o-clocks, whose trumpet-shaped blooms open in midday, and the bell-shaped baby blue eyes. For several years, they have been poring over catalogues looking for seed species that were grown in turn-of-the-century gardens. Some of the old favorites they have planted include heliotrope, larkspur and sweet peas, which were not espe cially successful in the heat of the New York summer.
''There seems to be a trend toward new traditionalism,'' Ms. Wong said. ''It's the idea of home as a cozy bungalow. Part of that idea is a com fortable kind of garden with old-fash ioned annuals in subtle hues and sim ple forms.
''At least when annuals don't work out, you've lost only one season and can move on to something else. You can experiment yearly. It's not like the commitment you must make to perennials. And shrubs are a lifelong endeavor.''
 
Some Colorful Candidates for a Garden
THERE are many more kinds of annual flower shapes, sizes and colors than any gardener has room for. Here are a mere dozen to start:
Blue lace flower: 2 1/2 feet tall; rounded, pale blue, lacy blooms. Browallia: 10 inches; pale purple star-shaped flowers. Cornflower or bachelor's buttons: 18 inches; fluffy round flowers in purple, white or pink. Cosmos: 2 feet; flat flowers in white, pink, red or gold. Heliotrope: 15 inches; clusters of fragrant purple blooms.
Love-in-a-mist or Nigella: 14 inches; flat flowers in white, pink or purple.
Nasturtium: 18 inches; crinkle flowers in yellow, pink and crimson.
Pot marigold or Calendula: 18 inches; round, flat topped flowers in cream, yellow and orange.
Spiderflower or Cleome: 3 feet; spider-like blooms in pink, purple or white.
Torenia or wishbone flower: 9 inches; trumpet-shaped flowers in white, violet or blue.
Verbena: 10 inches; rounded flower clusters in white, pink or purple.
Xeranthemum: 2 feet; daisy-like flowers in white, rose or purple.

GRAPHIC: photos: Cleome, or spiderflower, grows to three feet and has pink, purple or white blooms. (The New York Times/Ruby Washington) (pg. C1); Annuals thrived last summer in Christopher Cohen and Rita Wong's Brooklyn garden. (The New York Times/Ruby Washington) (pg. C10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (70%); SIC0181 ORNAMENTAL FLORICULTURE & NURSERY PRODUCTS (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: LANSING, MI, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: W ATLEE BURPEE CO (70%); NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN (84%); NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN (84%); PROFESSIONAL PLANT GROWERS ASSOCIATION (54%); 

SUBJECT: GARDENS AND GARDENING GARDENING (90%); FLORICULTURE PRODUCTION (89%); HORTICULTURE (78%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (78%); NURSERY & GARDEN STORES (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); AGRICULTURE (66%); 

PERSON: YANG, LINDA STEVEN FROWINE (66%); ANTOINETTE SERRELL (63%); TERRY HUMFELD (61%); KLAUS NEUBNER (61%); 



113 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 581 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Economy
The Senate confirmed T. Timothy Ryan Jr. as the top regulator of the savings and loan industry, enabling the Government to resume its seizures of insolvent institutions and moving forward the giant savings and loan bailout. [Page A1.]
Sales of American-made cars and light trucks rose 2.9 percent in late March. [D2.] 
 
International
The U.S. and Japan are nearing a pact on how to curb some policy and cultural obstacles to foreigners who want to do business in Japan. Talks will resume today. [D17.]
Leaders of the Group of Seven nations will discuss on Saturday the momentous political and economic changes that have swept the world since their last meeting in September. [D1.]
 
 
 
Companies
Most of Bonwit Teller will go out of business, including the main store in Trump Tower in Manhattan. [D1.]
Ivan Boesky is a free man. The former financier was released from a halfway house, ending a three-year prison term. [D1.]
Industrial companies reacted with varying degrees of pessimism to the clean-air legislation passed by the Senate. [D1.]
Anheuser-Busch is negotiating with the Czech producer of the 16th-century original Budweiser to settle longstanding trademark differences. [D1.]
A former bank president and five other men were convicted of participating in a loan fraud scheme in Queens. [B3.]
Baxter International is revamping its operations and laying off 6,400 workers to improve profits and cash flow. [D5.]
The fate of Eastern Airlines is now more than ever in the hands of the judge overseeing the airline's bankruptcy proceedings. [D5.]
The Bank of New England will cut about 5,600 jobs in an effort to cut expenses and return to profitability [D5.]
Several large pension funds threatened to begin a campaign to remove the board of Exxon. [D8.]
Axel Springer Verlag makes its U.S. publishing debut today with Medical Tribune, a newspaper for doctors. [D22.]
 
 
 
Markets
Stock prices weakened in thin trading and the Dow Jones industrial average ended the day at 2,719.37, down 17.34 points. [D10.]
Tokyo's Nikkei index of 225 stocks fell nearly 4 percent here Thursday morning, but recouped most of the losses in the afternoon. [D1.] Two international financial institutions signaled that they were ready to bet that Tokyo stocks have struck bottom. [D19.]
Waves of speculative buying pushed prices of Treasury securities sharply higher. [D19.] Yields of money market funds monitored by IBC/Donoghue's Money Fund Report were mixed. [D11.]
The best performing mutual funds were those that invested in technology stocks. And funds that invested in the Pacific region were the worst performers in the first quarter. [D10.] Investment advisers had a tough first quarter, with most failing to match the total return of the S. & P. 500-stock index. [D10.]
The dollar ended narrowly mixed against major foreign currencies. [D20.] Copper futures prices fell sharply. [D20.]
 
 
 
Today's Columns
Lockheed has emerged as something of a test case for institutional shareholders, who have become assertive in dealing with the companies in which they invest. Talking Deals. [D2.]
Wall Street hates a surprise, and it is unhappy with Oracle Systems, which said its earnings would be flat. Market Place. [D12.]
Ads for an NEC video game will be shared by a Japanese-American joint venture. Randall Rothenberg: Advertising. [D23.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: BAX (SWX) (54%); BAX (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS332431 METAL CAN MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS327213 GLASS CONTAINER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (55%); NAICS111199 ALL OTHER GRAIN FARMING (55%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

COMPANY: ANHEUSER-BUSCH COS INC (55%); EASTERN AIR LINES INC (54%); BAXTER INTERNATIONAL INC (54%); AXEL SPRINGER AG (53%); BANK OF NEW ENGLAND CORP (53%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS SAVINGS & LOANS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (86%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (79%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); CASH FLOW (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); LEGISLATION (73%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (73%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (72%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); LAYOFFS (70%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (67%); JUDGES (65%); PUBLISHING (62%); TREASURY SECURITIES (60%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (60%); 

PERSON: TIM RYAN (73%); 



114 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 2527 words

HEADLINE: Industry Wary of Clean-Air Bill

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
Industrial companies across America reacted with varying degrees of pessimism to the clean-air legislation passed by the Senate on Tuesday. They are resigned to paying billions of dollars in additional pollution-control costs but warn that those costs will be passed on to consumers.
The bill, which appears likely to be the basis of the first Federal clean-air law since 1977, would require auto makers, chemical manufacturers, steelmakers and coal-fired power plants, among others, to make substantial investments in equipment and processes to lower their pollution. The Senate bill now goes to the House of Representatives, where several industries hope for amendments that will make it less stringent. But environmentalists see the House debate as an opportunity for strengthening the legislation. The version of the bill now in a House committee would impose stricter limits in some areas.
The Administration estimates that the cost will be $20 billion a year. Yet some corporations said that more than money is at stake. They said they were not sure how to meet the new requirements at any reasonable cost. Here are the viewpoints of four industries on the legislation. 
 
The Auto Industry
Jump in Cost Seen For Consumers
Auto industry representatives said yesterday that the measure approved by the Senate included standards for the equipment that controls tailpipe emissions that would stretch the limits of their technology and cost consumers a minimum of hundreds of dollars extra for each car.
But those interviewed stopped short of saying the Senate was placing impossible limits on the industry. However, vigorous lobbying in Congress for a less restrictive bill appeared certain, they said.
Thomas Hanna, president of the Motor Vehicle Manufacturers Association, an industry trade group, said, ''It's an extraordinarily tough bill but it's the best we thought we could get from the Senate, given where some of the parties were.''
The provision in the Senate bill that seems most worrisome to auto makers is a requirement that makes standards for auto tailpipe emissions applicable for 10 years or 100,000 miles starting in 1993, doubling the current longevity standard. The tailpipe standards would reduce oxides of nitrogen 60 percent from the current level and hydrocarbons by 40 percent.
A second round of tailpipe-emission reductions in the year 2004 would halve the 1993 level.
''Anything mechanical deteriorates, especially something underneath a car,'' said Rob Liberatore, a government relations specialist for the Chrysler Corporation, referring to a car's catalytic converter, which removes pollutants from engine emissions. ''To engineer a system that can last this long it has to meet very, very low standards when it's new so it still meets the limits after a decade.'' Can Standards Be Met? Automotive engineers are reluctant to estimate the cost of a pollution-control system that meets the 100,000-mile standard, but Mr. Liberatore said the additional rare metals and other costs certainly would amount to ''several hundred dollars'' a car, which auto makers say they would pass on to consumers.
''We're not sure if we can meet the standard,'' said Donald R. Buist, director of emissions and fuel economy for the Ford Motor Company. ''If we can't, we'll have to go back and see the Government again,'' he said, referring to the mid-1970's, when auto makers obtained a relaxation of regulations because they were not able to meet pollution-control standards.
Auto makers are also wary of a provision in the Senate measure that requires special canisters for cars to trap fumes lost during refueling. The canisters would add $80 to $100 to the cost of a car and the auto makers say they pose a safety hazard in an accident. Instead, the Big Three prefer the solution used in California: a special hose at each gas tank that catches the vapors and collects them underground.
But the auto makers said their picture was not entirely bleak. The Senate failed to impose a fuel-economy provision mandating that each car maker's fleet reach an average of 40 miles a gallon, up from the current 27.5 miles a gallon. That much-discussed proposal is aimed at reducing carbon-dioxide emissions thought to contribute to global warming, by cutting the consumption of gasoline. Auto makers have warned that it could force an end to big-car production. The Senate also did not mandate the production of alternative-fuel cars like those that would burn methanol, which the Environmental Protection Agency had favored. DORON P. LEVIN
 
The Utilities
Delay Is Sought On Cleaner Coal
The bill approved by the Senate is intended to reduce acid rain by cutting 10 million tons a year of sulfur dioxide from the smokestacks of power plants, half of it from generators in the Midwest that burn high-sulfur coal. In addition, companies would be limited after the year 2000 to the amount of sulfur dioxide they emitted in 1985.
''We are extremely disappointed,'' said Thomas S. Ayres of American Electric Power, based in Columbus, Ohio, which serves seven million people in seven states and is in some years the nation's largest purchaser of coal. The company has not had time to analyze the effect of this legislation, he said, but an earlier proposal that would have cut the same amount of sulfur dioxide would have cost $750 million a year. That would be equal to nearly 15 percent of revenues.
If electric prices increased by a similar percentage, the company's residential rate would rise to about 7 cents a kilowatt-hour, which is still a penny under the national average price. Defending the proposed cleanup, William Reilly, the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, said yesterday that costs would rise for the utilities that are the biggest polluters. But he said that even after the increases, ''almost everywhere, the rates in those areas will be competitive with adjacent areas that have met the performance standards already.''
But coal-burning utilities think the standards could be met at less cost if Congress would delay action while cleaner ways to burn coal are developed. The alternative is to put ''scrubbers'' on existing plants, which are costly to build and require vast amounts of electricity to run.
Another controversial point is the choice of 1985 as the base year. At the Edison Electric Institute, a trade association in Washington, Mary Kenkel, a spokeswoman, said that a recession in the industry in 1985 reduced electricity generation - and thus emissions - to unusually low levels.
Ms. Kenkel and others also complain that the Senate legislation is inflexible. For example, at the Centerior Energy Corporation, which serves more than a million customers in northern Ohio and relies on coal to meet 70 percent of its load, Lee Bailey, a spokesman, complained that the proposed law sets a limit for each plant. ''If we could average over our entire system, it would give us the possibility of scrubbing our two biggest coal units to meet the goal,'' he said. That would be just as effective as putting less-efficient scrubbers on each plant and it would be cheaper, he said.
 
Complaint on Standards
But not only the most polluting utilities have objections. At Wisconsin Electric, which is 60 percent coal-fired, Lisa Berman, a spokeswoman, said the company had reduced sulfur dioxide emissions by 46 percent since 1980, and already meets the standards that would come into effect by 1995 under the legislation voted by the Senate. ''We want to have credit for what we've done so far,'' she said.
For a second round of reductions, taking effect in 2000, Wisconsin Electric would have to switch to lower-sulfur coal or install new equipment or both, at a cost of $125 million to $135 million, she said, raising rates by 8 to 13 percent. The company might retire one of its older coal-fired plants, she said.
Utilities facing growth also complained. At the Florida Power and Light Company, where a growing population is pushing up demand by 4 percent a year, company executives say that the choice of 1985 is especially unfortunate for them because in that year all four of their nuclear plants ran very well, with little time lost for refueling. As a result, they got 35 percent of their power from that sulfur-free source, a percentage that they do not think they can match now.
What the Florida utility would have to do under the proposed legislation is buy the right to emit more pollutants than it did in 1985, according to Gary G. Mehalik, a spokesman. A section in the proposed legislation would allow a company in the Midwest to clean up a coal plant even more stringently than the law requires and ''sell'' the difference. If, for example, a utility in Illinois cut emissions by 1,000 tons a year more than was required, it could sell to Florida Power the right to emit that 1,000 tons.
But he said, ''Our interest is in having our customers protected from having to pay for cleaning up other people's plants.'' MATTHEW L. WALD
 
The Chemical Industry
Permit Process Called a Nightmare
Chemical manufacturers and the trade groups representing them reacted warily yesterday to the clean-air legislation passed by the Senate. ''There's no doubt we are talking about millions of dollars of spending requirements but we haven't made an estimate of the impact on us because so much could change,'' said David Graham, Dow Chemical's environmental issues manager in Washington.
Chemical manufacturers, most of which are major consumers of electricity, say the bill's provisions to reduce acid rain will drive up their energy costs. But the biggest direct impact will come from the provisions dealing with toxic emissions. The most frequently cited areas of concern were the rules for when a permit is necessary, the requirements for applying the best technology available to control the release of toxic chemicals and the process for establishing how high a residual risk for cancer-causing emissions would be acceptable after such control technology had been applied.
Trade groups say the provisions governing the permit process in the Senate bill may be a nightmare, especially for smaller companies. Companies must not only apply for permission to use processes that emit toxic chemicals but also must seek new permits every time the equipment is altered.
''We are concerned with the Draconian enforcement measures, especially things like jail terms and massive fines for paperwork violations,'' said Ronald Lang, executive director of the Synthetic Organic Chemical Manufacturers Association. ''Smaller companies don't have four lawyers backing people up to make sure everything is mailed.''
 
Impact on Innovation Feared
Mr. Graham at Dow said the lack of priorities in the procedures for issuing permits meant that applications for new processes that a company needs to build a new plant or extend a product line might become tied up in piles of requests from other companies - even for something as small as permission to shift the route of a section of piping for routine maintenance. He said companies will be discouraged from making small changes, thus slowing the pace of innovation.
More broadly, several manufacturers said they feared that the requirements that companies use the best available control technology would not be flexible enough to account for the huge variety of chemicals and processes for dealing with them. Standardizing the required technology could drive up expenses for some companies while producing few reductions in emissions.
The bill refers the problem of how to calculate the impact of toxic air emissions on health to the National Academy of Science. At issue is what standards should be applied to residual emissions after industry has met the first-phase goal of cutting emissions by 90 percent. If Congress does not act within five years on the recommendations it receives on how to determine such standards, the provisions now in the bill apply. The chemical industry contends that the current criteria are unreliable and that if they are retained, plants may be needlessly threatened with closure.
 
'Paying Lip Service'
''By referring the matter to N.A.S. but not leaving the standard up to them, Congress is paying lip service to science,'' said Jeffrey Van, a spokesman for the Chemical Manufacturers Association.
Chemical makers were pleased that the House version of the bill was stripped of numeric targets for residual emissions by Representative John D. Dingell's committee on Tuesday.
A number of manufacturers said that some of the major costs in the bill would remain unknown until state and local regulators acted.
Companies that use solvents to process chemicals into more than 700,000 consumer products, from shampoos to antifreeze, had mixed feelings about provisions reducing allowable solvent emissions. The Senate bill ordered a study of the contribution of solvents to depletion of ozone in the atmosphere and a 1 percent reduction in emissions, which was considerably milder than originally proposed, said Ralph Engle, president of the Chemical Specialties Manufacturers Association. The solvents provisions would also affect dry cleaners. BARNABY J. FEDER
 
The Steelmakers
Rules Criticized As 'Arbitrary'
With the passage of the Senate bill, the nation's major steel producers remain unsuccessful in their fight against provisions that would effectively prohibit the further use of coke ovens, the furnaces that convert coal to coke in the making of steel.
The steelmakers are disturbed by a requirement that they eliminate virtually all emissions from coke ovens by the year 2020 and in the meantime adopt the best available emissions-reduction technology by 1995.
Steel industry officials said that meeting the 1995 deadline would cost the industry about $5 billion. They added that there is no technology yet available that would eliminate emissions completely and that the bill's deadline of 2020 would effectively close most of the nation's coke ovens and lead to the loss of thousands of jobs. They maintain that the standard in the Senate bill - the risk of cancer to one resident in 10,000 in a community near a coke oven - is arbitrary.
''The steel industry is opposed to the use of arbitrary, calculated risk-based standards for shutting down coke plants,'' said Walter F. Williams, chairman of the Bethlehem Steel Corporation.
Philip X. Masciantonio, vice president of environmental affairs at the USX Corporation, which operates the nation's largest steel company, said the evidence of the extent of the health risk posed by coke ovens was far from conclusive. He said USX had spent more than $250 million in recent years to reduce emissions from its coke ovens.
A number of steel companies in Europe and Japan are developing processes for the manufacture of steel that bypass making coke. But Milton Deaner, president of the American Iron and Steel Institute, described as nonsense the opinion that in a few years the industry would have a steelmaking process that would do away with coke ovens. JONATHAN P. HICKS

GRAPHIC: Photo: American industry is reacting warily to the clean-air legislation passed by the Senate. The greatest impact will come from provisions dealing with toxic emissions like those from coal-fired electrical power plants. (The New York Times/Terrence Moore)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (62%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (62%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available LEGISLATION (92%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (92%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); APPROVALS (78%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); NITROGEN OXIDES (77%); AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERING (76%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (76%); CHEMICALS (76%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (72%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (71%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (71%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (71%); CHEMICALS MFG (71%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (71%); POWER PLANTS (71%); 



115 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: Group of 7 Meeting Is Expected to Be Quiet

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 4

 BODY:
The top economic policy makers from the United States and its six main industrial allies, when they meet in Paris Saturday, will discuss the momentous political and economic changes that have swept the world since their last meeting in September: the moves toward free markets in Eastern Europe, the German unification effort and the battering of the Japanese financial markets and the yen.
But, officials say, these issues no more lend themselves to collective solution now than does the continuing deadlock in Washington over the Federal budget. As a result, the officials say that the finance ministers and central bankers are unlikely to reach the kind of agreements on currency and interest rate coordination that have often followed meetings of what is known as the Group of Seven.
''In all the countries, there is a rather intense preoccupation with domestic matters,'' a senior Bush Administration official said this week. As important as the international ramifications are, this official and others said, the issues must for the time being be tackled on a country-by-country basis. 
Besides Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady and Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, the meeting will be attended by the finance ministers and central bank heads from Japan, West Germany, Britain, France, Italy and Canada.
They will meet at France's new Finance Ministry building in a neighborhood called Bercy on the Right Bank of the Seine. If some agreement is reached, it will doubtless be called the ''Bercy Accord,'' like the Plaza Accord in 1985, after the New York hotel, and the Louvre Accord in 1987.
A Treasury official said the United States had called the meeting ''primarily for economic surveillance,'' so the countries could ''take account of the consistency and compatibility of our various policies.'' He said he doubted that a joint communique would be issued at the conclusion and added, ''I think it would be quite a successful meeting if we don't make news.''
Normally such meetings are held early in the year. But Mr. Brady was unable to travel in January because he was recuperating from hip surgery, and the British and Canadians were tied up with budget presentations in February and March.
 
Meetings Scheduled for May
The Group of Seven officials are scheduled to meet again early next month in conjunction with the semiannual meetings in Washington of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank.
Economists and other students of international finance disagree over whether the time is right for further joint action on interest rates and exchange rates.
On one side, Jerry Jasinowski, president of the National Association of Manufacurers, argued this week that American businesses were seriously threatened by the rise in interest rates associated with German unification and with the rise in the value of the dollar relative to the yen.
The United States, he asserted, should negotiate to lower its interest rates, while the Japanese raise theirs, and West Germany should be encouraged to slow its move toward monetary union with East Germany to minimize financial disturbances.
 
A New Set of Issues
But Mickey D. Levy, chief economist at the First Fidelity Bancorporation in Philadelphia, argued in an interview that the changing economic conditions in West Germany and Japan were caused entirely by internal conditions and that it was in the American interest that the meeting not try to realign interest rates or exchange rates.
''For the first time in a long time,'' Mr. Levy said, ''United States-specific issues like the budget deficit or the strong dollar are not the key focus of a meeting like this, and we should sit back and enjoy it.''
United States policy makers agree with Mr. Levy on this point. Mr. Brady rejected a Japanese request two weeks ago for help in stabilizing the falling yen, saying that the yen's problems resulted from Japan's own political and economic situation.
The Finance Minister of Japan, Ryutaro Hashimoto, said in Tokyo this week that he did not expect the officials in Paris to shore up the yen.
 
A Matter of Stature
Another factor that works against a unified stand this weekend is that the finance ministers in the three largest countries - the United States, Japan and West Germany - do not have the same standing as their predecessors in the late 1980's.
For instance, unlike James A. Baker 3d, who was indisputably in charge of economic policy in the Reagan years, Mr. Brady shares authority in the Bush Administration with Richard G. Darman, the budget director, and John H. Sununu, the White House chief of staff.
Mr. Hashimoto is regarded as one of Japan's rising political stars and is a possible future Prime Minister. But he has been Finance Minister only since August.
The Finance Minister of West Germany, Theo Waigel, has also been on the job less than a year, and he was recently embarrassed politically by the Chancellor, Helmut Kohl. Mr. Waigel announced last weekend that his Government's policy was to exchange one West German mark for each two East German marks. After a political furor arose, Mr. Kohl said that was not the policy after all.
''In all the Big Three,'' said C. Fred Bergsten, director of the Institute for International Economics here, ''there's been a significant dimunition in the stature of the key players.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); FRANCE (94%); EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (93%); CANADA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); JAPAN (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (92%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; EAST GERMANY; WEST GERMANY; EUROPE; EUROPE, EAST

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; STOCKS AND BONDS; CURRENCY; GERMANY, REUNIFICATION OF US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); INTEREST RATES (88%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US DOLLAR (77%); TRENDS (77%); EXCHANGE RATES (76%); BONDS (71%); HOTELS & MOTELS (69%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 



116 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 5, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 407 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS PEOPLE;
A New Buyout Firm Finds Salt to Its Liking

BYLINE: By DANIEL F. CUFF

 BODY:
D. G. Harris & Associates, a leveraged buyout firm, has found a niche in the salt mines with the creation of a new company, the North American Salt Company. Michael R. Boyce has been named its president and chief operating officer.
North American Salt is made up of the former American Salt and Carey Salt companies and the Sifto Salt Company, which D. G. Harris acquired last week from Domtar Inc. of Montreal. 
The new company, with annual sales of $200 million, will be the third-largest salt producer in the United States and Canada, after the Morton Salt division and Akzo Salt Inc., the company said.
D. George Harris, a former president of the SCM Corporation, which was taken over by Hanson P.L.C. in 1986, will be chairman and chief executive of North American Salt. In the leveraged buyout firm he heads, his associates are Anthony J. Petrocelli, who was his assistant when he was president of American unit of Rhone-Poulenc S.A. before he joined SCM in 1981, and Richard Donahue, who was Mr. Harris's aide at SCM.
Mr. Harris said it took 13 months for his firm to make the first deal, the American Salt buyout. ''I'd like to say that we were so intelligent that we studied and found a stable industry with a stable cash flow,'' he said.
''But the fact is that we were looking at the Diamond Crystal Salt Company. We were outbid by Akzo, but in the course of that we talked with Chase bankers,'' he said, referring to the Chase Manhattan Bank. ''They knew we were interested in salt and asked us if we'd like to look at American Salt.''
Mr. Harris said the Sifto acquisition gave the new company ''the size and geographic spread we need to be truly competitive in the salt market in North America.'' The company's products include rock salt used for de-icing, solar salt for water softening and table salt. Sifto is a brand-name table salt in Canada.
The D. G. Harris associates say they are pleased with their venture. ''The salt industry goes on,'' said Mr. Petrocelli, who visited many salt mines in researching the deal. ''It isn't affected by recessions. There are 14,000 uses for salt.''
Mr. Boyce, 42 years old, is another former SCM executive who worked with Mr. Harris. Mr. Boyce joins the company from the General Chemical Corporation in Parsippany, N.J., where he was vice president and general manager of the industrial chemicals division. He will be based in Mission, Kan., where North American Salt is based.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS PEOPLE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: AKZA (AMS) (83%); UFS (TSX) (72%); UFS (NYSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2899 CHEMICALS & CHEMICAL PREPARATIONS, NEC (94%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (91%); NAICS325998 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS CHEMICAL PRODUCT & PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (72%); NAICS321113 SAWMILLS (72%); NAICS327332 CONCRETE PIPE MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS327320 READY-MIX CONCRETE MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS212319 OTHER CRUSHED & BROKEN STONE MINING & QUARRYING (70%); SIC2951 ASPHALT PAVING MIXTURES & BLOCKS (70%); 

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (88%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (72%); KANSAS, USA (72%); QUEBEC, CANADA (72%); 

CITY: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (72%); 

COMPANY: NORTH AMERICAN SALT CO (94%); RHONE-POULENC SA (91%); AKZO NOBEL NV (83%); DOMTAR CORP (72%); SCM CORP (70%); HANSON LTD (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN SALT CO

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES BUYINS & BUYOUTS (92%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (90%); SALES FIGURES (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); CHEMICALS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); 

PERSON: CUFF, DANIEL F; BOYCE, MICHAEL R D GEORGE HARRIS (71%); 



117 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 7, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 192 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Bank Growth

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 4

 BODY:
Allowing commercial banks to underwrite securities and to open branches nationwide are two crucial steps Congress can take to improve the global competitiveness of the industry, Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board said today. Mr. Greenspan told a House subcommittee group that another essential step is to lower the cost of capital for United States banks by cutting the federal deficit. This would allow interest rates to fall and add to the amount of savings available for private investment, he said. 
Fellow bank regulators - Comptroller of the Currency Robert Clarke and L. William Seidman, the chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation - urged the same changes to the United States banking system when they addressed the task force last month.
Attempts to dismantle the Glass-Steagall Act, which bars banks from securities activities, stumbled in Congress several years ago. In response, the Fed slowly is permitting banks to begin limited securities underwriting. Underwriting, which involves buying securities from the issuer and selling them to the public, is currently restricted to investment banks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (71%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (71%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; STOCKS AND BONDS; BANK BRANCHING US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE (87%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); BONDS (73%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (72%); INTEREST RATES (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); 

PERSON: GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) ALAN GREENSPAN (90%); 



118 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 8, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: House Drafting Stiff Bill on Urban Air Pollution

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHABECOFF, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 4

 BODY:
Now that the Senate has voted to amend the Clean Air Act, the legislative struggle has shifted to the House of Representatives, where a bill is being drafted that would crack down more strongly on urban air pollution.
The House bill would address the same pollution problems as the Senate's: acid rain, smog and toxic chemicals. But there are significant differences in how each chamber would achieve its pollution reduction goals.
Environmentalists and an industry spokesman said today that they favored major elements of the House legislation, being written by the Energy and Commerce Committee. Industry spokesmen said some provisions of the House version might even be less costly for manufacturers because they might not require the use of expensive pollution-control technology. 
Both the Senate and the House bills call for two stages of controls to be used to reduce pollution from automobile tailpipes and from plants that emit hazardous chemicals. In both cases the second round of controls, which would be more costly than the first, is contingent on different actions or developments. Industry representatives believe that under the House bill, the second round is less likely to go into effect for auto and chemical plants and so the House bill would be less costly over the long run.
 
Differences on Cities
Environmental lobbyists said the House version includes requirements that would be more effective in making cities clean up smog and other urban pollution. In particular, they praised a provision, absent in the Senate bill, that would require the Environmental Protection Agency to enforce a plan for reducing urban air pollution in areas where states are unwilling or unable to act.
S. William Becker, executive director of an association representing state and local pollution control officers, said the House panel had approved provisions that were ''far superior'' to the Senate's, particularly those dealing with cities with dirty air. He noted that the House, unlike the Senate, would not permit cities to avoid making annual progress in reducing smog if they determined the costs were too high.
William Fay, leader of a coalition of companies and trade associations lobbying on the air law, said the House provisions for controlling auto tailpipe emissions and toxic chemicals in the air were likely to be less expensive than the Senate legislation over the long run.
But both sides express concerns about some provisions. Environmentalists complained that the House bill would give New York City, Chicago and Houston a longer period to reduce pollution. They also said that so far, the House bill had only a weak provision for requiring cars to burn cleaner gasoline. Industry complained about unnecessary stringent requirements for reducing nitrogen oxide pollution in cities and requirements that small business would have to pay for costly pollution reductions under the House bill.
 
Drafting Processes Differ
Like the Senate, the House is drafting its bill in a series of closed-door negotiations. But unlike the Senate process, the White House is playing no role in that of the House. It has not been invited participate by House leaders.
Instead, the House bill is being hammered out by lawmakers representing the various regional interests across the nation. Key players are Representative John D. Dingell of Michigan, chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, whose interests in the bill include protecting the auto industry and workers who might be affected by the bill, and Representative Henry A. Waxman of California, chairman of the committee's Environmental and Health Subcommittee, who is interested in the strongest possible clean air bill for his Los Angeles district and for the nation.
The two Democrats, long adversaries over air quality and other environmental legislation, have been able to reach agreements on amendments to the Clean Air Act dealing with urban smog, pollution from cars and toxic chemicals in the air.
Today the committee was seeking to craft a provision that would reduce acid rain without causing economic hardships in coal mining states and in Midwestern states where coal-fired power plants produce much of the pollution that falls as acid rain over the Northeast. The House, like the Senate, would require a 10-million-ton reduction in sulfur dioxide emissions from power plants by the end of the century.
In large part because of the meeting of minds between Mr. Dingell and Mr. Waxman, the House committee is moving more rapidly than expected by its members to write its bill to amend the Clean Air Act. The committee could complete its work this week. If it does, the legislation could move to the House floor by the end of April and be approved in May.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (51%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (51%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (54%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; CLEAN AIR ACT LEGISLATION (95%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (91%); AIR QUALITY (90%); AIR POLLUTION (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); SMOG (89%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); LOBBYING (89%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); NITROGEN OXIDES (73%); ACID RAIN (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (69%); APPROVALS (67%); EXECUTIVES (63%); GASOLINE (50%); 

PERSON: SHABECOFF, PHILIP



119 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 10, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 541 words

HEADLINE: Most Stock Advisers Failed To Match S.&P. in Quarter

BYLINE: By RICHARD D. HYLTON

 BODY:
The first quarter proved a tough one for the nation's investment advisers, with most failing to match the total return of the Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks.
CDA Investment Technologies, which monitors investment advisers, said the average money manager's portfolio declined 3.2 percent for the first three months of this year, while over the same period the S.&P. 500 fell 3 percent, with the quarter's dividends calculated in the stock's performance.
In part, the lackluster performance of the money managers, as well as the performance of the S.&P., was largely a reflection of the difficult market conditions in the first quarter. 
With higher interest rates, weak corporate profits and a falling Japanese market, many market watchers and money managers, some of whom invest the funds of wealthy individuals and institutional investors like pension funds, were happily surprised that stocks in the United States held up as well as they did.
Small capitalization stocks, those with market capitalization of $600 million and less, did extremely well and those managers whose portfolios were heavily weighted in such issues, particularly technology stocks, had a very good run over the last three months.
Many technology companies that had long been out of favor did very well as investors were attracted by their low share prices and relatively high growth rates.
 
Amerindo Leads List
The top-ranked money manager for the quarter was Amerindo U.S. Investment Advisors, a firm based in Larkspur, Calif., that had about 40 stocks in its portfolio at the end of the quarter. Amerindo, which was heavily weighted in capital goods and technology stocks with low yields and high price-earnings ratios, which averaged 31, registered a gain of 11.3 percent for the quarter.
The average market capitalization for issues held by Amerindo was about $600 million, as opposed to the average of $10.1 billion for the managers surveyed by CDA.
Another big winner was Wasatch Advisors Inc., a Salt Lake City-based firm whose portfolio was heavily weighted in small capital goods and financial services stocks. Wasatch saw the value of its portfolio climb 6.9 percent over the quarter, said Samuel S. Stewart Jr., the firm's chief investment officer.
 
'Core Stocks'
''Our basic focus is on smaller growth stocks,'' Mr. Stewart said. ''We tend to have a small number of core stocks that we hold large positions in and then we have our technology holdings that did very well during the quarter.''
Among the core stocks that make up a big chunk of the Wasatch portfolio was the Washington Federal Savings and Loan, a Seattle company that Mr. Stewart said was possibly the best run in the entire industry. Dress Barn, a retail apparel chain, and the U. S. Surgical Corporation, a maker of surgical and medical equipment were also in the portfolio.
About 10 percent of the portfolio was in Washington Federal, and Mr. Stewart noted that many opportunities for investing in strong, well-run savings and loans were being overlooked because of the widely publicized troubles of the industry.
Among the most popular companies to own were Adobe Systems Inc., the Software Publishing Corporation, Autodesk Inc. and the Microsoft Corporation.

GRAPHIC: Table showing the top investment advisers (source: CDA Investment Technologies)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WAFD (NASDAQ) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (60%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: UTAH, USA (79%); 

CITY: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON FEDERAL INC (60%); U S SURGICAL CORP (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: STANDARD & POOR'S CORP

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS INVESTMENT ADVISERS (91%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); DURABLE GOODS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); BONDS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); PENSION FUNDS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); AFFLUENT MARKET (69%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (50%); 

PERSON: HYLTON, RICHARD D SAMUEL S STEWART JR (86%); 



120 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 20, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 408 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES/OPTIONS;
Copper Prices Fall Sharply As Miners' Strike Is Settled

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Prices of copper futures fell sharply yesterday on New York's Commodity Exchange. Selling was prompted partly by settlement of a 24-day strike against the Southern Peru Copper Corporation.
On other commodity markets, silver led precious-metal futures higher, coffee futures surged, petroleum futures dropped, grains and soybean advanced, and livestock and meat futures were mixed. 
Copper futures settled 2.95 cents to 4.7 cents lower, with the contract for delivery in April at $1.235 a pound.
The end of the Peruvian strike was ''kind of a surprise,'' said Stephen W. Platt, a metals analyst for Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. Some traders had not expected the company to negotiate with the striking miners until after Sunday's presidential election.
 
Selling Linked to Japan
Mr. Platt said further selling was linked to the possibility of an economic slowdown in Japan, a fear fueled by the recent decline in the Japanese stock market. Japan has been responsible for heavy demand for copper, a key industrial metal.
Silver futures rallied strongly on the Commodity Exchange, leading gold higher, amid talk that Japanese financial institutions were moving assets out of the stock market and into silver in a ''flight to quality.''
Silver futures settled 15.2 cents to 16.8 cents higher, with April at $5.16 a troy ounce; gold was $1.80 to $1.90 higher, with April at $377.10 a troy ounce.
Coffee futures jumped on New York's Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange on talk that Brazil was preparing to set a minimum coffee export price of 80 cents a pound. Coffee settled 2.17 cents to 3 cents higher, with May at 94.99 cents a pound.
Petroleum futures sagged on the New York Mercantile Exchange amid selling that largely reflected Tuesday's weekly report of the American Petroleum Institute showing larger-than-expected United States supplies of crude oil and heating oil, but a smaller-than-expected gasoline supply.
West Texas Intermediate crude settled 21 cents to 52 cents lower, with May at $19.78 a barrel; heating oil was 1.21 cents to 1.5 cents lower, with May at 54.02 cents a gallon; unleaded gasoline was 0.40 cent to 1.02 cents lower, with May at 64.86 cents a gallon.
Wheat and soybean futures rose strongly on the Chicago Board of Trade, partly because of fears of a freeze this weekend in winter wheat country. Wheat for May delivery rose sharply amid signs of tight available supplies for delivery against the May contract.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SCCO (NYSE) (93%); CME (NASDAQ) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (93%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (93%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (70%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SOUTHERN COPPER CORP (93%); CME GROUP INC (84%); DEAN WITTER REYNOLDS INC (70%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (53%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (91%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (91%); COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (54%); COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (54%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; PRICES; COPPER, BRASS AND BRONZE FUTURES (96%); COMMODITIES TRADING (92%); COPPER INDUSTRY (92%); COPPER MARKETS (92%); SILVER MARKETS (91%); METALS MARKETS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); COPPER MINING (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); MINES & MINING (90%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (90%); STRIKES (90%); GRAIN MARKETS (90%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); COFFEE MARKETS (89%); GASOLINE (89%); COFFEE (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); BASE METALS MARKETS (89%); WHEAT MARKETS (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); HEATING OIL (89%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); ENERGY MARKETS (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); EXPORT PRICES (74%); MINE WORKERS (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%); ELECTIONS (69%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (68%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (54%); 

PERSON: STEPHEN W PLATT (66%); 



121 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 20, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 362 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Is Narrowly Mixed; Gold Prices Finish Higher

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar ended narrowly mixed against major foreign currencies yesterday as dealers marked time before the release of Government unemployment data and this weekend's meeting in Paris of finance ministers and central bankers of the seven leading industrial nations.
Dealers said they expected little from the meeting of representatives of the United States, Japan, West Germany, Britain, France, Canada and Italy.
Zlatko Glamuzina, chief dealer at the New York office of Banco di Sicilia, said, ''There should be more of the same reiteration of how they are committed to free markets and exchange-rate stability,''
He added that the dollar appeared poised for further increases, at least in the near term, because of volatility in the Japanese financial markets and the long process of reunifying East and West Germany. 
Gold prices rose in New York after a mixed performance overseas. On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold bullion for current delivery settled at $377.10 an ounce, up $1.80 from late Tuesday. The Republic National Bank quoted a late bid for gold at $377.75 an ounce, up $2.50.
Currency dealers said technical factors dominated trading in the absence of any strong buying or selling incentives.
In Tokyo the dollar closed at 158.90 yen, down 0.05 yen from Tuesday. The dollar traded at 158.49 yen later in London. In New York it finished at 158.875 yen, down from 159.765 yen on Tuesday.
The dollar was also weaker against the British pound. Sterling was quoted at $1.6416 in London, up from $1.6345 late Tuesday, and at $1.64055 in New York, up from $1.6358.
The dollar was quoted at 1.6999 West German marks in Europe, down from 1.7005 marks late Tuesday, and 1.6995 marks in New York, up from 1.6990.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Tuesday's quotes, included: 1.5040 Swiss francs, up from 1.5035; 5.7095 French francs, up from 5.7085; 1,249.00 Italian lire, up from 1247.75, and 1.16725 Canadian dollars, up from 1.16565.
Silver prices were also mixed. On New York's Comex, silver bullion for current delivery settled at $5.160 an ounce, up 15.3 cents. Silver traded in London at $5.02 an ounce, unchanged.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (55%); HSB (PAR) (55%); HBC (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (57%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (93%); FRANCE (93%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (91%); ITALY (90%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); TOKYO, JAPAN (77%); 

COMPANY: BANCO DI SICILIA SPA (57%); REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (55%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (55%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (56%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; GOLD; PRICES CURRENCIES (94%); GOLD MARKETS (92%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); SILVER MARKETS (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); BRITISH POUND (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); GERMAN MARK (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); METALS MARKETS (75%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (75%); COMMODITIES TRADING (75%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (75%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); 



122 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 5, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 28, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: Gorbachev's Need: A Diminished Russia

BYLINE: By Roman Szporluk; Roman Szporluk directs the Center for Russian and East European studies at the University of Michigan.

DATELINE: ANN ARBOR, Mich.

 BODY:
The Lithuanian secession crisis confronts Mikhail Gorbachev with a historic choice: whether to become a George Washington, the leader of a loosely tied and newly created association of free republics, or a George III, the defender of an empire under attack from all sides.
If he chooses to save the empire, his domestic reforms will fail and he will alienate pro-Western democrats throughout his country, including in Russia itself. If he opts for a genuine federalism, he will face the formidable task of persuading ethnic Russians to go along.
At the heart of the Soviet Union's nationalities problem lies a loss of legitimacy, for which Mr. Gorbachev has himself to blame. Under his rule, Communism has been discredited and Marxist-Leninist ideology debunked - leaving an ideological void. Why shouldn't Lithuanians, Estonians, Georgians, Armenians, Azerbaijanis and others clamor for secession? (Jews, Soviet ethnic Germans and Armenians are seceding through emigration in increasing numbers.) Some claim that Mr. Gorbachev has a plan to overthrow the Communist Party and establish a new legitimacy. But what kind of government does he plan to install in place of the party? He wants to reform the economy, establish a law-governed state and make his country a part of Europe - but what is his country? 
This is not a theoretical question. Valentin Rasputin - a leading Russian nationalist whom Mr. Gorbachev recently appointed to the newly created Presidential Council - publicly raised the possibility of Russia's seceding from the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. As Mr. Rasputin's remark shows, ethnic Russians are being forced to examine their status as one of the nationalities in the Soviet Union, something they could avoid under previous Soviet regimes.
The biggest challenge to Mr. Gorbachev, then, may turn out to be the ethnic assertiveness of the Russian nation itself. The relationship between the Russian nation and the Soviet state is the central ethnic problem in the Soviet Union, not least because it defines the nature of other nationality problems.
The non-Russian nationalities define their agendas in light of their perception of the role of Russians in the Soviet state. They have identified Communism with Russia and view the Soviet Union as a state ruled by Russians. Their calls for secession (or emigration) reflect their fear that the survival, let alone autonomy, of the non-Russian peoples will never be secure in such a state. The recent emergence of a vocal, not to say vociferous, Russian ethnic nationalism does nothing to dispel those fears.
Nor do the ongoing revisions of the Soviet Constitution. The open aim of this exercise is to deny Lithuania the right to secede, which it has under the Soviet Constitution now in force. As a member of the Lithuanian Parliament put it the other day, the law now being adopted ''isn't a law of secession. It's a law against secession.''
This legal maneuvering does not inspire confidence in Mr. Gorbachev's commitment to the rule of law or a democratic federation of republics.
What would the Lithuanians, or other non-Russians, want from a federation? Above all they would want equal rights with Russia, includingtheir own language, religion and culture in their own republics and local control of the government and economy.
On the other hand, the Russian nationalists, who oppose both Communism and the West, are advocating a state rooted in Russian values, one with a non-capitalist economic system and with the Russian language in a leading position everywhere. If this is denied, some, like Mr. Rasputin, would rather accept a smaller Russian state.
Most Russian nationalists, however, advocate keeping the non-Russian republics, such as Lithuania, by force if necessary. In that stand they find an ally in the army and K.G.B., as well as the Moscow bureaucracy. For them, the idea of ''reducing'' Russia to the status of an ordinary republic or of denying an essentially Russian character to the Soviet empire is anathema.
At this stage, none of the major Soviet nationalities, in particular the Ukrainians, are demanding secession. If Mr. Gorbachev can show them that genuine national freedom is attainable in a new federal structure, further secessionist movements might be forestalled.
Accomplishing that, however, will require more than fashioning a new constitution. First Mr. Gorbachev will have to create a liberal, pro-reform, non-chauvinistic Russian national consciousness that accepts a diminished Russia as one republic among equals. He must persuade Russian patriots that a lesser role is in the best interests of both Russia and the Soviet Union.
After that, creating the setting for the realization of economic and social programs should seem easier. As in Eastern Europe today, newly empowered republics might then be more willing to swallow painful reforms.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OP-ED

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); LITHUANIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); AZERBAIJAN (79%); GEORGIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); ESTONIA (79%); GERMANY (76%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR)

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); POLITICS (72%); 

PERSON: SZPORLUK, ROMAN (PROF); GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S MIKHAIL SERGEYEVICH GORBACHEV (94%); 



123 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: 2 G.O.P. Senators Would Double Military Cuts Backed by President

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 5

 BODY:
Breaking with the Bush Administration, two senior Republican Senators called today for Pentagon spending reductions that are twice as great as those offered by the President.
The proposals by the two Senators, William S. Cohen of Maine and John McCain of Arizona, would reduce spending on strategic nuclear weapons and on forces designed mainly to defend Europe against a Soviet attack over a five-year period.
Specifically they would curtail the Pentagon's Stealth, or B-2, bomber program, reduce the number of new submarine-launched ballistic missiles and hold off production of new missile and sensor systems designed to block a Soviet armored advance in Europe.
 
Bush Modernization Plan
The Bush Administration has proposed an across-the-board modernization of strategic nuclear forces, asserting that Moscow is continuing to modernize its arsenal of long-range nuclear weapons. 
The comments by Senators Cohen and McCain, both influential voices on military issues, are the first open break between Senate Republicans and the Administration over Pentagon planning and budget issues. They were a further indication of difficulties ahead for the Bush proposals on military spending.
Congressional Democrats have been snipping at the Pentagon's spending plans for weeks in the initial phase of what promises to be a protracted and contentious discussion about how much to cut military spending in response to changes in the Soviet Union and Europe.
The differences among Republicans were underscored today when Defense Secretary Dick Cheney, appearing at a Pentagon news conference, politely but emphatically rebuffed the call for deeper spending cuts and outlined a new management plan for the Defense Department that he said offered a better way to cut costs.
Among Mr. Cheney's proposals was a call for new legal authority over contract arrangements that he said would enable the Pentagon to buy weapons more efficiently. He also complained in a report to Congress that lawmakers frequently imposed parochial requirements that hampered management at the Pentagon.
The Pentagon has proposed a 1991 budget of $295 billion, a 2.6 decrease from the 1990 level once the effects of inflation are taken into account. That does not include about $11 billion in spending for nuclear weapons programs by the Energy Department. $50 Billion Reduction The Administration has also projected annual after-inflation cuts in military spending of 2 percent a year through the fiscal year 1995.
But Mr. Cohen and Mr. McCain told reporters that ''real reductions about twice this level are realistic.''
''Over all, we believe the United States can meet its defense requirements with budget levels lower than those proposed by the Administration,'' the two said in a joint statement Under the Senators's plan, military spending in the fiscal year 1995 would be about $50 billion below the current level, discounting the effects of inflation.
 
Criticism From Nunn
The Senators's statement comes two weeks after Senator Sam Nunn, the Georgia Democrat who is chairman of the Armed Services Committee, sharply criticized the Pentagon for spending plans that he said were based on outdated assumptions about the military threats facing the United States.
Unlike Mr. Nunn, who has yet to present specific budget proposals, Mr. Cohen and Mr. McCain offered a rough guide for refashioning American military policy. The Republicans acknowledged that their recommendations fell short of a detailed blueprint, but they argued that the most important task was to establish a consensus on the broad outlines of military spending issues.
On strategic weapons, the two Senators said that the Pentagon was planning to buy more long-range nuclear arms than necessary. They said the United States should curtail purchases of the new B-2 bomber while relying more on advanced cruise missiles mounted on B-52 and B-1 bombers.
They also urged the Administration to negotiate an accord with the Soviet Union that would curb rail-based missiles with multiple warheads.
The two Senators said further cuts could involve submarine-launched missiles. They also proposed that spending on the ''Star Wars'' missile defense program be held at its current level of about $4 billion a year.
On conventional defenses, the two Senators said the United States should urge its European allies to assume the main responsibility for heavy ground forces and air defense in Europe.
The Senators also urged the Administration to consider reducing the number of Army divisons based in the United States.
On the Navy, the Senators say that a fleet of 14 aircraft carrier battle groups could be reduced by one or two carriers, since the Navy is reoriented toward regional missions instead of planning to attack the Soviet fleet. Mr. Cheney has resisted such a cut in the size of the Navy.
 
Cheney Offers Proposals
At a Pentagon news conference, Mr. Cheney proposed a series of new measures to spend funds more efficiently and to cut the size of the military.
One change would set up an experimental program that would exempt production of six major weapons from rigorous monitoring by the Pentagon. The contractor would be given more leeway to manage the programs in hope that it would be done more economically. Deputy Defense Secetary Donald Atwood, who appeared at the news conference, said the Pentagon would retain the right to carry out inspections of the programs.
The Pentagon also proposed new laws to enable it to award contracts based on overall performance of contractors rather than just the lowest bid.
Mr. Atwood said the Pentagon also needed more authority to manage personnel issues so it could cut up to 90,000 military personnel in 1990 and 1991 and still maintain a balanced force. Mr. Atwood said that he favored the use of severance pay and early retirement to cushion the impact of discharging military personnel.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senators William S. Cohen of Maine, left, and John McCaine of Arizona spoke at a news conference about Pentagon spending reductions. (Associated Press) (pg. A18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); GEORGIA (57%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (93%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: BUSH ADMINISTRATION (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); DEFENSE SPENDING (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (77%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); 

PERSON: GORDON, MICHAEL R; COHEN, WILLIAM S (SEN); MCCAIN, JOHN (SEN); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); CHENEY, RICHARD B (SEC) JOHN MCCAIN (90%); DICK CHENEY (78%); 



124 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1364 words

HEADLINE: JAPANESE PLEDGE TO LOWER BARRIERS TO TRADE WITH U.S.

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 5

 BODY:
In a sweeping agreement with Washington to reduce trade barriers, Tokyo pledged today to take actions intended to make it easier for foreigners to invest in Japan and do business there.
The Japanese steps range from cutting restrictions on large retail stores to altering tax policies so that more land will be available for commercial and residential use.
The agreement is the result of an ambitious effort to deal with the underlying causes of the United States' huge trade deficit. In the past, trade talks between the countries have focused on raising sales of specific American products to Japan or curbing Japanese exports.
 
No Quick Effect Seen
The promised changes were greeted by American officials as a positive step in a long-running effort. 
Because it will probably take years to carry out some of the steps, Carla A. Hills, the United States trade representative, stressed that there was likely to be ''very little'' short-term impact on the trade deficit with Japan, which last year totaled $49 billion. But she said the agreement should ''facilitate capital flows'' and ''walk the two countries toward greater parity.''
''I told the Japanese I wanted a comprehensive blueprint with sufficient specifics so that I could call it a down payment,'' Mrs. Hills said. ''This is a good blueprint, sufficient to call a down payment.''
Richard T. McCormack, Under Secretary of State for economic affairs, told reporters that the talks were a rare instance in which two governments have sought to address the entire range of domestic policies that affect their international economic relations.
 
World's Largest Economies
The United States and Japan are the world's two largest economies. Together, they account for about one-third of the world's total output of goods and services.
The agreement was the result of intense overtime negotiating sessions this week at the State Department. The agreement was formally announced at 7:30 P.M. in Washington to accommodate Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu, who also announced it early Friday morning in Tokyo.
The agreement followed narrower accords intended to increase access to the Japanese market for American supercomputers, communications satellites and telecommunications equipment. It also follows a meeting between Mr. Kaifu and President Bush in Palm Springs, Calif., on March 2 and 3 at which the Japanese leader pledged his ''utmost'' to ease trade friction.
Sensitive to political reaction in Tokyo, Japanese negotiators here portrayed the agreement not as a response to threats to restrict the flow of Japanese goods into the United States, but as an effort to improve the quality of life for Japanese consumers and to integrate Japan's economy with the world's. Most of the measures are subject to approval by the Japanese Parliament.
The new measures are listed in an interim report the two Governments published on the so-called Structural Impediments Initiative, the formal name of the effort to deal with broad-based obstacles to trade.
This week's talks, which were extended to four days, from the original schedule of two, were the fourth round of negotiations since the initiative began in July. A final report is due next July.
The Bush Administration's goal is to make it as easy for Americans to do business in Japan as for the Japanese to do business here.
The Japanese Government acknowledged that prices for most goods and services there were higher than in most other countries and agreed that price levels in the future should be a barometer of the initiative's success. Monitoring procedures have not yet been worked out in detail.
 
Reaction From Politicians
On Capitol Hill, initial reactions were guarded. ''Put me down as a skeptic who's seen too many agreements in which the results didn't match the rhetoric,'' said Lloyd Bentsen, Democrat of Texas and chairman of the Senate Finance Committee.
But Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana and chairman of Finance Committee's Trade subcommittee, said he was ''encouraged'' by the first steps. He added, however, that ''much remains to be done.''
In Tokyo next week, the two Governments are to begin another round of negotiations over trade in wood products, a sector in which the Administration contends that the Japanese practice widespread trade restrictions.
Senator John C. Danforth of Missouri, the ranking Republican on the Trade subcommittee, said the talks had been worth pursuing, but noted that in any commercial agreement with Japan, ''seeing is believing.''
The changes promised by Tokyo include: increasing investment in public works; making the intricate Japanese distribution system more accessible to outsiders; stiffening antitrust penalties; changing tax policies to open more land for commercial and residential use; providing import clearance within 24 hours for foreign goods, and curbing the anti-competitive practices of Japanese industrial groups.
 
What the U.S. Pledged
The United States, in turn, promised to work on the structural causes of its large trade deficits. But unlike the Japanese, the Americans did not list any new policy initiatives, but rather echoed proposals already made by the Bush Administration.
For example, the United States pledged to improve education, bolster savings and investment, and cut the cost of capital, all familiar proposals that were part of the State of the Union address.
Japanese negotiators had made a number of specific recommendations on United States policy, some of them seemingly aimed at the American way of life, like reducing the number of credit cards held by individuals, increasing the gasoline tax, cutting executive bonuses and curbing the tax benefits of owning a home. None of those suggestions were included on the list of American pledges.
The negotiations went into extra days because of American demands for greater concessions than the Japanese initially offered regarding antitrust and distribution. The Japanese resisted American pressure to set strict legal penalties for antitrust violations in Japan and to agree to a specific timetable for abandoning rules that protect small shopkeepers and discriminate against large stores.
American companies have long complained that they have trouble doing business in Japan because of price-fixing, group boycotts and market-allocation agreements among Japanese companies. Current antimonopoly penalties amount to little more than a slap on the wrist.
 
Tougher Stance on Monopolies
The Japanese agreed to amend their monopoly law to raise fines and enhance the deterrent effect by publicly naming violators. They also said they would pursue criminal remedies in antitrust cases following procedures similar to those used in the United States. The enforcement staff of Japan's Fair Trade Commission will increase from 129 to 153 persons.
One large obstacle in the distribution system is the approval process required to open large retail stores. Openings are usually opposed by small shopkeepers, who can sometimes delay action for up to 10 years. This has been a particular problem for Toys ''R'' Us, which has sought for some time to establish an operation in Japan, one of the few industrial markets where it has no outlet.
The Japanese made a commitment to insure that consultations delaying the opening of such stores would ultimately not last more than a year. In addition, any retailers who agree to sell foreign goods would be immediately authorized to expand their stores by up to 1,000 square feet.
The Japanese also agreed to raise public investment in housing, port facilities, roads and other programs that would increase demand for imports. Dr. John B. Taylor, a member of the Council of Economic Advisers, told reporters that higher savings in this country, combined with more public investment in Japan, ''will go a long way to reducing trade imbalances.''
As for investment, the Japanese said they would abolish a prior-notification requirement for direct foreign investment and limit use of the Government's authority to block investments on broad economic grounds.
The United States curbs foreign investment only when it impairs national security.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Japan pledged yesterday to reduce trade barriers with the United States. Under Secretary of State Richard T. McCormack briefed reporters; Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu read a statement from his residence. (Associated Press; Agence France-Presse) (pg. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (97%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); PALM SPRINGS, CA, USA (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS TRADE DEVELOPMENT (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (85%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (75%); TAX LAW (72%); RETAILERS (72%); APPROVALS (69%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (60%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (50%); 

PERSON: FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H; HILLS, CARLA A



125 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1524 words

HEADLINE: After 80's Housing Boom, A Decade of Flat Prices?

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

 BODY:
After a long climb in housing prices that has made home ownership all but a sure-fire investment, many experts think those prices will level off or decline during this decade, potentially changing the way people spend, save and invest their money.
Although there is considerable debate about the topic in real estate circles, many economists and analysts foresee a fundamental contraction in the demand for housing, which will hold down prices. They point to the aging of the baby-boom generation, which fueled much of the demand since 1970. That group is moving past its prime home-buying years, and the generation that follows is much smaller.
''We're going to have slower growth in the adult population, and fewer people means less demand,'' said N. Gregory Mankiw, an economics professor at Harvard University, who predicts that housing prices will decline over the next several decades, after adjusting for inflation. 
Professor Mankiw's forecast is among the most pessimistic. Other projections vary widely, but many economists agree that after many years of generally outpacing inflation, prices for single-family dwellings, including cooperatives and condominium apartments, will do no better than match the inflation rate in this decade.
 
Broad Regional Differences
To be sure, the national trend will mask substantial regional differences in the price of housing, as it always has. For example, the median selling price of a single-family house in the New York metropolitan area increased from $70,500 in 1982 to $194,000 six years later, before slipping somewhat to $185,200 last spring, according to the National Association of Realtors. By contrast, the median home price throughout the nation for the same period grew by just 4.3 percent a year.
Moreover, other experts contend that house purchases will be propped up in the years ahead, even though the pool of new buyers may be declining. These analysts note that as the baby-boom adults grow older, into their 40's, they enter their peak earning years, when they are most likely to decide to buy larger, more expensive homes.
And even if housing prices stagnate, owning a home continues to carry clear-cut financial advantages, like tax deductions for mortgage interest and some local taxes, and less tangible rewards, like the pride of ownership.
Still, a long-term weakening in house prices could mean major changes in consumer psychology. While income levels and general economic conditions are the primary influences on individual economic behavior, experts say that because a home is the primary asset for most people, declining or stagnant housing prices could leave people feeling poorer, making them more cautious in their spending habits.
Although the link between home price increases and individual economic behavior is statistically sketchy, researchers say there is some evidence that a sustained period of stagnant or falling prices would prompt consumers to cut back.
Dr. Richard T. Curtin, who directs an economic survey of consumers conducted by the University of Michigan, said that recent surveys in the Northeast, where housing prices in many cases have fallen after several years of rapid run-ups, show evidence that some homeowners in that region are feeling a bit pinched.
Dr. Curtin said that the decline in housing values ''has made families feel that their actual financial condition has declined and that has had a general impact on their willingness to make a wide range of purchase decisions, especially for high-priced items involving credit or debt.''
 
Impact on Investment
The implications extend beyond spending. If housing becomes less attractive as an investment, researchers say, then investors might choose to tie up less money in their homes and put more in stocks and bonds, or in the bank.
There are also implications for the national economy. Any long-term decline in housing demand could mean lower employment in construction and related industries, long an important component of the nation's overall economic health.
''We know less about this than we ought to, and there may be more implications than we know about,'' said Lyle Gramley, chief economist for the Mortgage Bankers Association.
Many real estate executives and analysts dispute the notion that demand and prices are headed down. They argue that other factors, like smaller households, growing incomes of the baby boomers and the rising cost of land and construction, will keep demand and prices strong.
 
'Very Good Years Ahead'
''We see very good years ahead for housing in the 1990's,'' said Norman D. Flynn, the president of the National Association of Realtors.
Still, there are signs in previously hot markets that the psychology of real estate is starting to change. Homeowners who counted on selling their houses at big profits are forced to scale back their expectations, economists say. People who would previously have scrimped to buy a home as soon as possible, before prices rose further, are now taking a harder look at whether it is worth it to buy. Sometimes they are deciding to wait longer, which leaves sellers facing long delays and forces them to mark down their prices.
''We don't have the appreciation rates we had before and we're unlikely to have them again for some time,'' said Susan Wachter, an economist at the Wharton Real Estate Center at the University of Pennsylvania. ''People correctly perceive this and are adjusting their economic behavior accordingly, in part by postponing home ownership.'' Is Renting Better? One example is Carl Spiegler, a 37-year-old salesman for a legal publisher in Chicago. He thinks that renting makes more sense in an uncertain housing market. ''I'm afraid of the 'last fool' rule,'' he said. ''Home prices have skyrocketed. My concern is that I will buy and they will stop going up.''
The changes would not be all bad news, of course. Should prices stagnate in coming years, the winners would be buyers looking for their first home. Gains in housing prices have outstripped increases in household income since the 1970's, putting the purchase of a home out of reach for a growing number of people. If that trend is reversed, analysts said, it could help solve what many have called a crisis in affordable housing.
The benefits to first-time home buyers are likely to vary considerably by region. In metropolitan New York or Los Angeles, many wage earners feel frozen out of the market for affordable housing. Despite stagnant housing prices, the incomes of many of these people may not rise enough to enable them to buy a house.
 
Caught Between Two Homes
Of those who own homes, many find they are unable to move or to trade up. Some homeowners seeking to move to larger, newer or more fashionable residences often find themselves caught between two homes - the old one they cannot sell at the price they want, and the new one they cannot buy at the asking price.
Rose and Tony Gagliardi of Centerport, L.I., bought a three-bedroom house seven years ago for $119,000. They put it on the market in December for $229,000 and have since come down to $219,000. The most recent offer: $180,000. If the Gagliardis cannot get close to their asking price, they will not be able to buy a larger house, in Melville, L.I. They are trying to hold firm at their asking price.
''People will low-ball anything,'' Mrs. Gagliardi said. ''You could just keep going down and down and down.''
The owners of the Melville house put it on the market more than a year ago at $270,000. It had come down to $220,000 when the Gagliardis saw it. They talked the owners down to $215,000 and had agreed to buy it, but had to pull out when they could not sell their own place. The Melville house remains on the market at a price too high for most first-time buyers, and even a stretch for many homeowners looking to trade up.
Just how severe a downturn the markets face is a matter of intense debate in real estate circles. The pessimists are led by Professor Mankiw of Harvard, who last year published a study along with a Harvard graduate student, David N. Weil, that concluded that home prices, after adjusting for inflation, would fall substantially in coming years.
Births in the United States totaled 4.3 million in 1957, Mr. Mankiw said, the peak of the baby boom. In 1973, the trough of the baby bust, births had fallen to 3.1 million. Historical data show that people are in their peak home-buying years in their 20's and 30's, he said.
''Just as the baby boom of the 1950's led to the housing boom of the 1970's, the baby bust of the 1970's will likely lead to a housing bust of the 1990's,'' Professor Mankiw and Mr. Weil wrote in their study.
Real estate executives have attacked the Harvard study's assumptions, pointing out, for example, that many people who could not afford to buy during the 1980's were likely to enter the market in the 1990's, increasing demand.
Other researchers think the Harvard economists are probably overstating the severity of the impact, but support the notion that the population changes will keep prices lower than they would otherwise be.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: HOUSING; PRICES; FORECASTS; CONDOMINIUMS; COOPERATIVES HOME PRICES (93%); REAL ESTATE (91%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); INFLATION (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (89%); BABY BOOMERS (89%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (78%); TRENDS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (76%); HOUSING STARTS (76%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (68%); PSYCHOLOGY (64%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (60%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 



126 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1358 words

HEADLINE: Upheaval in the East;
U.S.-SOVIET SUMMIT IS PLANNED MAY 30 WITH BUSH AS HOST

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 5

 BODY:
President Bush and President Mikhail S. Gorbachev of the Soviet Union will hold a five-day meeting in the United States beginning on May 30, the White House and the Kremlin announced today.
The announcement of the summit dates is as much a political statement as a scheduling matter. The decision comes at probably the tensest moment in Soviet-American relations since President Bush took office, largely because of Washington's discomfort with the Kremlin's crackdown on the Lithuanian independence movement.
In talks in Washington over the last two days with Eduard A. Shevardnadze, the Soviet Foreign Minister, Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d has repeatedly emphasized that suppression of the Baltic drive for independence will seriously damage the superpower relationship.
 
Talks to Run Until June 3
Nonetheless, the Administration appears to have determined that the Kremlin's activity in Lithuania, until now at least, does not require any delay in announcing the summit dates or in holding the meeting. The sessions are scheduled to begin on Wednesday, May 30, in Washington and end on Sunday, June 3. 
''I don't have any idea about the private discussions that went on'' between Mr. Baker and Mr. Shevardnadze, said the White House spokesman, Marlin Fitzwater. ''But I don't think there was any anticipation that the summit would be changed on the basis of the existing situation.''
The Baker-Shevardnadze talks are concentrating on overcoming obstacles to treaties limiting long-range nuclear missiles, chemical weapons and conventional arms in Europe, as well as resolving outstanding economic and regional problems.
 
Arms Accords Unlikely
Both Soviet and American officials indicated today that the prospects of signing major arms-control initiatives at the meeting appeared to be dim. The meeting was initially scheduled for February. But at their meeting in Malta in December, Mr. Bush and Mr. Gorbachev stated their wish that the get-together be an occasion for signing a Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty, known as Start, or for reaching agreement on all of the accord's major provisions.
Senior American and Soviet officials, briefing reporters on today's talks, indicated that it was highly unlikely that a Start treaty would be ready for signing at the spring session. Whether even an agreement in principle will be completed by then also remains in doubt.
A senior Administration official said that the United States might introduce an important new proposal, either for the current Start negotiations or in the discussion of principles for the proposed Start-2 treaty, which seeks to ban either all land-based multiple-warhead ballistic missiles, known as MIRV's, or those placed on trains.
 
Soviets Oppose Idea
Soviet officials said that introducing such a ban at this point in the Start talks was not a good idea since it might slow the negotiating process. Several prominent Senators have said that Congress would not support the Administration's request for both a truck-mounted, single-warhead Midgetman missile system and a rail-mounted MX multiple warhead missile system, and have been urging the White House to pursue a ban on mobile MIRV's with Moscow.
During today's discussion of regional issues, American officials indicated that the Soviet negotiators seemed to be edging away from their insistence that a unified Germany must be neutral. While they were not ready to accept the American proposal that a united Germany be a full member of NATO, the Soviets appeared more than ever to be open to alternative security arrangements, officials said.
On the Middle East agenda, the Soviets told the American side that they would be ready to consider restoring diplomatic relations with Israel and permitting the direct flight of Jews from Moscow to Israel, if the Israeli Government would provide them with guarantees that the refugees would not be settled on the West Bank or in East Jerusalem.
How the setting of the summit dates might affect each side's room for maneuver on the Lithuania question is uncertain.
Some analysts say it could limit Washington's ability to take a tough line with Mr. Gorbachev on Lithuania, should the situation there deteriorate. Walking away from a scheduled summit meeting would be a move without precedent in United States-Soviet relations.
In 1960, President Eisenhower planned to visit Nikita S. Khrushchev, the Soviet leader, in Moscow, but no date had been set when the meeting was canceled after an American U-2 spy plane was shot down over the Soviet Union. In 1968, President Johnson planned to see Leonid I. Brezhnev in October, but again there was no date set when Soviet forces invaded Czechoslovakia that summer, putting an end to the plans.
 
Dole Meets With Bush
This time, the Administration will have to be careful that it does not try to compensate for moving ahead with the summit talks by turning up its criticism of Moscow to a point where it inflames a Congress already urging a harder line on the Lithuania issue.
Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, the minority leader, met with President Bush this morning to discuss the Senator's planned visit to the Middle East. He was asked on his way out of the White House what he thought of a summit session given the situation in Lithuania.
''My view is that it makes it a little more difficult,'' he said. ''We tried to express that to Shevardnadze last night - speaking for Congress, not the President. And members of Congress in both parties might have a different view if there's any force used in Lithuania, about trade or anything else dealing with the Soviet Union. We didn't get into arms control. My own view is we ought to go forward with arms control agreements.''
It was apparently with the Congressional sentiments in mind that Mr. Baker told Mr. Shevardnadze of the importance of beginning negotiations with the Baltic states immediately.
Robert Legvold, director of the W. Averell Harriman Institute for the Advanced Study of the Soviet Union at Columbia University, said it could also be argued that setting a date increased the flexibility of the Administration. If it had refused to set a date, it would have lost its best leverage with Moscow, he said. Now it still has the flexibility to postpone or constrict the summit meeting, should the situation in Lithuania deteriorate drastically.
 
'A Kind of Sobering Look'
Administration officials, though, were sensitive to the accusation that scheduling the meeting sent a contradictory message to Moscow, and they tried to dispel the notion that setting the date meant a softening of the United States' position on the fate of Lithuania.
''As it stands now, I would expect the summit to focus on Lithuania for at least some discussion - President Bush will raise it,'' Mr. Fitzwater said. ''I think everybody views the Lithuanian situation very seriously. It does require a kind of sobering look at events and the situation in the Soviet Union. But, as the President said, the important point is that we are talking and, if anything, Lithuania makes a summit all the more important that the President is able to present the U.S. views forcefully and directly to him.''
This will be Mr. Bush's second summit meeting with Mr. Gorbachev since becoming President. The two leaders met on Dec. 2 and 3 aboard ships off the island of Malta in the Mediterranean. President Bush offered a 16-point program of technical and economic support for Mr. Gorbachev's economic and political changes in the Soviet Union, known as perestroika.
''It is very important that we have these conversations,'' President Bush told reporters shortly after the formal announcement was made today. ''Dialogue is important. I'm looking forward to seeing Mr. Gorbachev here.''
Administration officials said that the only thing the two sides have agreed on at this stage are the five days within which the summit will be held. Whether the two Presidents will meet all five days, whether they will hold all their talks in Washington or also meet somewhere else in the United States, and all other logistical details remain to be hammered out.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The White House and the Kremlin announced a date for a summit meeting as Secretary of State James A. Beker 3d, right, and Eduard A. Shevardnadze, the Soviet Foreign Minister, began their second day of talks. (The New York Times/Paul Hosefros); table showing who the leaders were and the site of the Summit for the past 3 decades. (pg. A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); LITHUANIA (93%); EUROPE (79%); MALTA (77%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); LITHUANIA; BALTIC SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS

SUBJECT: SUMMIT CONFERENCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS; SECESSION INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (86%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (66%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; BAKER, JAMES A 3D (SEC); SHEVARDNADZE, EDUARD (MIN) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (57%); 



127 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 997 words

HEADLINE: Upheaval in the East;
Kremlin Troops Move In to Evict Lithuania Aides

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, April 5

 BODY:
Continuing its campaign of pressure, the Kremlin sent troops on another foray in the Lithuanian capital today and repeated its refusal to hold formal talks with separatist leaders until the Baltic republic voids its declaration of independence.
A Lithuanian spokesman, reached by telephone from Moscow, said 50 Soviet soldiers moved into the Chief Prosecutor's office in Vilnius to evict civil servants loyal to Vytautas Landsbergis, Lithuania's President.
The prosecutor's office, which oversees federal law in the republic, has been the scene of a confrontation over who holds sway in Lithuania, Moscow or the breakaway Parliament. Both sides have named chief prosecutors to run the bureau, but the prosecutor installed by Moscow is in place because of the presence of Soviet troops. 
 
No Resistance Reported
The Soviet soldiers evicted the Lithuanian workers without resistance or injury, the Lithuanian spokesman said.
With Moscow's order last week that foreign correspondents leave the republic, confirmation of the report was difficult.
As the troop movements were taking place, Aleksandr N. Yakovlev, a top adviser and political ally to President Mikhail S. Gorbachev, spoke out against Lithuania's March 11 declaration of independence. He called the move a blow ''directed against perestroika,'' the Soviet leader's plan to revive the country through economic and political restructuring.
Tonight, the Lithuanian legislature crafted a message to Mr. Gorbachev pleading for ''honest dialogue'' that is not ''accompanied by arbitrary actions by your armed forces.''
Mr. Yakovlev met informally with Lithuanian representatives on Tuesday, the day that Foreign Minister Eduard A. Shevardnadze arrived in Washington for talks on a summit meeting between Presidents Bush and Gorbachev. That small concession seemed to ease the crisis for a day and soften Mr. Shevardnadze's arrival. Moscow and Washington announced today that the talks are scheduled to begin on May 30.
In an interview today with Tass, the Soviet press agency, Mr. Yakovlev said that while the initial talks with Lithuania were ''frank from both sides,'' the independence declaration would continue to be viewed as unconstitutional by the Kremlin. ''The Lithuanian deputies were told that a normal dialogue on all issues of mutual interest was possible on the basis of the situation that existed before March 10,'' he declared, referring to Lithuania's status before its legislature voted to secede from the Soviet Union.
 
Developments in Estonia
The separatist movement in Estonia moved ahead at the deliberately slower pace set by leaders in Tallinn, the republic's capital. A new legislative session was called next week to form a ''temporary government'' to lead toward an eventual declaration of independence. President Gorbachev telephoned the Estonian leader, Arnold F. Ruutel, on Tuesday night to warn Estonia against following Lithuania into delacring independence.
In the third Baltic republic, Latvia, a Communist Party congress scheduled Friday in Riga, the capital, is expected to follow the two other republics' parties in splitting from the Soviet Communists over the independence issue. But in the legislature in Latvia, the majority of the Latvia members are expected to remain loyal to the Kremlin. Close to half the population of the republic are non-Latvians favoring Moscow.
Mr. Gorbachev is closely following how united the Baltic republics will be in their separatist drives.
 
Gorbachev's 2 Vulnerabilities
While the Soviet leader must be sensitive to global factors like the cautions by the Bush Administration against using force to resolve questions of sovereignty, he must also try to avoid acceding to a Baltic settlement that would invite other disgruntled Soviet republics and nationality groups to leave the union.
Lithuanian officials today increased their overtures for compromise with the Kremlin. Their chief representative in Moscow, Egidius Bickauskas, said in an interview with Soviet reporters that the republic ''may offer more than the central government expects'' in the way of compromise. He was not specific but again talked of the possibility of submitting the independence issue to a referendum, which Mr. Gorbachev has insisted is a minimum step for the republic before it can legally contemplate independence.
And the legislature in Vilnius wrestled for another day with crafting a diplomatic reply to Mr. Gorbachev's warning last weekend that ''grave consequences'' threatened unless the independence declaration was repealed in order to open the way to full negotiations. The Lithuanian authorities expressed optimism on Tuesday when Mr. Yakovlev finally agreed to meet with Mr. Bickauskas, and they have since avoided fresh denunciations of the Kremlin, hoping that further talks would follow.
 
The Troops Roll In
That hope was not realized during the day as Lithuanian spokesmen reported what they said was the most forceful movement of Soviet troops in a week. They said a well-armed contingent of 50 soldiers arrived this afternoon at the prosecutor's office, where workers loyal to the Lithuanians have been resisting Moscow's attempts to supersede the local prosecutor.
The prosecutor's office is a focal point of Soviet law in the republic, and its functions includes prosecuting those refusing to enter the Soviet military. Many young Lithuanians are resisting the Soviet draft. Others are deserting now that the republic has declared its independence. Their cases are dealt with by separate military tribunals.
The state-controlled press and television continued to present heavily pro-Kremlin reports on the crisis, focusing on complaints from the republic's Russian and Polish minorities. Moscow has said that the rights of the minorities in Lithuania must be considered before any secession can go forward. The controlled reports gave little note to the Lithuanian explanation of why independence was justified.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lithuanians protesting outside the prosecutor's office in Vilnius after Soviet troops occupied it. (Reuters) (pg. A1); Supporters of the Soviet Government demonstrating yesterday outside television studion in Vilnius, Lithuania. They protested the cancelation by the Lithuanians of Russian-language broadcasts. (Associated Press); map of the Soviet Union showing location of Vilnius (The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: LITHUANIA (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); ESTONIA (94%); BALTIC STATES (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATVIA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); LITHUANIA

SUBJECT: SECESSION; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS; LEGISLATURES SEPARATISM & SECESSION (94%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); POLITICS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); CIVIL SERVICES (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); 

PERSON: YAKOVLEV, ALEKSANDR; CLINES, FRANCIS X; LANDSBERGIS, VYTAUTAS (PRES); GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S VYTAUTAS LANDSBERGIS (72%); 



128 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1175 words

HEADLINE: DINKINS FORECASTS WIDER BUDGET GAP AS REVENUES SLIP

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

 BODY:
Mayor David N. Dinkins said yesterday that New York City was facing an additional $105 million revenue shortfall for the fiscal year ending June 30. He also said he would seek $309 million in higher taxes to balance the city's budget in the coming fiscal year, on top of the $550 million it is already seeking.
The Mayor's announcement was the grimmest in a string of similar ones in recent months as the city has taken steps to close a total gap in its budget for this year of well over $1 billion and to plug a projected gap of about $2 billion in the coming year. 
Throughout the Northeast, governors and mayors are struggling with similar budget problems in the wake of a regional economic slowdown. $20 Million Shortfall Remains In New York State, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo and legislative leaders have been struggling to come up with an agreement on a package of taxes and spending cuts to close a $1.5 billion gap in the state budget that was supposed to take effect April 1. Mr. Cuomo and legislative leaders agreed yesterday on a plan to postpone an income tax cut scheduled for this year. [Page B1.] New York City officials said they hoped about $85 million of the expected revenue shortfall for the rest of this fiscal year could be covered by using reserves from a decades-old rapid-transit sinking fund that issued subway construction bonds many years ago. Those bonds are now about to mature. The officials said they were still studying how to close the remaining $20 million shortfall through service cuts or other actions. But Mr. Dinkins said he still had every intention of hiring a class of 750 police recruits to begin training later this month.
 
Business Tax Receipts Down
With New York State inching closer toward agreement on its own budget yesterday, Mr. Dinkins said he was eager to have the State Legislature begin to focus on his proposed tax package now, rather than when he presents his formal budget next month.
The city's Budget Director, Philip R. Michael, and Finance Commissioner, Carol O'Cleireacain, said much of the shortfall in revenue was caused by a drop in business tax receipts, especially from banks.
The officials attributed that to the Federal Reserve's policy of directing banks to set aside more money to cover expected bad foreign loans and bad real-estate loans, thus cutting their current tax liability.
Asked if yesterday's announcement was the worst of the bad news, Mr. Dinkins said, ''I wish I knew.''
''I know that what's necessary,'' he added, ''is for us to meet each occasion in a forthright fashion.''
 
'Very Disturbing'
Raymond D. Horton, the president of the Citizens Budget Commission, a private group that monitors the city's finances, said: ''It's very disturbing. The numbers are disturbing, and now the solutions are starting to get a little disturbing.'' He particularly criticized the intention to draw on the transit reserves.
Hyman Grossman, a managing director of the Standard & Poor's Corporation, which rates the city's bonds, noting other planned one-time revenue sources in this year's budget, said: ''We've got $200 million in one-shots already. It's a tough situation, and getting more difficult, and will require even higher taxes next year than the Mayor wanted.''
During and after the Mayor's news conference, Mr. Michael said the transit fund involved bonds of the Staten Island Rapid Transit Operating Authority.
 
Restrictive Covenants
But later officials in the office of City Comptroller Elizabeth Holtzman, who had suggested the reserves, said that was not so. They said the reserve fund had been required under the terms of the old subway bonds, which had very restrictive covenants, and only now was the money available.
Brian Baxter, the First Deputy City Comptroller, said it was possible that some new bonds would have to be issued to make up for the reserve.
Mr. Michael, the Budget Director, sought to play down the emphasis on the city's use of one-time revenues, saying it was proposing cuts and other actions so as not to carry its dependence on the one-shot sources into next year, and had not touched its general reserve fund of $75 million for the current year, which remains a cushion.
He said he did not expect that the city would end the year with a deficit of $100 million or more. Such a deficit would allow the State Financial Control Board to vote to resume control powers over the city's finances.
 
'A Little Premature'
The Control Board's executive director, Allen J. Proctor, said the Dinkins administration's estimate of the shortfall was based on preliminary data. ''The fact that they're coming forward with a number, I can't fault them for that,'' he said. ''But it's a little premature to draw conclusions.''
In fact, Mr. Dinkins's announcement was an indication of the rapidly changing fiscal picture for the city and the state. Earlier this week, his aides had said they expected to seek only about $200 million more in taxes than the $550 million Mr. Dinkins said he would ask for in February.
Yesterday, Mr. Dinkins said he would seek a total of $309 million more in new or higher taxes but would not ask for more property taxes than the $180 million he has already proposed.
He plans to ask the Legislature for permission for a $100 million increase in his proposed $200 million temporary surcharge on the personal income tax in the city, which would cost the typical resident about $85 a year.
 
Other Tax Increases
He will also ask the state to let the city raise $60 million through a one-half of 1 percent increase in the mortgage recording tax, $80 million by tripling the current $15 auto use tax, $12 million by increasing the hotel tax rate to 6 percent from 5 percent, and $5 million through new restrictions in the general corporation tax.
At the same time, Mr. Dinkins will ask the City Council to raise $12 million through a new 4 percent sales tax on dry cleaning and laundry transactions and to delay altogether energy tax cuts to save an additional $40 million, on top of the $90 million the Mayor had originally proposed to save by phasing in the cuts more slowly than first planned.
Mr. Dinkins said the Council had agreed to pass a home-rule message asking Albany to act on its share of the tax package.
A spokeswoman for the Council, Peg Breen, said later that the Council would pass a home-rule message, but not necessarily for the taxes the Mayor has outlined.
''We stand ready to talk with the Mayor's staff to go over tax options to come up with a package that we can pass home-rule messages for and which we think will have the best chance of receiving approval in Albany,'' she said.
Borough President Ruth W. Messinger of Manhattan urged the Mayor to propose changes in the way the city treats bank loan-loss reserves, by allowing banks to deduct only the actual amount of loan losses, instead of the generally higher amounts they place in reserve in anticipation of losses. She said this change could generate $75 million over the next three fiscal years.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor David N. Dinkins and his budget director, Philip R. Michael, announcing that the city will seek $309 million more in higher taxes. (The New York Times/Eddie Hausner)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: TAXATION; INCOME TAX; PROPERTY TAXES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (94%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); BUDGET FORECASTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TAX LAW (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); BONDS (86%); CITIES (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); POLICE FORCES (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (77%); FOREIGN LENDING (75%); TAX RELIEF (72%); PROPERTY TAX (72%); INCOME TAX (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); GOVERNORS (54%); INFRASTRUCTURE (52%); 

PERSON: PURDUM, TODD S; DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR) DAVID N DINKINS (92%); PHILIP R MICHAEL (61%); 



129 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1361 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-10

 
A five-day summit meeting between President Bush and Mikhail S. Gorbachev will be held in Washington beginning on May 30, the White House and the Kremlin said. Page A1

 
Soviet troops went on another foray in the Lithuanian capital while the Kremlin repeated that it would not hold formal talks with separatist leaders until the republic voided its declaration of independence. A1

 
Support for German unification has grown, but Americans seem uneasy about whether the change in Europe is permanent, according to the New York Times/CBS News Poll. A8
 
East Germany's new Parliament held its inaugural session, but with the major parties still negotiating a coalition, no government was installed. A8 
 
 
Bonn works on money plan amid protests in East
 A9

 
Yugoslavia's first multiparty vote in 45 years will be held Sunday in the republic of Slovenia. No matter who wins, the tiny republic on the edge of the Alps is considered certain to signal its desire for independence. A8

 
Japanese barriers on trade will be reduced under an agreement reached by Washington and Tokyo. The Japanese steps range from cutting restrictions on large retail stores to altering real estate tax policies. A1

 
Aid to Cambodia and Vietnam by Eastern European countries may be reduced after the collapse of Euro-pean Communism and the withering of Comecon, the Eastern-bloc trading association. A10

 
There is a sense of crisis in Nepal. The pro-democracy opposition is preparing for a general strike, and there is speculation that King Birendra, the all-powerful sovereign, might suspend Parliament. A3

 
F. W. de Klerk and Nelson Mandela agreed to reschedule formal talks between the Government and the African National Congress on a political settlement on South Africa's future.
 A1

 
The Israeli people want reform. Their voices are difficult to hear above the din of promises, threats and warnings that characterize the nation's politics, but their message is clear: they want electoral reform. A6

 
Gelbard, career envoy, reported favored for Managua post
 A3

 
Nsanje journal: Will Malawi shut its door to refugees?
 A4

 
National A12-22

 
The long climb in housing prices that has made home ownership all but a sure-fire investment may level off or decline during this decade, many experts think. That would alter consumer spending habits. A1

 
Pentagon spending reductions twice as great as those offered by President Bush have been proposed by two senior Republican Senators, William S. Cohen of Maine and John McCain of Arizona. A1

 
The nation's Roman Catholic bishops have engaged a public relations firm and a polling concern in Washington to conduct a nationwide campaign to persuade both Catholics and non-Catholics to oppose abortion. A1

 
Study finds little distress in women after abortion
 A16

 
An Alderman in Milwaukee has stunned and divided the city with his efforts to revive the Black Panthers and build a black militia that he says will take violent action if his demands for racial parity are not met. A12

 
A hoax call to the Coast Guard may have cost the lives of two fishermen on a ship sinking off the coast of Massachusetts. A12
 
Boston University's John R. Silber is not a conventional candidate for the Democratic nomination for Governor of Massachusetts. A14

 
Washington Talk: If politics is broke, can talk fix it?
 A12

 
F.B.I. Director William S. Sessions was accused by members of Congress of tolerating what one lawmaker described as the ''living hell'' experienced by the bureau's black and Hispanic employees. A15

 
Newspaper editors hear self-criticism
 A15

 
The issue of controlling acid rain was tackled by the House Energy and Commerce Committee, which voted to recommend sweeping legislation to strengthen the Clean Air Act. A18

 
Mercury may be banned from paint. Government regulators are alarmed at growing evidence of potential health dangers from the toxic metal, which is used in latex paint. D1

 
Monkey virus infects four, but none gets sick
 A16

 
A winged rocket is launched into orbit from a B-52 aircraft
 A16

 
Regional B1-4

 
An additional revenue shortfall of $105 million is faced by New York City for the fiscal year ending June 30, Mayor Dinkins said. He said he would seek $309 million more in higher taxes to balance the budget for next year. A1

 
An income tax cut would be delayed under a tentative plan agreed on by Gov. Mario M. Cuomo and legislative leaders in Albany. The cut would be phased in over three years. B1

 
The Port Authority dropped plans for a $1 increase in its bridge and tunnel tolls and a 25-cent fare increase on PATH trains later this year, the executive director of the bistate agency said. B2

 
Dean of New School picked to head planning agency
 B3

 
The Hispanic community is rallying to pressure the Dinkins administration to avoid sweeping away social clubs that the community says serve vital cultural, economic and educational needs. B1

 
An appraisal: The Trump Taj Mahal has been advertised as the eighth wonder of the world, but it will be that only to people who consider seeing 3,000 slot machines in a single room to be a greater experience than the pyramids. B1

 
Four turtles from under the streets of New York City
 B1

 
Marcos role in investments is recounted by ex-banker
 B3

 
Suspect in slaying had order to stay away
 B3

 
A doctor cites loss of memory in murder case
 B2

 
Business Digest D1

 
Weekend

 
Easter music C1

 
Bushes see Michael Jackson C27

 
Theater: On Stage C2

 
''Paradise for the Worried'' C3

 
Len Cariou in ''Mountain'' C29

 
Film: At the Movies C8

 
''I Love You to Death'' C8

 
''Cry-Baby'' C10

 
''The Cook, the Thief, His Wife and Her Lover'' C12

 
''In the Spirit'' C16

 
Music: World tour via folk song C1

 
States drop record labeling bills C36

 
Dance: Pilar Rioja C3

 
Architecture: An elusive modernist C27

 
Art: Brazilian at the Modern C31

 
Auctions C31

 
''Works on Paper'' at the Armory C31

 
Restaurants C22

 
Word and Image: TV Weekend C34

 
Edith Wharton stories C36

 
Sports

 
Baseball: Righetti to close show
 A28

 
Spira is arraigned
 A28

 
 
 
Basketball: Oklahoma reinstates women's program
 A27

 
Boxing: Ruddock in picture A27
 
Column: Anderson on Masters A25

 
Golf: Two Masters rookies lead A25

 
Hockey: Rangers beat Islanders A25

 
Devils fall in overtime A25

 
Whalers edge Bruins A29

 
Tennis: Capriati defeats Sanchez Vicario
 A28

 
Law B6

 
At the Bar
 
Leaps of science create quandaries on evidence
 
Obituaries

 
Edward E. Carlson, former chief executive of UAL Inc.
 A20

 
S. Gershon Levi, an ex-president of a Rabbis' group
 A20

 
Rafael Lorente de No, a researcher
 A21

 
Editorials/Letters/Op-Ed

 
Editorials A34

 
Pretoria: not black and white
 
Court rules for the homeless
 
Protecting inept managers
 
David C. Unger: Nationalism
 
Letters A34

 
William Safire: Our ''open doormat'' A35

 
Anthony Lewis: Hope, the beloved country A35

 
Alice H. Amsden: An Asian plan for East Europe
 A35

 
James T. Laney: Why tolerate campus bigots? A35

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (90%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); LITHUANIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (91%); NEPAL (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); MALAWI (79%); JAPAN (79%); SLOVENIA (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (79%); ALPS (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: CBS NEWS DIVISION (57%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (84%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); POLITICS (78%); MOUNTAINS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); ELECTION LAW (74%); HOME PRICES (72%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (72%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (70%); TAX LAW (69%); DEFENSE SPENDING (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); REFUGEES (67%); PROPERTY TAX (66%); RETAILERS (66%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (62%); RELIGION (62%); ABORTION (60%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (58%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); 



130 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 8, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1554 words

HEADLINE: Upheaval in the East;
Support for German Unity Found Growing in U.S.

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSENTHAL

 BODY:
While Americans seem uneasy about whether the change in Europe is permanent, support for the unification of East and West Germany has grown and two out of three Americans say they do not fear that a united Germany would threaten peace in Europe, according to the latest New York Times/ CBS News Poll.
But the poll showed somewhat more concern about the economic consequences of re-creating a single German nation; nearly 4 out of 10 Americans surveyed said a unified Germany would seek to dominate Europe economically.
The survey found surprisingly strong support for economic aid to nations in Eastern Europe and Latin America that are moving toward democracy. Although surveys since 1971 show that Americans have opposed foreign aid by a margin of 3 to 1, they are now about evenly split on giving aid to those two regions.
Other surveys conducted in recent months have indicated that Americans generally are optimistic about East-West relations. Still, the latest telephone survey of 1,515 adults, conducted Friday through Monday, was tempered by uncertainty about the tumult in Eastern Europe that has brought about new governments and economic systems. 
 
Many Support Troops in Europe
Americans are divided between the 45 percent who say they think that the cold war is over or will soon be over and the 39 percent who think it is continuing. A majority of Americans, 51 percent, say the number of American troops in Western Europe should be maintained or increased, compared with 29 percent who say the military presence should be cut and only 10 percent who say it should be eliminated.
Even among those who said the cold war had come to an end, there was an even split over whether it is now time to bring American troops home from Europe.
The new poll had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 3 percentage points.
In follow-up interviews after the survey, many people said they were not quite ready to trust in the irreversibility of the changes in the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe.
''That would be sort of like getting rid of all your dogs just because someone killed all the weasels that you'd seen around the neighborhood,'' said Brumley Mathes, 44 years old, a licensed nurse, of Greenville, Tenn. ''There may be other weasels lurking around out there,'' he said.
 
Unnerved by Rapidity of Change
Others said they were unnerved by the rapidity of change. ''How can the wall come down so fast and then all of a sudden everyone's talking about disarmament and unification?'' said Mark Seymour, a police sergeant in Richmond.
Joanne Clarke, 38, a schoolteacher in Philadelphia, said, ''I grew up hiding under my school desk in preparation for air raids, and I've been taught my entire life that the Russians are my enemy. It's difficult for me to trust now.''
Americans continued to give high personal marks to Mr. Bush; 72 percent said they approved overall of the way he does his job. In the previous New York Times/CBS News poll, conducted in January, 76 percent of Americans said they approved of Mr. Bush's performance.
The decline is barely significant statistically and appears to result mostly from a dissipation of the strong backing he enjoyed after the invasion of Panama last December.
 
Approval for Gorbachev
President Mikhail S. Gorbachev also maintained a strong measure of approval among Americans. Forty-six percent said they had a favorable opinion of Mr. Gorbachev, while only 9 percent said they had an unfavorable view; the rest said they were undecided or did not know enough about him yet.
The poll turned up no evidence that Mr. Gorbachev's test of wills with the separatists in Lithuania had hurt his popularity, at least so far. In addition, 39 percent said they approved of Mr. Bush's handling of the Lithuanian crisis and 19 percent said they disapproved. Forty-one percent took the view, also taken by Mr. Bush, that maintaining good relations with Mr. Gorbachev was more important than supporting Lithuania's effort to break away from the Soviet Union.
Still, a substantial minority - 31 percent - said supporting Lithuania was more important. There was a large group that offered no opinion on that question or on Mr. Bush's handling of the crisis. That could indicate that Americans, generally slow to focus on new developments in foreign affairs, are not yet paying attention to Lithuania. This could help Mr. Bush, whose strategy has been to avoid allowing the Baltic crisis to dominate East-West relations. But it also means that public sentiment is particularly susceptible to a sudden turn in response to events in Lithuania.
Asked to explain why they had a good opinion of Mr. Gorbachev, Americans most frequently mentioned his efforts to improve East-West relations and allow more freedom both in his country and in Eastern Europe. That ultimately could be sharply affected by his handling of Lithuania.
 
Favoring Unification
Asked about the future of the Germanys, 76 percent of Americans said they favored unification, a significant increase of 9 percentage points from last November's survey. Sixty-seven percent said they were not concerned that a united Germany would threaten peace while 22 percent said they were worried.
Forty-nine percent said they did not think a single Germany would try to dominate the continent economically, but 36 percent said they did think that could happen.
In both cases, memories of World War II were clearly no factor: there were no consistent differences on these issues between the youngest Americans surveyed, those between 18 and 29, and the oldest, those over 64.
As Eastern Europe has moved farther from its domination by Moscow and closer toward free-market economies and democratic governments, support for aid to those countries has increased. In January, asked if the United States should increase aid to countries that are becoming more independent of the Soviet Union, 59 percent said of Americans said no.
 
On Financial Aid
But in the most recent survey, only 44 percent said the United States should not give financial aid to ''those countries in Eastern Europe which have turned toward democracy,'' and 47 percent said they supported aid.
''A 50-50 split doesn't seem terribly strong at first blush, but it is very good for foreign aid,'' said Tom W. Smith, director of the General Social Survey at the University of Chicago's National Opinion Research Center.
The organization has found opposition to increasing foreign aid in general of between 68 percent and 77 percent since 1971. ''I suspect the change is because you are clearly not talking about military aid and you are talking about an area which has incredible change,'' Mr. Smith said. Still, there were signs that Americans had not entirely surrendered their tightfisted attitude toward spending money on foreign aid. Fifty-six percent said money for Eastern Europe and Latin America should come from the pockets of other countries that receive American assistance, not from an increase in the aid budget.
The poll also had evidence of Americans' priorities for spending at home: 61 percent said any savings from a decline in military spending should go to combating problems like drug abuse and homelessness, rather than a tax cut or reducing the Federal budget deficit as Mr. Bush has proposed.
 
How the Poll Was Taken
The latest New York Times/CBS News Poll is based on telephone interviews conducted from Friday through Monday with a total of 1,515 adults around the United States, excluding Alaska and Hawaii.
The basic sample of telephone exchanges called was selected by a computer from a complete list of exchanges in the country. The exchanges were chosen so as to assure that each region of the country was represented in proportion to its population. For each exchange, the telephone numbers were formed by random digits, thus permitting access to both listed and unlisted numbers. The numbers were then screened to limit calls to residences.
To reach a number of black respondents large enough to allow more detailed analysis of black opinions, another sample was drawn from seven surveys conducted during 1989 by The Times and CBS News. Telephone numbers of black respondents from those polls were called again, yielding 307 additional blacks. The results were then weighted to reflect the actual racial composition of the adult population.
The results have also been weighted to take account of household size and number of residential telephone lines and to adjust for variations in the sample relating to region, sex, age and education.
In theory, in 19 cases out of 20 the results based on such samples will differ by no more than three percentage points in either direction from what would have been obtained by seeking out all American adults.
The percentages reported are the particular results most likely to match what would be obtained by seeking out all adult Americans. Other possible percentages are progressively less likely the more they differ from the reported results.
The potential sampling error for smaller subgroups is larger. For example, for blacks it is plus or minus five percentage points.
In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of public opinion may introduce other sources of error into the poll.

GRAPHIC: Graphs showing the steady favorable mood toward Mikhail Gorbachev; the amount of concern that a reunited Germany would be a threat to peace in Europe.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (91%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (96%); GERMANY (93%); EASTERN EUROPE (88%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); LITHUANIA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); LATIN AMERICA (78%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: CBS NEWS DIVISION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EAST GERMANY; WEST GERMANY; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); LITHUANIA

SUBJECT: NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL; PUBLIC OPINION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; GERMANY, REUNIFICATION OF; SECESSION; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS POLLS & SURVEYS (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); COLD WAR (89%); ARMED FORCES (87%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (71%); DOGS (69%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (69%); NURSES & NURSING (61%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, ANDREW; GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 



131 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: Upheaval in the East;
East Europe Considers Cutting Aid to Indochina

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PHNOM PENH, Cambodia

 BODY:
The collapse of European Communism and the withering of Comecon, the Eastern-bloc trading association, have led Eastern European countries to consider reducing their diplomatic representation and aid to Cambodia and Vietnam.
Planned reductions in aid, tied to the negotiation of a new set of five-year plans to begin next year, underline the need for Vietnam and Cambodia to improve their relations with the West. It puts further pressure on both countries to seek a settlement to the Cambodian war, on which improvement of relations with the United States depends.
A Hungarian diplomat in Hanoi said, ''We want a relationship with Vietnam similar to that of any other Western European country, based on clear mutual and commercial interests.'' 
 
Prague Recalls Envoys
In late February, the Czechoslovak Ambassadors in Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos were recalled to Prague for consultations by the new Government. Czechoslovak diplomats say they will be replaced and their embassy staffs reduced, while relations with Laos may be downgraded to charge status.
The Hungarian Ambassador in Phnom Penh has sent an evaluation of his embassy to Budapest that discusses the options of closing it or reducing its staff.
A Hungarian diplomat said cost is the main issue, but doubted the embassy would be closed. ''You can see the high tide coming from the West as part of any settlement,'' he said. ''To close the embassy in the face of this high tide would be stupid.''
Still, another Eastern European diplomat said, the focus of foreign policy among the newly non-Communist governments must be Europe, the Soviet Union and the West, with Indochina only a distant concern.
 
Anxiety in Phnom Penh
He said the changes are causing severe anxiety in the Cambodian Government, which is trying to secure relations with more countries and fears losing ties with any of the 10 that now have diplomatic missions here.
Many Eastern European embassies, a diplomat said, are operating with no clear instructions from their tumultuous home capitals.
''There is a dangerous silence on the part of many East European embassies here,'' he said, while Western countries like Australia, Japan, Sweden, Canada, France and Britain are gearing up for better relations ''as soon as it is seemly.''
Cambodia's main aid donors are the Soviet Union, East Germany and Czechoslovakia.
 
Change in Trade Relations
''These relationships will inevitably change, and soon,'' a Polish diplomat said. ''Comecon is moving toward a hard-currency relationship, and no one can afford to subsidize trade in the same ways.''
Even the Soviet Union, which supplies Cambodia's oil and gasoline at subsidized prices and provides military aid, is now negotiating a new five-year plan, to run from 1991, that will look very different from the last one.
''Many figures may change,'' a Soviet diplomat said.
With the possibility of an Indochina peace settlement and changes in Moscow's foreign policy, military aid to Hanoi is sure to decrease, a Soviet diplomat there said. ''Our relationship, which was before mostly political and military, is now becoming mostly economic and cultural.''
 
'We Start to Count the Money'
''That creates more problems,'' he said, including how to value old loans. Instead of building huge plants and infrastructure projects all on credit, ''with no thought about cost, now we start to count the money.''
The new five-year plan, he said, would concentrate on joint ventures and contracts between enterprises on the basis of hard currency and market prices. ''We seek to balance our relations and make them mutually beneficial,'' he said.
He said Western estimates of $2.5 billion a year in Soviet help to Vietnam were ''roughly right,'' not including direct aid. But he would not comment on suggestions that this figure may be reduced as much as 40 percent.
Such considerations clearly worry the Vietnamese. Nguyen Ngoc Minh of the State Bank said Hanoi's 1989 budget deficit was more than double 1988's, increasing inflationary pressures.
A sizable cut in Soviet aid as Hanoi tries to remodel its industry, create jobs, adopt market prices and eliminate subsidies would be bound to hurt.
In particular, he said, it would intensify Vietnam's credit squeeze, at least until Washington stops blocking new loans from the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank.
Planned Comecon projects, like improving the north-south railroad, ''are as good as dead,'' a diplomat said.
Even the official news organizations of the countries that were once Communist now have little reason to maintain Hanoi bureaus. As Western news agencies negotiate to open offices in Hanoi, at least two Eastern European agencies are planning to relocate to Bangkok or Jakarta.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CAMBODIA (99%); VIET NAM (95%); EUROPE (94%); HUNGARY (93%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (92%); EASTERN EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); FRANCE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); POLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); VIETNAM (78%); CZECH REPUBLIC (71%); GERMANY (58%); 

CITY: PHNOM PENH, CAMBODIA (88%); BUDAPEST, HUNGARY (79%); HANOI, VIETNAM (78%); PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (71%); 

COMPANY: EASTERN EUROPEAN TRUST PLC (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CAMBODIA; EUROPE, EAST; VIETNAM

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (93%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (91%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN



132 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1150 words

HEADLINE: Call for Black Militia Stuns Milwaukee

BYLINE: By ISABEL WILKERSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MILWAUKEE, April 4

 BODY:
A Milwaukee Alderman has stunned and divided this quiet, no-nonsense city with his efforts to revive the Black Panthers and build a black militia that he says will take violent action if his demands for racial parity are not met within five years.
The Alderman, Michael McGee, a former Black Panther who represents one of the city's poorest, most crime-ridden districts, says the inner city has watched as the rest of Milwaukee has prospered. He has vowed to promote violence unless the city creates a $100 million jobs program and takes other steps to revive black neighborhoods.
''We've done things the nonviolent way, and it hasn't gotten us anywhere,'' Mr. McGee said in an interview. ''The only way to get respect is to be willing to use violence. We either stand there with our backs to the wall or fight our way out.'' 
Many white Milwaukeeans have responded in outrage, with one white Alderman calling his demands a ''clear-cut case of extortion.'' Mayor John O. Norquist, who is white and a one-time ally of Mr. McGee, has called for his resignation, saying, ''In this business you have to decide: You're in the system or you're out of it.''
 
Words Find a Chord
But the criticism seems only to have fueled Mr. McGee's bombast and his support among many blacks. While more moderate black politicians have denounced talk of violence, Mr. McGee's message of empowerment has struck a chord with his constituents. (Legal officials said they did not think Mr. McGee was breaking any law, since he is not advocating any immediate, specific act of violence at this point.) In the shadows of the glass towers and automated breweries of booming downtown Milwaukee, 600 frustrated and angry blacks packed into a grade school auditorium in a depressed black neighborhood Wednesday night to sign up for the militia.
They cheered and hooted and stood in ovation as Mr. McGee, dressed in black fatigues with a yellow arm patch depicting a black panther, said: ''Dr. King said he might not make it there with us. He won't. We're going to fight our way to the promised land.''
Many in the audience said they were willing to do whatever was necessary to improve their lives. But most said they did not think it would come to violence.
''I'm ready to die if I have to,'' said DeJuan Johnson, a 25-year-old carpenter's aide. ''We can't sit back and let our neighborhoods die.'
 
A Depressing Shift
Indeed, the city has undergone a dramatic economic shift in the past decade that researchers say has most hurt Milwaukee's blacks, 40 percent of whom live below the poverty level.
While non-manufacturing and service jobs have created boom times for the business core, Milwaukee has lost tens of thousands of factory jobs that lured blacks to the city in the first place. Some researchers put the black unemployment rate in the inner city at 25 percent, as against 5 percent for the city over all.
A recent study conducted for the Milwaukee City Council showed that blacks in Milwaukee were discriminated against in many everyday matters.
Last year, researchers from the University of Chicago listed Milwaukee -where most blacks live on the North Side, and most whites live on the South - as one of five American cities whose patterns of segregation were so pronounced and so deeply entrenched that they were deemed ''hypersegregated.'' The other cities were Chicago, Detroit, Cleveland and Newark.
But unlike some poor cities in the South, where impoverished blacks may live in shanties without indoor plumbing, racial discrimination is more subtle in Milwaukee, black residents say.
''It's a very clean city with a clean kind of racism,'' said Jerrel Jones, president of Courier Communications, owner of two black newspapers and a black radio station in Milwaukee. ''You don't see a ghetto as such. But if you knock on a door on our side of town, 25 people might come out who haven't eaten in a week.''
 
'He Scares People'
Many white city officials concede that more should be done to help blacks, who make up about a fourth of the population. But they say threats of violence are only clouding his message. ''Whether intended or not, the words of Alderman McGee have created a lot of dissension and divisiveness in the city,'' said Alderman John R. Kalwitz, who is white.
''He scares people,'' said Thomas P. Donegan, the president of the City Council, who is white. ''There's a sense of outrage that anyone would dare threaten to use guns.''
The 40-year-old Mr. McGee, who was an Army medic in the Vietnam War, has been a renegade on the Council since he was first elected in 1984.
He is considered a passionate and committed spokesman for the disposessed, one who will do almost anything to get his point across. Once, he hung a black baby doll from a tree inside the City Hall rotunda to symbolize racism in Milwaukee. Another time he wore a paper bag over his head in an official Council portrait to protest lack of funds for blacks. Moving Too Fast? In recent years, while his district slipped further into poverty, development elsewhere has accelerated with new shopping malls and skyscrapers, a new home for the Milwaukee Bucks basketball team, efforts to get a hockey team and plans for a new baseball stadium for the Milwaukee Brewers, which alone could cost $100 million.
''People tell me, 'Mike, you want to move too fast,' '' Mr. McGee said. ''But they move fast when they want something downtown. Our community cannot take a back seat to baseball and basketball.''
He said that, for now, his militia would spend its time patrolling black neighborhoods and fighting crime and drugs, much like the Black Muslims have in Washington, D.C. But he said he is ready to fight if black neighborhoods do not get more attention by 1995.
''I'm not advocating what the Black Panthers were advocating,'' Mr. McGee said, recalling that the Black Panthers advocated self-defense, not violent attacks, and promoted community social programs. ''Our militia will be about violence. I'm talking actual fighting, bloodshed and urban guerilla warfare.''
His brand of politics is coming to be known around here as ''the politics of discomfort.''
''He certainly is pricking our conscious about the real world,'' Mr. Kalwitz said. ''It's a legitimate question. Where are our priorities when you spend millions for downtown amenities and dribbles for the neighborhood?''
Others are not so convinced. Alderwoman Annette Scherbert, who is white, likened his demands to blackmail. ''A hundred million dollars, folks, or I start up my army,'' she said just after he announced his plans.
Still, Walter Farrell, a professor of educational policy and community relations at the University of Milwaukee who is black, said that many poor blacks hear Mr. McGee's overall message differently. ''What he has done for blacks in this town,'' said Professor Farrell, ''is restore their dignity.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael McGee, a Milwaukee Alderman who represents one of the city's poorest and most crime-ridden districts, wants to build a black militia that would take violent action, if necessary, to get racial parity. Mr. McGee urged people to join the militia at a rally on Wednesday. (The New York Times/John Cumming); Community members signing up for a black militia backed by Michael McGee, a Milwaukee Alderman, at a school auditorium on Wednesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (96%); 

CITY: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: MILWAUKEE ALDERMAN (67%); MILWAUKEE CITY COUNCIL (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: BLACK PANTHERS

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MILWAUKEE (WIS)

SUBJECT: BLACKS (IN US); RACIAL RELATIONS; DISCRIMINATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; STATE AND LOCAL AID (US) RACE & RACISM (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); MAYORS (78%); EXTORTION (77%); RESIGNATIONS (70%); INTERVIEWS (69%); TRENDS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: WILKERSON, ISABEL; MCGEE, MICHAEL (ALDERMAN) MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); 



133 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1807 words

HEADLINE: Boston Educator Offers A Bold Campaign Style

BYLINE: By FOX BUTTERFIELD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BOSTON, April 5

 BODY:
John R. Silber is not a conventional candidate for the Democratic nomination for governor of Massachusetts.
His stock speech often includes blasts at incompetent teachers, the women's movement, lawyers, welfare, teen-age sex and television - all things that he contends are causing the decline of America.
As a remedy, the 63-year-old president of Boston University may offer homilies from McGuffey's readers or invoke the example of fifth-century Athens, ''where on a single afternoon you might meet Socrates or Aristophanes.''
The question for Mr. Silber, a native of Texas, is whether his brash, idiosyncratic views can ignite a popular groundswell in a year of widespread disenchantment with politics as usual in Massachusetts. When he announced his candidacy in January, Mr. Silber was given a good chance of doing precisely that, especially at a time when Gov. Michael S. Dukakis, who has dominated the state for the last 16 years, is leaving office. 
But in the first few weeks of his campaign, Mr. Silber, more accustomed to the argumentative Socratic method of teaching than the cautious nuances of politics, quickly developed a reputation for being too outspoken. He described Massachusetts as ''a welfare magnet'' for immigrants, for example, and called Lowell ''the Cambodian capital'' of the United States.
 
'I Don't Speak Plastic'
There is some talk in political circles that Mr. Silber's remarks are part of a deliberate strategy intended to appeal to conservatives or disaffected blue-collar Democrats. But his friends believe Mr. Silber was speaking spontaneously, simply following his combative nature. ''I don't speak plastic like other politicians,'' he said with pride in an interview. But candor may have its price. ''Unfortunately, I think his reputation for controversy now precedes him and this blots out his substance,'' said Thomas Kiley, a respected political consultant here who is not associated with any candidate for governor in this year's race.
''Unlike other politicians who have made our politics so boring and barren, Silber is not afraid to take on the fundamental problems of what's wrong with American society,'' Mr. Kiley said. ''But there is a danger of him becoming a caricature of himself.''
Mr. Silber's potential appeal and troubles as well were evident in the reactions to a speech he made last week before the Parent School Organization at the high school in Cohasset, an affluent seaside suburb south of Boston.
''He knocked me right out of my seat,'' said Martha Gjesteby, a member of the town's governing Board of Selectmen who had come to hear Mr. Silber out of curiosity.
 
Impressed, but Mystified
''He was very eloquent and spoke about things that need to be said,'' said Mrs. Gjesteby, who described herself as a liberal Republican. ''But I don't know whether he believes what he says or is just trying to be provocative.''
Mr. Silber also faces an immediate problem. Under state Democratic Party regulations, he must win 15 percent of the votes of the delegates to the state Democratic convention in June to get his name on the ballot for the September primary.
Unluckily for Mr. Silber, in Massachusetts most of the delegates are liberals, and many are from groups he offended with his unguarded early campaign oratory, including blacks, Jews, women, state employees, teachers, homosexuals and immigrants. Even though Mr. Silber's remarks have greatly improved his name recognition among voters at large, Mr. Kiley and other specialists believe he may have a hard time meeting the 15 percent threshold of the convention delegates.
Some powerful supporters of Mr. Silber, including William M. Bulger, a Democrat who is president of the State Senate, are leading an effort to cut the 15 percent threshold to 5 percent.
Kevin H. White, the former Mayor of Boston, whom Mr. Silber hired as a professor, said that if Mr. Silber does get on the ballot, ''he will be a potent candidate.'' Mr. White, a Democrat, said he saw polls done early in the winter by the firm of Penn and Schoen indicating that ''Silber is exactly what people are looking for.''
By that, Mr. White explained, he means a strong leader from outside the ranks of the usual politicians who can both appeal to disgruntled blue-collar Democrats and offer a new vision for liberals.
 
Other Contenders for Post
The current front-runner for the Democratic nomination is Francis X. Bellotti, a former state Attorney General, whose campaign is well organized and financed but who has the liability of being seen as a longtime political insider with little capacity to inspire. The other major challenger is Lieut. Gov. Evelyn Murphy, who must overcome her close ties to the embattled Dukakis administration. Raymond L. Flynn, Boston's current Mayor, who is regarded with admiration by many voters for his apparent sincerity and compassion, might make the strongest candidate if he can make up his mind to run.
Mr. Silber said his reason for running was self-evident: ''This state is in a terrible crisis, and I think one can stand on the sidelines and watch a vigorous economic power go down the tube through inaction and through paralysis in state government only so long.''
The Massachusetts budget has a persistent deficit that neither Governor Dukakis nor the Legislature seems able to resolve, especially given a strong tide of anti-tax sentiment in the state.
But Mr. Silber said confidently that he could do for Massachusetts what he did for Boston University when he took it over in 1970. At the time it was widely considered a mediocre college beset by a tiny endowment, a faculty with many ''second-raters,'' in Mr. Silber's view, and a serious budget deficit. Mr. Silber immediately ended the deficit and Boston University has run in the black ever since.
The secret to his success, he said, was that he realized that the school's budget ''was a useless managerial document,'' just as the state's is now. Many of the real costs of any division were hidden because they were scattered, not consolidated under one heading.
 
Strong View on Budget
If the state budget was carefully analyzed in this fashion, Mr. Silber insisted, ''the waste would simply leap off the page.'' In his view, there are many excess state employees who could be dismissed, and many poorly run programs that could be trimmed, like bilingual education.
Mr. Silber points with pride to other accomplishments in his 20-year dominion at Boston University. He has remade the faculty, hiring stars like Elie Wiesel, the Nobel Prize winner; he has attracted freshmen with higher Scholastic Aptitude Test scores than those of previous years, and he has increased the endowment tenfold. And he does not apologize for his salary of more than $275,000, the highest of any university president in the country.
''I'm not embarrassed to get one-quarter of what a mindless anchorman on TV gets,'' he once said. ''I'm not average.'' He is on paid leave until the end of his campaign.
But all the progress at Boston University has come with turbulence. Mr. Silber purged the board of trustees, he replaced deans who differed with him and he has fought repeatedly with professors and students over issues like unionization of the faculty, gay rights and Marine Corps recruiting on campus. He has had to cope with death threats, arson in his home and a lawsuit by the American Civil Liberties Union over a student's right to hang a protest poster from his dormitory room.
 
Formative Years in Texas
Mr. Silber's background may have played a role in the formation of his pugnacious personality. A slight youngster with a right arm deformed at birth, he grew up in Texas, a state that exalts in the physical prowess of cowboys and football players.
His father, a German immigrant with strong-minded beliefs, saw to it that the family engaged in ruthless debates around the dinner table.
After entering Divinity School at Yale University, Mr. Silber switched to the philosophy department, where he wrote his Ph.D. dissertation on Immanuel Kant. Kant's belief in the power of man's will is still an active influence in Mr. Silber's life.
Mr. Silber is hard to peg politically. One Boston columnist described him as a ''political hermaphrodite,'' though Mr. Silber insisted in an interview that ''I'm very easily defined as a traditional liberal Democrat.'' He recalled his early involvement, while a dean at the University of Texas in the 1960's, in trying to integrate the school, and he pointed to his work for the Head Start program and childhood nutrition plans.
But he has acknowledged that he voted for Ronald Reagan and George Bush for President, and in his recently published book, ''Straight Shooting: What's Wrong with America and How to Fix It,'' he wrote, ''Abortion is homicide.''
 
Provocative Comments
Among campaign comments that created a storm was a reference Mr. Silber made comparing the Rev. Jesse Jackson's speaking style to Hitler's. Mr. Silber added that if he were President of the United States, Mr. Jackson ''would have a place in my Cabinet, because every President needs someone to write bumper stickers.''
Louis Elisa, president of the Boston branch of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, said this was a calculated appeal ''to the worst parts of society,'' adding, ''It's good politics, but not very sensitive or progressive.''
Mr. Silber also antagonized some Jews by saying in an interview with The Boston Globe that he had given up the idea of converting to Judaism as a young divinity student when he discovered that ''the racism of Jews is quite phenomenal.''
Leonard Zakim, regional director of the New England chapter of the Anti-Defamation League of B'nai B'rith, said Mr. Silber should be held accountable for making an overgeneralization. But Mr. Zakim recalled that Mr. Silber had a long record of support for Israel and Jewish causes and said, ''He is not an anti-Semite.''
In the last few weeks Mr. Silber has been more circumspect in his remarks. But at Cohasset High School last week, he still made the audience buzz when he said one of the major reasons for the decline in the quality of public school teachers was the women's movement, which has enabled women to enter other professions.
From Mr. Silber's perspective, much of the strife around him has grown out of what he perceives as his quest for excellence or greatness, qualities he finds missing from current American life. In his new book, Mr. Silber, quoting from the dramatist Aristophanes, wrote that democracies ''need heroes and require a vision of greatness if they are to achieve their potential.''
Yet, paradoxically, he said, democracies are ''frequently indifferent to heroes and hostile to greatness,'' so that in a democracy, the hero is doomed to suffer.

GRAPHIC: Photo: John R. Silber, the President of Boston University who is an unconventional candidate for the Democratic nomination for governor of Massachusetts, spoke with schoolchildren yesterday in Boston. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); CAMBODIA (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (97%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (97%); PHNOM PENH, CAMBODIA (55%); 

COMPANY: BOSTON UNIVERSITY (94%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MASSACHUSETTS

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); ELECTION ISSUES TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); POLITICS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (73%); CONSERVATISM (72%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (71%); 

PERSON: BUTTERFIELD, FOX; SILBER, JOHN R JOHN R SILBER (96%); THOMAS KILEY (57%); 



134 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: ENVIRONMENT BILL SENT TO THE HOUSE

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHABECOFF, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 5

 BODY:
After agreeing on the difficult issue of how to curb acid rain, the House Energy and Commerce Committee voted tonight to recommend sweeping legislation to strengthen the Clean Air Act. The vote was 42 to 1.
The measure includes a complex allowance system intended to help Midwestern states with the added burden of reducing pollutants that cause acid rain.
Like the bill passed by the Senate on Tuesday, the House bill would provide the Federal Government and state and local governments with new tools to reduce urban smog and toxic chemicals in the air, as well as the acid rain that is harming lakes and streams in some parts of this country and Canada. 
But there are some significant differences in the two bills that will need to be resolved in a conference between members of the House and Senate before a bill can be sent to the President. Many of those differences have to do with tougher requirements in the House bill to reduce urban smog.
As the House committee neared completion of its bill, the Environmental Protection Agency today released its annual report on urban air quality trends, showing that urban smog had increased by 2 percent from 1979 through 1988.
 
Lead Concentrations Decline
The report showed that other air pollutants listed by the Clean Air Act, including sulfur, carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxides and dust, had declined but were still present in urban areas at relatively high levels. Only lead concentrations in the air dropped sharply in the period, largely because lead in gasoline is being gradually eliminated, the report found.
William K. Reilly, Administrator of the E.P.A., said when releasing the report, ''Reauthorizing the Clean Air Act, a top priority of President Bush, is the best way to improve the air Americans breathe without hindering the country's economic growth.''
Like the Senate bill, the legislation drafted by the House committee would set new deadlines for meeting smog requirements and would also require annual progress in reducing smog, a requirement that is not in the current law. The new measure would require stricter controls on pollution from automobile emissions starting in the mid-1990's and, if the environmental agency decides it is necessary, even tighter controls after the turn of the century.
The House bill, like the Senate's, would require factories and other sources of toxic pollution to install the ''maximum available control technology'' to reduce such pollution. It would also have a second stage of controls on air toxics that would be contingent on earlier progress.
 
A Question of Who Pays
Also like the Senate bill, the House measure would require that sulfur dioxide emissions from coal-burning power plants, the chief component of acid rain, be reduced by 10 million tons, to about 50 percent of the current amount, by the end of the century.
At issue in the House panel's debate over acid rain was not how or how much sulfur dioxide should be cut, but who should bear the economic burden of curbing pollution.
Lawmakers from Midwestern states, where most of the power plants are situated, had asked that the cost of reducing pollution be shared nationally. Representative Philip R. Sharp, an Indiana Democrat, wanted an amendment that would have required a fee on sulfur pollution from factories, refineries and other sources other than power plants, to help the electric utilities and their customers meet the cost of reducing acid rain.
 
Aid for Coal Miners
Lawmakers from coal-mining states hoped for financial aid for miners of high sulfur coal, whose jobs would be threatened if utilities were forced to switch to cleaner low-sulfur coal.
But the committee did not adopt either form of aid. Instead, it concentrated on distributing credits that would be awarded to utilities that lower their emissions more than required by the law. These credits could be bought, sold or traded. Plants that lower their emissions below the required level could presumably sell their credits to help pay for the costs of scrubbers or low-sulfur coal.
Representative Terry L. Bruce, Democrat of Illinois, said: ''This acid rain accord is better for the Midwest than the Senate bill. It softens the blow against the Midwest.''
Because the House committee sought to resolve the sharp regional differences in negotiations, a protracted debate on the floor of the House is not expected, aides said tonight. The legislation will probably be taken up by the House within the next few weeks, the aides said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (92%); 

COMPANY: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (55%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND COMMERCE

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; MIDWESTERN STATES (US)

SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; CLEAN AIR ACT; FEDERAL AID (US) AIR QUALITY REGULATION (94%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (92%); LEGISLATION (92%); ACID RAIN (91%); SMOG (91%); AIR QUALITY (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); WATER POLLUTION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); AIR POLLUTANTS (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); HEAVY METALS & TOXIC MINERALS (89%); LEAD (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (89%); AIR POLLUTION (89%); TRENDS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); NITROGEN OXIDES (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (73%); POWER PLANTS (73%); ANNUAL REPORTS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (71%); CARBON MONOXIDE (71%); LAKES (70%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (65%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (60%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 



135 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 35, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: ESSAY;
Our 'Open Doormat'

BYLINE: by William Safire

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
In the Shanghai Communique of 1972, the United States and China - whose leaders could never have agreed on a credible ''joint'' communique - used an ingenious method of making parallel but often contrary statements that broke new ground without seeming to give an inch on principle.
Zhou Enlai, in the opening statement of the Chinese ''side,'' put in a thought that has ironic reverberations today: ''wherever there is oppression, there is resistance.''
During the next few years in China, there was oppression. Resistance first made itself felt in 1976 on the national day of mourning, Qingming, when crowds in Tiananmen Square expressed their grief at the death earlier that year of Zhou. After that reformist demonstration came the fall of the Gang of Four, the rise of Deng Xiaoping, and the revivifying capitalist road. 
But Deng failed to grasp the key link between the profit motive and political freedom; in time, the liberator of the Chinese farmer became the brutal oppressor of the Chinese student and worker at the Tiananmen demonstrations of a year ago.
This week, on Qingming, mourners were barred by troops from Tiananmen. No troublesome ''strollers'' allowed; no traditional white paper flowers worn.
Despite this palpable sense of oppression, and despite American public opinion, Mr. Bush has maintained close relations with Deng and his most recent chosen successor, the hard-line Li Peng. The President has been willing to take moral discomfort and critical flak to be in a position to help influence the rise of a reform faction after the death of Deng, who will be 86 this summer.
That moderate faction is no fiction; Chinese leaders like Zhao Ziyang, now under house arrest, understand that prosperity needs democracy.
With the exception of the time the President and Secretary of State brazenly lied about not having sent high-level emissaries to Beijing after the massacre, I have not been in the vanguard of critics of our kowtowing to the aging tyrant. Some moral muttering in this space, but not with the usual zip.
That's because all my old Nixon buddies and most of the old China hands (notably excepting Winston Lord) have been assuring one and all that patience would soon pay off.
Honey was supposed to attact more concessions than vinegar. By continuing to support World Bank loans and GATT gains; by keeping open the flow of technology; and by sending high-level envoys to toast the men who ordered the massacre - we would get the passage to safety of the dissidents given haven in our embassy; we could be sure of no intermediate-range missile sales to the Mideast; and most important, we would see amnesty for protesters and a relaxation of the new oppression.
But it's coming up to a year now. Despite frequent indications (the word ''assurances'' was always withheld), dangerous missile sales seem to be taking place; amnesty is forgotten and the dissident Fang Lizhi is the target of more abuse; Hong Kong's freedom is newly threatened; critics of the crackdown are denounced as ''foreign hostile forces.''
The honey is not working. The lame excuse: The Chinese leaders were so spooked by the overthrow of Romania's Ceausescu that not even our obsequious cheek-turning could contain their panic to enforce stability.
Time for a new assessment. The President cannot say ''Oh, there are those who say, 'Break off all contact, isolate a billion people, stick our heads in the sand,' '' because that nutty alternative to his non-reaction is not being proposed at all. Ambassador Jim Lilley in Beijing should remain in correct contact, and more visas should be issued to students and visitors.
Winston Lord and The Washington Post's Meg Greenfield were right and our China establishment was wrong. Mr. Bush's ''understanding'' of oppression has been interpreted as weakness. Because the Bush policy of the open doormat has been met by arrogant greatwalling, our moral standing has been compromised and our geopolitical influence undermined.
When we sell our soul for a mess of pottage, and no pottage is served, let's at least learn a lesson: no defense technology transfer or trade financing until progress is demonstrated. In diplomacy as in life, cooperation is encouraged when it is clear that contempt has consequences.
To our many Chinese friends looking past Deng's sclerotic grip, Mr. Bush should commend Zhou's words in the Shanghai Communique: ''wherever there is oppression, there is resistance.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: EAST CHINA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); 

CITY: SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%); 

COMPANY: SHANGHAI COMMUNIQUE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS (70%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (68%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (67%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (60%); HOUSE ARREST (50%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) DENG XIAOPING (56%); LI PENG (54%); 



136 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: Hispanic Residents Rally Against Closing of Social Clubs

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

 BODY:
As New York City clamps down on illegal social clubs, the Hispanic community is rallying to pressure the Dinkins administration to avoid sweeping away clubs that the community says serve vital cultural, economic and educational needs.
Hispanic groups contend that their cultural heritage is threatened by the city's efforts, which, they say, have unfairly lumped together these small, informal civic centers and the bars and dance clubs like the Happy Land Social Club, where 87 people died in a fire last month.
On Tuesday and Wednesday, the city chained and locked 36 clubs that were open in violation of fire safety laws.
''The city has taken a kind of Wyatt Earp approach to this clean-up,' said Carmen Canales-Ambert, a data-base analyst at New York Hospital who belongs to Familias Unidas del Bajo Manhattan, a community club on the Lower East Side. ''What we resent very much is the way the Latino community has been targeted by this approach without any consideration for the role each individual club plays in the community.'' 
But Stanley Davis, a spokesman for Mayor David N. Dinkins, said the Mayor's policy is to shut down any unsafe clubs. ''The Mayor said the most important issue here is safety and that if any club, whether it considers itself a social club or not, if it doesn't comply with fire and safety standards, it will be closed,'' he said.
The 65 members of Familias Unidas fear that their domino games, little league team and the myriad other activities that take root behind the crimson curtains on the second-floor in the building at 225 Avenue B will become a thing of the past. While Familias Unidas has no city code violations, the thicket of building codes and requirements can be overwhelming for small neighborhood groups, she said.
She has invited several Hispanic organizations to meet later this month to find ways to help the city distinguish between clubs like Familias Unidas and those like Happy Land. She said she plans to ask the city to send representatives.
Community leaders said that many of the civic clubs cannot afford to rent space in well-kept buildings so they settle for rooms in structures that look like they should be condemned. They also said that club directors have had difficulty forcing landlords to make repairs to meet city standards.
Such was apparently in the case at El Caney Cultural Center in East Harlem, a traditional campaign stop for political contenders including Mr. Dinkins and Manhattan Borough President Ruth W. Messinger. Famous in the Hispanic community for displays of Hispanic art and performances by Hispanic dancers and actors, the club recently closed after the city posted a vacate order on March 26. A previous vacate order for fire-safety violations was posted in April but had been ignored.
''Felix Cordero exhibited his paintings there, they had poetry readings, and I remember when Eli Alvarado presented a gem of a play about how we culturally view spiritualism and how its blended in with our politics,'' said Elizabeth Juarez Sanchez, a social worker at a private foster-care agency. ''It gave lots of artists an opportunity they didn't have in the mainstream.''
Homesick Puerto Rican immigrants began establishing clubs named for their hometowns in the late 1940's and early 50's, said Roberto Feliciano, a retired postal worker and self-designated historian specializing in Hispanic clubs. He helped found the now defunct Club Progresista Aguadillano at 62 Delancey Street, which gave birth to Familias Unidas.
The clubs initially raised money to pay their rent by selling food and trinkets on the street and holding various sporting and social activities. That changed in 1964, when the Puerto Rican Community Development Project was set up to fight poverty in the Puerto Rican community. The agency, using public and private funds, began to support many of the clubs.
That was the heyday, Mr. Feliciano said, when clubs helped their members register to vote, find housing, get jobs and take out loans. The clubs were scheduled stops on the campaign trail, and rallying centers for political protests.
 
A Lack of Money and Clout
''They serve an important role in the adaptation and assimilation process,'' said Migdalia DeJesus-Torres, who heads the Puerto Rican Studies Department at John Jay College of Criminal Justice. ''They serve as a needed introduction to American life, and they serve to preserve the culture and traditions of the home country.''
Since the demise of the Puerto Rican project in 1978, Ms. DeJesus-Torres said, club directors have lacked the money and clout to pressure their landlords to maintain the buildings where their clubs are located. She contended that a system of payoffs, from clubs to landlords to building inspectors, had developed. ''They can't understand why, now, after all these years, they're closing them down for violations that have existed a long time,'' she said.
In discussing El Caney last week, where his Hispanic affairs adviser, William Nieves, had been a director, Mr. Dinkins tried to draw a distinction between that club and the social clubs that are more like nightclubs, but such a distinction is absent in the law he has proposed to increase penalties for establishments that violate safety laws.
''These are some of the very few organizations we have in our community, and now you see that the city administration, instead of trying to find a way to find out which organizations are which, is practically engaging in a witch hunt,'' said Apolinar Trinidad, who works for the state and is active in Latinos United for Political Action, a Hispanic political group.
''It's very disheartening,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: Table showing the 36 social clubs which were closed by the Mayor's task force on Tues. & Wed. (pg. B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: HAPPY LAND SOCIAL CLUB (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: HAPPY LAND SOCIAL CLUB

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; BRONX (NYC)

SUBJECT: FIRES AND FIREMEN; NIGHTCLUBS AND CABARETS; ORGANIZATIONS, SOCIETIES AND CLUBS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); SPANISH-SPEAKING GROUPS (US); PUERTO RICANS; ARSON CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (92%); FIRE PREVENTION & SAFETY (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); FIRES (89%); DEREGULATION (88%); DANCERS (76%); DANCE (76%); BUILDING & HOUSING CODES (75%); YOUTH SPORTS (73%); ARSON (70%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (64%); PAINTING (62%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (62%); 

PERSON: STROM, STEPHANIE DAVID N DINKINS (70%); CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); ROBERTO FELICIANO (56%); 



137 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 539 words

HEADLINE: Dean of New School Picked To Head Planning Agency

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

 BODY:
Filling the most important vacancy left in his administration, Mayor David N. Dinkins has chosen Richard L. Schaffer, dean of the Graduate School of Management and Urban Professions at the New School for Social Research, as chairman of the city's Planning Commission.
Senior city officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the appointment would be announced today. Mr. Schaffer will take charge of the Planning Commission at a pivotal time, as the way the city governs land use is changing under the new city charter.
The commission, which reviews scores of building projects each year and also oversees long-term planning, will be expanded from 7 members to 13. The commission's duties will remain much the same, but most of its decisions will be subject to final review by the City Council starting this summer, when the Board of Estimate, which has been the final authority on land use, goes out of business. 
 
Upper West Side Consultant
Under the charter, Mr. Dinkins was to have made the appointment by March 1, along with his other six appointments to the commission. Developers, community groups and politicians have been eagerly awaiting his choice of chairman.
Mr. Schaffer, an urban planner, previously served as chairman of the urban planning division of the School of Architecture of Columbia University. He was a consultant last year to a special planning committee that recommended tighter limits on the development of the Upper West Side.
The panel, formed by the neighborhood's community board, Board No. 7, and by the Municipal Art Society, also suggested plans for building town houses within housing projects and suggested increasing the allowable building density on many blocks north of 96th Street.
Mr. Dinkins had let it be known that he sought an experienced professional planner, rather than an experienced politician, to head the commission. Mr. Schaffer would seem to combine something of both.
 
A Previous Candidate
He was a candidate to be chairman of the commission several years ago, when former Mayor Edward I. Koch chose Sylvia Deutsch instead, and is a friend of Robert F. Wagner Jr., the president of the Board of Education and himself a former Planning Commission chairman. Mr. Schaffer's former wife is a daughter of former Mayor John V. Lindsay.
Colleagues say Mr. Schaffer, who holds a doctorate in economics, is also a respected scholar and administrator. Before going to the New School, he served for a time as acting dean of Columbia's School of Architecture.
''He is someone who has been on the edge of New York City politics for a long time,'' said Kenneth Frampton, a former chairman of the architecture division of Columbia's School of Architecture. ''He was a very good administrator and he did a good job in a difficult period between two deans.''
Sigurd Grava, a member of Columbia's architecture faculty, said: ''I think he'll make a splendid chairman. He has plenty of experience and is a very astute administrator.''
Mr. Schaffer is known as an advocate of community participation in planning decisions. ''It's always messy and frustrating when you have community meetings, but the results are always better,'' he said in an interview last year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SFC (ASX) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (92%); NAICS327991 CUT STONE & STONE PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS327331 CONCRETE BLOCK & BRICK MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS316110 LEATHER & HIDE TANNING & FINISHING (92%); SIC6726 UNIT INVESTMENT TRUSTS, FACE-AMOUNT CERTIFICATE OFFICES, & CLOSED-END MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES (92%); SIC3271 CONCRETE BLOCK & BRICK (92%); SIC3111 LEATHER TANNING & FINISHING (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: SCHAFFER CORP LTD (92%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: PLANNING COMMISSION, NEW YORK CITY; NEW SCHOOL FOR SOCIAL RESEARCH

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES CITY GOVERNMENT (93%); CITIES (91%); LAND USE PLANNING (91%); CITY LIFE (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); MAYORS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); POLITICS (87%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (71%); 

PERSON: DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); SCHAFFER, RICHARD L; SCHAFFER, RICHARD L (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH); PURDUM, TODD S RICHARD L SCHAFFER (94%); DAVID N DINKINS (74%); 



138 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 1990

SECTION: Section B; Page 6, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: LAW;
At the Bar

BYLINE: By David Margolick

 BODY:
In the opening scene of ''Mountain,'' William O. Douglas is on his deathbed, marshaling his dwindling energies to defend his career. ''The law must be about life!'' he rails. ''About the people and their lives! How can you sit in judgment on them if you haven't lived? If you haven't taken those journeys?''
It is a neat epitaph for Douglas, who served for 36 tumultuous years on the United States Supreme Court, longer than anyone else. And it is the leitmotif of Douglas Scott's unusual new play about the man, starring Len Cariou, which opened last night at the Lucille Lortel Theater in New York. [Review, page C29.] Most Supreme Court Justices are not the stuff of great drama. The cloistered life of reading motions, sitting in conferences, hearing oral arguments presents few dramatic possibilities. Whatever other descriptive labels one might place on William H. Rehnquist, William J. Brennan Jr. or their peers, ''charismatic'' is not one that leaps to mind. 
But there is undoubtedly an epic quality to Douglas's life, which began in Yakima, Wash., and took him to Columbia and Yale law schools and New Deal Washington before he reached the High Court in 1939. He sat there until 1975. Five years later he was buried in Arlington National Cemetery where, to the strains of ''This Land is Your Land,'' he was placed 20 feet from Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr. Along the way Douglas wrote 1,300 opinions, caused continual controversy, married four times and climbed innumerable mountains. It was to those mountains - usually the Cascades, but also the Himalayas -that he retreated all his life for reflection and refreshment. The play's few props include not only the predictable robe and law books, but also a hiking staff and a Stetson.
As he said in his autobiography, those same mountains kept him from becoming a conventional corporate lawyer. When the Swaine of Cravath, Swaine & Moore offered the young Douglas $5,000 a year to practice there, he turned it down, convinced that such a job would sap him of his spirit. Even those who scaled the heights of Wall Street ''did not seem to have much left at 65,'' he wrote. ''If I walked their paths I'd never be able to climb another mountain.''
Mr. Scott, 56, approached Douglas from an unusual direction. Mr. Scott's background is not in law, but in history and English. He spent many years with the Rand Corporation, including a tour with Daniel Ellsberg in Vietnam, and now works for William F. Baker, president of Channel 13. The ''Douglas'' Mr. Scott is named for is Fairbanks, not William O. Mr. Scott began ''Mountain'' in 1985 after reading ''Go East, Young Man,'' the first volume of Douglas's autobiography. Then he read all of Douglas's opinions as well as his 30 books. He spoke with at least one of Douglas's wives and a few former law clerks. And he retraced some of Douglas's steps, beginning by walking the streets of Yakima.
Last October, Mr. Cariou took a similar trip - ''to see the country Douglas was so much in love with,'' he said. To get a better feel for his demeanor, voice and mannerisms, he watched a television interview Douglas gave to Eric Sevareid. From what had been only the most rudimentary knowledge of Douglas, Mr. Cariou came to admire what he saw as his vision, drive and singleness of purpose.
In a sense, it is appropriate that Douglas's lionizers are lay people. Among legal scholars, his reputation a decade after his death is mixed. However much they applaud his civil libertarian instincts, they fault him for shooting from the hip in his opinions and slighting legal theory, texts and precedents. G. Edward White, a professor of law and history at the University of Virginia Law School, has called Douglas ''the foremost anti-judge of his time.'' His point is that rugged individualism is better suited to mountaineering than judging, at least on a collegial institution like the Supreme Court.
Mr. Scott's play touches upon some of these issues, though sometimes only by omission. For all the opinions Douglas wrote, ''Mountain'' contains few references to them. John C. Vennema, the actor who portrays the various men in Douglas's career, is called upon to play Louis D. Brandeis (the Justice he replaced); Franklin D. Roosevelt (the man who appointed him); Gerald R. Ford (who tried to have him impeached and, eventually, appointed his replacement) and Richard M. Nixon (who once told Douglas he inspired his political career). ''I do believe that hearing that compliment was the most upsetting moment of my life,'' Douglas says in the play.
But there is next to nothing from Hugo Black or Felix Frankfurter or John Marshall Harlan, the men who served so long with him.
''America was the better for having Douglas on the Court, and I wish he were still there,'' Mr. Scott said. ''But he could be a very, very difficult man. I admire him, and in a way I love him. But I don't think I like him.''

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MOUNTAIN (PLAY); THE LAW PAGE (NYT)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); VIET NAM (50%); 

STATE: HIMALAYAS (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: YAKIMA, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CRAVATH SWAINE & MOORE LLP (84%); RAND CORP (60%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (90%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US)

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; THEATER LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); THEATER (89%); MOUNTAINS (89%); HIKING (78%); LAWYERS (77%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (77%); THEATER & DRAMA (75%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (72%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (72%); 

PERSON: DOUGLAS, WILLIAM O (1898-1980); SCOTT, DOUGLAS; MARGOLICK, DAVID LUCILLE LORTEL (56%); 



139 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 575 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

ECONOMY
 
Many experts see a leveling off in housing prices during the decade, potentially changing the way people spend, save and invest their money. [Page A1.]
 
Clothing sales helped most large American retailers increase their sales in March, and with a late Easter selling season ahead, results are likely to improve further in April. [D5.] 
 
Americans took out $3.4 billion more in consumer credit than they repaid in February, but the pace slowed because of slackening demand for car loans, the Government said. [D5.]
 
INTERNATIONAL
 
Japan pledged to take a series of measures intended to make it easier for foreigners to invest and do business in Japan. The steps range from cutting restrictions on large retail stores to altering certain tax policies. [A1.] In Tokyo, Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu pleaded for popular support of the changes his Government agreed to in the trade talks. [D6.]
 
The West German Government took its first legal steps toward monetary union for the two nations, but did not discuss the conversion rate. [A9.]
 
COMPANIES
 
The Defense Department has quietly proposed diverting $20 million of the $30 million intended for research on high-definition television. [D1.] A Pentagon advisory panel is preparing to recommend that the Defense Department increase its efforts to help American industry develop HDTV. [D13.]
 
A 30-year sentence for fraud at a failed savings institution was given to the former chairman of Vernon Savings and Loan. [D1.]
 
Mercury may be banned from household paints, amid growing evidence that the additive, used to retard the growth of bacteria and mildew, is emitted as a toxic vapor. [D1.]
 
In a rare bit of good Wall Street news, Salomon Brothers said its first-quarter earnings would be far higher than analysts and industry executives had expected. [D1.]
 
UAL's board met to consider a bid for United Airlines of about $200 a share, or $4.36 billion, by the airline's three unions, which would end up owning 75 percent of the company. [D2.]
 
Browning-Ferris is abandoning its efforts to turn around Cecos International, its struggling hazardous-waste subsidiary. [D4.]
 
Torchmark was barred from waging a proxy fight to gain a foothold on the board of American General. [D4.]
 
QVC Network terminated its planned sale of the C.O.M.B. mail-order business to Damark International. [D4.]
 
MARKETS
 
Stock prices were mostly lower as the Dow managed to gain 1.80 points, to end at 2721.17. [D8.]
 
Prices of Treasury securities dipped in sluggish trading on rumors that a Japanese institution was having problems. [D14.]
 
The dollar finished mixed in dull trading on world currency markets. [D15.]
 
Petroleum futures prices fell sharply amid perceptions that gasoline and crude oil supplies are outstripping demand. [D15.]
 
TODAY'S COLUMNS
 
Some investors may have received advance information about First Chicago that they could have used to sell the stock before the bank's loan problems were disclosed. Market Place. [D1.]
 
The sharp drop in the Tokyo stock market has provoked fears among the Japanese that their economic miracle is ending. Leonard Silk: Economic Scene. [D2.]
 
G.E. will release a commercial this weekend that celebrates its venture to produce light bulbs in Hungary. Randall Rothenberg: Advertising. [D7.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: AW (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (63%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (53%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (57%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: QVC INC (63%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (53%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENT (58%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (79%); REAL ESTATE (79%); HOME PRICES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); FUTURES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (77%); NONSTORE RETAILERS (77%); CONSUMER LENDING (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (74%); GASOLINE MARKETS (73%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (73%); CURRENCIES (73%); FUEL MARKETS (73%); MONETARY UNIONS (73%); EASTER SEASON (72%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (70%); TAX LAW (69%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (68%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (67%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (66%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (64%); EXECUTIVES (63%); 



140 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 575 words

HEADLINE: High-Detail TV Faces Fund Cuts

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

 BODY:
The Defense Department has quietly proposed diverting $20 million of the $30 million intended for research on high-definition television, a technology that has become a symbol in the debate over how the United States can best compete with the Japanese.
The department's Under Secretary for Acquisition, John A. Betti, told officials earlier this week at the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, which finances advanced research, that some of the money would instead be spent on a $4 million study on how to streamline the Defense Department acquisition process, said a Pentagon official who asked not to be identified.
Most of the rest of the money might be earmarked by the Bush Administration for foreign aid for Panama and Nicaragua, the official said. The official said that cuts were also being considered in other programs of the agency, known as Darpa. 
 
In Conflict With Report
The planned cut in money for HDTV research comes as an advisory panel to the Pentagon is preparing to recommend that the Defense Department vastly increase its efforts to help American industry develop high-definition television. The study warned that the United States could become dependent on foreign suppliers for the new television, whose fine-detailed pictures have a number of military applications. [Page D13] Talk of the potential cuts has created alarm among some members of Congress, who are urging the Pentagon to reverse its stand. Representative Mel Levine, Democrat of California, said any such cut would be ''outrageous and irresponsible.''
''The Department of Defense seems determined that the military is going to be 100 percent dependent on foreign sources for this tech,'' said Senator Albert Gore Jr., Democrat of Tennessee. ''It's dangerous for defense procurement and tragic for the future of this part of our domestic economy.''
Mr. Betti and Dr. Craig Fields, director of Darpa, did not return calls yesterday asking for comment. But a Pentagon spokesman said that Mr. Betti had not yet actually taken action to divert the money.
HDTV provides television images with finer detail than current systems and could be used in information displays on military aircraft, ships and other vehicles, in intelligence systems and in training and simulation devices.
But American computer and electronics executives have also pointed to HDTV as critical if the United States is to maintain its lead in some areas of electronics.
Darpa has financed advanced computer and electronics research, including work critical in the development of work stations, personal computers and chip-making equipment. But late last year reports circulated that the Bush Administration was planning deep cuts in Defense Department programs intended to bolster commercial research and development in the United States.
The budget director, Richard G. Darman, and Michael J. Boskin, chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, were widely reported to have opposed such programs on the ground that they represented a de facto ''industrial policy.'' These officials have opposed such governmental coordination of the economy.
The $20 million for HDTV research has been authorized but not yet been released by Congress because Darpa has not supplied a required report explaining the need for such spending. In February, Dr. Fields wrote Congress saying that he had been unable to obtain the cooperation of the Administration in preparing the report.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); PANAMA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN COMPUTER INNOVATORS (52%); DEFENSE ADVANCED RESEARCH PROJECTS AGENCY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEFENSE DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; HIGH-DEFINITION TELEVISION (HDTV); RESEARCH; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (92%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (89%); ELECTRONICS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); DEFENSE RESEARCH (78%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (73%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (73%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); EXECUTIVES (62%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (62%); ECONOMIC POLICY (60%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (55%); 

PERSON: MARKOFF, JOHN JOHN A BETTI (70%); CRAIG FIELDS (57%); 



141 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 2, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Lessons for Japan In Stock Plunge

BYLINE: By Leonard Silk

 BODY:
THE drop of almost 30 percent in the Tokyo stock market has provoked widespread fears among the Japanese that their economic miracle is ending.
Japanese economists began the year on a note of high optimism. The well-regarded Japan Center for Economic Research forecast that real output would grow by 4.9 percent in 1990, a bit more than in 1988. The average forecast of 45 other economic research centers, banks and brokerage houses called for 4.5 percent growth. Sumitomo Trust and Banking was highest at 5.2 percent; Mitsubishi Research Institute was lowest, at 3.6 percent. The famed Japanese consensus, in this area as in others, looked solid. 
But it was wrong. The Japanese economy is slowing down, and may be lucky to escape a recession this year. The drop in the stock market is likely to cause many Japanese companies to cut investment in new plant and equipment, and consumers may also choke up. At a conference in Washington this week, Satoshi Niibori, general manager of the Information and Research division of Mitsui & Company, said, ''People are frightened because they lost their paper profits.''
The effect of the falling stock market on corporate investment, however, is likely to be financial as well as psychological. Booming stock prices, built in large measure on soaring real estate prices, had given Japanese companies the collateral they needed for making huge bank loans to finance investments at home and abroad.
The profit outlook for Japanese companies is worsening, aggravated by the fall in the yen against the dollar. The Japanese Government is afraid to raise interest rates much higher to defend the yen, lest it cause a recession.
Japanese profits have also been hurt by the rise in world oil prices; again, the yen's fall hurts profits, because oil must be bought in costlier dollars.
While the drop in the yen makes Japanese exports cheaper, it causes other countries to step up pressure on Japan to curb its exports and open its own markets more widely to foreign goods. In its tense trade confrontation with the United States, Japan has finally blinked; it is now moving quickly to head off worsening relations. This week Japanese and American negotiators reached agreement to allow foreign producers to compete for satellite and other business in Japan potentially worth billions of dollars.
The Japanese are worried not only about the United States but also about being shut out of Europe, which it sees as the ''hot'' region of the future as a result of three exciting developments: the progress toward a single market in 1992 and beyond; the collapse of Communism, and the drive of East and West Germany toward unification. Theoretically, European integration and stronger growth should create greater opportunites for Japanese goods. But the Japanese fear that the European market may be tough to crack for products where there are strong European competitors. This is not a baseless worry, as demonstrated by the restrictions on Japanese autos in Europe: Of the 12 members of the European Community, five - France, Italy, Spain, Portugal and Britain - have quotas on cars imported directly from Japan. And some European countries want to extend those quotas to Japanese cars built in the United States, a move the United States is strongly resisting.
The Japanese are afraid that the Americans and Europeans will gang up on them. Perhaps belatedly, the Japanese may be coming to see that their own long-term interests would be best served by a liberal trading order, and they must be as open as they want others to be. A critical test will be not just in their bilateral negotiations with the United States but also in the support they give to the multilateral Uruguay Round negotiations to reduce barriers both to manufactured and farm goods and also to services and intellectual property, under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade.
The Japanese boom has clearly run into a snag. The stock market had climbed to levels out of touch with reality, and a painful readjustment is taking place; no one can be sure how long it will last, or how serious its consequences may be.
Though the economy is coming down to a slugggish rate of growth and could conceivably fall into recession, fears of the demise of the great Japanese economic expansion look premature. It was founded on hard work, high educational standards, high rates of savings and investment and a creative use of new technology.
When the stock market slide ends, those factors will still be in place, and Japan will have learned something of the global role it must play. A world of imbalances is an extremely risky one for Japan.

GRAPHIC: drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8031 (TSE) (91%); 3636 (TSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (91%); NAICS425120 WHOLESALE TRADE AGENTS & BROKERS (91%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); NAICS541690 OTHER SCIENTIFIC & TECHNICAL CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS541618 OTHER MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS541519 OTHER COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES (57%); SIC8748 BUSINESS CONSULTING SERVICES, NEC (57%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6091 NONDEPOSIT TRUST FACILITIES (57%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: MITSUI & CO LTD (91%); MITSUBISHI RESEARCH INSTITUTE INC (57%); SUMITOMO MITSUI TRUST BANK LTD (57%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RECESSION (89%); JAPANESE YEN (88%); CURRENCIES (86%); EXPORT TRADE (85%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (77%); HOME PRICES (76%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (76%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 



142 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 4, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 375 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS PEOPLE;
Adviser to Selectronics Is Chosen Its President

BYLINE: By DANIEL F. CUFF

 BODY:
Selectronics Inc., a developer and manufacturer of handheld electronic reference products, has named James Finke, a longtime executive in the electronics industry, as its president and chief operating officer.
Mr. Finke, 62, will be joining Michael L. Weiner, chairman and chief executive, who is relinquishing the president's title.
Mr. Finke has been serving as an outside consultant for Selectronics and has been building a European distribution network for the company. He founded his own consulting firm called Interconsult in 1982 in North Hampton, N.H. ''I've had dozens of offers to join companies, but none were as promising as Selectronics,'' he said. 
The company recently merged with Microlytics, an affiliate of the Xerox Corporation, and Xerox now owns a third of Selectronics.
The company's annual sales are in the range of $30 million to $35 million, Mr. Finke said, and are expected to grow substantially.
The company's products include an electronic Bible, licensed from Harper & Row, and an electronic encyclopedia, licensed from Random House.
''In the last three months I've spent more time reading the Bible than in the last 30 years,'' Mr. Finke said. The company is optimistic about prosepcts for selling the electronic Bible to scholars and to ministers who want to find references quickly in sermon preparation.
Mr. Weiner was a Xerox employee when he founded Microlytics in 1985 with Xerox's help. Selectronics licensed software from Microlytics, which eventually purchased a third of Selectronics. Mr. Weiner then became president of Selectronics, as well as of Microlytics. The two companies merged in January.
Mr. Weiner said the company, based in Pittsford, N.Y., near Rochester, had the potential to grow to several hundred million dollars in annual sales relatively quickly. Its best-selling products are its Word Finder series and its multi-language translators, licensed from Berlitz.
Mr. Finke, the new president, was president of Commodore International Ltd., the computer maker, until 1982. He has also been vice president of European operationts for Data General. He holds a bachelor's degree in physics from Williams College, a master's degree in economics from Oxford and a law degree from Harvard.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS PEOPLE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: XRX (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (93%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS333244 PRINTING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (64%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: ROCHESTER, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MICROLYTICS INC (93%); XEROX CORP (84%); COMMODORE INTERNATIONAL LTD (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: SELECTRONICS INC

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION ELECTRONICS (90%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (90%); PHOTOCOPIER MFG (78%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); COMPUTER MAKERS (73%); SALES & SELLING (68%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (65%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (64%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (52%); 

PERSON: CUFF, DANIEL F; FINKE, JAMES; WEINER, MICHAEL L ANN LIVERMORE (86%); 



143 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 5, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 270 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Credit Rise Slows a Bit

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 5

 BODY:
Americans took out $3.4 billion more in consumer credit than they repaid in February, but the pace slowed because of slackening demand for car loans, the Government said today.
The Federal Reserve said consumer credit rose at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 5.7 percent, down from January's revised 6.4 percent pace. The January rate had initially been reported at 5.9 percent.
Consumer credit, which includes all consumer loans except mortgages, was up by 7.3 percent in December.
Automobile loans advanced in February to a seasonally adjusted $889 million. That represented an annual rate of 3.7 percent, less than half the 8.4 percent jump in January when sales incentives were reinstated. The incentives continued in February, but consumers failed to respond favorably.
Without incentives, automobile loans fell by four-tenths of 1 percent in December.
 
Credit Card Debt Up
Credit card debt rose by $485 million, or by 2.9 percent at an annual rate, slightly faster than January's 1.8 percent gain but much slower than the 23.7 percent rate during the holiday shopping period in December.
Loans from banks and credit unions that are not secured by real estate were up by 12.1 percent, to an increase of $2.04 billion, after gains of 9 percent in January and 3 percent in December.
Borrowing for mobile homes continued its recent downward trend, off by $2 million, or by a tenth of 1 percent. With the exception of a 2.8 percent gain in September, mobile home credit has fallen each month since February 1989.
The various changes left total consumer debt at the end of February at $723.7 billion.

GRAPHIC: graph of consumer borrowing (Source: Federal Reserve Board)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (78%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM

SUBJECT: CREDIT; CONSUMER CREDIT CONSUMER LENDING (92%); CONSUMER CREDIT (92%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); TRENDS (77%); CREDIT UNIONS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (71%); MOBILE HOMES (65%); 



144 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 6, Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 526 words

HEADLINE: Kaifu Praises Trade Deal But Sees Some Difficulties

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Friday, April 6

 BODY:
Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu pleaded today for popular support of the changes his Government agreed to in trade talks with the United States, saying that they would eventually benefit Japanese consumers. But he acknowledged that the economic shifts would be ''painful'' and that he faced a potentially tough political battle to put the measures into effect.
In his generally vague comments at an early morning news conference here, Mr. Kaifu, whose political future may rest on his ability to muster support for the changes, was least clear on how the measures would be put into effect, perhaps the most important issue to arise from the trade talks. 
He also insisted that Japan would make no more concessions but woud only clarify some details. The new measures were listed in an interim report and talks on many of the issues are scheduled to continue.
 
Oversight Body Considered
When a reporter asked if a special body would be formed to oversee the plan - which includes a commitment for greater Government spending on roads, sewage plants and other projects; an easing of a law that tightly restricts the opening of large retail stores, and a toughening in enforcement of Japan's antitrust laws - Mr. Kaifu said that the step would be considered later.
This question is considered particularly important because most of the changes Japan's trade negotiators agreed to would require not just changes in Japanese law, but cooperation by the Government bureaucracy, which has great leeway in how it enforces and implements policies. The trade talks had hit an impasse earlier this year, in part, analysts in Japan and the United States had said, because the Japanese bureaucracy was not willing to make further concessions without heavy prodding from political leaders.
Mr. Kaifu also conceded in the news conference that although his negotiators managed to water down most of the American demands, he was likely to face trouble in getting the measures through Japan's Parliament.
 
Political Opposition
Currently, the powerful lower house is controlled by Mr. Kaifu's ruling Liberal Democratic Party. But the upper house is controlled by the opposition, which has been bitterly opposing a number of important domestic issues and is expected to challenge Mr. Kaifu on the trade issue.
''The Diet situation is very difficult,'' Mr. Kaifu said in a statement that reflected the reality that the trade concessions have now entered Japan's thorny domestic political arena.
In general, Mr. Kaifu's cautious remarks sought to put the best gloss on the agreement by saying that it only reinforced measures that his Administration was already taking to improve situations for Japan's consumers, who pay some of the highest prices in the world and enjoy a standard of living that is modest relative to the wealth amassed by Japanese corporations in the last decade.
''People in Japan have not been feeling our country's prosperity,'' he said. ''These issurs are related to the points brought up in the S.I.T. talks,'' referring to the Structural Impediment Talks, the formal name of the effort to deal with broad-based obstacles to trade.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); POLITICS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (77%); RETAILERS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (52%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (52%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (51%); 

PERSON: KAIFU, TOSHIKI (PRIME MIN); STERNGOLD, JAMES KAIFU TOSHIKI (59%); 



145 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 7, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 647 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
G.E. Shows Bright Side of East Europe

BYLINE: By Randall Rothenberg

 BODY:
AMERICAN advertising's fickle relationship with Eastern Europe will take another turn toward sweetness - and most definitely light - this weekend with the release of a General Electric Company commercial that celebrates G.E.'s venture to produce light bulbs in Hungary.
The 30-second spot, which was partly staged, was created by BBDO New York and filmed in Budapest by Joe Pytka, the commercial director. It is filled with symbols of liberation, some universal, like whirling dancers, and some very American, like an office meeting. Not surprisingly, the spot is bathed in light - a metaphor for freedom and, not incidentally, a G.E. product. 
Five years ago, American advertisers routinely ridiculed the cultural and economic poverty of Communism. The ''Russian Fashion Show,'' a commercial for the Wendy's hamburger chain, was a parody of the Paris couture, with beefy babushkas in identical gray sack suits substituting for slender models.
But last year, as the Soviet Union's policies of political openness began to affect the nation's allies, American companies started to flirt with advertising images of the East bloc that were by turns heroic, romantic and familial. BBDO has specialized in these ads; it has done two for Pepsi-Cola, one promoting Soviet-American friendship and another underscoring the notion that Russians are just like Americans.
BBDO's G.E. commercial, which is to make its debut Sunday morning on several public affairs programs, represents a new wave of pro-Eastern advertising, filmed on location and serving as a witness to the opening of Eastern Europe. It is the second quasi documentary to promote a venture by an American company in the East bloc. Several weeks ago, the McDonald's Corporation released an advertisement about the opening of the company's first restaurant in Moscow.
Celebration is the theme of G.E.'s new commercial, entitled ''Hungarian Rhapsody.'' ''The last 20 years, there've been so many down moves in the world,'' said Ted Sann, executive creative director of BBDO New York, ''this is a chance to reverse it.''
The commercial's goal, however, has a harder edge. As explained by Barbara J. Parsky, G.E.'s manager of corporate advertising, the spot is aimed primarily at the financial community, to showcase G.E.'s aggressive global expansion. The campaign illustrates G.E.'s $150 million acquisition in November of half of the Tungsram Company Ltd., Hungary's largest light-bulb maker.
The spot opens in fading sunlight, as the camera sweeps over the Danube River separating Buda and Pest, the Hungarian capital's two principal districts. As the strains of a ''Hungarian Rhapsody'' by Liszt gradually build, a young man says in accented English: ''Freedom's all that matters. Freedom is everything.''
As the sun sinks, the camera zips between scenes of people lighting candles and smiling. ''There's a new light shining over Eastern Europe,'' says the announcer, who proceeds to explain briefly the G.E.-Tungsram arrangement.
More Hungarians are seen: working in their offices, meeting in the Tungsram factory, congregating in groups, marching over a bridge. Their faces glow. ''Everything is changing,'' one woman says. Another adds, ''I'm so happy.'' The candles reappear, but they are increasingly interspersed with electric lights switching on, illuminating museums, monuments, a ballet and a waltz party.
The camera freezes on a little girl lighting one last candle as the company's 11-year-old corporate slogan appears on screen: ''G.E. We bring good things to life.''
The company could not bring every good thing to light. Its advertising agency had hoped to film the lighting of the Hungarian Parliament. But the building is lighted only when Parliament is in session.
''They would have had to vote on it,'' said Al Merrin, the BBDO senior creative director for the project. ''We couldn't wait.''

GRAPHIC: photo: A scene from BBDO New York's 30-second commercial for G.E.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (91%); GEC (LSE) (91%); GE (SWX) (91%); GE (NYSE) (91%); MCD (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (83%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (83%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (57%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (94%); HUNGARY (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); EASTERN EUROPE (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (87%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: BUDAPEST, HUNGARY (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (91%); MCDONALD'S CORP (83%); BBDO NEW YORK (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: BBDO WORLDWIDE; GENERAL ELECTRIC CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HUNGARY

SUBJECT: ADVERTISING; LIGHTING; AD METHOD MOVIE FILMING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); FAST FOOD (88%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); FASHION SHOWS (74%); FASHION & APPAREL (74%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (54%); 

PERSON: PYTKA, JOE; ROTHENBERG, RANDALL



146 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 14, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 970 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasury Prices Dip in Slow Day

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities dipped in sluggish trading yesterday. Dealers sold securities after a rumor that swept the credit markets on Wednesday - that a major Japanese institution would disclose serious liquidity problems when trading began in Tokyo - proved to be unfounded.
The Japanese rumor had touched off speculative buying that led to a rally in Treasury securities on Wednesday. But the difficulties in Japan never materialized. 
''Nobody went bankrupt Wednesday night,'' one government-securities trader said. ''The rumor that caused the rally just isn't there.''
 
Focus on Employment Data
When the rumor dispelled, traders began to focus on the forthcoming release of March employment data. In advance of the report, which is due this morning from the Labor Department, most Wall Street economists were projecting an increase of 150,000 in nonfarm employment. Dealers said that if the number exceeded 200,000, it would not be well received in the fixed-income markets and could cause the Federal Reserve Board to tighten monetary policy.
''The employment number is very important,'' another bond trader said. ''With prices where they are, it suggests the market is expecting a good number. If we get a negative surprise, it will probably lead to a sell-off, and could make the Fed push the funds rate up.''
A number of analysts took issue with that assessment.
''At this point in time, it is hard to think of a number that in and of itself would dislodge the Fed from its current policy stance,'' said David M. Jones, senior vice president and chief economist at Aubrey G. Lanston & Company, a primary dealer in Government securities. ''The employment numbers were distorted by abnormally warm weather in January and February, and I would think the Fed would at least want to see April data before they contemplate any sort of move. And they won't get those numbers until May.''
Nonfarm employment rose by 332,000 in January and 372,000 in February.
 
Steady Funds Rate
The overnight Federal funds rate, the money market rate the central bank most directly controls, has remained at 8 1/4 percent since the middle of December.
Aside from last-minute positioning before the release of the employment figures, dealers said that little other business was transacted yesterday.
By late in the day, the Treasury's 8 1/2 percent bonds of 2020 were offered at a price of 99 27/32, down 5/32, to yield 8.51 percent. At the end of Wednesday's strong rally, the bellwether issue was offered at a price to yield 8.50 percent.
Note issues also posted modest price declines. In late trading, the 8 1/2 percent 10-year notes were offered at 99 21/32, down 5/32, to yield 8.55 percent. And the 8 1/2 percent two-year notes were offered at 99 31/32, down 1/32, to yield 8.51 percent.
Bids at yesterday's auction of one-year Treasury bills produced an average discount rate of 7.72 percent, down from an average rate of 7.76 percent at the last one-year bill auction on March 8.
In the secondary market for Treasury bills, three-month bill rates were unchanged late yesterday, at an offered rate of 7.73 percent. Six-month bill rates rose by 3 basis points, or hundredths of a point, to a late offered rate of 7.73 percent.
 
Fixed-Income Report
In other developments, a quarterly report released yesterday from Salomon Brothers showed that the sharp rise in interest rates during the last three months did some financial damage to investors in fixed-income securities.
For the first time in more than two years, all asset classes tracked in the firm's Broad Investment-Grade Bond Index posted negative quarterly returns. The Treasury market turned in the weakest performance of the major sectors tracked by Salomon, returning a negative 1.29 percent for the first quarter.
New-issue activity in the investment-grade corporate bond market was strong again yesterday, as several deals were priced.
Among the issues offered was a $500 million sale of 40-year debentures for Hydro-Quebec. The 9 3/8 percent issue, which matures April 15, 2030, was priced at 99.873, to yield 9.837 percent, 68 basis points higher than the prevailing yield on the Treasury's 8 1/2 percent bonds of 2020 at the time of pricing.
Merrill Lynch Capital Markets acted as lead manager for the underwriting, which is rated AA-3 by Moody's Investors Service and AA-by the Standard & Poor's Corporation.
 
New York Serial Bonds
Activity in the tax-exempt municipal bond market was highlighted by the negotiated sale of $166 million worth of serial and term bonds for New York's Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority.
Maturities on the serial bonds are from 1991 to 2005, with yields ranging from 6 percent to 7.25 percent.
The term bonds include a 7 3/8 percent issue maturing in 2016 that was priced to yield 7.48 percent, and a 6 percent issue maturing in 2020 that was priced to yield 7.34 percent.
Dillon, Read & Company acted as lead manager for the transaction, which is rated AA by Moody's. An A+ rating from Standard & Poor's is expected.
Elsewhere, the Federal Reserve Board reported yesterday that all three measures of the nation's money supply rose in the week ended March 26. The report had no impact on prices in the credit markets.
Following are the results of yesterday's auction of one-year Treasury bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Average Price	92.194	Discounted Rate	7.72%	Coupon Yield	8.32%	High Price	92.214	Discounted Rate	7.70%	Coupon Yield	8.30%	Low Price	92.184	Discounted Rate	7.73%	Coupon Yield	8.33%	Accepted at low price	63%	Total applied for	$25,184,520	Accepted	$9,766,470	N.Y. applied for	$22,040,650	N.Y. accepted	$8,621,870	Noncompetitive	$1,110,270	
 
The one-year bills mature April 11, 1991.

GRAPHIC: graphs: tax-exempt yields (Source: The Bond Buyer); 1-year treasury bills

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (66%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: AUBREY G LANSTON & CO INC (66%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; MONEY SUPPLY (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BONDS (90%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (89%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (87%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); MONEY SUPPLY (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); MONETARY POLICY (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (70%); INTEREST RATES (65%); EXECUTIVES (63%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N



147 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 15, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES/OPTIONS;
Petroleum Prices Decline On Worry About a Surplus

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Petroleum futures prices fell sharply yesterday, for the third straight day, on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The declines have come amid perceptions that supplies of gasoline and crude oil are outstripping demand.
On other commodity markets, soybeans surged and grains were mixed; copper futures fell; precious metals retreated, and livestock and meat futures were mostly higher. 
West Texas Intermediate crude oil futures settled 26 cents to 43 cents lower, with the contract for delivery in May at $19.43 a barrel; heating oil was 0.71 cent to 1.16 cents lower, with the May contract at 53.31 cents a gallon; unleaded gasoline was 1.05 cents to 1.71 cents lower, with May delivery at 63.29 cents a gallon.
Analysts said there was no change in supply-and-demand factors yesterday to account for the selloff. But traders have turned increasingly pessimistic amid signs of rising crude oil production and growing stockpiles of gasoline.
Indications of apparently strong demand for gasoline had helped to support the petroleum markets last month. Some analysts now say the market misinterpreted the signals.
''It appears to me that some of the strong demand of the past couple of weeks was simply some inventory building,'' said Jim Ritterbusch, energy analyst with Paine Webber Inc. in Chicago.
Many refineries are gearing up to increase gasoline production for the summer, when more miles are driven. As a result, Mr. Ritterbusch said, ''we could be flooding the market with gasoline a month or two down the road.''
He said crude oil production by members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries was approaching an eight-year high, one factor that caused crude oil for near-term delivery to slip below $20 a barrel on Wednesday. Most market experts foresee steady or falling crude oil prices through the spring.
Soybean futures surged near the close of trading on the Chicago Board of Trade amid expectations for new export sales. Soybean exports from Brazil to Europe have been slowed by confusion over economic reforms in Brazil, prompting speculation that importers may turn to the United States for supplies.
Copper futures extended their losses on the Commodity Exchange in New York, despite reports from Peru that indicated a 25-day strike against the Southern Peru Copper Corporation had not been settled.
News reports on Wednesday said the strike was over, but those accounts were later denied by the Government and the company, which said it was presenting a proposal to workers.
Copper futures finished 1.55 cents lower to 0.05 cent higher, with the April contract at $1.2195 a pound.
Gold and silver futures fell on the Commodity Exchange after two days of gains. Gold settled $2.20 to $2.50 lower, with April at $374.80 an ounce; silver was 1.9 cents to 2.2 cents lower, with April at $5.141 an ounce.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (84%); SCCO (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (84%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (84%); SOUTHERN COPPER CORP (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES FUTURES (95%); GASOLINE (93%); OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (93%); COMMODITIES TRADING (91%); ENERGY MARKETS (91%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); FUEL MARKETS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (90%); GRAIN MARKETS (90%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (90%); SILVER MARKETS (89%); COPPER INDUSTRY (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); COPPER MARKETS (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); NUT & LEGUME EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (86%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (79%); OIL EXTRACTION (79%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (79%); HEATING OIL (79%); METALS MARKETS (78%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (78%); EXPORT PRICES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BASE METALS MARKETS (78%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); STRIKES (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); INVENTORIES (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (66%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (55%); 

PERSON: JIM RITTERBUSCH (64%); 



148 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 1990

SECTION: Section D; Page 15, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 290 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Mixed in Light Day; Gold, Up Abroad, Off in U.S.

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar finished mixed yesterday in dull trading on world currency markets.
Gold prices fell in the United States after rising overseas. On the Commodity Exchange in New York, gold bullion for current delivery settled at $374.80 a troy ounce, down $2.30 from late Wednesday. The Republic National Bank of New York quoted gold at $375 an ounce, down $2.75.
The dollar's biggest move came against the Japanese yen. The dollar lost one yen against the Japanese currency in Asian trading and fell further as trading shifted to Europe and later to the United States.
Dealers stressed that trading was quiet over all. Investors remained on the sidelines, awaiting the weekend meeting of the financial officials of the Group of Seven and today's release of United States unemployment figures for March.
Finance officials from the United States, Japan, West Germany, Britain, France, Italy and Canada were planning to meet in Paris to review international exchange rates.
''There was a feeling earlier in the week that there would be no new policy initiatives , but now the market's getting a little more nervous,'' said Ron Holzer, a vice president at Harris Trust and Savings Bank in Chicago.
Dealers said they had expected the dollar's decline against the yen after speculation that monetary authorities might take action to prop up the sagging Japanese currency.
In Tokyo, the dollar closed at 157.90 yen, down 1 yen from Wednesday. Later in London, the dollar was quoted lower at 157.74 yen. In New York, the dollar closed at 157.50 yen, down from 158.88 yen on Wednesday.
In London, the British pound rose to $1.6427, from $1.6416 late Wednesday. In New York, one pound cost $1.6420, more expensive than Wednesday's $1.6406.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (72%); HSB (PAR) (72%); HBC (NYSE) (72%); 0005 (HKSE) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (82%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (82%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (82%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (93%); FRANCE (87%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GERMANY (56%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (69%); TOKYO, JAPAN (56%); PARIS, FRANCE (54%); 

COMPANY: BMO HARRIS BANK NA (82%); HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (72%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (72%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; GOLD; PRICES CURRENCIES (95%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); BRITISH POUND (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (68%); 



149 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 6, 1990

SECTION: Section A; Page 24, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: Condominium Conversions;
New Jersey Developer Offers a Lease-Purchase Plan

BYLINE: By JERRY CHESLOW

 BODY:
The soft New Jersey real estate market has led the sponsors of a condominium conversion to offer potential buyers a lease-purchase program, which state officials say might set a trend. Although many publicly financed projects offer similar programs, the Commons at Princeton Landing in Plainsboro Township is apparently the first privately financed condominium development in the state to offer such terms.
''Real estate experts have been advising developers to do this,'' said Stewart P. Palilonis, manager of the Planned Real Estate Development Office of the New Jersey Department of Community Affairs, where the terms of sale on all condominium developments must be registered. ''But that's the only such offer I know of. I think that if the market doesn't improve soon, we'll see many more offers of this type.'' 
The 12-year-old development contains units ranging from one-bedroom apartments to four-bedroom town houses. The units are sold in either as-is or renovated condition. As-is units range in price from $85,000, for a one-bedroom apartment, to $119,000, for a four-bedroom, one-and-a-half-bath town house. Renovated units sell for $8,000 to $10,000 more.
Under the offer, people buying as-is units may apply up to four months' rent to the purchase price; buyers of renovated units may apply up to six months' rent to the purchase.
The sponsor, the Value Group, Clifton, N.J., acknowledged that it was making the offer because of sluggish sales. In the last three years, since Value began marketing the condominiums, only 20 of the 120 units have been sold, most of them to insiders.
''We looked at the market,'' explained Mary Boorman, director of sales and marketing for the Value Group, ''and came to the conclusion that people are not buying because they just can't come up with the down payment. A straight discount would not help them buy our units, so we are dealing with the root of the problem.''
Since the offer was made, according to Ann Marie Ladis, a sales representative for the Commons, 18 prospective home buyers have begun the process of lease-purchase. None of the sales have been completed yet.
The development is on Plainsboro's Sayre Drive just off Route 1. Its three-story apartment buildings and two-story town houses are set on 11 acres. Owners and tenants share a swimming pool, tennis courts and a clubhouse with the adjoining Princeton Landing development, where the Value Group is building 412 town houses and single-family houses.
For as-is units in the Commons, the tenant must put down one month's security plus one month's rent and must pass a normal renter's credit check. He or she may decide within a year whether to buy at the market rate for the unit at the time that the option is exercised. Those moving in to renovated units must commit to buy and apply for mortgages when the initial contracts are signed.
They must also sign a promissory note for 5 percent of the purchase price and pay one month's rent as a binder, which is refundable when the purchase option is exercised. According to Mrs. Boorman, the note and binder protect the company's investment to fix up such apartments. Since the developer has arranged 95 percent financing, the first six months' rent generally covers most of the down payment.
The development was built in 1978 as economy housing. The Value Group purchased the property from the builder, Harold Sarshik, in 1986. So far, it has invested more than $1 million in renovations. These include new windows and doors in the common areas and new stucco facades with cedar trim to replace the original clapboard.
The as-is apartments come freshly painted and cleaned, but have 12-year old appliances; the renovated units have new kitchen cabinets, appliances, carpets and baths.
Mrs. Boorman said that the company's target markets include first-time home buyers and executives who are relocating to the Route 1 corridor, where many office employers have settled in recent years.
Mr. Palilonis of the state's development office said that lease-buy transactions seemed to work well for everyone involved.
''The developer sells units that he is stuck with,'' he said. ''And even if he doesn't make a sale up front, he gets the cash flow to cover the carrying costs of the unit. The buyer, who has income but no equity for a down payment, can buy,'' he continued. ''And, where there is no binder agreement, the renter can even try out the neighborhood before deciding whether to buy.''
Mr. Palilonis said he would advise buyers to consider the purchase carefully. ''If he is buying the unit to live in, that's fine,'' he said. ''If he hopes to make a quick profit, forget it. If the developer can't sell the units without offering special incentives, the buyer will have no resale potential until the market picks up.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT & INVESTMENT CO (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PLAINSBORO TOWNSHIP (NJ)

SUBJECT: HOUSING; CONDOMINIUMS CONDOMINIUMS (94%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (93%); REAL ESTATE (92%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (92%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (90%); TRENDS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); SALES MANAGEMENT (75%); TENNIS (73%); SPORTS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (62%); 

PERSON: CHESLOW, JERRY MARY BOORMAN (64%); STEWART P PALILONIS (64%); 



150 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 905 words

HEADLINE: New Estimate on Savings Bailout Says Cost Could Be $500 Billion

BYLINE: By MICHAEL QUINT, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 6

 BODY:
The cost of the Government's savings and loan bailout could grow to as much as $500 billion, roughly twice as high as previous official estimates, the head of the General Accounting Office said today.
In testimony before the Senate Banking Committee, the agency's chief, Charles A. Bowsher, said the cost of the bailout could range from $325 billion to $500 billion over three decades, depending on the outlook for the economy and the trend of real estate values. Many of the troubled savings institutions invested heavily in real estate developments.
The estimates by Mr. Bowsher, the Comptroller General, were far higher than the previous official estimates. Last July, the Administration's Office of Management and Budget put the cost at $257 billion. 
The rescue, Mr. Bowsher said, will be ''bigger than all the bailouts of New York City, Chrysler, and Lockheed put together.''
 
The Taxpayers Will Pay
Most of the costs will be paid by the taxpayers. The Administration has estimated that more than $100 billion can be obtained from selling off assets from the hundreds of failed institutions the Government has seized in recent months and from other sources, like the Federal insurance premiums paid by the savings industry. But the rest of the bill must be paid by the Treasury, though the payment could be spread over as much as 33 years.
The rising cost of the bailout will add to the Federal Government's chronic budget deficit, which makes the United States dependent on foreign capital and slows economic growth.
''It looks as if we have spent the peace dividend,'' said Senator Larry Pressler, Republican of South Dakota. He referred to the savings in military spending that many legislators expect as the United States and the Soviet Union agree to cuts in armaments.
Mr. Bowsher said that in the period since Congress authorized the bailout last year the cost estimate had increased because the number of troubled institutions had risen, the interest rates on bonds to finance the bailout had gone up and real estate values had fallen. Declining real estate prices in many parts of the country not only add to the problems of the savings industry, but also decrease the amount of money the Government takes in when it sells the real estate assets of seized institutions, he said.
The $325 billion estimate, Mr. Bowsher said, assumes a fairly strong economy and modest interest costs. If interest rates rise, the cost could easily reach $400 billion, he added. An economic recession, he said, could mean that ''a cost of a half a trillion dollars is possible, unfortunately.''
He warned that new legislation would be needed because the money authorized by Congress last year will not be enough.
Still, analysts said the Resolution Trust Corporation, the agency created last year to handle the bailout, apparently does not face any immediate cash shortage. It has $18.8 billion and the authority to issue $20 billion in bonds, so there should be no need for legislation to provide additional money until the middle of 1991, one Congressional analyst said.
Although the cost of the rescue is spread over more than 30 years, the heaviest burden on the Treasury comes in the early years when money is needed to close institutions and pay depositors.
 
Another Estimate Is Expected
L. William Seidman, chairman of the Resolution Trust Corporation, told Congress last month that his staff was preparing new estimates on the bailout's cost. Experts within the agency, who asked not to be identified, said the expectation was that the figure would be far higher than the $325 billion minimum estimated by Mr. Bowsher.
Stephen Katsanos, a spokesman for the agency, said trends within the savings industry indicate that more than 600 institutions will ultimately have to be bailed out. Mr. Bowsher's office, which is an investigative arm of Congress, assumed in its most optimistic estimate that 560 savings and loans would be involved. At present, 351 institutions are controlled by the Government.
Private experts have been even more pessimistic. Bert Ely, a consultant based in Alexandria, Va., estimates that the final tally of institutions needing help will be 700 to 900.
The bailout comes after the collapse of the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation, which guaranteed deposits and had accumulated losses of $87 billion when it was closed last year and was replaced by the Savings Association Insurance Fund. The Resolution Trust Corporation handles the actual bailout operation, selling off the assets of insolvent institutions to recover as much money as possible.
 
Speculative Investments
The savings industry crisis began after the regulation of savings and loans was eased in the mid-1980's. Many institutions strayed far from their traditional business of collecting consumer deposits and making home mortgage loans. The most aggressive institutions put millions of dollars into speculative investments ranging from real estate developments to ''junk bonds.'' When these markets dropped, the institutions became insolvent.
Representative Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of Brooklyn and a member of the House Banking Committee, warned that the growing cost of the bailout promised more trouble for the Federal budget. ''An increasing part of the rescue funds will come from the Government's general revenues, because the other sources have already been used up,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: Graph of civilian unemployment from March '89 to March '90. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SAVINGS ASSOCIATION (56%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (91%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (91%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (56%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE COMMITTEE ON BANKING; GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE (GAO)

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS; FEDERAL AID (US) BAILOUTS (92%); SAVINGS & LOANS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); TRENDS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (74%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (71%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (71%); DEFENSE SPENDING (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); INTEREST RATES (66%); MILITARY WEAPONS (63%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (51%); 

PERSON: BOWSHER, CHARLES A; QUINT, MICHAEL CHARLES A BOWSHER (91%); 



151 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: UPHEAVAL IN THE EAST;
Outline of a New Europe

BYLINE: By R.W. APPLE Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 6

 BODY:
The talks between the Soviet Union and the United States this week appear to have opened the door at least part of the way for what Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d calls a ''new architecture'' for Europe.
By dropping his nation's insistence that a unified Germany would have to be neutral, Foreign Minister Eduard A. Shevardnadze made a major concession to the West. That is so even though the Soviet Union remains opposed to the American position calling for membership of a unified Germany in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and says it will cling to that view.
Through the mist generated by terms formulated in 40 years of cold war and now increasingly irrelevant, there is the bare outline of what Mr. Shevardnadze, at a news conference tonight, called ''the Greater Europe.'' 
No one knows yet what form it will take, but senior officials in governments all over Europe are beginning to talk of a continent-wide security system or systems that would render NATO superfluous, at least in anything like its present form. NATO's counterpart in the East, the Warsaw Pact, has already lost most of its significance.
At the center of the new Europe -geographically, politically and economically - would have to be a united Germany, which is why the character of that superstate is so important. And it is why the Soviet concession today mattered, even though it still left all sorts of questions open.
 
Why Allies Oppose Neutrality
The United States and the Allies would never have agreed to a neutral Germany because they believe, and the record of the years after World War I tends to confirm, that a Germany lacking a firm anchor to the rest of Europe would be unstable.
Leaving aside arms negotiations, which appear from the accounts of participants in all-night sessions to have gone considerably less well than hoped, the United States and the Soviet Union had something important to show for their efforts here.
President Bush appears to have agreed, implictly of course, to swallow as hard as he can as long as he can if confronted with further evidence of Soviet intimidation of Lithuania. Marlin Fitzwater, the White House spokesman, said he was not going to comment on individual incidents in Vilnius any more, which must have pleased Moscow.
And Mr. Baker came very close to endorsing the Kremlin's plan for a referendum and a considerable delay in independence.
President Mikhail S. Gorbachev also came away with an announcement of dates for a summit conference in about seven weeks. But he must have had to give fairly firm and fairly convincing assurances that he would stop short of using his tanks to blast an independence-minded Lithuanian state out of existence.
 
Pressure for Triumphant Summit
There are limitations, of course, on how far Mr. Bush can go. A Soviet invasion would surely mean a cancellation of the summit meeting, which would be a terrible blow to Mr. Gorbachev, a man who needs to keep showing progress abroad to insulate himself in part from his terrible difficulties at home.
And even without that, time is working against Mr. Bush. If intimidation and harassment continue in Lithuania, opinion in Congress and the country, which has stayed with him, if only narrowly, is likely to start shifting.
That, in turn, puts pressure on both sides to work out their major remaining disagreements and stage a triumphant summit, because such an event, drenched in the hyperbole and media attention that would inevitably follow, would be the most effective riposte for Mr. Bush to those who suggest that good relations with Mr. Gorbachev are not worth deferring the legitimate aspirations of the Lithuanians.
Indeed, some analysts suggested tonight that more must have been worked out between the two sides than they have admitted. They would not have dared commit themselves so firmly to a summit conference, those analysts reasoned, unless they were reasonably certain that the momentum of warmer relations could be maintained.
 
Europe's New Security Structure
Whether that is true or not, there was a remarkable symmetry in the way several leading figures talked about the future of Europe today.
Mr. Shevardnadze, for his part, spoke only in the vaguest terms, and American officials said they came away from sessions with him persuaded that the Soviet Union does not have a clear policy yet.
But what he said at his news conference centered on the notion that current military and political alliances could be disbanded, and that it was time for the Europeans, the Soviets and the North Americans ''to engage in some serious work to shape all-European security structures.''
Elsewhere in Washington, Hans-Dietrich Genscher, the West German Foreign Minister, said that the 35-nation Conference on Security and Cooperation planned for November ''opens upon the possibility of designing perspectives for a new peaceful order in all of Europe.'' Even before that, he called for a renunciation of nuclear, biological or chemical weapons by both Germanys - which would presumably produce a nation armed only with conventional weapons at the heart of Europe.
 
Proposal for Security Pane
In Prague, Foreign Minister Jiri Dienstbier called for the creation of a European Security Commission that would operate alongside the Warsaw Pact and NATO, but independently of them, until they withered away from disuse.
Everyone, it would seem, is sketching like mad on the backs of envelopes. The sketches don't resemble each other very much yet, and some countries, including the United States, are reluctant to abandon the old buildings just yet. But more and more people are coming to see the need for new plans.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (94%); LITHUANIA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

STATE: ATLANTIC OCEAN (58%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EUROPE; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); EAST GERMANY; WEST GERMANY

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; GERMANY, REUNIFICATION OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); WORLD WAR I (69%); REFERENDUMS (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (53%); 



152 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1330 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

International 3-7
 
Differences over German unification have been significantly narrowed by the United States and the Soviet Union. But talks between the two nations apparently failed to make much progress on major arms control issues. Page 1
 
News analysis: High-level talks between the Soviet Union and the United States this week appear to have opened the door at least part of the way for what Secretary of State Baker calls a ''new architecture'' for Europe. 1
 
The Soviet academic establishment took the unusual step of inviting about 50 leading Western Kremlinologists and historians to come and help them wrestle with the truth. 7
 
D'Amato is stopped at Polish border on way to Lithuania 7
 
Hungary's final round of elections begin on Sunday, and the two main political parties, once allied in opposition to the former Communist Party, find themselves far apart, separated by clashes in style and personality. 7
 
Memories of the Chernobyl disaster have combined with the spread of democracy in Eastern Europe to produce a surge of anxiety about the safety of the region's mainly Soviet-designed nuclear reactors. 7
 
The Nepalese Army and police opened fire on a procession of 200,000 pro-democracy demonstrators as they tried to surge past police cordons toward the royal palace. Officials said at least nine people were killed. 1 
 
Afghan ceremony ends in bloodshed 5
 
Chinese students in the United States would receive more help from the American Government in extending their stays under an executive proclamation issued by President Bush. 3
 
A former driver for the Iraqi Mission in New York has been indicted on charges of plotting with an Iraqi agent to kill two opponents of the Iraqi Government who were in the U.S., Federal prosecutors said. 3
 
Ireland's policy on terrorism seemed to be further undermined when the Irish Supreme Court ruled not to extradite a man to face weapons-possession charges in Northern Ireland. 3
 
Pristina journal: In Albania, feuds without blood 4
 
National 8-11
 
The savings and loan bailout might cost $400 billion or even $500 billion if the economy turns down, Charles A. Bowsher, head of the General Accounting Office, told the Senate Banking Committee. 1
 
The nation's unemployment rate edged down one-tenth of a point to 5.2 percent in March, but private-sector payroll jobs declined for the first time in four years, the Labor Department reported. 9
 
The Internal Revenue Service is enjoying what it calls a ''highly successful'' filing season. But the improvement looks puny against a backdrop of longer-range problems. 33
 
Employees would buy United Airlines for $4.38 billion, or $201 a share, under an agreement approved by the directors of the company. The deal came nearly six months after another offer for the company collapsed for lack of financing. 1
 
United debt viewed as curb on gains 33
 
Puerto Rican statehood could undermine the island's economy and cost as many as 100,000 of its 900,000 jobs by the decade's end, a new study by the Congressional Budget Office has found. 8
 
Cincinnati nervously awaited the opening today of an exhibit of photographs that the law-enforcement authorities say are obscene. A judge re-jected the museum's efforts to have a jury assess the photographs. 8
 
Fire destroyed a residential hotel in Miami Beach filled largely with elderly retired people. Three were killed and 19 injured in the fire at the three-story Fontana Hotel. 8
 
The Department of Education has decided to investigate whether certain admissions policies of the University of California at Berkeley's law school violate civil rights laws, officials said. 8
 
Girl born to couple seeking a marrow donor 8
 
A roundup of the Great Society began in Washington. Nearly 1,000 people gathered to celebrate the 25th anniversary of the year Lyndon B. Johnson was inaugurated President. 9
 
Boards of American foundations continue to be dominated by white males, even though securing a bigger role for women and minorities has been a professed goal in the philanthropy field. 9
 
Regional 27-30
 
News analysis: Symbolic issues are dominating the budget battle in Albany. As Republican senators fight to preserve a tax cut, they are willing to all but abandon their substantive concerns in pursuit of a token victory. 1
 
Cuomo aides say budget gap may hit $1.8 billion 28
 
City may try complex bond refinancing, if it's legal 28
 
Man in the news: Richard L. Shaffer 28
 
A class-action fraud suit against Vantage Press, the largest ''vanity press'' in the nation, resulted in victory for 2,200 authors. A Manhattan jury awarded the writers a total of $3.5 million in damages. 1
 
A businessman pursuing a contract with New York City to produce concrete gave $10,000 in cash to former Senator George S. McGovern in 1985 to be used as a campaign contribution to Mayor Koch, the businessman said. 27
 
The owner of the building that housed the Happy Land Social Club was wanted by the police on 42 separate arrest warrants charging him with serious building violations at 12 Manhattan locations, officials said. 27
 
Club survivor recalls dash into flames 29
 
The Transit Authority's president recently did something so unusual that it generated stares from people waiting for the A train - he picked up litter on a subway platform. That was a telling example of his management style. 27
 
The tenants of a house near Armonk, in northern Westchester County, appeared to be an appealing young family with three small children, but were in fact engaged in a major drug operation, officials said. 27
 
Asylum for a white South African was granted in Manhattan by the Immigration and Naturalization Service. The man had refused to serve in his country's military because it enforces the system of white minority rule, or apartheid. 29
 
Business Digest 33
 
Arts/Entertainment
 
Rembrandt painting defaced 13
 
Plan to save Peabody conservatory 13
 
Theater: ''Tale of Two Cities'' 16
 
Film: ''Ernest Goes to Jail'' 14
 
''The First Power'' 17
 
Music: Philharmonic with Dutoit 13
 
Dance: Rustavi Company from Soviet Georgia 13
 
Book: ''Moral Vision and Professional Decisions'' 16
 
Television: The education crisis 48
 
Sports
 
Baseball: Yankees go home 47
 
Basketball: Knicks win 45
 
Nets lose 47
 
Column: Vecsey on Islanders 45
 
Golf: Floyd leads Masters 45
 
Hockey: Two Islanders suspended 45
 
Bitterness over LaFontaine 47
 
Threat doesn't faze Devils 47
 
Tennis: Capriati and Navratilova win 47
 
Consumer's World 32
 
Time to count pollen spores (inaccurately)
 
Medical insurance goes from job to job
 
Coping with outdoor music
 
The early gardener kills the bugs
 
Obituaries 12
 
Nancy Lady Keith, socialite
 
Larry Lee, producer
 
Louis Nelson, jazz trombonist
 
Editorials/Letters/Op-Ed
 
Editorials 24
 
More trade with Japan, maybe
 
H.U.D. swamp: new odors
 
Albany's budgetary fig leaf
 
Topics: Nixon tapes again
 
Letters 24
 
Flora Lewis: Practical security for Europe 25
 
Russell Baker: M'lord, in the library 25
 
Elizabeth Vorenberg, James Vorenberg: Indonesia injustice 25
 
Avery Corman: The invisible man in ''A Chorus Line'' 25
 
Hillary Rodham Clinton: Day care in France 25

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (93%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (91%); NEPAL (79%); UKRAINE (79%); LITHUANIA (79%); HUNGARY (79%); IRELAND (79%); ALBANIA (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); POLITICS (88%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (77%); HISTORY (75%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (74%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (74%); EXTRADITION (70%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (68%); LITIGATION (68%); INDICTMENTS (68%); BANKING & FINANCE (67%); CHERNOBYL NUCLEAR DISASTER (67%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (67%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (65%); TERRORISM (65%); APPROVALS (65%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (65%); BAILOUTS (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (63%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (62%); SAVINGS & LOANS (61%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%); TAX AUTHORITIES (60%); SUPREME COURTS (50%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (53%); 



153 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 942 words

HEADLINE: Puerto Rico Is Seen Facing Economic Troubles as State

BYLINE: By MARTIN TOLCHIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 6

 BODY:
Puerto Rican statehood could undermine the island's economy and cost as many as 100,000 of its 900,000 jobs by the end of the decade, a new study by the Congressional Budget Office has found.
The study, which many people see as a setback for statehood supporters, estimated that the island would lose 73 percent of the investment it receives from United States companies because of the elimination of tax benefits intended to stimulate such investment.
These investments now account for about half of the $22 billion in private investments on the island, according to the study, which was released Thursday.
Although the island would gain $3.6 billion a year in Federal revenue by the year 2000, through Medicare and other social programs, the study said, the loss of investment income would cause its gross national product to decline 3.3 percent in that time. 
When Puerto Rico became a commonwealth of the United States in 1952, residents received all the usual obligations and privileges of citizenship except the right to vote in Federal elections and the duty to pay income taxes.
 
A 38-Year Debate
The debate on the island over statehood, independence or retention of commonwealth status has dominated its politics for decades, and several Senate and House committees are now considering a bill that would allow Puerto Ricans to vote in a referendum to determine the island's political status.
Under proposed legislation, statehood would entail losing the tax benefits that have been essential to the island's rapid development as a manufacturing economy over the last 40 years. The Federal corporate tax would apply with full force in Puerto Rico as it does in other states. In addition, Puerto Ricans and firms would be subject to other Federal taxation.
The report was hailed by opponents of statehood, including Gov. Rafael Hernandez Colon, who fears that voters might be swayed by statehood supporters promising additional Federal money for social programs. ''My position has always been that the future of Puerto Rico can not be decided by how much the people would receive in social legislation,'' he said.
Jaime B. Fuster, who represents Puerto Rico as a nonvoting Delegate in Congress, said, ''As a result of this C.B.O. report, key Congressional committees will no longer in good conscience include statehood or independence as realistic alternatives.''
He continued: ''There is no way the Congress is going to offer to the Puerto Rico voters an option that, even after creating a big dent in the already scarce Federal budget, also causes 100,000 jobs to be lost in the Puerto Rico economy.''
 
Other Groups' Concerns
The report was challenged, however, by supporters of statehood or independence, including former Gov. Carlos Romero Barcelo, who said the study failed to take into account intangibles concerning the security that Puerto Rico would enjoy as a state. Uncertainty about Puerto Rico's future has held back investment, Mr. Romero Barcelo contended. He added that Congressional opponents of the tax benefits could repeal the legislation with no offsetting advantages.
Supporters of statehood or independence have argued that personal pride is at least as important as material well-being. But those who seek to retain commonwealth status say that the impoverished island would be hard-pressed to sacrifice needed United States financing.
Commenting on the option of statehood, the study said, it ''seems likely to reduce the average growth rate of the island's income over the balance of the decade.'' But it took note of the argument by proponents that statehood could bring unforeseen economic advantages by ending the uncertainty about possible changes in the island's status that had retarded its progress.
Puerto Rican independence, the study said, would lead to the loss of Federal revenue, but changes in investment ''are not so easily anticipated as those under statehood, because an independent Puerto Rico may be able to construct a set of incentives - through a combination of tax-sparing treaties and local subsidies - that would approach the attractiveness of the current benefits.''
The proposed referendum would allow Puerto Ricans to choose among statehood, independence and a third alternative - an enhanced commonwealth status. The new commonwealth plan would establish procedures under which Federal laws and regulations applying to Puerto Rico could be modified in order to enhance the island's economic growth.
 
A Third Alternative
Concerning the third option, the study said, ''While it is difficult to measure the effects of these enhancements, they would inevitably increase Puerto Rico's ability to compete economically with other middle-income developing countries.''
The budget office, the research arm of Congress, produced the study at the request of Senator Lloyd Bentsen, a Texas Democrat and chairman of the Finance Committee, to give Congress guidance on the bill to allow a referendum in 1991 on Puerto Rico's political future. Senator Bentsen has announced that the committee would hold hearings on April 26.
The Bush Administration favors statehood. Kenneth W. Gideon, Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for tax policy, told the Senate Finance Committee last November, ''As the President has noted a number of times, he favors the admission of Puerto Rico to the Union as a state, thereby assuring the people of Puerto Rico an equal standing with other U.S. citizens.''
The island has 3.3 million residents, 1.1 million of whom are employable, and an unemployment level of 16 percent. Per capita income is $5,653, among the highest in the Caribbean.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4424 COASTAL FREIGHT (92%); 

COUNTRY: PUERTO RICO (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: PUERTO RICO INDUSTRIAL MANUFACTURING OPERATIONS ACQUISITION CORP (91%); PUERTO RICO SUN OIL CO (91%); PUERTO RICAN DRYPERS CORP (91%); PUERTO RICO SAFETY EQUIPMENT CORP (91%); PUERTO RICO TELEPHONE CO (91%); PUERTO RICO CONTAINER CO (91%); PUERTO RICAN AMERICAN INSURANCE CO (91%); PUERTO RICAN CEMENT CO INC (91%); PUERTO RICAN INSURANCE AGENCY INC (91%); PUERTO RICO INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CO (91%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (91%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PUERTO RICO

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LABOR; TAXATION; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US TERRITORIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MEDICARE (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); TAX LAW (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); TRENDS (75%); LAYOFFS (74%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (73%); POLITICS (72%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (71%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%); REFERENDUMS (67%); CITIZENSHIP (55%); INCOME TAX (52%); 

PERSON: TOLCHIN, MARTIN



154 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: A Roundup for the Great Society

BYLINE: By BARBARA GAMAREKIAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 6

 BODY:
They gathered tonight for what Lady Bird Johnson called ''a Texas-size roundup of the Great Society.''
But the celebration, marking the 25th anniversary of the year Lyndon Baines Johnson was inaugurated, was shadowed by the recent publication of a highly critical biography of Johnson by Robert A. Caro.
Nearly 1,000 people, from former Cabinet officers to White House butlers, began a weekend reunion of parties and panel discussions that began with an afternoon reception at the White House for members of the Johnson family and influential figures in the Johnson Administration.
In a tribute to the 36th President, who died at his ranch in Texas in 1973, President Bush called Johnson ''a towering and passionate figure.'' 
 
'Lyndon Johnson Heard,' Bush Says
''He was endlessly in motion,'' Mr. Bush said at the East Room ceremony, in which he was joined by Mrs. Bush. ''He tried with all his heart to be the best President that this country ever had for the people who are pressed against the wall, whose cries are not heard. But he heard. Lyndon Johnson heard.''
At one point the President turned to Mrs. Johnson and said, ''The best thing he ever did was marrying Lady Bird Johnson.''
Thanking Mr. Bush for his tribute to her husband and his Presidency, Mrs. Johnson said, ''I will remember it always.''
Those who participated in the celebration today were mindful that the occasion followed by a few weeks the publication of Mr. Caro's book, ''Means of Ascent,'' the second installment of a projected four-volume biography of Johnson. The best-selling book, published by Alfred A. Knopf, presents a detailed account of how, in Mr. Caro's view, Johnson used political power to make a fortune in broadcasting and stole the 1948 Democratic primary for a seat in the United States Senate from his opponent, Coke Stevenson, a former Governor of Texas.
 
Some Personal Portraits Are Offered
Many who had worked for Johnson were eager to offer their own portraits of him at a dinner tonight in the Mayflower Hotel here.
''In truth, almost every fault you can think of, Lyndon Johnson had some of those,'' said Jack Valenti, who was a special assistant in the Johnson White House and is now president of the Motion Picture Association. ''But he also started a social, political and economic revolution in this country that can never be forgotton or ignored.''
Charles Guggenheim, a film producer who has spent 18 months researching and filming several movies about Johnson, said: ''He was so multifaceted. He could be kind, he could be abrupt, he could be mean, he could be loving, he could be compassionate, he could be devious. He was just bigger than life - that is what makes him so fascinating.''
Mr. Guggenheim added: ''He left the Presidency under a cloud, and I think it's fair to say he was an unpopular man because of Vietnam. But I think there is an obligation after 25 years to look back on the extraordinary contributions he made in his domestic programs that have been obscured by the tragedy of Vietnam.''
Clark M. Clifford, who served as Johnson's Secretary of Defense in 1968, seemed to stiffen when asked about the Caro book. ''I worked closely with Lyndon for many years, and I knew him better than Mr. Caro knows him,'' Mr. Clifford said. ''Caro had an opportunity to write a really outstanding book and it's too bad, even tragic, that his bias and prejudice against Lyndon Johnson was so pronounced.''
 
Portrayal of 1948 Opponent Is Assailed
Many of those who gathered here noted that some reviewers had faulted Mr. Caro for his portrayal of Stevenson as a paradigm of integrity.
''No one says Lyndon Johnson was a flawless man,'' said Liz Carpenter, former press secretary for Mrs. Johnson. ''But Caro tried to make a saint out of Coke Stevenson. He was just a goat-herding Governor - he had no vision for Texas.''
Mr. Valenti, who was master of ceremonies at the dinner, said: ''The Caro book's principle sin, for which there is no expiation, is the fact that he distorts reality. He set up a very mediocre Governor of Texas as a latter-day Jesus Christ so that he could portray Johnson as the slimiest creature that walked the earth.''
In recent interviews Mr. Caro has defended his book as accurate and indicated that later volumes, dealing with Johnson's Senate leadership in the 1950's and his White House years from 1963 to 1968, would be more sympathetic.
There was no comment on Mr. Caro's work from Mrs. Johnson, who was joined at the celebration by her daughters, Lynda and Luci, and six grandchildren. What was on her mind, she said, was that she would remember and recognize the array of former ambassadors, speech writers, military and political advisers and White House telephone operators, gardeners and carpenters who attended the dinner.
''I hope my friends will realize my eyesight and legs are not as good as they once were; I've asked them to make the namecards in big print,'' she said today. ''I feel such an overwhelming warmth at the outpouring of friends who have come from all the phases of work that we tried, and did, in those five crowded years. Lyndon would have had more fun than anyone at this gathering.'' Advance Publicationsd(Alfred A. Knopf) A reunion of former Johnson aides is shadowed by a critical biography.

GRAPHIC: Photo: At celebration in Washington of the 25th anniversary of Lyndon B. Johnson's inauguration, Lady Bird Johnson talked with two former Defense Secretaries, Robert McNamara, left, and Clark Clifford. (The New York Times/George Tames)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: JOHNSON ADMINISTRATION (94%); WHITE HOUSE (69%); GREAT SOCIETY (55%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ANNIVERSARIES (90%); POLITICS (89%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (77%); BESTSELLERS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (69%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (63%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (63%); FILM (63%); GOVERNORS (61%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (60%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (60%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, LYNDON BAINES (MRS); JOHNSON, LYNDON BAINES (1908-73); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); GAMAREKIAN, BARBARA ROBERT W BEST (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 



155 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 890 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Jobless Rate Edges Down to 5.2%

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 6

 BODY:
The unemployment rate edged down one-tenth of a point to 5.2 percent in March, but the number of payroll jobs in the private sector declined for the first time in four years, the Labor Department reported today.
The mixed pattern in the latest figures, which offer the first broad indication of economic performance last month, suggested to many analysts that business activity was markedly less robust than implied by big weather-related jumps in the number of payroll jobs in January and February.
Factory jobs skidded by 31,000 last month, resuming a prolonged decline that was interrupted in February by a return to work of idled automobile workers.
''This should cool the ardor of those who thought the economy was about to take off,'' said Samuel D. Kahan, chief economist for Fuji Securities, in Chicago. 
 
Job Growth of 299,000
On the other hand, number of Americans employed, as measured by the department's survey of households rather than of business payrolls, rose in March by 299,000. This, combined with a 199,000 increase in the labor force, brought the official civilian unemployment rate down one-tenth of a point from the 5.3 percent where it had stood for nine straight months.
Monthly changes of less than two-tenths of a point are regarded as statistically insignificant, however, and there has been no appreciable change in the unemployment rate for a year and a half.
The figure to which economists pay the closest attention is that of jobs as determined by the survey of business payrolls. Last month that number rose a skimpy 26,000 when the figures for the private sector and government are combined. That was considerably less than expected and far below the gains of more than 350,000 for the two preceding months, when exceptionally warm weather spurred construction and other outdoor work. When 58,000 temporary census-takers hired by the Government last month are subtracted from the March data, the number of jobs in the private sector declined 32,000.
The Government expects to add 200,000 more census workers in April, the Commissioner of Labor Statistics, Janet L. Norwood, said at a briefing, adding that those temporary jobs are making assessment of the job market more difficult.
 
Lackluster Economy Seen
Despite the crosscurrents and special factors in the March report, most analysts agreed that it reflected a lackluster economy, one that Maury N. Harris of the Paine Webber Group Inc. and other analysts said was likely to result in a further easing of monetary policy by the Federal Reserve Board.
Deterioration in factory employment was widespread, Mr. Harris said, with only 46.1 percent of industries adding to their payrolls last month. It was the fifth straight month in which more manufacturing industries shed workers than added them.
Since November, about 100,000 factory jobs have been lost. The reduction in the 12 months is about 250,000, with heavy concentrations in metal and metal-using industries and in apparel industries.
Automobile employment held steady last month, but construction jobs fell 64,000 after seasonal adjustment because fewer-than-usual winter layoffs left a relatively large number of workers already on construction payrolls, providing little opportunity for new hiring.
Jobs in retail trade fell 25,000, the second straight monthly decline, while health services continued to post sizable gains in jobs. Over all, service jobs rose by 122,000 while goods-producing jobs fell 96,000, the report showed.
The length of the work week in the private sector and that in factories were unchanged last month, while factory overtime rose six minutes, to 3.7 hours.
 
Drop in Discouraged Workers
The Labor Department's quarterly survey of people who have given up looking for work because they think a search would be futile fell to 747,000 from 827,000, the lowest level since 1979. About two-thirds of those discouraged workers cited conditions in the job market as reasons for not looking; the rest cited personal factors like age or lack of education.
Unemployment among all the major groups of workers - whites, blacks, Hispanic-Americans, adult men, adult women and teen-agers - was virtually unchanged last month, as the ratio of employment to population edged up one-tenth of a point to tie the record of 63.1 percent reached last June.
Among the 11 largest states, the only notable changes in jobless rates were declines of eight-tenths of a point in Florida and Texas, to 5.2 percent and 5.6 percent, respectively. New York's rate was unchanged at 5 percent, though its employment-to-population ratio slipped below 60 percent to 59.6. In New Jersey, the unemployment rate rose slightly, to 4.7 from 4.5 percent.
By region, the South's jobless rate dropped to 5 percent from 5.8 percent, while the Northeast, Midwest and West recorded declines of one-tenth or two-tenths of a point. These figures are not adjusted for seasonally variation.
Nationally, 120,003,000 Americans had jobs last month - 118,334,000 civilians and 1,669,000 domestically stationed members of the armed forces.
The jobless rate that includes military personnel also fell one-tenth of a point, to 5.1 percent.
Average hourly earnings rose four-tenths of 1 percent in March after an increase of five-tenths of 1 percent in February, today's report showed.

GRAPHIC: chart of employed and unemployed from Dec '89 to March '90; List of employment rates for selected states. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (93%); EMPLOYMENT (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); WEATHER (76%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); CENSUS (74%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (66%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (65%); CENTRAL BANKS (60%); MONETARY POLICY (60%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR MAURY N HARRIS (57%); 



156 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 11, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: Beliefs

BYLINE: By Ari L. Goldman

 BODY:
One man, a President, topped the list of the Gallup poll's ''most admired men'' with the greatest frequency in the 1980's, but the names that followed his were almost all religious figures.
According to an analysis by the Princeton Religious Research Center, Ronald Reagan, the leading figure, was followed by Pope John Paul II, the Rev. Billy Graham and the Rev. Jesse Jackson. Next on the list was Jimmy Carter, who as well as being a President, proudly proclaimed he is a ''born again'' Christian. The research center said its list was compiled by combining the results of all 10 ''most admired'' polls by the Gallup Organization during the decade. 
In the final year of the 1980's, Mr. Reagan dropped a few notches, but the religious figures continued their strong showing. The 1989 Gallup poll placed President Bush first, followed by the Soviet leader Mikhail S. Gorbachev, Mr. Reagan, the Pope, Mr. Graham, Lech Walesa, Donald J. Trump, Lee Iacocca, Mr. Jackson, and, in a tie for 10th, Mr. Carter and Bill Cosby.
For the first time since the National Conference of Christians and Jews was founded in 1927, a Muslim has been elected to the organization's national executive board.
The election of Aly Y. Massoud, announced this week, was another sign of the growth of the interfaith organization beyond its original roots. Founded to counter the campaigns of hatred that gripped the United States after World War I, the conference was initially a vehicle for better understanding between Christians and Jews.
In recent years, however, it has also initiated programs of education and dialogue for Muslims, Hindus, Buddhists and others, keeping to its vision of the United States as a nation where many faiths can co-exist without compromising their distinctiveness.
Mr. Massoud, a 54-year-old lawyer, was born in Cairo and immigrated to the United States with his wife and their two sons in 1970. The Massouds live in Rumson, N.J. For the last five years, Mr. Massoud has been an active member of the conference's ''trialogue,'' which each month brings together Christians, Jews and Muslims for interfaith discussions.
In an interview, Mr. Massoud said his election represented ''a big step toward the recognition of the Muslim community in North America.'' He said he was an advocate of expanding the title of the conference to the National Conference of Christians, Jews and Muslims. ''Islam is the completion of the Abrahamic religions,'' he said. ''This would bring it full circle.''
Harry A. Robinson, senior vice president for communications and development at the conference, said the group has been studying for two years the possibility of changing its name. ''While our committee has recognized the inherent limitations of the name, it has also taken into account its history and longevity,'' he said.
While some have advocated adding Muslim to the name, he said, others have argued that this would not solve the problem of other faiths that might feel excluded. Among the ideas offered have been to call the organizations the National Conference of Christians and Jews, Et Al. or to simply call it the Conference, founded by Christians and Jews. Mr. Robinson said the conference will continue to explore options.
For more than a decade, Jews at Passover seders have remembered the plight of Soviet Jews with a modern seder ritual, ''the matzoh of hope.'' The leader of the seder, the festival meal, would set aside a matzoh and say, ''We have not forgotten those who are not yet free.''
This year, with Jews leaving Moscow for Israel in record numbers, the ritual has been revised and renamed ''the matzoh of unity.'' The prayer is being distributed nationwide in mailings and newspaper advertisements by the United Jewish Appeal, which hopes to raise $400 million to resettle new emigres through its Operation Exodus Campaign.
The seders this year are held on Monday and Tuesday nights. The new prayer says, in part: ''As we observe this festival of freedom, we are heartened to be part of the largest exodus of Soviet Jews in recent Jewish history.''
The ritual ends with the words, ''am Yisrael hu am echad - the people of Israel are united.''
It took linguists and Bible scholars 20 years, but the people of Papua New Guinea finally have one Bible in one language, according to a report from Lutheran World Information. Translation was no small task, since the people on the island nation that occupies the eastern half of New Guinea speak 700 native languages.
The language used for the Bible, or Buk Baibel, was Tok Pisin, a hybrid tongue developed at the end of the last century as a common language of commerce. Words and grammar were taken from English, various Melanesian languages, German, Malay and Chinese.
English is the official language of the country, but it is spoken only by a small percentage of inhabitants. Although traditional religious practices and beliefs are still widely practiced, the majority of the population is Christian, with Catholics and Lutherans the largest denominatiions.
The Lutheran information service called the Bible translation an ''ecumenical and linguistic milestone.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

CITY: CAIRO, EGYPT (50%); 

COMPANY: GALLUP ORGANIZATION (56%); NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF CHRISTIANS & JEWS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: RELIGION AND CHURCHES RELIGION (93%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (77%); HINDUS & HINDUISM (77%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (77%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (75%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (72%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (70%); LAWYERS (50%); WORLD WAR I (50%); 

PERSON: GOLDMAN, ARI L RONALD REAGAN (92%); JIMMY CARTER (73%); JESSE JACKSON (71%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); DONALD TRUMP (51%); 



157 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 13, Column 5; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 394 words

HEADLINE: A Plan to Save the Peabody

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 6

 BODY:
Leaders of the Maryland Legislature reached agreement today on a plan to provide $5.4 million in the next year to end the financial crisis that has threatened the Peabody Conservatory's existence.
Peabody, a leading music conservatory, is a division of the Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore. It has faced a growing deficit over the last four years, which the university said it would no longer be able to cover because it now faces its own financial pressures. This year the Peabody's deficit is $3.7 million. 
''For 60 years or more Peabody has not been able to equal its wealthier sister institutions,'' said Robert O. Pierce, Peabody's director for the last eight years.
 
A Plan Is Developed
Fearing that the financial problems would force the 132-year-old music school to shut down, Lieut. Gov. Melvin A. Steinberg spent the last year devising a plan that would rescue Peabody from its immediate financial problems while also increasing the school's endowment over the long run.
Mr. Steinberg's plan, which legislative leaders said would be approved tomorrow with slight modifications, requires the state to provide nearly $3 million to cover Peabody's current operating losses and to put $2.4 million in a special fund for the school.
Under the agreement, Peabody cannot keep the state's contributions unless it meets financial deadlines set by the legislators. The school, which graduates 70 students a year, must obtain pledges from private donors for $15 million by Sept. 15. By Jan. 1, 1991, the school must raise $5 million of that amount in cash, and the full total by 1995.
 
Optimism Expressed
If Peabody cannot meet these deadlines, the plan would die and all the money would revert to the state. Mr. Pierce said he was optimistic about meeting the deadlines.
''We do have friends out there and we have made our contacts,'' he said. ''I think they will rise to the occasion.''
Angela Revis, a sophomore at Peabody who plays the flute, said students there were willing to help with the fund raising.
''Nobody wants to see Peabody gone,'' she said. ''Life in Baltimore would be pretty bleak culturally without Peabody.''
Although Peabody is a private institution, it offers community music classes, which 4,000 Maryland residents take part in annually. It holds 400 recitals and performances in Baltimore each year as well.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (94%); 

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (84%); JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY; PEABODY CONSERVATORY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MARYLAND

SUBJECT: FINANCES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; STATE AND LOCAL AID (US) LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ENDOWMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); MUSIC (77%); 

PERSON: MELVIN A STEINBERG (60%); ROBERT O PIERCE (60%); 



158 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 24, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 444 words

HEADLINE: More Trade With Japan, Maybe

 BODY:
The new trade agreement between Japan and the United States is promising. Japan pledges to reduce its barriers to imports and foreign investment. America says it will become more competitive. Neither will happen overnight, and some undertakings won't be fulfilled. But the fact of a broad understanding may help calm the two nations' increasingly contentious relations. 
The agreement is an ''interim report'' on lengthy talks over deep-rooted practices that hamper trade, such as Japan's law that limits department stores and the U.S. law that won't let the Japanese buy Alaskan crude oil. A final report is due in July. The proof will be in the follow-up. Politically difficult legislation is required of both countries -and, even more difficult, new attitudes among bureaucrats and businesses.
Japan's commitments are substantially broader than any it has made before. Previous agreements have dealt with disputes over specific products or trade restrictions. Indeed, Washington proposed the broader talks in hopes of reducing item-by-item bickering.
Parts of the new agreement do relate directly to trade, such as speedier customs clearance for imports to Japan. New ground is broken by Japan's pledges to bear down on antitrust violations and price-fixing, speed approval for new department stores, stem the land price spiral with new taxes and spend more on public works. These measures should stimulate Japanese consumption and, it is hoped, boost imports. Likewise, in side agreements Japan said it would increase imports of U.S. supercomputers, telecommunications equipment and satellites.
The United States, for its part, has agreed to little more than existing Administration policy, including better education, increased private savings, reducing the cost of capital and putting out a welcome mat for foreign investment.
How likely is it that either Government will deliver? Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu admits that some Japanese interests will find the proposals ''painful.'' But he rightly points out that Japanese consumers would gain from such things as the wider variety offered by department stores, and moderated prices for land and thus housing. How much he can push through the Diet is unknown; his party controls only one chamber. Also, there's no telling what Congress will approve. In both capitals, some proposals will be rejected.
How much will America's trade deficit with Japan be reduced? That's impossible to quantify. The changes would help, but not right away. The important point is that the Japanese economy will be more open to foreign competition from all quarters. And the whole world benefits from expanded trade.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; JAPAN

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; EDITORIALS TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); RETAILERS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CARTELS (78%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); DEPARTMENT STORES (75%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); APPROVALS (72%); PRICE FIXING (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (64%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (64%); PRIME MINISTERS (62%); 



159 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 24, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 241 words

HEADLINE: Over All, Drug Trade Makes Colombia Poor

 BODY:
To the Editor:
The short reference to Colombia in your overview of Latin America (Week in Review, March 18) implies that earnings from illegal cocaine and marijuana exports are a major cause of the growth in per capita income in that country. Not so. 
My study of Colombian capital flight points to a net loss of capital since 1983 of some $500 million a year. The annual inflow of drug money has been more than offset by capital flight. From 1983 through 1985, this traditional capital flight reflected, at least in part, an inappropriate exchange rate policy. However, in recent years, the major cause of traditional capital flight appears to be the perception of rising violence in the war against the drug trade in Colombia.
Thus the growth of the drug trade, while having created an inflow of drug money into Colombia, has also fueled the violence that has led to a sharp rise in traditional capital flight. Viewed simply as an economic issue, the drug trade has caused a net deterioration in Colombia's international situation in recent years.
Colombia's success at achieving real growth while continuing to service its foreign debt depends on the policies of the Colombian Government and, ultimately, the efforts of the Colombian people. This success is despite, rather than because of the drug trade.
 
FRANK R. GUNTER
 Bethlehem, Pa., March 20, 1990
The writer is an assistant professor of economics at Lehigh University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: COLOMBIA (99%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (90%); 

COMPANY: LEHIGH UNIVERSITY (54%); LEHIGH UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LATIN AMERICA; COLOMBIA

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (90%); CANNABIS (77%); COCAINE (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); NEWS BRIEFS (73%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (72%); TRENDS (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (64%); EXCHANGE RATES (55%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 



160 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25, Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 687 words

HEADLINE: In France, Day Care Is Every Child's Right

BYLINE: By Hillary Rodham Clinton; Hillary Rodham Clinton is chairman of the board of the Children's Defense Fund in Washington.

DATELINE: LITTLE ROCK, Ark.

 BODY:
Ten years after the U.S. started talking about ''family values,'' many wonder why we are still unable to provide decent education, health care and opportunity for all of our children.
The House and Senate are about to confer on child care legislation and review a range of options. At this pivotal moment, much can be learned by comparing America's child care system to France's. Of course, given the differences in political philosophies and tax structures between our nations we should not duplicate the French system here - wholesale. 
Recently, I joined a study team of child care professionals who spent two weeks in France, under the auspices of the French-American Foundation, which promotes various ties between the two nations.
Our group - including a pediatrician, a Senate aide, a state government official, academics, day care administrators and representatives from organized labor and business -visited schools and spoke with ministry officials, elected office-holders, educators, health professionals, business and labor representatives.
What we saw was a coordinated, comprehensive system, supported across the political spectrum, that links day care, early education and health care - and is accessible to virtually every child.
Much more significant, though, are the pervasive beliefs in France that children are a precious national resource for which society has collective responsibility, and that one goal of a child care system is to help children develop and thrive.
We found sharp contrasts between the French and U.S. child care systems.
In France, mandated paid parental leave for child birth and adoption acknowledges society's obligation to nurture strong parent-child ties.
In the U.S., where only a few states require employers to grant parental leave for child birth or adoption -usually without pay - the cost and disruption of child bearing is viewed as a private choice and responsibility.
France, where preventive health services are integrated with child care programs, ranks fourth lowest in infant mortality among industrial nations. The U.S., where child care and health care are largely separate, ranks 19th lowest.
French pre-school and elementary school teachers earn comparable salaries and receive subsidized training. As a result, pre-school teacher turnover is low.
In the U.S., where salaries and training levels are low, annual day care staff turnover is 40 percent or higher.
In France, virtually all home-based day care providers are licensed, receive benefits including social security, paid sick leave and vacations, and are visited periodically by specially trained pediatric nurses.
American parents use home-based day care twice as much as center care but have difficulty finding such arrangements. An estimated 90 percent of home-based day care operations in the U.S. are neither licensed nor monitored, and the turnover rate for care givers is 60 percent.
France's system has taken years to evolve, as has its emphasis on the needs and perspectives of children.
Today, the system goes far beyond our own in providing children with basic intellectual and social skills they'll need to succeed in grade school, high school and adult life.
Throughout the 1980's, debate over child care in the U.S. always seemed to focus on ''family values.'' This assumes that parents alone can always determine and then provide - personally or through the marketplace - what's best for their children and, hence, society.
But this view has allowed our Government and, to a much larger extent, business to ignore the needs of America's children and their parents. It also discounts the extent to which economic realities determine access to quality child care.
Child care is not just a family matter. To do our children and our country justice, we need to develop a nationwide consensus on how to best nurture our children, and, through that nurturing, prevent the personal and social costs we all pay when children's needs are not met.
Before we lock ourselves into a makeshift, inadequate child care policy, we ought to consider valuing children, French-style.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); FRANCE (95%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FRANCE

SUBJECT: CHILD CARE CHILD CARE (92%); PARENTING (90%); CHILDREN (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (88%); FAMILY LEAVE (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); NURSES & NURSING (78%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (78%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (77%); PEDIATRICS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); EMPLOYEE TURNOVER & RETENTION (73%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (69%); LABOR UNIONS (68%); SICK LEAVE (64%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (62%); INFANT MORTALITY (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); 



161 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: About New York;
Odd Man Out: Helping Big Boys Feel Like Fathers

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
''I don't want her to call anybody else daddy, even if I despise the mother,'' Robert C. said. ''She's my kid.'' The teen-age father knows he will never have a future with his former girlfriend, but he wants to be a positive part of his daughter's life. He plans always to have a couch where the child, or even her mother, might sleep if things get rough.
So Robert C. spoke at a weekly counseling session for unwed fathers at John Dewey High School in Brooklyn. This is what his counselor answered: ''You're a heavy guy.'' 
The counselor, Leonard Mednick, began the sessions three years ago to give teen-age fathers some of the support that teen-age mothers increasingly get. His first task was finding fathers. Unlike mothers, they can run and hide. And often do. In part, that is because society gives them no real role, Mr. Mednick says. Teen-age mothers now receive day care and training in parenthood in schools. They benefit from ''female bonding'' with grandmothers and great-grandmothers, who often build a protective cocoon around new mothers. Socially, young women with cooing babies are now an accepted part of the scholastic landscape.
Mr. Mednick applauds all this, particularly since so many teen-age mothers don't get much help from teen-age fathers. But he worries that the men have been forgotten.
The reality is that they will always be fathers. If they abandon - or are excluded from - the role, something is lost to both generations.
Shirking the biggest responsibility of their young lives, the fathers can make a lame first step into adulthood. Their children lose a role model, a companion, a sense of order.
''They're not mistakes,'' Mr. Mednick declared. ''They're kids.''
The goal of the group, which has five members this academic year, is to deal with the feelings of the unwed father - of being a pariah, of being asked to share economic responsibility when they have no resources, of being eased out of a relationship.
A typical exercise: group members playing roles in the scene of a grandmother barring a father from seeing his child. Another is regular meetings with different teen-age mothers, none affiliated with any father in the group, to discuss their concerns.
Mr. Mednick emphasizes practical steps. He urges the fathers to pay some financial support, even if it's only $5 every two weeks. They should also bring presents. Books, he says, are good. He has given money from his own pocketbook to help poor fathers do this.
Mr. Mednick, who has long experience as a guidance counselor, was recently honored by the New York Alliance for the Public Schools as one of the city's best. His interest in teen-age fathers came through counseling one many years ago. ''I was really crazy about him,'' he said. ''A wonderful, wonderful potential parent.''
His understanding of the powerful emotions of parenthood came partly though a vicious and unsuccessful custody battle for his children. ''I saw how insidious I could become in trying to win them over,'' he said.
The other day, Mr. Mednick began by speaking of a student who told him he had seen his father do ''the lousiest thing he could have done to my baby brother.'' He let the members guess what that was. They judged the father must have hit or molested the child.
Nothing had really happened. Mr. Mednick's purpose was to ascertain what the young men deemed awful behavior. They set admirably high standards. ''You've got to understand they're little kids,'' David R. said. ''It you hit them, you can really hurt them.''
Mr. Mednick pressed the point. ''But you all must get really crazy hearing a baby cry,'' he said. ''What do you do?'' ''I just carry him,'' Luis L. answered quietly. Mr. Mednick then made up a situation: The father has been out late. At 7 on a Sunday morning, his child, now 10, starts bouncing a ball against his bedroom wall. The sound feels like nails being driven into his head.
Still, none of the fathers could imagine hitting his flesh and blood. One said he would promise to take the child to a ball game if he'd just stop. Another said he would wait until the child was sleeping and bounce a ball against his wall so he would know how it feels.
But the probability is that the more than 20 young men who have been through Mr. Mednick's program won't have much control over their children. They can aspire to only a tiny fraction of the joy of seeing them grow up. Mr. Mednick's message is that even this is worth striving for.
''You guys might not have one dime in your pocket,'' he said. ''But what it's all about is rocking a baby or reading a 3-year-old a story.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ABOUT NEW YORK (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CHILDREN AND YOUTH; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS CHILDREN (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); SINGLE PARENTS (78%); WOMEN (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (75%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (75%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (71%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (65%); 

PERSON: MEDNICK, LEONARD; MARTIN, DOUGLAS MICHAEL MCMAHON (84%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (84%); 



162 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 28, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1064 words

HEADLINE: If It's Legal, City May Try Complex Bond Refinancing

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

 BODY:
New York City hopes to help plug an unexpected gap in its current budget with a highly technical financial maneuver intended to free up excess money that has accumulated since early in this century to pay off rapid transit bonds.
The proposal is so complicated, and Mayor David N. Dinkins's decision to try to use it so sudden, that neither the city's Budget Director, Philip R. Michael, nor its Comptroller, Elizabeth Holtzman, whose aides suggested it, was able to explain it fully or correctly when they announced it on Thursday.
City officials said yesterday that the plan would reshape a revenue source that dates from the era of green eyeshades by using the most modern computers. They recently decided it might work after discovering that the city itself owns the old bonds whose restrictive covenants had been thought to prevent such a move and, as a result, could waive those restrictions. 
Explaining the proposal in detail, officials said it was not fiscal chicanery but an especially complex example of a common technique, in which bonds are re-financed to take advantage of fluctuations in interest rates. They said it indicated the lengths to which the city was willing to go to make the most of existing assets in the face of a stagnant economy.
 
Freeing Up Assets
''We're supposed to be managing our balance sheet,'' said Darcy Bradbury, the Deputy Comptroller for Finance, who came into office with Ms. Holtzman in January after a career in investment banking. ''We had an underutilized asset that was just sitting there not doing anybody any good, and we're working very hard to free up those assets so they can be used by the people of the City of New York.''
Ms. Bradbury said the city was still studying possible legal impediments to the transaction, but believed it could work.
Here, in broad outline, is what the city proposes:
Beginning decades ago, the city issued bonds to support transit projects. Interest on the outstanding bonds - which are to mature at various times in the future and have varying interest rates - is paid from the city's treasury each year. But payments of the principal, due only when the bonds expire, is backed by a special fund, the Rapid Transit Sinking Fund of the City of New York.
Since perhaps the teens of this century, the city has made contributions to this fund, in amounts intended to provide just enough to pay off the principal on the bonds. But thanks to rising interest rates over the years, the fund, now valued at $172 million, has accumulated more money than will be needed.
 
May Be $85 Million
Just how much more is not yet clear, but Mr. Michael said the excess may amount to $85 million, enough to close most of a sudden $105 million gap in tax revenues for the fiscal year that ends June 30.
But because the covenants on all the bonds, some of which are only two or three years old, prohibit the city from touching the sinking fund as long as any bonds are outstanding, the city cannot use this money. So it is proposing a maneuver known as ''defeasance refunding'' to get access to it. This is how it would work: The city would issue new general obligation bonds, in an amount not yet determined but something under $200 million, Ms. Bradbury said. It would use the money from this sale to buy enough United States Treasury bonds to cover both interest and principal payments on the bonds now backed by the sinking fund. The Treasury bonds would be held in escrow to pay off sinking fund bonds as they mature.
''Then the old sinking fund bonds are backed by the new escrow fund and are off the books of New York City,'' Ms. Bradbury said. The amount of Treasury bonds needed to cover the cost would be figured using complex computer calculations, she said.
 
Date Back to 1960's
Until recently, the city believed it could not do this with the transit fund bonds because of restrictions on the oldest of the outstanding bonds that prohibit such re-financing. But in rummaging through the records of the city's Bureau of Accountancy, Ms. Bradbury said, officials found that the city itself owns these bonds, the oldest of which date from the early 1960's.
As both bondholder and bond-backer, the city would waive the restrictions for itself, she said. Then it could take the excess revenues from the sinking fund, and use them to pay interest on other outstanding bonds, freeing money to plug the budget gap.
She said it had not yet been determined what would be done with the rest of the money now in the sinking fund, but that it could be used to back the new general obligation bonds that would have to be issued to buy the Treasury bonds. Legally, it would have to be used to pay interest or principal on city debt.
Because the interest rates on the outstanding sinking fund bonds are roughly comparable to the prevailing interest rates needed for the planned new general obligation bonds, Ms. Bradbury said, the city should not lose money on the deal.
 
Cannot Legally Make Profit
Under Federal tax laws, the city could not make a profit on the issue of its bonds, which are tax exempt. Ms. Bradbury said that was one of the legal issues still being studied.
Harrison J. Goldin, the city's former Comptroller, said the maneuver would not amount to using bonds to pay for operating expenditures, a technique that helped lead to the fiscal crisis of the 1970's, but would instead use new bonds to re-fund old ones.
He said it was a way for the city to ''relieve itself of an obligation to a lender in order to take advantage of income opportunities that were not envisioned at the time the transaction was entered into.''
But Mr. Goldin said city lawyers would need to make sure the move did not violate tax laws or other restrictions.
Even if the transaction cannot be done, Mr. Michael said, the city still has a $75 million general reserve fund that could be used to help close the budget gap. He said other service cuts or an emergency year-end real-estate tax increase would also be possibilities, though not desirable.
He said he hoped the plan would work.
''This was a solution we discussed some weeks ago with the Comptroller's office, and there wasn't a use for it,'' he said. ''They renewed the suggestion Thursday, and I presented it to the Mayor and he thought it was a good idea. And consequently we incorporated it as a major piece of our solution.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; TRANSIT SYSTEMS; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BONDS (90%); INTEREST RATES (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CITIES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); COMPANY REVENUES (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); BOND ISSUES (72%); INVESTMENT BANKING (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); 

PERSON: PURDUM, TODD S MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); 



163 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 28, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: Man in the News;
A Visionary as Planner: Richard Lance Schaffer

BYLINE: By LEONARD BUDER

 BODY:
As a member of the baseball team at West Orange High School in New Jersey, Richard L. Schaffer played third base, the acknowledged hot corner of the infield. Later, as a varsity player at the University of Pennsylvania, he became a pitcher.
But yesterday, with the announcement by Mayor David N. Dinkins that Mr. Schaffer, dean of the Graduate School of Management and Urban Policy at the New School for Social Research, would become the chairman of the New York City Planning Commission, the 43-year urban planner returned to the hot corner, in city government.
Mr. Schaffer, who clearly did not want to speak out on several controversial planning issues, sidestepped tough questions at yesterday's news conference at City Hall. When asked whether he thought the previous city administration had, as some critics have asserted, ''given the town away to developers,'' Mr. Schaffer said he prefered to look ahead, not back. 
He did, however, offer the view that good planning balances three things - economic efficiency, social justice and the participation of all concerned. A little later, he said he would ''move that balance more to social justice.''
 
A Critical Time
He will take charge just as land-use procedures change under the new city charter. The commission reviews zoning changes, sites for city projects and other land use - matters likely to turn into disputes. The commission will grow from 7 members to 13, though its duties will not change much.
But most of its decisions will be subject to final review by the City Council starting this summer, when the Board of Estimate goes out of existence. This means there will eventually be 51 people, rather than 8, looking over the commission's shoulder.
Mr. Schaffer, who will be paid $110,000 a year, will also head the City Department of Planning, which conducts long-range planning.
Those who have worked with Mr. Schaffer describe him as highly qualified for what he says will be ''the biggest professional challenge of my life.'' They speak of him as a planner of vision who is also a highly competent administrator with a wry sense of humor.
''He seems laid-back but he has a mind like a high-speed computer,'' said James Stewart Polshek, former dean of the School of Architecture, Planning and Preservation at Columbia University, where Mr. Schaffer was vice dean and acting dean.
Franklin A. Thomas, the president of the Ford Foundation, who met the new commissioner when Mr. Schaffer was a doctoral student and later hired him, said, ''He is smart, refreshing, insightful, a tireless worker, a caring person.'' He said Mr. Schaffer could also be ''wonderfully abrasive at times'' when it was necessary to ''take air out of balloons.''
Richard Lance Schaffer was born on March 6, 1947, in Newark and attended public schools in West Orange. He became became interested in urban issues and planning while attending the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, from which he obtained his bachelor's degree in 1969.
''There was a lot of unrest in the inner cities,'' he said. ''When I read about an area like Watts or Newark, I was intellectually interested in understanding how these areas developed and why.''
He received a doctorate in economics from New York University in 1972. His doctoral research on Bedford-Stuyvesant brought him into contact with the Bedford-Stuyvesant Restoration Corporation. Mr. Thomas, then president of the restoration corporation, said he was so impressed with Mr. Schaffer that he hired him. Mr. Schaffer spent nearly 10 years with the development corporation.
Working in the largely black Bedford-Stuyvesant section of Brooklyn was ''a transforming experience,'' he said. ''There is a tendency to think that you have all the answers and can solve all the problems. But you go into an area and discover that there are a heck of a lot of bright people who have thought about a lot more things than you have.''
Mr. Schaffer's first marriage, to former Mayor John V. Lindsay's daughter, Katherine, ended in divorce and three years ago he married Cynthia Bielak, a casting director for an advertising agency. They live on West 82d Street.
Two years ago, Mr. Schaffer sought the position of Planning Commission chairman, but Mayor Edward I. Koch chose Sylvia Deutsch instead.
Before Mr. Dinkins selected him, Mr. Schafffer said he dreamed that if he did not get the post, ''I was on my way to becoming the Harold Stassen of New York City,'' a reference to the perpetual but always unsuccessful candidate for the Republican nomination for President.
''It was a funny dream,'' he said. ''But it was also terrifying.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard L. Schaffer, 43, was appointed chairman of the New York City Planning Commission yesterday by Mayor David N. Dinkins. (The New York Times/Don Hogan Charles)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MAN IN THE NEWS (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (51%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY PLANNING COMMISSION (NYC)

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION CITIES (93%); BASEBALL (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (76%); ZONING (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); 

PERSON: SCHAFFER, RICHARD L (CHMN); DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); SCHAFFER, RICHARD L (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH); BUDER, LEONARD J W STEWART (51%); 



164 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 28, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 595 words

HEADLINE: Cuomo Aides Say Budget Gap May Hit $1.8 Billion

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ALBANY, April 6

 BODY:
Making a bad situation worse for weary negotiators, the $1.5 billion gap in the state's 1990-91 budget may grow to $300 million because of a continuing slump in tax revenues, state officials said today.
Tax collections in March, the last month of the 1989-90 fiscal year, were $528 million less than expected, largely because of shortfalls in business and personal income taxes, the officials said.
Because budget officials base their projections of tax revenues for the current fiscal year on revenue collections from the previous year, the shortfall last month is forcing the third reassessment of the size of the budget gap in as many months. 
The state found the shortfall about the same time Mayor David N. Dinkins learned that the New York City budget gap of more than $1 billion for this fiscal year had grown $105 million.
Gov. Mario M. Cuomo's Budget Office was still trying to determine the effect of the shortfall on the 1990-'91 budget. But his press secretary, Gary R. Fryer, said the gap could grow ''somewhere in the range of $300 million.'' He added that the estimate was ''only a guess'' and that an accurate number should be available in two days.
Until the analysis is complete, it is difficult to know whether the shortfall reflects a real downturn in the economy, which would mean lower tax revenues this year, or simply changes in the timing of tax collections.
 
Meeting of Negotiators
But Hyman Grossman, a managing director of Standard & Poor's, which lowered New York's credit rating two steps last week, said the tax collections last month were disastrous. A spokesman for Comptroller Edward V. Regan, Marvin G. Nailor, said there was no doubt the shortfall would ''negatively affect the 1990-'91 budget.''
That would add to the fiscal headaches of Mr. Cuomo, Assembly Speaker Mel Miller, and the State Senate majority leader, Ralph J. Marino, who have been struggling to negotiate a compromise that would eliminate the gap in Mr. Cuomo's proposed $51 billion budget. Because of disagreements on an acceptable mix of tax increases and spending cuts, the fiscal year began on April 1 without a budget, the sixth year in a row that has happened.
Negotiators representing Mr. Cuomo, Mr. Miller and Mr. Marino continued to confer today on breaking the impasse. The leaders themselves did not meet.
The negotiators continued private discussions on a tentative agreement on the scheduled income-tax cut, which has proven to be the primary obstacle to a budget solution.
The broad outline of the plan, which was disclosed on Thursday, calls for the final stage of the cut to be postponed this year and then to be phased in over the next three years. To compensate for the revenue lost by maintaining the cut, a surcharge would be imposed on corporate taxes.
Legislative sources said the surcharge could be up to 15 percent. Each percentage point would mean $34 million for the state.
Mr. Cuomo and Mr. Miller, Democrats, favored suspending the last year of the four-year tax cut, a measure that would save $400 million this year. But Mr. Marino and his fellow Senate Republicans have pledged to protect the cut and have staked significant political capital on doing so.
Mr. Cuomo's budget officials were also pressing to save $100 million by further reducing contributions to some employees' large retirement funds. The Governor said this month that he expected the state to shave at least $200 million in payments to the State Teachers Retirement Fund by increasing the earnings assumptions on its $26 billion of investments.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%); ALBANY, NY, USA (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION BUDGETS (94%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX LAW (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (86%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); TAX INCREASES (77%); INCOME TAX (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (61%); 

PERSON: CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); SACK, KEVIN MARIO M CUOMO (94%); RALPH J MARINO (67%); MEL MILLER (67%); 



165 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 571 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST: SATURDAY, APRIL 7, 1990

 BODY:

 
 
The Economy
 The cost of the savings and loan bailout could grow to as much as $500 billion, roughly twice as high as previous official estimates, the General Accounting Office said. [Page 1.] The unemployment rate edged down one-tenth of a point, to 5.2 percent, in March, but the number of payroll jobs in the private sector declined for the first time in four years, the Labor Department said. The mixed pattern reflected in the latest figures suggested to many analysts that business activity was markedly less robust than implied by big weather-related jumps in the number of payroll jobs in January and February. 
Factory jobs skidded by 31,000 last month, resuming a prolonged decline that was interrupted in February by a return to work of idled automobile workers. The job growth as measured by the department's survey of households, rather than of business payrolls, picked up to 299,000. [9.]
 
 
 
Companies
 UAL's directors agreed to sell United Airlines to its employees for $4.38 billion, or $201 a share. If shareholders and the unions approve the bid, and if the investment bankers for the unions can raise the money, UAL would become the largest company in the world owned entirely by its employees. [1.] The buyout agreement may not bring an end to hard times at United Airlines, industry experts said. [33.] Lotus Development and Novell have tentatively agreed to a $1.5 billion merger that is intended to break Microsoft's dominance in the personal computer software business. [33.] Ford Motor is negotiating with Fiat about possible ''worldwide arrangements'' involving their tractor and farm equipment operations. [35.] In an important victory for Genentech, a jury ruled that the company's patents for tissue plasminogen activator, or T.P.A., its main product, were valid. [35.] A member of the family that controls Editions Gallimard is selling her 12.5 percent stake to Banque Nationale de Paris. [37.]
 
International
 Tokyo's Liberal Democratic Party may have to brace for enormous political losses if it passes legislation to carry out the revisions in trade barriers demanded by Washington and accepted by Tokyo on Thursday, members said. [33.] The U.S. concluded a trade agreement with Czechoslovakia that would cut tariffs and spur business ties and tourism between the two countries. An accord with the Soviets is also expected. [33.]
 
 
 
Markets
 Stock prices fell and the Dow declined by 4.05 points, to end the day at 2,717.12. For the week, the Dow was up 9.91 points. [36.]
 Treasury securities prices made a series of sharp moves on a mixture of conflicting economic news and rumors, but ended the day basically unchanged. [33.]
 The dollar ended the week slightly lower in subdued action as traders moved to the sidelines on the eve of a weekend meeting of world finance ministers. [42.]
 Copper futures rallied sharply on the Commodity Exchange in New York as traders worried about the continued strike at mines in Peru and declining supplies. [42.]
 
 
 
Today's Columns
 To free diabetes patients from the need to inject themselves with insulin daily, a surgeon in Texas has invented what amounts to a drug factory that could be inserted into a vein. Patents. [34.]
 For those who have not filed income taxes yet, a visit to the public library may be in order. Your Money. [34.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: SUMMARY

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (57%); F (NYSE) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%); BNP (PAR) (53%); BNP (BIT) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (54%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (53%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (53%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (57%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (56%); NOVELL INC (54%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%); BNP PARIBAS SA (53%); EDITIONS GALLIMARD (53%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (84%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (84%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (86%); BAILOUTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); FAMILY (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); FUTURES (77%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (76%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); MERGERS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (70%); COMMODITIES TRADING (68%); AIRLINES (67%); SHAREHOLDERS (67%); INVESTMENT BANKING (66%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (65%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (65%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (64%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (63%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT (63%); COPPER MARKETS (60%); BIOLOGICAL FACTORS (50%); LEGISLATION (50%); JURY TRIALS (50%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (50%); ANTICOAGULANTS (50%); TREASURY SECURITIES (50%); 



166 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 650 words

HEADLINE: Czech-U.S. Trade Pact Set; Accord With Soviets Seen

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 6

 BODY:
The United States has concluded a trade agreement with Czechoslovakia's new democratic Government that would cut tariffs and increase business ties and tourism between the two countries, the United States trade representative, Carla A. Hills, said today.
The accord, which is expected to be signed by the two Governments on Thursday, is the second economic pact the United States has reached with an Eastern European country since last year's political upheaval.
Last month the United States and Poland signed a more broadly based business and economic treaty, providing for investment safeguards, protection of patents, copyrights and other intellectual property and the resolution of trade disputes. 
Poland is further along in its process of economic change than Czechoslovakia and had already benefited from lower American tariffs.
Washington is also negotiating a trade agreement with the Soviet Union that Mrs. Hills said would be ready for signing when President Bush meets President Mikhail S. Gorbachev of the Soviet Union from May 30 to June 3. ''We're making good progress,'' she told a group of reporters at her office today.
The aim of both the Soviet and Czechoslovak agreements is to confer ''most favored nation'' status on those countries - meaning that American tariffs would be lowered to the level charged against most other trading partners. Tariffs on Soviet and Czechoslovak goods now run as much as 10 times as high as for most other countries.
Both Moscow and Prague are eager to remove an international stigma arising from their failure to qualify for favorable tariff treatment under the Jackson-Vanik amendment to the Trade Act of 1974. To meet the terms of the amendment, which Congress passed in retaliation for the refusal of the Soviet Government to allow Jews and other dissidents to leave the country, the President has to certify that both countries have liberal emigration policies.
This is not expected to be a big hurdle for either country, although the Soviets still have to clear legislation that would codify their freer emigration policies. President Bush has said he will propose a waiver of the Jackson-Vanik amendment once the Soviet Parliament acts.
The trade agreement with Czechoslovakia, as well as the pact expected with the Soviets, is subject to Congressional approval. Congressional aides predicted easy sailing for the Czechoslovak pact.
 
Anxieties on Lithuania
 Approval of the Soviet agreement could be more complicated, the aides said, because of some anxieties over the Soviet handling of the dispute with Lithuania.
The arrangements with both countries cover issues like protection of intellectual property, establishment of a procedure for settling trade disputes, prevention of market disruptions from surging imports, allowances for trade promotion and business representation.
One achievement of the Czechoslovak agreement is that Americans will be treated as Czechoslovaks in establishing bank accounts and paying for goods within Czechoslovakia. Hard-currency earnings may be immediately repatriated.
Czechoslovakia already has in place an ''impressive'' array of intellectual property protections, Mrs. Hills said, and is committed to strengthening its system in various ways.
 
Trade Below $150 Million
 The United States and Czechoslovakia now do relatively little business with each other. Last year two-way trade was less than $150 million.
The principal export items were cow hides, cotton, synthetic yarns and tobacco. The principal imports were special tractors, glass beads, shoes and truck and bus tires.
American trade experts said there was little Czechoslovakia now had to sell that was of interest to American consumers. But with the incentive of lower tariffs, Czechoslovak entrepreneurs could find niche markets in the United States for crystal and other such specialty products, they added.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); LITHUANIA (92%); CZECH REPUBLIC (92%); EUROPE (92%); POLAND (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); 

CITY: PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS (USSR); CZECHOSLOVAKIA; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CZECHOSLOVAKIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR; SUMMIT CONFERENCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); APPROVALS (89%); TRADE DISPUTES (89%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (89%); LIBERALISM (78%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (75%); IMPORT TRADE (73%); TRENDS (73%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (72%); PATENTS (70%); COPYRIGHT (70%); LEGISLATION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H GEORGE W BUSH (89%); 



167 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: Trade Pact Under Fire In Japan

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, April 6

 BODY:
Some members of Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu's Liberal Democratic Party said today that the party would have to brace for enormous political losses if it pushed through legislation to carry out the revisions in trade barriers sought by Washington and accepted by Tokyo on Thursday.
For example, politically powerful groups representing Japan's two million small retail stores came out strongly against the Government's agreement to revise the law that protects these stores from having big department store chains move into their neighborhoods.
''It's not going to be easy for the Government to get agreement from the vested interests,'' one Government official said. ''But the Prime Minister is obviously determined to carry out the terms. He is putting his leadership on the line.'' 
 
Popularity Ratings Are Up
 Aides to Mr. Kaifu note that he has gained in public approval ratings in recent weeks, in part because he seems to be getting results in his talks with the United States. After the new agreement was announced here early this morning, the Tokyo Stock Exchange advanced strongly all day, with the Nikkei index of 225 stocks showing a 3.6 percent gain at the close.
The Prime Minister is thus considered to be in a stronger position than he has been. Until now, he was seen as being dependent on the support of party barons, especially former Prime Minister Noboru Takeshita.
Top officials in Mr. Kaifu's Government warned that Washington should be careful not to push Japan further, because such pressure could undermine Mr. Kaifu's attempt to win approval for the new steps.
''I hope the U.S. will give due respect to our efforts,'' said Ichiro Ozawa, the party secretary general. Others said further pressure by President Bush could topple the Kaifu Government.
 
'Structural' Changes Sought
 The accord in the ''structural impediment'' talks was aimed at altering deeply ingrained business practices and public policies in both Japan and the United States that are deemed to be the underlying reason for the persistent trade imbalance that last year produced a $49 billion American deficit with Japan.
Japan agreed to several steps that fell far short of American requests but still went far enough to win the praise of the Bush Administration. Some Japanese officials said the changes could substantially alter the political landscape here.
For example, Tokyo says it will revise laws blocking big stores from coming into neighborhoods dominated by little stores and will toughen enforcement of laws against monopolies. The Government will also increase public investment in roads, bridges and similar projects, which will presumably increase demand for foreign goods and services.
The talks themselves are controversial, with many trade experts saying the changes demanded by Washington are too sweeping and impractical. Indeed, many in Japan, even those supporting the talks, say the new measures will have only a minimal effect on the trade deficit.
 
No Rise in Imports Expected
 ''We support these talks, but there isn't going to be a substantial increase in imports from them,'' said Hajime Ota, director of international economic affairs at Keidanren, the big business trade association. ''American businesses are not yet prepared to export products that Japan wants.''
There are enormous forces arrayed against making changes quickly. For example, the Finance Ministry - its political leadership and its powerful civil service bureaucracy -adamantly opposes increasing spending on public works projects. The idea is that more roads, public buildings, airports and such will lead to expansion of commercial and residential building. This, in turn, might bring in more foreign products. But the Finance Ministry is always nervous about increasing spending.
And many Japanese say privately that even if the anti-monopoly laws were changed, they would probably be weakly enforced because the ruling party is too beholden to big-business interests.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (97%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (92%); 

COMPANY: TOKYO STOCK EXCHANGE (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT PRIME MINISTERS (92%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); APPROVALS (73%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); MONOPOLIZATION (71%); DEPARTMENT STORES (71%); 

PERSON: WEISMAN, STEVEN R GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 



168 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33, Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 676 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Issues Steady After Early Moves

BYLINE: By H. J. MAIDENBERG

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities made a series of sharp moves early yesterday on a mixture of conflicting economic news and rumors, but ended the day basically unchanged.
The prices of fixed-income debt issues were initially bolstered by a less-than-expected rise of 26,000 nonfarm jobs in March, the smallest increase reported by the Government since June 1986.
A closer look at the data showed growing inflation pressure that is expected to discourage any move by the Federal Reserve to ease interest rates. This interpretation of the job data caused bond prices to relapse. 
 
Refunding Rumor Denied
 Among the day's assortment of rumors that briefly roiled the market was a report that the Resolution Funding Corporation, the financing unit of the Resolution Trust Corporation, would expand the size of Tuesday's $3.5 billion bond offering because of the worsening plight of the many savings and loan associations that the agency is trying to bail out. Officials at the agency emphatically denied this.
Dealers expect the new 40-year bonds to yield 8.85 percent, up from 8.60 percent at the last such sale on Jan. 23, when there was an offering of $5 billion in bonds.
One indication of the market's volatility was the price range of the Treasury's bellwether long bonds, the 8.5 percent issue maturing in 2020. Its price moved during the day from a high of 100 16/32 to a low of 99 13/32. Late in the session the long bonds were being offered at 99 27/32, unchanged on the day, with the yield at 8.51 percent. A week ago, the yield on the long bonds was 8.62 percent.
''The rumors were a nuisance compared with the impact of the March job data,'' said William V. Sullivan Jr., senior vice president at Dean Witter Reynolds. ''While the small rise in nonfarm jobs was small and bullish, a breakdown of the numbers showed that wages are rising and that hourly earnings are rising at an annual rate of nearly 5 percent. This is not good for the fixed-income market.''
 
Reports on Japanese Selling
 What also drove bond investors and traders to the sidelines, Mr. Sullivan continued, were reports that Japanese investment houses were heavy sellers of long-term Treasury issues. ''It could be that they were selling the same paper they bought last week to dress up their accounts for the winding up of the Japanese fiscal year, which was March 31,'' he said, ''which is perhaps why the sales had relatively little impact on prices.''
The unwinding of the ''window dressing'' operations this week was also believed to be responsible for the unfounded rumors earlier in the week that a top Japanese financial institution was in trouble and was forced to sell some Treasury holdings.
Meanwhile, prices in the secondary market for Treasury debt showed few changes. The new 8.5 percent notes of 1992 rose 1/32, at par, for a yield of 8.50 percent; the new 8.5's of 1994 gained 1/32, at 99 25/32, for a yield of 8.56 percent.
On Wednesday, the Treasury plans to auction $7.5 billion of new seven-year notes. The notes traded on a when-issued basis to yield 8.58 percent.
 
Long Notes Rise
 The Treasury's long notes, the 8.5's of the year 2000, rose 2/32, to 99 23/32, to yield 8.54 percent, against 8.62 percent a week ago. By comparison, the yield on 10-year Japanese long bonds declined to 7.28 percent, from 7.36 percent during the week, while the yield on the same West German bond maturity climbed to 8.58 percent from 8.38 percent.
At the short end of the Treasury market, the discount rate on 90-day bills rose two basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point, to 7.77 percent; six-month bills were unchanged at 7.75 percent, and the one-year bills eased two basis points, to 7.68 percent.
The Federal Reserve added another $1 billion of reserves to the banking system, following an influsion of $1.5 billion the day before. But the moves were linked to holiday credit demands. Federal funds, which banks charge each other for temporary credit, traded at 8 1/4 percent most of the day before easing to 8 3/ 16 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: DEAN WITTER REYNOLDS INC (53%); RESOLUTION FUNDING CORP (56%); RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (56%); RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (56%); RESOLUTION FUNDING CORP (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; GOVERNMENT BONDS BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INFLATION (79%); BAILOUTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BOND ISSUES (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); STATISTICS (76%); INTEREST RATES (70%); SAVINGS & LOANS (53%); 

PERSON: MAIDENBERG, H J



169 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: Debt Seen as Negating Gains in United Deal

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
United Airlines has been looking for a way to recapture the No. 1 position in the domestic airline industry from American Airlines. But industry experts think the tentative agreement reached yesterday for an employee buyout will not by itself be the answer.
The tax advantages, wage concessions and improved morale associated with an employee buyout may have turned the $4.38 billion offer for the UAL Corporation, the airline's parent, into the company's best available option. The $201-a-share bid came after speculative investors had accumulated large holdings of stock and demanded the company's sale. 
 
Higher Interest Costs
 But the deal will mean taking on more debt, and the resulting higher interest costs may cancel out most if not all of the advantages. American Airlines, which in November 1988 replaced United as the nation's leading carrier, has a light debt load.
''There seems to be a misunderstanding that United becomes a low-cost carrier because of these wage concessions,'' said Kevin C. Murphy, an analyst at Morgan Stanley & Company. ''That's simple-minded.''
Daniel M. Kasper, a transportation consultant in Boston, said: ''The positive feature is you get for some time a calm labor situation, with people pulling in the same direction. The price you pay is a heavily leveraged airline.''
The proposed buyout comes at a crucial time for United. United's share of all traffic carried by United States airlines has stagnated for the last four years at about 16 percent, while American's share has grown to 17 percent from 13 percent in 1986.
American, a subsidiary of the AMR Corporation, is pouring its extra revenues into buying new aircraft, with plans to spend $21 billion over the next five years, and half of its 8,300 pilots have been hired at entry-level wages in its rapid expansion since late 1983.
United's top management has expressed fears that the airline may be locked in a vicious circle, with slower growth leading to lower investment spending and less hiring of younger and less expensive pilots, in turn leading to even slower growth.
United has hired a quarter of its more than 6,500 pilots since introducing low entry-level wages four years ago, and has made commitments to invest $9.1 billion, principally for aircraft, over the next four years, said Sara Darnecker, a spokeswoman for the company.
Wall Street analysts estimated that yesterday's agreement would probably require UAL to make extra annual interest payments ranging from $400 million to $500 million. To defray this expense, United's unions have agreed to wage concessions of $300 million in the first year after the deal, rising to $500 million in five years.
 
Tax Deductibility Cited
 In addition, repayments of the principal borrowed to finance the transaction will be tax deductible, a person familiar with the deal said. This benefit would exceed $150 million a year and make up the difference between the interest payments and the wage concessions, this person said.
Even if the promised concessions do add up to the promised amounts, the opportunity for further concessions may be limited in any future economic downturn, said Edward J. Starkman, an airline analyst at Paine Webber. ''What happens when things get really tight and there aren't any more concessions to give?'' he asked, pointing out that airlines have traditionally responded to recessions by seeking to reduce their wage bills.
United could reduce the debt load and the accompanying interest burden by selling and then leasing back more of its aircraft. United owns 279 of its 429 planes and leases the rest.
But sale and leaseback agreements may be difficult to conclude quickly. The used jetliner market has softened considerably in recent months while potential lenders for equipment deals have begun demanding special and costly legal protections against sudden changes in United's financial position, airline industry and bank officials said.
Yesterday's agreement also calls for the unions to raise $240 million from the sale of securities related to UAL's 50 percent interest in the Covia computer reservation system, at a time when Government and private studies have repeatedly shown that control over such a system is vital to a worldwide airline.
Spokesmen and participants in the deal declined to discuss whether the securities would consist of debt or equity. They insisted that UAL would keep the benefits of its position as the dominant partner.
A Justice Department study estimated in May 1988 that the extra business for United generated by UAL's control over Covia resulted in profits of up to $300 million a year. Since then UAL has redesigned the system in part to accommodate criticism by the Justice Department that it favored UAL too much.
UAL sold half of Covia for $493 million in August 1988 to affiliates of Alitalia-Linee Aeree S.p.A., British Airways P.L.C., KLM Royal Dutch Airlines, the Swiss Air Transport Company Ltd. and USAir Group Inc.
 
'One of the Crown Jewels'
 But Covia remains ''one of the crown jewels'' of UAL, one industry expert said, and the company has fought hard to maintain its control. UAL insisted that when a Covia stake of a fraction of 1 percent was sold last September to Air Canada, all of the stock transferred come from the minority partners in Covia to avoid putting UAL's stake below 50 percent.
The terms of the Covia partnership also require until 1993 the unanimous consent of all partners before any partner may sell any of its stake. United has not sought such consent, although it has been reportedly negotiating for months and with limited success to sell part of its stake in Covia to any of several Asian and European carriers.
Selling even part of Covia may be difficult because all other major American carriers except Pan American World Airways are already affiliated with various computer reservation systems and the Justice Department has objected to their consolidation.
Most large European carriers have already joined one of two major computer reservation systems, and Covia is a large stakeholder and equipment supplier to one of these systems, known as Galileo. That may result in legal complications for any effort to sell Covia stock in Europe

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (84%); MS (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (82%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (92%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (92%); AMR CORP (85%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (84%); MORGAN STANLEY (82%); MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (69%); ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS (84%); ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UAL CORP; UNITED AIRLINES; MACHINISTS AND AEROSPACE WORKERS; AIR LINE PILOTS ASSN (ALPA); FLIGHT ATTENDANTS, INDEPENDENT FEDERATION OF AIR LINE PILOTS ASSOCIATION INTERNATIONAL; AIRLINE PILOTS ASSOCIATION INTERNATIONAL; INDEPENDENT FEDERATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS; INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MACHINISTS & AEROSPACE WORKERS; 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; EMPLOYEE OWNED COMPANIES; CREDIT AIRLINES (94%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLANS (77%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); PARENT COMPANIES (76%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (63%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH



170 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 42, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 405 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES/OPTIONS;
Copper Rallies Before Prices Ease a Bit on Profit Taking

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Copper futures rallied sharply yesterday on the Commodity Exchange in New York as traders worried about the continued strike at mines in Peru and declining supplies, but profit taking trimmed prices near the close of trading.
On other markets, precious metals were higher, grain and soybeans declined, livestock surged, pork fell and oil prices were mixed.
Copper settled 1.60 cents to 2.55 cents higher, with the contract for delivery in April at $1.245 a pound. 
Copper prices surged 4.20 cents in early trading on the Comex before gains were trimmed by half.
Jim Steel, an analyst with Refco Inc. in New York, said the rally stemmed from short covering - the buying of contracts to fulfill obligations made by earlier short sales, which are the sales of borrowed contracts - by traders after Thursday's selloff. He said the selloff was prompted by reports saying the strike was over, but the fresh indications that the mines were still shut alarmed the market.
Mr. Steel said the belief that the strike was winding down caused prices to retreat near the close of trading.
Mr. Steel added that the price surge had also been helped by feelings that copper stocks in London Metal Exchange warehouses had declined.
Precious metals futures rose in trading on the Comex.
Gold prices surged after the release of employment figures by the Bureau of Labor Statistics that showed a small increase in the number of jobs created and a decline of jobs in the manufacturing sector.
Mr. Steel called the employment figures disappointing and said they could result in lower interest rates and weakening of the dollar, which he says would be good for gold.
Gold was $5.90 higher, with April at $380.75 an ounce; silver was 2.1 cents to 2.1 cents higher, with May at $5.19 an ounce.
Grain and soybean futures closed lower on the Chicago Board of Trade as profit taking set in after a strong opening on rumors of a large grain purchase by the Soviet Union.
The rumors of a Soviet grain purchase were never confirmed during the day and traders took the opportunity to cash in.
After the close of trading, the United States Agriculture Department reported the sale of 750,000 metric tons of corn to the Soviet Union.
Wheat prices was getting support from expectations of a weekend freeze in winter wheat crop areas. That concern eased as forecasts indicated the drop in temperatures would not be as severe as previously expected.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (71%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (71%); SIC6221 COMMODITY CONTRACTS BROKERS & DEALERS (71%); 

COUNTRY: PERU (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (54%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (84%); REFCO INC (71%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (54%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (54%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; COPPER, BRASS AND BRONZE COPPER MARKETS (94%); FUTURES (93%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (91%); METALS MARKETS (90%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); SILVER MARKETS (90%); COPPER INDUSTRY (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); BASE METALS MARKETS (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); GRAIN MARKETS (90%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); WHEAT MARKETS (89%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (89%); CORN MARKETS (89%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); CURRENCIES (77%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); AGRICULTURE (77%); US DOLLAR (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); STATISTICS (70%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (65%); WHEAT FARMING (65%); JOB CREATION (65%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: JIM STEEL (91%); 



171 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 32, Column 5; Style Desk

LENGTH: 215 words

HEADLINE: CONSUMER'S WORLD: Guidepost;
Banks and the Elderly

 BODY:

Many banks are trying to lure older Americans' deposits by offering a variety of benefits that are not available to the other customers. Such depositors are viewed as a source of stable funds and a ready market for estate planning services. Some banks require fairly large balances for these accounts; others set no minimum, but depositors have to pay monthly fees. And some banks may require depositors to sign up for direct deposit of Social Security, payroll or pension checks. There is no national listing of banks that offer these special accounts; the American Association of Retired Perosns generally recommends using banks that are close to home and suggests phoning them for information. Here are some of the requirements, charges and services to consider in deciding on one of these accounts:
 
Minimun Age: Most banks have lowered it to 50 years, from 65.
 
Benefits and Serivces: Free checking; bonus rates on certificates of deposits, sometimes as much as a quarter of a percentage point higher; free credit cards and discounts on retail purchases and travel.
 
Minimum Balances or Fees: Some banks require account balances ranging from $2,000 to $5,000. Others charge monthly fees of $7 to $10.
 
 
 
Source: Bank Rate Monitor, North Palm Beach, Fla.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: CONSUMER'S WORLD PAGE (NYT)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PALM BEACH HOTEL (55%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; AGED AGING (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); ESTATE PLANNING (57%); 



172 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 7, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Page 48, Column 5; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 658 words

HEADLINE: Review/Television;
How the Schools' Failure Is a Business Crisis, Too

BYLINE: By WALTER GOODMAN

 BODY:
If good intentions could do the job, ''Our Future at Risk: The Education Crisis'' would be exemplary television; but, then, if good intentions could do the job, there would be no crisis. The nine educators and corporation executives gathered Monday night at 8 o'clock on Channel 9 concentrate on the failure of America's schools to teach young people to read, spell, add and speak English well enough to staff America's businesses. They agree that cooperation between workplace and schoolplace is essential. ''A'' for good intentions.
The hour, sponsored by I.B.M. and moderated by Hodding Carter. It begins with a familiarly depressing 10-minute report on the inability of millions of youngsters who have made their way through the school system to do any sort of job more demanding than handing out hamburgers at McDonald's. 
Although the panelists tend to talk in sound bites, what they say is realistic. All recognize that the schools are staggering under an assault of social and economic problems, from single-parent households to the decline of jobs for the unskilled, that cannot be remedied in the classroom.
Seasoned observers like Albert Shanker, president of the American Federation of Teachers, Dr. Ernest Boyer, president of the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching, and Dr. Joseph A. Fernandez, New York's Schools Chancellor, emphasize the dimensions of the problems. ''Is the school to become a social agency?'' asks Dr. Boyer. A teacher on the panel reminds viewers of the many elementary school children who graduate not into intermediate school but ''into motherhood or prison.''
The solutions offered are less compelling. Chancellor Fernandez calls for a Marshall Plan for the schools but does not tell how the money would be spent. Mr. Shanker calls for ''a new kind of school,'' but is given little opportunity to elaborate. The businessmen are agreed that corporations have to provide more in the way of day care, time off for workers to study and on-the-job training, and Peter McWalters, the superintendent of schools in Rochester, tells, in the jargon of his trade, of cooperation between businesses and schools in his jurisdiction. But in sum, the positives seem overwhelmed by the negatives. (From the applause for every proposal to raise teachers' pay, you may deduce that the profession was well represented in the audience at Pace University, where the program was taped in March during a Business Week symposium. There is something odd in having teachers applaud the news that for years the brightest graduates haven't been going into teaching.) It is a dutiful hour rather than a stimulating one. The best that can be said for ''Our Future at Risk'' (one of those all-purpose titles available for everything from acid rain to the brain drain) is that it drives home the inability of the schools as traditionally financed and operated to address the problems that have been imposed on them. Not a new message, but a necessary one that, alas, demands repeating. There's that much to be said for good intentions. (Details of the cooperative effort in Rochester can be found in ''Crisis: Urban Education,'' a four-part series that will be shown on Channel 13 at 11 P.M. from April 16 through 19. The series also reports on a troubled high school in Trenton, a well-reputed high school in East Harlem and three inner city youths with different attitudes toward education.)
 
 
 
Trying to Solve The Unsolvable
OUR FUTURE AT RISK: THE EDUCATION CRISIS, directed by Neil Borrell; written and produced by Edward Miller; Jane Kashalk, senior producer Bob Woodruff, executive producer; Hodding Carter 3d, moderator; presented by WWOR-TV Business Week. Monday at 8 P.M. on Channel 9.
 
WITH: Dr. Joseph Fernandez, Albert Shanker, Dr. Ernest Boyer, Sanford I. Weill, Dr. Bernard Gifford, Jack MacAllister, Dr. Linda Darling-Hammond, Peter McWalters, James E. Dezell Jr. and Barbara Ellis.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: OUR FUTURE AT RISK: THE EDUCATION CRISIS (TV PROGRAM)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CHANNEL 9 (70%); AMERICAN FEDERATION INSURANCE CO (56%); AMERICAN FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (55%); AMERICAN FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (55%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; REVIEWS; TELEVISION TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); CHILDREN (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); PARENTS (74%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (73%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); ON THE JOB TRAINING (73%); TEACHER UNIONS (72%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); SINGLE PARENTS (67%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (50%); ACID RAIN (50%); 

PERSON: GOODMAN, WALTER JOSEPH A FERNANDEZ (70%); ALBERT SHANKER (56%); HODDING CARTER 3D (56%); 



173 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1018 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL/3-17

 
A secret proposal to ban missiles with multiple warheads was presented to the Soviet Union last month. But President Gorbachev rejected it this week because it included only land-based missiles. Page 1

 
Throngs rally in Lithuania to back call for independence 14

 
News analysis: Lithuania plays uninvited party guest 15

 
Clean air is a luxury in the East bloc. While comprehensive health surveys are not available, specialists say diseases caused by pollution are consuming public health budgets and threatening future generations. 1

 
Panel urges Hungary to quickly alter its economy 14

 
A fire on a ferry killed at least 110 people off Norway and forced hundreds of terrified passengers into lifeboats. In Myanmar, formerly Burma, at least 240 people died when a ferry sank on the Gyaing River. 1 
 
 
Two prisons in Northern Ireland underline the disparate worlds of the sectarian war. One is controlled by paramilitary groups; the other, a symbol of Britain's new approach to prisons, has left the war behind. 16

 
The elections in Greece tomorrow, the third round in 10 months, have underlined a malaise that raises the question: has the cradle of democracy lost touch with its offspring? 3

 
Mario Vargas Llosa's lead in Peru, once commanding, now faces a strong challenge from Alberto Fujimori, an independent candidate in the country's presidential election. 12

 
Colombia's largest leftist party is slowly being wiped out by killers hired by cocaine traffickers linked to the nation's right wing. Three thousand members of the Patriotic Union have been killed since 1985. 10

 
Strikes imperil Mexico's economic recovery plan 12

 
A call for talks in Nepal was rebuffed by the country's opposition. New clashes and demonstrations were reported a day after security forces opened fire on pro-democracy demonstrators. 16

 
De Klerk and Mandela plan to hold talks in May 3

 
Angola says it will begin talks with rebels soon 4

 
Congress withholds part of the U.S.' dues to U.N. 9

 
U.S. and allies concerned by the fall of the yen 16

 
Aided by U.S. waiver, China launches first foreign satellite 17

 
NATIONAL/20-27

 
John M. Poindexter was convicted on all five criminal charges that he deceived and lied to Congress as part of an effort to conceal the Reagan Administration's actions in the Iran-contra affair. 1

 
The Bell Atlantic Corporation has been temporarily barred by the Treasury Department from doing business with the Federal Government after one of its subsidiaries reportedly used false information in a contract bid. 1

 
A Cincinnati art center was indicted, along with its director, on misdemeanor obscenity charges for exhibiting photographs by Robert Mapplethorpe. The police closed the exhibition for 90 minutes to collect evidence, as 1,000 protested outside. 1

 
The Northeast's economic slowdown has put incumbent governors of both parties on the defensive and given this year's elections a powerful element of uncertainty. 20

 
The Chippewa's annual spearfishing in northern Wisconsin has become the occasion for an uglier rite: a protest over fishing rights by non-Indians, who say the Indians are stripping some lakes of valuable fish. 20

 
The environmentalist Marjory Stoneham Douglas turns 100 20

 
Exxon study claims spill poses no long-term threat to fish 21

 
More criminals are being asked to pay for stays in jail 25

 
REGIONAL/28-32

 
The Happy Land Social Club's owner, Alexander DiLorenzo 3d, is being sued by his brother and sister, who claim he is running the family real-estate fortune into the ground. 28

 
Supporters and opponents of Fidel Castro demonstrate 28

 
The office of Wesleyan University's president is firebombed 29

 
An art exhibition like no other opened in a TriBeCa gallery. All five artists are young patients at Harlem Hospital Center recovering from handicaps caused by accidental injuries. 30

 
Roosevelt Island tram could be a financial victim 30

 
New York State's three-year-old ethics law is upheld 31

 
The jury in the Bensonhurst trial for one of the two defendants was chosen after a weeklong process punctuated by moments that brought back to life memories of the death of Yusuf K. Hawkins. 32

 
Search continues for clues in stabbing of Long Island boy 32

 
Obituaries 34

Arthur B. Singer, naturalist and painter of birds 34

 
Arts/Reviews 55-56, 58

Rome Prize fellowship winners 56

Music: The story of counterpoint 55

The Atlanta Symphony 55

Hungarian folk group 55

The Chinese Orchestra 55

Met Opera Auditions winners 56

Duo builds on country roots 56

Two faces of pianism 58

Dance: Jennifer Sargent 55

Linda Mussman program 55

Helstroffer's ''Threshold'' 55

Accion Colectiva 56

 
Campus Life 39-43

 
Fashion 48, 50

 
Life Style 44

Pastimes 57-59

 
Weddings 57-59

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: SUMMARY

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (80%); VZ (NYSE) (80%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (80%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (80%); 

COUNTRY: LITHUANIA (94%); MYANMAR (92%); NEPAL (79%); COLOMBIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); 

CITY: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (80%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (76%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); FERRIES (75%); GOVERNORS (73%); OBSCENITY (73%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (70%); MISDEMEANORS (65%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (65%); INDICTMENTS (65%); COCAINE (64%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (64%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (61%); ENVIRONMENTAL ILLNESS (56%); JAPANESE YEN (50%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (50%); 

PERSON: ALBERTO FUJIMORI (55%); 



174 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 12, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: Peru Votes for President Today; Polls See a Runoff

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: RIO DE JANEIRO, April 7

 BODY:
Mario Vargas Llosa, the internationally known novelist, has long enjoyed a commanding lead in the campaign for elections on Sunday in Peru, where voters are to select a new president and Congress to guide their fragile democracy.
But in a measure of Peruvians' deep political alienation from the established parties, Alberto Fujimori, an agricultural engineer who was a virtual unknown six weeks ago, has vaulted from the pack of eight candidates chasing Mr. Vargas Llosa for the presidency. On Friday, poll takers indicated that Mr. Fujimori, an independent, would win enough votes to force Mr. Vargas Llosa into a runoff next month.
Mr. Vargas Llosa, an admirer of Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher of Britain, has drawn up a blueprint for a free-market revolution in Peru. Mr. Fujimori, whose campaign literature shows him dressed in a kimono and brandishing a samurai sword, has loosely sketched out a program based on attracting more investment from Japan, his parents' homeland. 
Last year, Peru's gross national product contracted by 12.2 percent, the sharpest drop on the continent. At the same time, prices rose by 2,775 percent. Peru's currency, the inti, has lost 70 percent of its value against the dollar since February, trading last week at 30,000. The United Nations reports that 5 million of Peru's 22 million inhabitants live in extreme poverty.
This economic disaster is believed to have undermined the campaign of Luis Alva Castro, the candidate of the governing Popular Revolutionary American Alliance.
 
Terror of the Shining Path
Competing for the attention of Peru's 10 million voters is terrorist violence, which has claimed 700 lives since the beginning of the year and 18,000 since the rebellion by the Shining Path guerrilla group began in 1980. Most of the Pacific coast nation is under a state of emergency. On the eve of the election, the police and soldiers conducted intensive patrols in the hope of thwarting any attacks.
Voting Sunday is expected to be light in most areas of the Andean highlands, the Shining Path's primary zone of influence. The guerrilla group, which abhors elections and seeks a worker-peasant state along Maoist lines. has threatened to cut off voters' fingers. In a response to the threats, election officials in the highlands have been instructed to suspend a traditional practice of guarding against voter fraud: dipping voters' forefingers in indelible ink.
This weekend, the rebel group brought most interstate traffic to a halt by threatening to mine roads and by declaring ''armed strikes'' in two departments, Ayacucho and Junin.
 
Killings and Explosions
Ten days ago, the threat of an armed strike disrupted life in Lima, the Peruvian capital, as 80 percent of the city's private bus drivers stayed home. Drivers said that the Government of President Alan Garcia never reimbursed the owners of buses burned during an armed strike before municipal elections last November.
In the last two weeks, terrorists killed four congressional candidates, occupied radio stations to broadcast warnings against voting, and, in at least 200 attacks, dynamited power pylons, party offices, bank branches, police posts, hotels, Government offices, empty movie theaters and factories. At least two dozen people were killed, including at least one Shining Path guerrilla in an explosion of land mines placed around a power pylon.
With terrorism and the economy preoccupying voters, candidates rarely mentioned the Peruvian issue that most concerns Washington: the cultivation of coca leaves, the raw material for cocaine.
Peru probably grows half of the world's coca leaves, a major source of hard currency there. Most candidates, including Mr. Vargas Llosa, oppose aerial eradication programs. Instead, they call for increased aid from the United States to help peasants switch to a legal crop. #37 Percent for Vargas Llosa With the campaigning ended, representatives of Peru's top three polling organizations, Apoyo, Datum, and the Peruvian Company for Market Research, met in Lima on Friday with foreign correspondents. By law, the results of new opinion surveys cannot be reported in the local press less than 15 days before the election.
The pollsters agreed that support for Mr. Vargas Llosa had declined in the last two months from a near majority of voters to around 37 percent.
In contrast, Mr. Fujimori, referred to as the ''Japanese torpedo'' by Lima's press, has jumped from less than 1 percent of voter support in February to about 25 percent.
If no candidate wins more than 50 percent of the votes cast on Sunday, two candidates will face a runoff, probably in May. The ballot for Congress, in which voters are to elect 60 senators and 180 deputies, requires no runoff.
Several polling experts and political analysts here describe part of the decline in support for Mr. Vargas Llosa as a cross-border reaction to the radical economic program that is provoking a recession in neighboring Brazil.
 
Fallout From Brazilian Austerity
Three weeks ago, Mr. Vargas Llosa hailed the anti-inflationary program imposed by Brazil's new President, Fernando Collor de Mello.
The 54-year-old candidate of Peru's center-right Democratic Front coalition has vowed for months to bring inflation down to 10 percent a year through an economic ''shock'' program: cutting the state payroll, abolishing subsidies and selling state companies to private investors.
But Mr. Fujimori, a 51-year-old independent who campaigns under the slogan ''Work, Technology and Honesty,'' has said that drastic economic measures are not needed to straighten out Peru's economy.
Mr. Fujimori, who has campaigned with evangelical Christian support, is a former rector of the Agrarian University of La Molina, a Lima suburb. After Brazil, Peru has South America's second-largest colony of descendants of Japanese immigrants, and polls indicate that Peruvians hold the Japanese community in high regard.
 
Disillusionment With Parties
The pollsters said the lack of a party network is not a major handicap in Peru, where many voters are disillusioned with the track record of politicians from established parties.
In an upset victory in November, Ricardo Belmont, a radio and television announcer without any party affiliation, won the mayoralty of Lima, Peru's second-most important elected post after the presidency.
''Sunday's election will be one of big surprises,'' Manuel Dornellas, editor of the center-right newspaper Expreso, wrote last week. ''From the consolidation of Vargas Llosa, to the appearance of Fujimori, passing through the collapse of the Marxist leftists, no one can deny that new winds are blowing in national politics.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ballot boxes arriving at a polling station in Lima yesterday as Peruvians prepared for today's elections (Associated Press); Alberto Fujimori, an independent candidate for the Peruvian presidency, has surged in popularity in recent weeks. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PERU (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ANDES (79%); 

COMPANY: PACIFIC COAST LIGHTING (53%); PACIFIC COAST PRODUCERS (53%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); SHINING PATH (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PERU

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PUBLIC OPINION; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES ELECTIONS (90%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (86%); WRITERS (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ENGINEERING (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); ELECTION FRAUD (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); CURRENCIES (71%); TERRORISM (69%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (69%); WAR & CONFLICT (69%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (69%); CIVIL WAR (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); MILITARY WEAPONS (67%); ARMED FORCES (62%); CITIES (60%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (60%); PRICE INCREASES (52%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES; FUJIMORI, ALBERTO; VARGAS LLOSA, MARIO ALBERTO FUJIMORI (92%); MARGARET THATCHER (57%); 



175 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 14, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: UPHEAVAL IN THE EAST;
Commission Urges Hungary to Overhaul Economy

BYLINE: By CELESTINE BOHLEN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BUDAPEST, April 7

 BODY:
A task force of international economic experts has called for a swift and decisive attack on the centrally planned economy in Hungary, saying economic change must occur in ''quantum leaps'' if the country is to move successfully from its socialist past toward a free-market system.
Reporting just before elections on Sunday that will produce Hungary's first democratic government in more than 40 years, the Blue Ribbon Commission, a privately financed committee of Hungarian and foreign experts, laid out a program for the new government.
The report, issued on Friday, calls for drastic cuts in state subsidies for housing, food and enterprises; an overhaul of the banking system, including greater discipline in the collection of bad debts and a greater role for investment banks in the privatization of state companies; a lowering of Hungary's personal income tax rate; the raising of the retirement age to 65 from 60 for men and 55 for women; the convertibility of the Hungarian forint to other currencies within three years, and a review of tax breaks for foreign businesses so that local investors are not put at a disadvantage. 
 
Early Actions Proposed
The report calls on the new government, while it is still in its ''honeymoon period,'' to adopt incentives for private entrepreneurs, the creation of an investment agency, enforcement of the bankruptcy law and abolition of some import restrictions.
Most importantly, the report said, Hungary should adopt a comprehensive program for economic reform, set a timetable and keep the public informed of all its decisions, so that people are not surprised by the shocks caused by the transition.
''Policies cannot be implemented if the public does not understand the consequences,'' said Sylvia Ostry, a Canadian economist and co-chairwoman of the commission. ''The more the public understands, the better the policies are likely to be.''
The report also proposed changes in the West's response to Hungary's economic problems, including an easing of import restrictions and Western government guarantees for commercial loans and tax concessions for companies investing in Hungary. But it concluded that help should be made conditional on a decision by the new government to take necessary, if painful, steps on its own.
 
The Commission's Background
The 20-member commission, financed by private sponsors in the West and by Hungarian business and academic institutes, has been meeting for six months to map out how Hungary should reach its goal of a free-market economy.
Among its members are prominent figures from Hungary's rival political parties, as well as leading economists. The foreign experts include several Hungarian emigres living in the West as well as financial and management experts from the United States, Canada, Europe and Japan. Among the American sponsors are the Hudson Institute, a private research organization in Indianapolis; Indiana University, and the East-West Forum, a nonprofit research group.
At a news conference here on Friday, members of the commission said the report would serve as a reference for the government that emerges from Sunday's elections, and perhaps as a detailed guide.
The timetable for converting the forint, the Hungarian currency, was the most contentious issue debated by the commission, because letting the forint float to its true market value is bound to jolt the economy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HUNGARY (99%); CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (92%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); BUDAPEST, HUNGARY (79%); 

COMPANY: BLUE RIBBON BREAD (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HUNGARY

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BANKS AND BANKING; PRICES ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); TRENDS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); POLITICS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); RESEARCH REPORTS (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (74%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (74%); INVESTMENT BANKING (74%); TAX LAW (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); IMPORT CONTROLS (70%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (70%); RETIREMENT AGE (68%); INCOME TAX (68%); SPONSORSHIP (64%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (57%); 

PERSON: BOHLEN, CELESTINE



176 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 16, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1304 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and Allies Concerned by Yen's Fall

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PARIS, April 7

 BODY:
The top economic policy makers from the United States and its six main industrial allies expressed concern today about the fall of the Japanese yen. While leaving open the possibility of steps to bolster the yen's value, the officials announced no specific plans.
After a daylong meeting here, the finance ministers and chief central bankers of the seven nations, known as the Group of Seven, issued a brief communique stating that the decline of the yen had ''undesirable consequences.'' The statement said the officials had ''agreed to keep these developments under review.''
That could mean that the policy makers will wait to do something about the yen until their next meeting, in Washington next month. Or it could mean they will take joint action sooner. 
 
Concern About Trade Deficits
The yen's value has fallen by more than 10 percent against the dollar this year, and some officials believe that could have an eventual effect on the international trade balance. A less valuable yen makes Japanese goods less expensive abroad and the goods of other countries more expensive in Japan, making it harder for other nations to reduce trade deficits with Japan. The yen closed trading Friday at 157.50 to the dollar.
But the prevailing view seemed to be that internal Japanese economic and political conditions, particularly the sharp drop in the Japanese stock market, had caused the yen to decline and that international intervention would not be effective.
At a news conference after the meeting, Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady said the value of the yen was ''about where it was three years ago'' and was thus not outside the bounds of stability.
Neither Mr. Brady nor the officials from other countries would state specifically what had been decided on at the meeting.
 
Waiting for Market Action
If the ministers did decide to bolster the yen, even with modest purchases of the Japanese currency, such action would not be known for certain until the financial markets around the world open on Monday morning.
In addition to the United States and Japan, the Group of Seven consists of West Germany, France, Britain, Italy and Canada. The group usually meets three times a year to review international economic conditions, with the goal of keeping international markets on a steady course.
Today's meeting was held in the new Finance Ministry building in a neighborhood called Bercy, on the Right Bank of the Seine.
Monumental changes have occurred in the world since the group met in September, including the first steps toward free markets in Eastern Europe and the movement toward German unification. But the decline of the yen was seen as the only significant issue on which joint action was possible today.
Yasushi Mieno, the governor of the Bank of Japan, said after the meeting that he hoped the group's communique would bolster the yen when trading resumes Monday. The Japanese have been urging their allies to give them some help in supporting the yen.
 
Overall Outlook Is Optimistic
The morning session today was devoted to a review of international conditions led by Michel Camdessus, director of the International Monetary Fund. The Group of Seven concluded in its communique that ''overall growth prospects remain good, inflation remains contained and external imbalances have been reduced, although unevenly.''
In the afternoon, the officials discussed not only the value of the yen but such issues as the developments in Eastern Europe, the formation of an international bank to lend to the new democracies there and an impending increase in payments to the International Monetary Fund.
According to sketchy accounts of today's meeting, the argument against strong market intervention to increase the value of the yen was led by Mr. Brady and the Finance Minister of West Germany, Theo Waigel.
Mr. Waigel said afterward only that ''coordination and cooperation will continue'' in regards to the yen.
The American view is that the conditions that caused the yen to drop are beyond international repair and that steps now would probably not succeed in raising its value.
''If you fail, you have wasted a tool that can only be used occasionally,'' one United States official said.
 
Japanese Stocks a Factor
The decline of the Japanese stock market by about 25 percent this year has not been reflected in other stock markets, and some American policy makers worry about actions that might tie United States markets to those in Japan.
A West German finance official told reporters that a large part of the problem with the yen resulted from the delay by Japanese officials in raising their interest rates. After public squabbling between the Finance Ministry and the Bank of Japan, the central bank finally raised its key discount rate on March 20 by one percentage point, to 5.25 percent. But that did not stop the yen's slide.
''They should have raised interest rates earlier to avoid a lack of confidence,'' the German official said.
The Finance Minister of France, Pierre Beregovoy, added evidence to support the view that the policy makers had agreed not to act decisively on the yen for the time being. ''It's up to Japan to keep these developments under close review,'' he said at a news conference.
 
German Issues Discussed
Officials said that during the discussion of the monetary union of West and East Germany, Mr. Waigel reassured his counterparts that they would be consulted before an official exchange rate was set for converting East German currency into West German marks. In any event, Mr. Waigel said at a news conference, no decision would be made before the leaders of Western Europe meet in Dublin on April 27.
Last weekend, Mr. Waigel said his Government intended to allow one West German mark for each East German mark. But a political furor arose in both Germanys, and the Government backed off that plan.
Officials in other countries fear that granting equal value to East German marks could produce serious inflation and lead to higher interest rates, but Mr. Waigel said at his news conference that he did not anticipate interest rates rising.
 
A New International Bank
After the Finance Ministers leave on Sunday, their deputies will stay behind to continue negotiations over the formation of a European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
The bank is being created to lend money to the emerging free-market economies in Eastern Europe. United States officials say they hope it will be in operation by a year from now.
Many important issues have been resolved, at least in principle. The United States is to hold a 10 percent share in the bank, the largest single stake. No other country's share will be larger than 8.5 percent, but a 51 percent majority of the shares are to be held by the Western European countries that make up the European Community.
Of particular importance to the Americans, up to 60 percent of the money lent by the bank will go to new private ventures or to state-run enterprises like telephone companies that are becoming private.
 
Disagreement on Soviet Loans
The most significant unresolved issue involves loans to the Soviet Union. The United States insists that the Soviets should be allowed to borrow no more than the amount of capital they put into the bank. Some European countries favor a more generous policy toward Moscow.
Another matter that must be settled is the location of the headquarters. The United States wants the headquarters in Prague, but it will probably lose, and the offices are likely to be somewhere in Western Europe.
In addition, a competition has developed over the presidency of the new bank. The leading candidates are Onno Ruding, a former Dutch Finance Minister, and Jacques Atalli, an adviser to President Francois Mitterrand of France.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady arriving at France's Finance Ministry yesterday for a meeting of the United States and its economic allies. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (50%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (93%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (51%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (92%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (50%); GROUP OF SEVEN (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF SEVEN

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN; PARIS (FRANCE)

SUBJECT: CURRENCY JAPANESE YEN (93%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; BRADY, NICHOLAS F (SEC) NICHOLAS F BRADY (63%); 



177 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 20, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1290 words

HEADLINE: Wisconsin Spring: New Fishing Season, Old Strife

BYLINE: By WILLIAM E. SCHMIDT, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MINOCQUA, Wis., April 4

 BODY:
The ice is beginning to give way on the lakes of northern Wisconsin, and soon the Chippewa will renew a ritual as old as their ancestors' memories. They will take to the water in boats to spear the fat walleyed pike that come to spawn each spring in the cold shallows.
But among the small towns and lakeside resorts in this part of the state, the Indians' annual spearfishing has become the occasion for an uglier seasonal rite. On spring nights, for the last two years, hundreds of whites have gathered at boat landings to hurl taunts, racial slurs and sometimes stones at Indian fishermen.
With the spearfishing season expected to begin soon, state, local, Federal and tribal officials are girding for another round of protests in which whites will accuse Indians of exploiting tribal fishing rights to strip some lakes of valuable sporting fish. 
''I am hoping the silent majority on both sides will prevail and we will have a calm spring,'' said Michael W. Allen, the chairman of the Lac du Flambeau Reservation, home of the largest of six Chippewa tribes in northern Wisconsin. ''But in the meantime, our main concern is that our tribal spearers are protected.''
 
When the Ice Breaks Up
Law-enforcement officials have dispatched hundreds of police officers and sheriff's deputies to standby duty around the state. Last spring more than 200 whites were arrested.
Nearly all the conflicts in Wisconsin have involved the Lac du Flambeau, whose spearers have been the most aggressive and whose reservation, near here, is at the center of one of the most popular tourist areas. Indian and non-Indian leaders alike have issued public appeals to stay away from the boat landings, and this week Gov. Tommy G. Thompson said he was encouraged by the efforts of local groups to reduce strife. But both sides say their supporters will turn out later this month when the lake ice breaks up.
In Washington, Senator Daniel K. Inouye, the Hawaii Democrat who is chairman of the Senate's Indian Affairs Committee, has asked President Bush to name a representative to start new negotiations with tribal, state and local officials in Wisconsin in which the tribe would exchange some fishing rights for economic aid.
Since last May, efforts to reduce the tensions have resulted in thousands of hours of talk but have achieved little. Although the Indians say they will voluntarily reduce their harvest, Lac du Flambeau members narrowly rejected a proposed financial settlement that was worked out last fall between Governor Thompson and the tribal leadership headed by Mr. Allen.
 
What Might Have Been
Under the settlement, the tribe would have agreed to take fewer fish in exchange for $49.7 million in state aid and services over 10 years - roughly $600 a year for each of the nearly 8,400 walleyed pike that the Lac du Flambeau took in the 12-day season last spring. The six Chippewa tribes together took 16,400.
The dispute grew out of a 1983 Federal court decision affirming Chippewa rights to take walleye and other fish from the lakes of the densely wooded northern third of Wisconsin. The Chippewa ceded the territory, including the lakes, to the Federal Government in the 19th century. In return, they were guaranteed the right to hunt, fish and gather timber.
But most of those lakes are now surrounded by cottages, resorts and businesses owned by non-Indians whose livelihoods depend on the tourist economy. Beginning with spring weather, the region becomes a popular vacation spot, particularly for sport fishers who prize the walleye and muskellunge that populate the northern lakes.
 
Damage to Economy Charged
Such disputes underscore the problems that many state and local governments have faced in recent years as a result of Federal court decisions affirming century-old Indian treaty rights and protecting tribal governments. Those decisions have brought local governments and tribes into conflict over matters like taxes, law enforcement, mining, and water, hunting and fishing rights.
Opponents say the Chippewa spearfishing damages the local economy because the Indians are now taking thousands of walleye that could be available to non-Indian fishermen when the regular season opens later this spring.
 
What the Indians Have Taken
On some of the lakes most popular among white anglers, for example, state game wardens last year had to reduce the limit for non-Indian anglers to one or two fish per day as a result of spearing activity by the Chippewa. In the past, a limit of five fish a day used to be common.
This year, the Indians say they will reduce fishing activity on most lakes to allow state wardens to assure sports anlgers a limit of three fish a day.
Under the Federal court ruling, the Indians are entitled to harvest up to 100 percent of what biolgists calculate to be the safe allowable catch on a lake. Such a harvest would leave enough adult fish to assure future reproduction, but not enough for sports anglers.
But the tribes have agreed voluntarily never to take more than 60 percent of the allowable catch in any one lake, and this year agreed to reduce that limit to 54 percent.
The Indians argue that they have never taken more than a small part of the total allowable safe catch. If they had taken 60 percent of the walleyed pike in every lake, they would have removed more than 40,000 fish last year. Because there are not enough Indian spearers to harvest all the lakes, and because the season is so short, a total of 271 tribal spearers last year took only about 16,400 walleyed pike from 101 lakes.
 
From an Opponent's View
Dean Crist, who owns a pizza restaurant in Minocqua, is the leader of Stop Treaty Abuse-Wisconsin, a group that opposes the spearfishing. He says the Federal courts have granted the Chippewa special privileges.
''I can't fish out of season - I can't go out and take thousands of walleye at one time,'' said Mr. Crist, who was recently acquitted of charges that he endangered Indian fishermen and state game wardens in a confrontation.
''If they want to spearfish as a ceremonial thing, great, we're with them,'' he said. ''But what they are doing is ravaging the lakes, and that hurts a lot of innocent people.''
Mr. Crist says he has wide support among the 50,000 residents of Vilas and Oneida Counties here, though his organization mustered only feeble support when it recently tried to win the recall from office of a state legislator who had backed the tribal negotiations.
 
New Recall Effort Is Begun
The legislator, Assemblyman James Holperin, was returned to office here Tuesday after defeating a Republican challenger with a wide margin. Last month, Mr. Holperin rolled up a similar margin in the Democratic primary, when he was challenged by an ally of Mr. Crist.
Now opponents of treaty rights are seeking the recall of Representative David R. Obey, the Democratic Congressman, because he backed talks with tribes.
Jeff Long, the Town Chairman in nearby Boulder Junction, a leader of a local group seeking to ease tensions with Indians, said he believed most people in the region were eager to work with the Indians.
''It's a question of finding comon ground,'' he said. ''We see the walleye as a resource to attract tourists. The Indians see it as a commodity, something to be taken for food. But it can benefit both of us.''
Some Chippewa argue that racism, not economic concern, motivates many treaty opponents. ''For a long time, we said nothing,'' said Tom Maulson, who organized opposition among tribal members to the settlement proposed by Governor Thompson. ''We knew our place. Now there is frustration from some of those on the outside who don't like the idea that we are now exercising our rights.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Eric Maulson, a Chippewa Indian from the Lac du Flambeau Reservation in Wisconsin, unloading spears from a boat Friday night after he and other walleye fishermen came up empty-handed (Associated Press); Map of Wisconsin indicating Chippewa territory ceded to Wisconsin under 19th-century treaties.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (99%); HAWAII, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MICHAEL W HALSALL (55%); LAC DU FLAMBEAU RESERVATION (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WISCONSIN; LAC DU FLAMBEAU INDIAN RESERVATION (WIS)

SUBJECT: FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; FISHING, SPORT; INDIANS, AMERICAN LAKES (90%); SPORT FISHING (90%); FISHERIES ADMINISTRATION (89%); FISHING TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); FISHES (89%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); NATIVE AMERICANS (78%); RACE & RACISM (76%); GOVERNORS (76%); SHERIFFS (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); ARRESTS (69%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (60%); 

PERSON: SCHMIDT, WILLIAM E TOMMY THOMPSON (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (51%); DANIEL INOUYE (50%); 



178 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 20, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1189 words

HEADLINE: Deficits Imperil Northeast Governors

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BOSTON, April 6

 BODY:
The economic slowdown in the Northeast has rattled the region's politics, putting incumbent governors of both parties on the defensive and injecting a powerful element of uncertainty into this year's elections.
In the last month two Democrats, William A. O'Neill of Connecticut and Madeleine M. Kunin of Vermont, announced that they would not run again, citing a number of personal reasons. But their states' fiscal difficulties and the hard political choices those difficulties forced were widely seen as factors in both decisions and as likely to drive the campaigns to succeed them.
In Massachusetts, where Gov. Michael S. Dukakis, a Democrat, announced a year ago that he would not seek re-election, analysts in both parties say the state's fiscal troubles have so soured the public's mood that Republicans stand a good chance of winning the governorship in November, even though only 14 percent of the registered voters are Republican. 
 
People Feel 'Lied To'
''People feel they were lied to about the budget process,'' said Linda DiVall, a Republican poll taker working for Steven Pierce, a Republican candidate for governor in Massachusetts.
In New York, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo has so far escaped a serious challenge in this year's race, but many analysts say the state's fiscal problems will dog him if he seeks the Democratic Presidential nomination in 1992. And in New Jersey a newly elected Democrat, Jim Florio, was quickly confronted by what he estimated as a $580 million deficit and has proposed a huge tax plan to deal with it.
Nor are Republicans immune to the political fallout. In Maine and Rhode Island and even in the Republican stronghold of New Hampshire, Democrats are planning tough campaigns against Republican incumbents, sensing new opportunities based on the incumbents' handling of the states' fiscal troubles.
''I don't think it's a Democratic or Republican issue,'' said Mark Gearan, executive director of the Democratic Governors Association. ''It's a result of eight very good years in a regional economy that is now slowing down.''
The severity of fiscal difficulties in these states varies widely, but a study made public on Friday by the National Association of State Budget Officers in Washington showed the regional sweep of the problem. ''Twenty states in all have had to cut fiscal year 1990 budgets already, and that includes every state in the Northeast - all of New England plus New York and New Jersey,'' said Marcia Howard, the group's research director. The region has also seen a round of tax increases, she added.
 
Follows a Decade of Boom
The adjustment is particularly difficult in the Northeast because it follows a decade of boom, when many of these state governments expanded services and programs while growth in revenue enabled them to depict themselves as fiscally responsible.
''Their tax bases were growing very rapidly,'' said William Galston, a political scientist at the University of Maryland. ''They could initiate new programs and beef up old ones at zero political cost, and they all looked like geniuses.''
That image was particularly seductive to the Democrats, who in the late 1980's showcased these governors as a new breed of Democrat, with both a heart and an adding machine. Mr. Dukakis, who rose the highest and fell the farthest, built his 1988 Presidential campaign around what he called ''the Massachusetts miracle,'' although even during the race signs of fiscal difficulties were emerging.
There is a widespread belief that the Dukakis administration did not heed the early signs of trouble because it was preoccupied with Mr. Dukakis's Presidential campaign.
Now many Republicans say the next potential Democratic Presidential candidate from the region, Governor Cuomo, will be vulnerable to the old charges of ''taxing and spending'' as the state struggles to deal with a $1.5 billion gap in the 1990-91 budget.
''You could always criticize his record,'' said Charles Black, a Republican consultant. ''Now, he's had to do more on the tax front, and fiscal problems will be more of a vulnerability.''
 
The Electorate Was Lulled
Behind the volatility of this year's gubernatorial elections is an electorate that felt unprepared for a grim round of revised revenue estimates, budget cuts and tax increases, according to analysts in both parties. Politicians note that the region's economic slowdown cannot compare to what the Midwest endured in the early 1980's, but it looms large to people who heard talk of ''a miracle'' a few years ago.
''Voters don't understand how you can be in a $100 million surplus one year and scraping and cutting back to balance out the next year,'' said Rhode Island's Governor, Edward D. DiPrete, a Republican.
Tom Kiley, a Democratic poll taker working for Representative Joseph E. Brennan, who is challenging Gov. John R. McKernan Jr. of Maine, said: ''If you're driving along at 80 miles per hour on the Massachusetts Turnpike and you slow down to 55, it feels like you're not going anywhere. That's the kind of reflex New England voters are feeling.''
Moreover, some Demcorats say the resolute ''no-new-tax'' stand of the Bush Administration has led to unrealistic expectations among the voters. ''I think they've gotten accustomed to the message that they can have it all without pain and sacrifice,'' said Governor Kunin. ''And when local and state governments offer a different message, you really don't like it.''
Mingled with the politics is a deeper debate over whether some of these states should have better prepared for the slowdown, an argument that varies widely from state to state but is acute in Massachusetts. ''I would blame it on the political system,'' said Richard A. Manley, president of the Massachusetts Taxpayers Foundation, a public policy group that is heavily financed by business.
 
From Growth to Groans
''During the so-called Massachusetts miracle years, the money was coming in over the transom, from both dramatic economic growth and a rejuvenated revenue department,'' Mr. Manley said.
In short, he and other analysts argue, some states became accustomed to a level of revenue growth that could not be sustained. ''Part of what haunts the Northeast is they had such a phenomenal economic growth and revenue growth that everything else looks pitiful in comparison,'' Ms. Howard said.
Political experts in the region indicate that this year's campaigns could revolve around what the governors should have known and when they should have known it. In New Hampshire, for instance, where Gov. Judd Gregg succeeded John H. Sununu, a fellow Republican who is now the White House chief of staff, Democrats are homing in on the timing of the state's fiscal troubles.
''John Sununu supposedly left the state with a surplus, then the next thing we're told is Judd Gregg has a deficit,'' said Ramsay McLauchlan, executive director of the New Hampshire Demcoratic Party. ''He's not blaming John Sununu; he's just saying it's here, somehow.''
New Hampshire Republican leaders say the state is confronting its fiscal problem and expect Mr. Gregg to be re-elected.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); VERMONT, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); MAINE, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NORTHEASTERN STATES (US); UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ELECTIONS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; GOVERNORS (US) GOVERNORS (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (74%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (72%); TAX INCREASES (70%); TAX LAW (69%); EXECUTIVES (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); 

PERSON: TONER, ROBIN MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 



179 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 20, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 842 words

HEADLINE: Everglades Sentinel on Watch at 100

BYLINE: By JAMES LeMOYNE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MIAMI, April 7

 BODY:
She lives in a region that has often symbolized glitz and the American dream of endless growth. But on her 100th birthday today, Marjory Stoneman Douglas is more than ever a living testament to a different ethic.
As one of the nation's best-known and one of its oldest living environmentalists, Mrs. Douglas is spryly celebrating the rare completion of an unbowed century of life.
If that weren't bounty enough, she is enjoying the even rarer experience of being an environmental prophet who has lived to see her prophecy proved true and acted upon. 
Mrs. Douglas has guaranteed her place as a leading naturalist by spending most of her life fighting to preserve the Everglades, the vast, slow-moving stream of water and saw grass that covers much of the final 100 miles of South Florida, providing a home to some of the most exotic and beautiful animals in North America.
 
Just Common Sense
She herself seems utterly unimpressed with her achievement, treating it as an act of plain common sense.
''Eighty percent of our rainfall depends on evaporation from the Everglades,'' Mrs. Douglas said in an interview at the English-style cottage she built on a leafy street here in 1926. ''If you don't have rain and water, South Florida will become a desert - it's as simple as that.''
But government officials, local citizens and environmentalists are far more generous in their assessment of Mrs. Douglas. They applaud her for her early understanding that the survival of the Everglades was the precondition to the survival of much of the rest of South Florida.
''The Everglades wouldn't be there for us to try and continue to save if not for her work through the years,'' said Roderick J. Jude, an official of the Florida chapter of the Sierra Club.
 
Fired the First Shot
That recognition has prompted local officials to name a new high school for Mrs. Douglas and to christen a new nature center, on Key Biscayne in Miami, after her in a celebration today commemorating her 100th birthday.
It was not always so easy for her to get her views across.
Forty-three years ago, Mrs. Douglas fired the first shot, more like a cannon blast, in what became a near-ceaseless campaign to persuade Florida to change the way it thinks about itself. In so doing, she used arguments that have had impact across the country.
At a time when Floridians commonly acted as if their state was a boundless font of natural riches, Mrs. Douglas wrote a 1947 book, ''The Everglades: River of Grass,'' that argued exactly the opposite.
''There are no other Everglades in the world,'' her book began, going on to tell in clean language why the Everglades is an especially fragile vessel of life threatened by drainage canals, commercial farming and suburbs. That is almost common wisdom today, but four decades ago it was an astonishingly original and independent insight.
 
Right, but Not Popular
It was not, however, a popular message. State officials saw unfettered development as a boon to economic growth. Big farmers wanted more swamp drained. The Army Corps of Engineers went to work cutting canals that in effect choked the natural wetland of its one utterly essential requirement: water.
It took an uncommon eye to gaze on a vast swamp filled mainly with mosquitoes, alligators and mud and see it as the key for creating, filtering and retaining most of the fresh water available on the thin limestone shelf that separates South Florida from the sea.
But that is exactly what Mrs. Douglas saw. She used a potent pen to share that vision and also formed Friends of the Everglades.
After decades of effort, the central core of the once extensive Everglades today is preserved as a national park. The Government has announced plans to buy more land from private owners and to restore some original streams to permit the Everglades to gradually regain more of its function as the filtration system for the region.
 
Life Like No Other
The entire 4,000-square-mile swamp is a slowly moving river, carrying a sheet of water from Lake Okeechobee to the Gulf of Mexico. In the islands and wet byways along the way live ibises, roseate spoonbills, wood storks, manatees, the threatened Florida panther and saltwater crocodile, as well as hundreds of other animals, fish and plants.
There is particular concern for the Everglades this year, during one of the worst droughts ever recorded. Wading birds are not nesting because they lack food and water. A winter freeze killed thousands of fish, as well as several manatees.
But if the river of grass has anything like the staying power of Mrs. Douglas, its future may be more secure than some fear. The author of several books, she is now at work on a biography of the Anglo-American naturalist W. H. Hudson, the author of ''Green Mansions.''
Though her eyes are poor, she prefers to stand up and walk on her own as she steps out to her sunlit porch. Asked if she is hopeful for the Everglades' survival, she answers: ''I am neither an optimist nor a pessimist. I say it's got to be done.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Marjory Stoneman Douglas, one of the nation's best-known environmentalists, has spent the better part of a century fighting to preserve the Everglades. She celebrated her 100th birthday yesterday. (The New York Times/Susan Greenwood)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (95%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EVERGLADES (FLA)

SUBJECT: LONGEVITY ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); INTERVIEWS (71%); 

PERSON: DOUGLAS, MARJORY STONEMAN; LEMOYNE, JAMES MARJORY STONEMAN DOUGLAS (94%); 



180 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1, Page 28, Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1207 words

HEADLINE: Owner of Fire Site Is Being Sued by Brother and Sister

BYLINE: By IVER PETERSON

 BODY:
The landlord of the Happy Land Social Club is being sued by his brother and sister, who claim that he is running one of New York City's biggest real-estate fortunes into the ground with bad investments, borrowing huge amounts of money to speculate in commodities and deliberately squandering his father's billion-dollar estate before his younger brother can gain control of a portion of it.
The accusations of mismanagement against Alexander DiLorenzo 3d by his brother, Marc, and sister, Lisa, echo comments about Mr. DiLorenzo's operating style from other New York City real-estate developers.
Others in the business say Mr. DiLorenzo is a loner in a gregarious world and a man who has shunned the blue-chip properties that other heirs to big real-estate fortunes usually favor. Instead, he has spent recent years mortgaging his company's properties to buy land and buildings on the very fringes of what his fellow operators would consider respectable New York.
Happy Land, the illegal Bronx social club at 1961 Southern Boulevard in which 87 people died in an arson fire on March 25, was part of such an assemblage - a nondescript commercial strip that he bought in 1985. So are block after block of fading apartment houses on Riverside Drive in the 140's and 150's, on the edge of Harlem, and blocks in Manhattan and the Bronx with eight other social clubs. 
 
'Alex Buys Funny Things'
His brother and sister sued in October 1988 to wrest control of the two family partnerships, which have roughly 250 holdings valued in court papers at as much as $1.2 billion, before they are broken up into three equal shares.
In his response to the suit, Mr. DiLorenzo claimed that such aquisitions were part of a strategy of long-term growth, although he conceded that they have not performed well as investments in the current economy.
Five brokers who have worked with the DiLorenzo family said that he had departed from the pattern his father had followed of buying established, expensive properties. None would be quoted by name for fear of jeopardizing future business dealing with him.
''Alex buys funny things,'' said a broker who had done business with Mr. DiLorenzo's late father, ''You look at other big dealers - after they had made a little money, they forgot about the junk, they wanted to assemble good portfolios. But Alex was still buying town houses up to last year, one after the other, whole strings of them, just like he played the commodities market.''
On Friday, Mr. DiLorenzo was released without bail on 42 separate arrest warrants charging him with serious building violations at a dozen Manhattan locations. some of which are the sites of social clubs. On Tuesday, he surrendered on a warrant issued a year ago after he had failed to respond to complaints of safety violations at the Happy Land building.
 
No Public Relations Firm
Mr. DiLorenzo was known for his public reticence before the fire and the lawsuit, and since then he has refused all comment. Neither his company officers nor his lawyers would return telephone calls asking for comment.
In a city in which real-estate operators can achieve a degree of fame that other towns reserve for movie stars, Mr. DiLorenzo has not taken even the first step toward a acquiring a public persona - retaining a public relations firm.
But the DiLorenzo empire holds far more valuable properties purchased by Mr. DiLorenzo's father.
It owns what amounts to several acres of land under prominent buildings, and the land is often sold or leased separately from the building above it.
 
Other 'Fee Positions'
Easily the best property is the land that the St. Moritz hotel rests upon on Central Park South. Mr. DiLorenzo once turned down an offer reported to be in the tens of millions for the property by Donald J. Trump who, like Mr. DiLorenzo, is the son of a successful real-estate operator.
Other prime ''fee positions,'' as ownership of such land is known, are at 63 Wall Street; 200 Madison Avenue, at 35th Street, and 1001 Fifth Avenue, at 82d Street. The DiLorenzos also own or control impressive corner assemblages on Lexington Avenue on the Upper East Side and the entire block of Greek Revival brick houses and the adjoining apartment building facing Washington Square Park between Fifth Avenue and University Place.
The DiLorenzos' St. Moritz land lease, now worth $210,000 a year, expires in two years, and the renewal lease has already been set at 7 percent of the land's market value, which is undoubtedly far higher than the $21 million the city has assessed it at for tax purposes.
The DiLorenzo partnerships were left in trust to the three children at the death of their father, and Alex 3d administered the trust. Several years ago, Marc DiLorenzo, requested, as was his right under the terms of the trust, that his brother break it into three equal parts and distribute it. His brother apparently refused, and Marc and Lisa sued. The American Arbitration Association was appointed to divide the estate into three shares, to be divided by lot, but Alex did not accept the division.
And Marc DiLorenzo told Justice Harold Baer Jr. that his brother was ''squandering'' the family's holdings.
 
Details in a Ruling
The fortune was assembled by Alexander DiLorenzo Jr. before his death in 1975, in partnership with another shrewd real-estate developer, the late Sol Goldman. Now Mr. Goldman's children are also in court, trying to keep their mother, Lillian, from claiming the family fortune.
Details of the DiLorenzo case were made public in a ruling on a motion by Marc DiLorenzo to remove his brother as head of the partnership pending the breakup. The decision was printed in full in the Dec. 21 edition of the New York Law Journal, and the DiLorenzos have since had the record sealed by the court.
Justice Baer rejected Marc DiLorenzo's demand to remove his older brother as head of DiLorenzo Properties Company and DiLorenzo Associates.
But he ordered the older DiLorenzo not to take any major steps without consulting his younger brother and set in motion the process that will eventually lead to the breakup.
 
Losses in '88 and '89
In affidavits before the court, Marc DiLorenzo charged that his brother had lost $14 million in commodities speculation in two and a half years; that tens of millions of dollars were ''wasted'' in the purchase of two old-line brokerage houses, which have yet to return a profit, and that Alex had absented himself from the business for months on end, allowing it to decline.
Justice Baer also reported that preliminary financial statements submitted to the court showed cash losses of $21.5 million in 1988 and the potential for a $21 million additional shortfall for 1989.
''Marc goes so far as to claim that Alex is pursuing a 'scorched-earth policy' and is 'embarked on a program of ruining the partnerships from a distance,' '' Justice Baer wrote.
The judge ordered the DiLorenzo siblings to try to work out a settlement among themselves, and that in the meantime Alex DiLorenzo should avoid taking steps to diminish or encumber his brother's and sister's share of the family fortune.
The older brother also pledged to return to daily supervision of the family business.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: HAPPY LAND SOCIAL CLUB (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: HAPPY LAND SOCIAL CLUB

SUBJECT: FIRES AND FIREMEN; WILLS AND ESTATES; SUITS AND LITIGATION SUITS & CLAIMS (92%); LITIGATION (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); FIRES (90%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ESTATE GIFT & TRUST LAW (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (77%); ARRESTS (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (73%); COMMODITIES TRADING (72%); WILLS (72%); ARSON (71%); BAIL (63%); ARREST WARRANTS (61%); 

PERSON: DILORENZO, ALEXANDER JR; PETERSON, IVER; DILORENZO, ALEX 3D; DILORENZO, MARC; DILORENZO, LISA ALEXANDER DILORENZO (95%); 



181 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2, Page 42, Column 1; Style Desk

LENGTH: 611 words

HEADLINE: Campus Life: Haverford;
Rockwell's Son Shuns Americana For Gargoyles

DATELINE: HAVERFORD, Pa.

 BODY:
If you expected that pug nose, freckle-faced boy on The Saturday Evening Post covers to grow up to produce the same art as his father, you'd be wrong. While Norman Rockwell, the illustrator, created familiar scenes from hometown America, his son, Peter, currently artist-in-residence at Haverford College, goes beyond the familiar.
Mr. Rockwell has been pulling monsters out of his imagination and carving them in stone all semester.
The sculptor's unfinished limestone block of monsters was moved last week from the college's foundry and installed near the library, just out of the grasp of the Climbing Tree, a long, tentacled Osage Orange tree for children, students and professors to play on. Mr. Rockwell, 53 years old, chose the site himself and said his climb-on sculpture is a gift to his alma mater, from which he was graduated in 1958. 
''Most universities have a need for more nonsense,'' said Mr. Rockwell. The sculptor, who has been intrigued by monsters since he was asked to design some gargoyles for the National Cathedral in Washington, in the early 1970's, created gargoyle-like creatures out of a block of white stone that can be clambered over and slithered through.
 
'Children Enjoy Monsters'
''I associate monsters with playfulness,'' said Mr. Rockwell while examining his work in outdoor light for the first time ''and I think children enjoy monsters.''
Fretting a bit, he looked at one hollow-eyed monster with its mouth agape, and said: ''I hope it isn't frightening. I have been told I am incapable of creating a frightening monster. I take it as a compliment.'' He immediately drew a parallel to his father. ''He used to complain that he couldn't paint a sexy woman; they always looked too homey,'' Mr. Rockwell said.
Matthew Zobian, a senior economics major from Reading, Pa., who has taken sculpture classes at Haverford, said, ''It's sort of eerie looking. The gargoyles have almost a comical, scary look to them. They have big, wide-open mouths, so kids can crawl through them. They're more grotesque than scary, so that's what makes them funny.''
Hanging above the sculptor's work table in the foundry is a picture torn from an Acme supermarket advertisement of what is believed to be Mr. Rockwell's angelic 13-year-old face munching on a turkey drumstick. Below are the tools of his profession - sundry chisels, plaster-dusted rags and a rusty Chock Full o' Nuts coffee can for brushes.
There are the inevitable comparisons between famous father and son, and the son explains them this way: ''My father was conscious of what the American people would want on a Post cover,'' Mr. Rockwell said. ''Those would be constraints I might find extremely difficult. He felt everything he did was for an audience and he was willing to allow his work to be affected by the taste of that audience. I don't think that way. I don't work for a popular audience. Sculpture is not done for a mass audience.''
Mr. Rockwell lives in Rome with his wife, Cinny, and four children. He has been there since he won a fellowship at the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts in Philadelphia.
But Mr. Rockwell entered sculpture by way of fencing. He nearly died his freshman year in a fencing accident when he was stabbed in the heart and lungs by a Princeton man. He beat the odds and lived. ''I haven't liked Princeton since,'' he joked.
Next month, when Mr. Rockwell expects to complete the monster piece, he will dedicate it to Wallace Kelly, a faculty member who encouraged him to take a sculpture class to replace fencing. ''I flinched every time someone lunged at me,'' said Mr. Rockwell. ''It was love at first sight with sculpture.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Peter Rockwell with his sculpture of gargoyle-like creatures. He is donating the work to his alma mater, Haverford College, near Philadelphia. Mr. Rockwell, who is the son of Norman Rockwell, is currently an artist-in-residence at the school. (The New York Times/Arthur W. Wilkerson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: READING, PA, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: CHOCK FULL 'O NUTS CORP (50%); HAVERFORD COLLEGE (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: HAVERFORD COLLEGE

SUBJECT: ART CHILDREN (90%); SCULPTURE (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); CLIMBING (74%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); 

PERSON: ROCKWELL, PETER MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 



182 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2, Page 54, Column 5; Society Desk

LENGTH: 161 words

HEADLINE: Jennifer A. Leahy Becomes a Bride

 BODY:
Jennifer Anne Leahy, a daughter of Judge and Mrs. Vincent Francis Leahy of Newton, Mass., was married yesterday to Ronald Joseph Kim, a son of Dr. and Mrs. Hyung Rin Kim of Glens Falls, N.Y. The Rev. Dr. Peter Fiore performed the ceremony at St. Ignatius of Loyola Roman Catholic Church in Chestnut Hill, Mass.
JoAnn Thornton was the matron of honor. The bridegroom's father was best man.
Mrs. Kim, 29 years old, is a senior account executive at Mullen Advertising in Wenham, Mass. She graduated from the Newton Country Day School and the University of Massachusetts at Amherst. Her father is a judge of the Middlesex Probate Court in Cambridge, Mass.
The bridegroom, 30, is an associate in the Boston law firm of Goodwin, Procter & Hoar. He graduated from Colgate University and received a master's degree in international political economy from the University of Chicago and a J.D. from Fordham University. His father is a surgeon at Glens Falls Hospital.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (70%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (56%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (73%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: GOODWIN PROCTER LLP (70%); BOSTON LAW FIRM LLP (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (57%); FORDHAM UNIVERSITY (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%); COLGATE UNIVERSITY (56%); FORDHAM UNIVERSITY (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%); COLGATE UNIVERSITY (56%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (88%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (83%); LAWYERS (75%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (73%); PROBATE (73%); RELIGION (71%); 

PERSON: LEAHY, JENNIFER (JENNIFER KIM); KIM, RONALD JOSEPH TONY NEWTON (74%); 



183 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2, Page 44, Column 1; Style Desk

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: Lifestyle;
The Summer Renter Now Prefers A Swing Set to the Swinging Set

BYLINE: By LENA WILLIAMS

 BODY:
The summer folk are often familiar these days, if perhaps a bit more mature. In the 1970's, they summered with friends and significant others in popular resort areas like Fire Island, Ocean City and Old Saybrook. Now they arrive with children in tow.
The ''groupers'' still flock to the beaches and wildwoods. But unlike the swinging singles of an earlier generation, they are fewer in number and are seekers not just of good times but of times better spent. More often than not, they are accompanied by relatives, rather than strangers acquired through classified advertisements. 
''It's interesting because now there are different requirements,'' said Frank Newbold, a partner in the real-estate firm of Braverman, Newbold & Newman in East Hampton, L.I. ''They used to want to know where the singles bars in the neighborhood were located. Now they want to know where the day-care center is.''
Summer rentals in the New York region are off to their best start in years, said brokers like Mr. Newbold, who has already leased 75 houses in the Hamptons. They said the surge has been fueled by factors that include a growing confidence that beachfront pollution of recent sumnmers in places like New Jersey has been corrected and the settling down of the generation born in the late 1940's and the 50's, which has become more conservative in its spending and mores.
Brokers, who suffered through one of their worst summer seasons last year because of concern about Lyme disease, beach waste and an unstable economy, are rhapsodic about the early indicators.
''If only the real-estate sales market were as good as the rental market,'' said Patricia Swaun, a broker at Lively Real Estate in Clinton, Conn., a town overlooking Long Island Sound. ''I think people are taking their vacations differently. They're coming out to the suburbs. We have cottages that are rented by the month by families, married siblings, who split the time. We're seeing much more of that kind of sharing, rather than groups of strangers.''
Mary Randazzo, who owns Randazzo Realty in Westhampton, L.I., said: ''Last year was not as good a rental season as we expected, but that was because of the general economy. We saw fewer groups or singles renting, because they started to buy property.'' Now those who cannot afford to buy are renting. ''We are seeing a marked increase in the family rental market,'' said John Williams, the president of the Greater Wildwood-Cape May County Board of Realtors in New Jersey. ''In my own office, our rentals are up 20 percent over this time last year.''
Mr. Williams said last year's weak rental season was caused by the ''pollution paranoia'' that resulted from reports of medical waste on beaches along the Jersey Shore and garbage slicks floating offshore. He said there are accommodations to fit most budgets, from a $250-a-week studio apartment to a $2,000-a-week three-bedroom town house.
And vacationers are discovering that renting a bungalow, cottage or condominium for the summer brings some added advantages that a hotel stay does not.
''People often want to know if they can install a second telephone in order to use their fax machines,'' said Mr. Newbold, the East Hampton agent. ''That way, they can spend an extra day or two in the country and not lose touch with the office.''
 
'Child Proof' Houses
Houses with pools, tennis courts or high decks overlooking the water are still in great demand, but brokers are just as likely to get requests from prospective renters for houses that are ''child proof'': safe for children.
''That's the phrase that keeps coming up,'' Mr. Newbold said. ''In the 70's a high deck overlooking the pool was sexy for people planning to have a lot of parties. But if there is a child around, it can be dangerous. Those who ask for homes with pools want to know if the pools are enclosed or can be benched off.''
A three-bedroom house in the Hamptons has been leased from May through September by Erica Koenig, a translator, and her husband, Ovak Arslanian, a freelance photographer, who live in Greenwich Village. This is the first summer they will spend in the continental United States since their 3-year-old daughter, Kayla, was 3 months old.
''I'm from Holland, so every summer we went there,'' Ms. Koenig said. ''Rather than hauling her around Europe, we wanted to stay in the States, but not necessarily spend the summer in the city.'' With the help of Mr. Newbold, they found the house in the Hamptons. ''It's perfect,'' Ms. Koenig said. ''It's on the bay. Kayla can do her biking and venture out to the sea and play with the gulls.''
The family leased the house for $11,000. They spent half that last year in a hotel in Hawaii, where they spent a month of their vacation in addition to going to Europe.
Ms. Koenig summed up their plans for this year: ''With the house, we can come and go as we please, invite guests over, since we have the extra bedroom, and not have to be worried about nannies, since we have several friends in the Hamptons with daughters who can baby-sit. I think this is really going to work out.''

GRAPHIC: Photos: Erica Koenig and her husband, Ovak Arslanian, will spend this summer in the continental United States for the first time since their 3-year-old daughter, Kayla, was 3 months old. They have rented a house in the Hamptons. (Buck Ennis); Frank Newbold, a real-estate agent on Long Island, said renters used to ask where the singles bars were. ''Now they want to know where the day-care center is,'' he said. (NYT/Michael Shavel)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LONG ISLAND (NY); NEW JERSEY

SUBJECT: HOUSING; BROKERS AND BROKERAGE FIRMS; RENTING AND LEASING; LIFE STYLES; WATER POLLUTION REAL ESTATE (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); BEACHES (77%); FAMILY (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (74%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (74%); SUBURBS (68%); WATER POLLUTION (65%); LYME DISEASE (50%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (50%); 

PERSON: WILLIAMS, LENA MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); 



184 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 2; Page 15, Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1504 words

HEADLINE: FILM;
She's Filming Her Movie, Twice

BYLINE: By STEPHEN FARBER

DATELINE: HOLLYWOOD

 BODY:
Catchy, compelling, topical ideas for movies - what Hollywood calls ''high concepts'' - are a precious commodity. That is one reason why Coline Serreau, the French writer-director, is in demand. Her 1985 French hit ''Three Men and a Cradle,'' the story of three swinging bachelors forced to raise a baby girl, was bought by Disney Studios and turned into an Americanized version, ''Three Men and a Baby,'' that grossed more than $200 million. Disney has been equally enraptured by Ms. Serreau's latest French film, ''Mama, There's a Man in Your Bed,'' and they hired Ms. Serreau to write and direct the American remake even before she had finished shooting the French film.
The original ''Mama'' - which was titled ''Romuald et Juliette'' in France - will be released by Miramax Films Friday. It stars Daniel Auteuil as the chief executive of a successful yogurt company who is in danger of being deposed by several treacherous underlings. A cleaning woman (played by a newcomer, Firmine Richard) working in the office happens to discover the plot and warns her boss of the sabotage. She helps him to foil the takeover attempt, and in the course of this most unlikely alliance, the two fall in love. 
While awaiting the American release of ''Mama,'' Ms. Serreau is living in Santa Monica, Calif., making revisions in the script for the remake, which she plans to shoot this summer with Richard Dreyfuss in the lead. (The role of the cleaning woman has not yet been cast.) Many other film makers have attempted American remakes of French hits; among the recent cultural transplants have been ''Cousins,''
''Three Fugitives,'' ''The Man With One Red Shoe,'' and ''Breathless.'' Most of these American remakes, however, have seemed faintly unconvincing when transposed from Paris to Seattle or Baltimore. As Vincent Canby observed in decrying the trend last year, French and American films ''reflect a different reality. In a French movie, a man who moves easily between his wife and his mistress can be taken for granted. The French accept the situation without surprise. An American movie would insist on analyzing the guy.''
While Ms. Serreau is reluctant to criticize other French remakes, she does suggest one reason why a story may seem entrancing in French and leaden in English. ''We have another system of writing in France,'' she says. ''Most directors are writers, and they are completely free. They write a story that is meaningful to them. Here in Hollywood people write a story that they hope will make money.''
What makes Ms. Serreau's films stand out from the pack of French films recycled for America is that they have universal stories that transcend national boundaries. She points out that ''Three Men and a Cradle'' was successful all over the world even before Hollywood cast Tom Selleck, Ted Danson and Steve Guttenberg in the remake. (Despite their success at the box office, both films got mixed reviews from the critics.) ''The script and the theme of the movie were very up to date,'' she suggests. ''It burst out at just the right moment. It caught something in the air. I think men are changing in their attitudes toward raising children, and I took notice of that.''
Similarly, ''Mama, There's a Man in Your Bed'' tells a story of economic, racial - the cleaning woman is black - and sexual barriers that is at least as pertinent in America as in France. In fact, Ms. Serreau thought of the story for her French film while she was living in Los Angeles working on ''Three Men and a Baby.'' ''I had the feeling that there were very separate worlds in America,'' she says. ''There's a whole mixture - third-world people, Latinos, blacks, whites - and I think things are ready to blow up because the difference in the quality of these people's lives is amazing.''
Ms. Serreau reports that France has its own distinct but troubling racial problems. ''Race is a big issue in France,'' she says. ''It's not so much with black people but with Arabians, Islamic people who have emigrated from North Africa. It's more a cultural problem and a religious problem than a racial problem, but it's huge.''
Ms. Serreau suggests that it was not simply the racial and economic gap between Romuald and Juliette that tantalized her but the gender gap as well. ''It is not only a story of class and racist issues,'' she says. ''It's also about sexism. Romuald has been very unaware of his wife, and he is very insensitive to this black woman, too. He is a man in a man's world, and then he is exposed to another side of life, a whole other way of seeing things.''
The ending in which Romuald and Juliette overcome their differences to get married was never intended by Ms. Serreau to be realistic. ''This movie's not about reality,'' she asserts. ''It's about dreams and desire. If by any chance anybody is happy to see this story happen, that is already an achievement, because it means people wish that it might be true.''
That potent, whimsical fantasy is clearly what attracted Disney to the idea of doing an American remake. ''The human idea transcends cultural barriers,'' says Ricardo Mestres, president of Hollywood Pictures, a new Disney division that will produce the American film. ''It's a unique love story. Choosing to focus on a white man and black woman is surprising and gutsy. I think it may have an even greater appeal to an American audience because the stakes of the racial conflict are greater here than they are in France.''
But if the film speaks to American audiences in its French version, why do it again in English? ''The American market is closed to foreign movies,'' Ms. Serreau says in reply. ''It is absolutely closed. If you have a big hit here of a foreign movie, you'll have about 7 percent of the audience. That's the best you can ever hope for.''
Ms. Serreau sees another reason for remaking a French film. ''I like the idea of redoing something,'' she says, ''because I have the opportunity to improve it. In theater, people do that all the time. You can direct a play three, four, five, six times in your life.''
Ms. Serreau was originally scheduled to direct the American version of ''Three Men and a Baby'' as well, but she became ill and had to return to France. Leonard Nimoy was enlisted to direct, and he brought in American writers to make changes in Ms. Serreau's script. ''I'm not a movie critic,'' Ms. Serreau says with a laugh when asked her opinion of Mr. Nimoy's movie.
Her contract for the American remake of ''Mama'' stipulates that she cannot be replaced, and Mr. Mestres says he is confident that Ms. Serreau can oversee an expensive American movie. ''Coline is an extremely visual film maker,'' he declares. ''She does not rely as much on words as many American movie makers.'' Ms. Serreau acknowledges that she needs help in writing idiomatic American dialogue, but she thinks that good actors can help her with the lines. Otherwise she feels quite capable of taking charge of an American film.
But she has had to adjust her methods of working to the American studio system, which frequently can be intrusive. ''In France,'' she says, ''the director decides everything. Whatever you say, that's the way it's going to be. If you make a mistake, it's your mistake. Here in Hollywood everything is discussed between many people. All of these discussions are very exhausting and sometimes very productive. The executives at Disney have a lot of suggestions. Some of their suggestions are good and some are bad. If they have a bad idea, I tell them, and then we try to convince each other.''
Ms. Serreau, who is in her late 30's, notes that Hollywood's obsession with commercial success is not so pronounced in France. But she has always been aware of the need to connect with an audience, and this may grow out of her background. Her parents were both show business people; her father, Jean-Marie, had a theater company in Paris and her mother, Genevieve, was a novelist and playwright. Growing up, Ms. Serreau knew Beckett, Ionesco and Brecht. ''Around our house,'' she recalls, ''were always actors, writers, producers, set decorators, everyone without one dollar. All I had ever heard when I was a kid was talk about writing, directing, actors, lights, sets. I knew nothing else.''
Soon she began acting, and she thinks that her performing experience was invaluable. ''Acting shows you how things work in front of an audience,'' Ms. Serreau says. ''Where can you learn that except on stage?''
Ms. Serreau's first films as director received little exposure outside France. With the release of ''Three Men and a Cradle,'' she suddenly found herself not only in demand but also very wealthy for the first time in her life. ''Sure it's made a difference in my life,'' she says with a shrug, ''but I don't know how. I still dress the same way because I hate shopping. As a film maker it's so important to watch and learn from the world around you, and that means staying in touch with ordinary people. That's the source for everything we do.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Coline Serreau-Her universal stories transcend national boundaries (The New York Times/Fred R. Conrad) (pg. 15); Daniel Auteuil and Alexandre Basse in ''Mama, There's a Man in Your Bed,'' opening Friday at the Paris (pg. 24)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MAMA, THERE'S A MAN IN YOUR BED (MOVIE)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (84%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (84%); 

COUNTRY: FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (73%); 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY PICTURES & TELEVISION (84%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); MILK (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); TAKEOVERS (67%); 

PERSON: FARBER, STEPHEN; SERREAU, COLINE DANIEL AUTEUIL (73%); 



185 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 492 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH;
At Last, Small Stocks May Be Ready to Party

BYLINE: By Diana B. Henriques

 BODY:
As Wall Street kept its cool and Tokyo's market fought one rumor-driven panic after another, the United States last week added a few percentage points to its thin lead in the worldwide game of stock-market supremacy.
The Dow Jones industrial average stumbled slightly on Tokyo rumors early in the week, but steadied itself and closed the week at 2717.12, up about 10 points from the week before. The Nikkei 225 zigzagged through a tumultuous week to close at 29,278.78, down 701.67 points since the previous Friday. 
The result was that United States market capitalization - the estimated value of all its publicly traded shares - is now 4.4 percent larger than the Tokyo market's value, according to Morgan Stanley Capital International.
Does that matter? Yes, a little, said Mark Sladkus, a principal at Morgan Stanley. ''It is an interesting measure of the strength of the two countries,'' Mr. Sladkus said. ''And those who invest strictly on a passive basis are likely to contribute more, on a percentage basis, to the larger market.''
Of potentially more importance to American investors is a market-capitalization issue closer to home. Ever since the bull market began in 1982, the small-capitalization stocks in the United States have lagged behind the blue chips by almost every measure - stock price, earnings, you name it. But some analysts think they see signs of a turnaround.
Mutual funds specializing in smaller companies did better than most other fund categories in recent months. And Claudia Mott, an analyst at Prudential-Bache Securities, pointed out last week that the Russell 2000 index, a good proxy for her ''small-cap'' universe, outperformed the Standard & Poor 500 in both Februrary and March. That suggests to her that small-cap stocks are poised for a comeback.
Binkley Shorts, the manager of the Over-the-Counter Securities Fund, said that market psychology, not economic fundamentals, is the major influence on how small stocks perform. ''Small stocks seem to come in and out of favor like a pendulum,'' he said. They've been out of favor so long, he added, that they're bound to rebound sooner or later.
Is now a good time? Ms. Mott thinks so. With the market worried about earnings and debt, her research shows that small-cap companies may compare favorably with the blue chips on both counts in the months ahead. ''The leveraging of corporate America appears to be more of a large-cap story than a small-cap one,'' she noted. ''And small-cap profits have been better than large-cap profits for two quarters running.''
By now, small-cap investors are understandably skeptical of anyone who promises that their bull market is just over the next ridge. But this time, that pounding they hear might actually be hoofbeats - unless, of course, it is just a bunch of tipsy traders at some Wall Street bar watching the late market reports from Tokyo, stomping their feet and chanting ''We're No. 1. We're No. 1.''

GRAPHIC: Graphs: Dow Jones average for previous week; estimated market value of U.S. and Japan, 1/31/90-4/4/90; return on investment for Russll 2000 and S&P 500, Jan. March, 1990

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (92%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (56%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME STOCK INDEXES (91%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (87%); BONDS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); PSYCHOLOGY (61%); 

PERSON: HENRIQUES, DIANA B MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 



186 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1670 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIARY

 BODY:

COMPANIES
 
UAL: The Employees Have It
The UAL Corporation has found a way to win concessions from its unions: Sell them the company. The airline announced on Friday an estimated $4.38 billion deal with its machinists, pilots and flight attendants. For each UAL share, the unions would put up $155 in cash, a bond with a face value of $35 and a stake in the company's computer reservation subsidiary - about $201 a share altogether. But will the banks that refused to finance a $6.8 billion deal last October back the lower offer? Analysts say the unions will have their work cut out for them. ''If interest rates are going up and the economy is chilling out, then nothing gets done,'' said Kevin Murphy, an analyst at Morgan Stanley. Reflecting Wall Street's pessimism, UAL closed at $163 1/2 on Friday, down $2.
 
 
Shearson Sinks, Salomon Soars
 
Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. said on Monday that it will suffer a first-quarter loss as deep as $917 million, a Wall Street record. About $630 million covers the cost of reorganizing the firm, which is retreating from several businesses as furiously as it entered them a few years ago. ''We were trying too much to be all things to all people in the 1980's,'' Howard Clark Jr., Shearson's new chairman and chief executive, said. ''The 1990's are going to be more focused.'' 
 
*
 
Salomon Brothers, on the other hand, is showing a new flair for making money. The firm said on Thursday that it had earned at least $200 million during the first quarter, far more than analysts had expected. Tokyo's woe became Salomon's win, as the company profited from issuing securities that allowed investors to bet that the Japanese market would tumble. Good bet.
 
 
Bonwit in Bankruptcy
 
The woman on the phone at Bonwit Teller in Manhattan's Trump Tower sounded downcast. ''We're closed, sir,'' she said Thursday afternoon. ''We're going out of business.'' And so, under arrangements announced in bankruptcy court the day before, the high-fashion Bonwit Teller department stores are being liquidated. Its Australian parent company, the Hooker Corporation, had already shut its B. Altman chain. The Manhattan Bonwit Teller planned to reopen to sell off its stock. New York, and several other cities, might continue to have Bonwit Teller stores, though possibly at different locations. The Pyramid Companies, a Syracuse, N.Y., mall developer, bought the Bonwit name, with the aim of opening a new flagship store on Fifth Avenue.
 
 
The Time Warner Factoid
 
Early in this century, Tristan Tzara composed a poem by randomly pulling words from a hat. In 1990, Time Warner Inc. seems to have done about the same to compose an annual report. Fragments of text - ''factoids,'' the designers call them - run in arcs and circles, sideways and upside down, in Day-Glo colors and bizarre collages. The company's aim was to stress that Time Warner is much more than the sum of the corporate parts that merged to form the world's largest media company last year. ''One of our goals was to make the report a reflection of the creativity that is a key to our business,'' said a company executive. Imagine what Wolcott Gibbs, that deft parodist, would say if he could update his essay on the company: ''Sideward ran factoids until reeled the mind.''
 
 
Insurers at Sea
 
Finding the billion-dollar treasure took $10 million and three frustrating years. Now the salvagers of the 132-year-old wreck of the S.S. Central America off the Carolinas have to chase away the insurers. Lawyers for about a dozen insurance companies crowded a Norfolk, Va., courtroom on Tuesday to say that their clients, or the companies' predecessors, had paid off claims on the wreck, back before the Civil War. Now, the lawyers said, the companies have a right to some gold.
 
 
G.M.'s Nuts and Bolts Chief
 
The General Motors Corporation must hope that Robert C. Stempel, the next chairman and chief executive, proves more popular than Roger B. Smith, whom he will succeed this August. Mr. Smith and his many plant closings were the target of ''Roger and Me,'' a bitter documentary released last year. Analysts praised Mr. Stempel's promotion, announced on Tuesday, as a sign that the company was ready to concentrate on quality and production. Mr. Smith was the latest in a line of chief executives from the financial side; Mr. Stempel is an engineer. ''What everyone's looking for,'' said Harvey Heimbach, an analyst at Merrill Lynch, ''is whether the person who's running an auto company has gasoline in his blood. To the extent that he's excited about products, this is a positive for G.M.''
 
 
In Brief
 
The Lotus Development Corporation, whose personal computer spreadsheets dominate the market, announced on Friday that it would acquire Novell Inc., a maker of network software, for $1.4 billion worth of Lotus stock.
 
 
 
INTERNATIONAL
 
Wandering Waterford?
 
Somehow, Waterford Czechoslovakian crystal doesn't sound as appealing as the products from Ireland. But Waterford Wedgewood P.L.C. management is threatening to move the crystal operations to Eastern Europe unless the Irish workers help to cut costs. The company stopped bonus payments for 500 workers on Thursday, and all 2,300 at Waterford's three plants reacted by going on their first full strike. Waterford's attempts to apply modern industrial management to the traditional crystal-making craft have backfired, with losses mounting and sales to the United States slumping. The company's managers say Eastern Europe could provide cheaper labor. ''Investors, in my view, are not too concerned where the glass is manufactured as long as they get a dividend from their investment,'' an executive said.
 
 
Japan and the Trade Issue
 
The United States emerges as the friend of the oppressed Japanese consumer in a broad trade agreemeent reached on Thursday. The Japanese agreed to lower restrictions on large new stores, help make more land available for homes and businesses, stiffen antitrust penalties, increase public spending on housing and roads and ease imports, especially of items like communications equipment and satellites. Japanese officials warned that entrenched interest groups - businesses large and small - would fight to block these measures in the Japanese Parliament.
 
*
 
Immediate improvement in the trade deficit with Japan is unlikely, longer-term improvement in doubt, American economists say. ''We're talking about things that are supposed to go into effect over a very long time,'' said Kevin Logan, who follows trade matters as chief economist at the Swiss Bank Corporation. ''I don't think they're going to open Toys 'R' Us stores in 15 cities next year.'' So far, the toy chain has been unable to open any outlets there. But Mr. Logan said that Japanese consumers might rally behind the trade agreement. ''They're waking up to what's going on in the world,'' he said. ''They're getting shortchanged.''
 
 
 
ECONOMY
 
S.&L.'s Get Their Man
 
It cost $89,000 a year to hire him, $29 million a day not to. The Senate decided on Wednesday that confirming T. Timothy Ryan Jr., 62-to-37, as the nation's top savings and loan regulator was the better option. Senators who doubted that Mr. Ryan's experience as a labor lawyer qualified him to supervise the savings and loan bailout had predicted that his nomination would fail. Then came Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady to remind them that a court battle had brought the bailout process to a halt (costing taxpayers at least $29 million a day) until the Senate could confirm a new Office of Thrift Supervision director. As the Labor Department's solicitor in the early 1980's, Mr. Ryan cleaned up the Teamsters' Central States Pension Fund. Maybe he's ready to attack a much bigger mess - one that, according to the General Accounting Office on Friday, will cost at least $325 billion.
 
 
Pollution: Who's to Pay?
 
In Washington, pollution-control cost and benefit estimates are floating as thick as the smog in Los Angeles. The Senate passed clean-air legislation on Tuesday that, the Administration says, would add at least $20 billion annually to the $33 billion cost of meeting current pollution laws. Businesses say that the costs could go much higher, and that consumers will pay. Environmentalists say that stronger standards, especially for fuel economy in automobiles, would yield benefits far greater than the costs. Next: The House of Representatives, expected to be tougher on polluters, takes up the bill.
 
 
Reading the Indicators. . .
 
News last week that the Government's index of leading economic indicators fell 1 percent in February caused economists to say that industry is weak but not staggering. Without a record 25 percent drop in building permits, after a sharp gain during a warm January, the index would have dropped just two-tenths of 1 percent, they said.
 
 
. . .And the Jobless Rate
 
Friday's unemployment figures are likely to persuade the Federal Reserve Board to stay its course. Unemployment declined to 5.2 percent in March after nine months at 5.3 percent. But the nation added only 26,000 jobs, the lowest gain in four years. The message is that the Fed is avoiding either a recession or higher inflation, said Neal M. Soss, chief economist at First Boston. ''The current policy stance is the correct one,'' he said.
 
 
Boesky's Back Out
 
Ivan Boesky is free, but he is going to help the Government try to send others to prison. Mr. Boesky signed himself out from a halfway house in Brooklyn on Wednesday. He began a three-year prison term for securities fraud in 1988, winning a parole for good behavior. Boesky is barred for life from acting as an investment advisor in the United States. But he will be heard from some more if the Government's case against Michael R. Milken, once the star financier at Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc., goes to trial.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Robert Stempel and Roger Smith; T. Timothy Ryan Jr.; graph: civilian unemployment rate, Jan. 1988-March 1990 (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics); map: Southeast U.S. coast indicating site of sunken treasure.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (93%); TWX (NYSE) (80%); MS (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (93%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (93%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (93%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (80%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (80%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (61%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (61%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (53%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (53%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (93%); TIME WARNER INC (80%); PYRAMID COS (61%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY AIRLINES (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (88%); HOLDING COMPANIES (79%); PARENT COMPANIES (79%); LIQUIDATIONS (79%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (79%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (77%); BONDS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (73%); RETAILERS (64%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (62%); INTEREST RATES (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%); SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: MYERSON, ALLEN R MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); 



187 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 128 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:

MONDAY: The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company holds its annual meeting in Akron, Ohio. 
 
TUESDAY: Honda dedicates a $600 million expansion of its engine plant in Anna, Ohio, and, on Wednesday, a new $380 million assembly plant in East Liberty, Ohio.
The California Supreme Court hears oral arguments in a cancer patient's suit for a share of the profits from a biotech product created with his blood.
 
THURSDAY: Retail sales for March.
The Federated and Allied department store chains will tell a United States Bankruptcy Court in Cincinnati about their $25 million, two-year plan to retain top managers.
 
FRIDAY: United States stock and bond markets are closed for Good Friday.
Producer Price Index for March.
Business inventories for Febuary.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GT (SWX) (91%); GT (NASDAQ) (91%); GT (BRU) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS441320 TIRE DEALERS (91%); NAICS326220 RUBBER & PLASTICS HOSES & BELTING MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (91%); SIC5531 AUTO & HOME SUPPLY STORES (91%); SIC3052 RUBBER & PLASTICS HOSE & BELTING (91%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); 

CITY: AKRON, OH, USA (91%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: GOODYEAR TIRE & RUBBER CO (91%); SUPREME COURT OF CALIFORNIA (58%); SUPREME COURT OF CALIFORNIA (58%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); RUBBER & SILICONE (90%); TIRES (88%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (88%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (86%); RETAILERS (86%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (86%); DEPARTMENT STORES (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); SUITS & CLAIMS (84%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); SUPREME COURTS (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (70%); RETAIL SALES (68%); EASTER SEASON (68%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%); PRODUCER PRICES (65%); BONDS (65%); INVENTORIES (64%); APPEALS (55%); 



188 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 15, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 201 words

HEADLINE: Currency;
April in Paris for the Yen

 BODY:
The weak yen gained a little ground last week as traders waited for the results of the Saturday meeting in Paris of the finance ministers from the United States and its economic allies in the Group of Seven. The dollar was little changed against other major currencies. The impact of the meeting - the group's other members are Japan, West Germany, Britain, France, Italy and Canada - will be tested as foreign exchange markets open today in New Zealand (in the early afternoon hours, New York time) and then in Tokyo. The yen is likely to fall further without some statement of support and central bank intervention. Meanwhile, the mark could be buffeted this week if the dispute continues over what exchange rate to use in merging the economies of the two Germanys. 

$	 	 	 	Last	Previous	Year	 	Week	Week	Ago	 	 	 	 	 	Japanese Yen	157.65	158.48	132.72	per Dollar	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	W.German Mark	1.6950	1.6945	1.8765	per Dollar	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Canadian Dollar	1.1640	1.1697	1.1930	per U.S. Dollar	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	British Pound	1.6425	1.6453	1.6975	U.S. Dollar per British Pound	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Gold	$380.50	$370.25	$383.25	Republic National Bank 	 	 	 	
 
Currecny: Friday NY Close

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: STATISTICS

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (54%); HSB (PAR) (54%); HBC (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (93%); FRANCE (93%); JAPAN (93%); GERMANY (92%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (91%); TOKYO, JAPAN (56%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (54%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (54%); GROUP OF SEVEN (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF SEVEN

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN

SUBJECT: CURRENCY ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); GERMAN MARK (77%); BRITISH POUND (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); 



189 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1418 words

HEADLINE: All About/Hotel Marketing;
After a Decade of Growth, Far Too Much Room at the Inn

BYLINE: By PHILIP S. GUTIS

 BODY:
With development costs rising, buildings aging and the room glut worsening, the troubled hotel industry has hit on a new set of responses: ''It's gotten gimmicky,'' said Darryl Hartley-Leonard, president of the Hyatt Hotels Corporation. ''Suites, frequent-traveler programs, discounting, free food, free breakfast, free liquor.''
After a decade of fast growth and large profits, the $57.1 billion American hotel industry is likely to need every gimmick at its disposal to prosper during the next five years. Industry executives are predicting a shakeout, with ownership and management changes becoming more likely. Analysts say that some companies are too highly leveraged to survive an extended downturn.
The statistics are already discouraging. Average occupancy rates for the major full-service hotel chains have dropped to about 63 percent, below the 65-to-68 percent range that was the average in the 1980's. To remain profitable, hotels generally need to fill 70 percent of their rooms - a level they haven't reached since 1979. Even resorts, an especially profitable category for many chains, appear to be in excess supply. 
Hotels were generally profitable during the 1980's only because of real estate tax incentives that were eliminated late in the decade. Analysts have estimated that as much as 65 percent of the 774,000 hotel rooms added in the 80's were built to create losses that could be deducted from investors' income.
And yet, Mr. Hartley-Leonard said, the hotel industry hasn't overcome a serious case of ''blind optimism'': ''The headlines scream of more units, new product lines and the creation of new hotel chains within hotel chains every day,'' he said.
During the last few years, hotel companies tried to sidestep the crowded middle market by adding rooms in the economy or luxury classes. Now, these ends of the market are becoming overbuilt too. Budget and luxury accommodations each account for 18 percent of the nation's hotels, with the remaining 64 percent falling in between the two categories.
Some companies are trying to save on labor by turning more tasks over to computers. Others are trying to slice the market finer, developing new niches, like hotels for nonsmokers and all-suite hotels. ''The industry is trying to provide a hotel room for every price and every pocketbook,'' said Melinda Bush, the publisher of the Hotel & Travel Index, an industry publication.

 
No-Frills Gospel
 
Middle-Market Chains Convert to Economy
The economy hotel market may be crowded, but the middle market remains much worse. So some leading middle-market hotel chains are scaling down as fast as they can, stripping frills and slashing room rates in older properties.
The demand for economy lodging grew during the 80's as business travel costs rose 94 percent, according to the Runzheimer International Business Travel Price Index. Corporate travel planners often ordered employers to use cheaper hotels. Several major chains reached down to build budget properties that promise clean hotel rooms with little more in amenities than a telephone and a television. The Marriott Corporation started the Fairfield Inns chain and Ramada Inc. introduced Rodeway Inns.
Analysts say that the 90's are likely to be a time of conversion instead of construction. ''There is a tremendous amount of conversion activity going on,'' said Daniel W. Daniele, a general partner at Laventhol & Horwath, the accounting and consulting firm. ''New developments of budget hotels have slowed to a snail's pace as a result of lenders already having too much in their portfolios.''
Last year, 42 percent of the 91,300 new economy-class rooms came from conversions of either full-service or independent hotels (those not part of a chain) that could no longer survive, Laventhol & Horwath reported. At Ramada's Rodeway Inns, a budget chain of 150 hotels, all but three of the 27 new properties added last year represented conversions rather than new construction.
 
 
Wall-to-Wall Paradises
 
Resorts Still Court the Business Traveler
 A veritable Shangri-La can be difficult to market when its beaches, palm trees and dolphin-filled pool are no different from the Shangri-La's down the street. Even in Hawaii, analysts say, the resorts will have to begin chopping rates to fill rooms - though hotel managers there say they aren't lowering rates yet.
Several luxury chains - including Four Seasons Hotels Inc. and Ritz-Carlton - built resorts during the 1980's so that business travelers who stayed at their downtown urban properties could rely on them for vacation havens as well. For Four Seasons, which is opening six resorts over the next four years, resort development is ''a line extension - another brand within the family,'' said Mr. Richards. ''We needed to grow our business and capture more of our customers' time.''
Analysts and hotel executives said more resorts will be built, even though occupancy in 1988 dropped 4 percent and average room rates 3 percent. Resorts used to hosting conventions and week-long stays are now going after harried professionals who can only take three- or four-day weekends. ''It is harder for many couples to get away as regularly as they used to,'' said Gary B. Hedges, the national director for resort real estate with Laventhol & Horwath. ''Couples deciding to get away for a long weekend often automatically go to a resort.''
 
Labor Shortages
 
Accentuating The Automated
 Guests who might never mind eating bread from an automated bakery or driving a car from an automated plant find their tolerance for labor-saving technology ends at check-out time. Hotels trying to cut costs discover that most guests prefer settling bills in person to viewing them on televisions or paying by phone. ''Much of the new technology had lost the personal touch, and that was bad for business,'' said Larry Chervenak, president of the Chervenak, Keane and Company hotel consultants.
Hotel managers have strong motives for relying more and more on computers and machines. The profusion of hotels has aggravated a labor shortage and raised costs.
So far, hotel guests seem most comfortable with the computers they can't see: equipment that keeps inventories and other business records and prepares reports. New front-desk systems call up a guest's records with one pass of a credit card. Some luxury hotels, like the Four Seasons, keep guest preferences on computer, so a room can be supplied with, say, nonfeather pillows before a guest even has to ask. And like the airlines, the hotels are using computers to refine the art of ''yield management,'' determining when to discount and when to hold the line to fill the most rooms at the highest rates.
Hotel executives say that letting computers do more of the work can actually make service more personal. Robert M. Foster, the general manager of the huge Sheraton New Orleans Hotel, resorts to theatrical terms to describe his aim of leaving his aides with time to help the staff (his ''cast'') improve service.
''What we have found,'' Mr. Foster said, ''is that the better the technology is - especially for the core of middle-management people - the more time they have to be out with cast members to improve the moment of truth.'' Mr. Foster has found some simpler ways to unburden his managers. For several months, he encouraged them to shoot unneeded internal reports back to those who sent them.
 
 
 
WANTED: THE WEALTHY
Whil economy hotels slash amenities, luxury hotels are seeking new ways to heap services onto their wealthy guests. The latest gadget offered is the fax machine, so executives can send confidential documents without going through the front desk.
Four Seasons Hotels Inc. is going to even further lengths to pamper its most frequent guests, treating them as if they truly lived at the hotels full-time. The chain has introduced an embellished frequent-stayer plan called Private Reserve. Those who have stayed at least 42 nights in a year can use hotel concierge services even when they are not staying at the hotels.
John B. Richards, the chain's senior vice president of marketing, is quick to point out the program's advantages. ''Let's say, for example, that you are a D.C. lawyer with a client in Seattle and you want to acknowledge the client in some way,'' he said. ''You could just call the hotel in Seattle, and they will send a gift for you.'' Four Seasons says that executives of 4,500 companies are eligible for the program.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bare essentials: A room at Ramada Inc.'s economy chain, Rodeway Inns, in Tempe, Ariz. (The New York Times/Penny Ann Dolin); A few flourishes: A suite at the Chicago branch of the luxury chain Four Seasons Hotels.; graph: hotels rooms in the U.S., those occupied, and the break-even point, 1979-1992* (*1990-92 projections) (Source: Laventhol & Horwath)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: HYATT HOTELS CORP (72%); 

SUBJECT: HOTELS AND MOTELS; INDUSTRY PROFILES HOTELS & MOTELS (95%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LODGING (90%); HOTEL CHAINS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (88%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); BUDGETS (76%); FULL SERVICE HOTELS (73%); PROPERTY TAX (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); NEW PRODUCTS (63%); TAX INCENTIVES (51%); 

PERSON: GUTIS, PHILIP S



190 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 16, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: Mutual Funds;
Modest Luster for High Tech

BYLINE: By Carole Gould

 BODY:
Investing in high technology paid off for mutual fund investors last quarter. The 23 science and technology funds returned an average of 2.7 percent, while all other stock fund categories combined lost 2.8 percent, according to Lipper Analytical Services, which tracks mutual funds. In fact, the science and technology funds were the only ones in the 26 major groups tracked by Lipper - beside the European regional funds - that made money in the quarter.
This performance represents a turnaround for the funds, which, investing mainly in computer and telecommunications stocks, lagged all stock funds in 1989 by about two percentage points. The group took a particular beating during last year's fourth quarter, dropping 1.3 percent against a 0.1 percent rise in stock funds. 
Fund managers say several factors are driving the high-tech rebound.
Overall, the stocks have underperformed the market for seven years. But at some point, some analysts believe, the market flip-flops and the group becomes undervalued enough to become a good buy.
The managers also point to the changing nature of technology. The year began with expectations of an economic slowdown, and high-tech companies - many of them producing big-ticket items like mainframe computers - have been sensitive to downturns. But the evolving computer industry now sells a broader range of products, many at lower prices, so demand remained strong.
''You don't need the board of directors to approve a purchase of 10 personal computers,'' said Larry Bowman, portfolio manager of Fidelity's Select Computers Portfolio.
New corporate attitudes, emphasizing faster, cheaper ways to send and receive data, mean that more corporate decision makers are using desktop computers to manage the growing flow of information, and companies are investing heavily in computers and communications networks.
Then there were revises in earnings forecasts early in the year, with estimates of earnings gains for the personal computer market repegged at 10 percent to 12 percent, still only half of last year's 25 percent-plus gains, but better than originally expected. ''The entire sector began to pick up steam, led by personal computers and new software,'' said Jack Geraghty, a vice president with the First Boston Corporation.
Harris Leviton, who manages the past quarter's top performer, the $33 million Fidelity Select Portfolios Electronics, is betting heavily on companies that distribute electronic components. The industry has undergone painful restructuring over the past two years and consolidation has improved company margins, he said. Two favorites: Long Island-based Avnet, the leader in the field, and Pioneer Standard Electronics, in Cleveland, Ohio, a distributor with a strong foothold in the Middle West. Mr. Leviton also likes Applied Materials Inc., based in Santa Clara, Calif., the nation's leading manufacturer of capital equipment for the semiconductor industry.
The largest holding of the $30 million Fidelity Select Computers is Sun Microsystems Inc. of Mountainview, Calif. Sun manufactures work stations, powerful computers used by engineers, scientists and others who need a lot of individual computer power. Mr. Bowman, the fund's manager, says Sun's revenues are growing 30 percent a year, although management is still grappling with growing pains.
Another favorite: the Compaq Computer Corporation, based in Houston, a leading maker of personal computers. The stock trades at less than 11 times earnings, versus the 14 or 15 that Mr. Bowman says would more fairly reflect the company's potential.
Daniel Leonard, manager of the $35 million Financial Strategic Portfolios-Technology Fund, based in Denver, thinks computer software is the market niche with the biggest growth potential. He likes General Motors Class E, the stock of a Dallas-based computer services company bought by G.M. about six years ago. The company custom-designs software, a service Mr. Leonard expects more and more executives to snap up.
A favorite holding of Richard A. Spillane, who manages the $95 million Fidelity Select Technology Fund, is the Policy Management Systems Corporation, a Columbia, S.C., software company that services insurance companies. Mr. Spillane says management has repositioned the company from software products, which have widely variable earnings, to computer services where earnings are steady and growing.
At the $150 million Alliance Technology Fund, which didn't make the top five, the biggest holding is is Autodesk Inc., of Sausalito, Calif., a leading supplier of computer-aided design, or CAD, software. Roger W. Honour, the fund's manager, also favors the Weitek Corporation, a Sunnyvale, Calif., manufacturer of math co-processors, computer chips that can be installed inside personal computers to speed up laborious mathematical calculations.
But despite the first-quarter performance, analysts are uncertain about how the science and technology funds will fare during the rest of the year. Mr. Geraghty says most stocks will probably do well through Memorial Day and maybe June, ''but the rest of the year is a question mark.''
 
 
 
MONEY FUNDS: PLAYING MATURITIES
Many people think money market funds are all alike, but that's not true. The average fund's portfolio matures in 31 to 40 days. Some fund managers do not go out longer than 10 days; others stretch maturities beyond 70 days.
The longer the maturity, of course, the less flexibility a fund has to keep up with changing interest rates. So when rates rose in January and February, managers of the longer-term money funds were locked into lower rates. Knowing the maturities of a portfolio helps investors bet on where rates are headed. If you don't want to do that, stick with funds whose maturities stay close to the average.

GRAPHIC: Chart: return for the first quarter of 1990 of all distributions reinvested for high-tech investors (Source: Lipper Analytical Services); graph: the 240 money market funds grouped by average maturity of portfolio, from 0 days to 70+ (Source: Lipper Analytical Services)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AMAT (NASDAQ) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (85%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (85%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); NAICS333242 SEMICONDUCTOR MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC3559 OTHER SPECIAL INDUSTRY MACHINERY (81%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (60%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (60%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (60%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (60%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: FMR CORP (85%); LIPPER INC (84%); APPLIED MATERIALS INC (81%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (60%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS MUTUAL FUNDS (97%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (89%); ELECTRONICS (79%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (79%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); COMPUTER MAKERS (76%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (75%); BONDS (74%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (72%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (71%); COMPUTING EQUIPMENT WHOLESALERS (71%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (70%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (70%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (69%); SEMICONDUCTOR EQUIPMENT MFG (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); MAINFRAME COMPUTERS (66%); APPROVALS (64%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (63%); 

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE ANN LIVERMORE (52%); 



191 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 13, Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 644 words

HEADLINE: FORUM;
The Interest-Rate Forecast Is Wrong

BYLINE: By MADIS SENNER; Madis Senner is president of SunRay Securities Inc., an international money management firm, and author of ''Japanese Euroderivatives.''

 BODY:
A number of economists are now betting that interest rates will come down. They cite the weakening of the domestic economy and the possibility of a recession later in the year. But companies and investors that heed this advice are in for a shock. The 1990's will see global interest rates climb for reasons that most economists have ignored.
During the 1980's, as inflation abated, aggressive overseas financial investment by capital-surplus countries, like Japan, prevented capital from becoming scarce - and expensive - holding interest rates down. During the 1980's, the Japanese bought almost 15 percent of Canadian Government bond issues and between 25 and 40 percent of new United States Treasury bonds. 
But with the 28 percent drop in Tokyo's Nekkei 225 stock index since last December, the end has come for cheap capital exports from Japan. Other capital-surplus countries, like West Germany, will also be constrained in their capital exports, but for other reasons.
One immediate consequence of the fall in the Tokyo stock market has been the one-month moratorium recently imposed on the issuance of new equity derivatives by Japanese corporations. These instruments are powerful tools that Japanese companies used to raise capital for their overseas investments.
Equity derivatives are financial instruments - like bonds - that companies can issue to raise money. But what made them attractive was that they are convertible, at the purchaser's request, into common stock. This allowed bond investors to participate in the rise of share prices on the Japanese stock market. In 1988 and 1989, Japanese companies raised a total of 20 trillion yen - about $180 billion - using these instruments.
During the 1980's, the use of equity derivative instruments by Japanese companies coincided with an increase in the purchase of foreign securities by Japanese investment institutions. Throughout the 1980's, otherwise conservative Japanese companies grew adept at using these new financial instruments to participate in investment opportunities abroad. In the 1980's, it was not uncommon for Japanese manufacturers to earn 20 percent - or more - of their profits from financial investments.
Another reason why those predicting lower interest rates are wrong concerns the east-bloc countries. They will be competing for a greater share of the world's supply of capital - especially West Germany's. The economies of the East bloc, excluding the Soviet Union, have an aggregate gross national product of about $750 billion. These countries could absorb about 10 percent of that amount in foreign capital investment. This would put further pressure on the world's supply of investment funds.
A final reason rates will not come down is that most major governmentsare planning to issue more bonds over the next few years, which will add to demand. To compete for capital, they will have to increase the interest rates they offer.
In West Germany, estimates are that the Government will issue 30 to 60 billion marks - $17 billion to $35 billion - in German bonds in the next few years to pay for reunification. The Japanese Government has agreed to the American proposal to increase its public works expenditures, and will do so by issuing new bonds. In the United States, the estimates are that it will take from $100 billion to $200 billion in new bond issues by the Resolution Trust Corporation to complete the bailout of the savings and loan industry.
The disinflation that drove down interest rates in the 1980's has been replaced by a new phenomenon: less capital available from Japan and the other surplus countries, and increasing demand. Because of this, interest rates will rise around the world during the early 1990's. But even if a recession should come, it will only dampen the rise in interest rates; it will not alter the upward direction.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Madis Senner (The New York Times/Ruby Washington); drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); CANADA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (72%); 

COMPANY: JAPANESE COS (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN

SUBJECT: CREDIT; INTEREST (MONEY); GOVERNMENT BONDS ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); RECESSION (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BOND ISSUES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); COMMON STOCK (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (74%); 

PERSON: SENNER, MADIS



192 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 13, Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 500 words

HEADLINE: FORUM;
Trading Away the Trade Deficit

BYLINE: By WILLARD C. BUTCHER; Willard C. Butcher is chairman and chief executive of the Chase Manhattan Corporation.

 BODY:
Last month's announcement by the Commerce Department that the trade deficit narrowed to $113 billion for 1989 sparked a sense of euphoria. It is true that the deficit was 11 percent less than the $127 billion recorded in 1988, but even with this modest improvement, the current account deficit is still running in excess of $100 billion. Since 1980, the United States has run up a cumulative trade deficit of more than $850 billion, with almost 80 percent of it from the last five years. Add this year's deficit, and that figure could reach $1 trillion. What must we do? There is an approach I call the United States trade certificate program. It would directly link the value of goods exported from the United States to the value of goods imported. 
Anyone in any other country who imported American-made goods would receive a trade certificate with a face value corresponding to the value of the purchased goods. Anyone shipping foreign-made goods to the United States would be required to supply trade certificates equal to the value of those goods.
Trade certificates could be used at any time to ship any goods to the United States from any country. They would neither favor, nor discriminate against any industry, shipper, product or country. They would not protect our markets. In fact, they would end up promoting trade, since the more goods that are shipped from the United States, the more that could be shipped to the United States.
Because the certificates would be so valuable to those who export to the United States, it is likely that an active trading market would develop. Although the certificates would carry a fixed dollar amount, the market would fluctuate freely. Through a highly liquid global market, those who wish to sell to the United States would buy certificates from those overseas who had purchased American goods.
Such a multilateral program would hold the added benefit of eliminating the need for existing protectionist measures. If any country wished both to keep its markets closed to United States exports and to continue selling to it, its exporters would be perfectly free to do so. They would simply go to a third country with surplus certificates.
If in due course, with improved economic fundamentals, a suitable trade balance could be maintained, there would no longer be a market for trade certificates. They would become valueless and self-destruct. But until that time, such a program makes irrefutable sense. It is not, however, an economic cure-all. We do need to work hard to reduce the budget deficit, boost the rate of savings and investment, improve educational standards, recapture our lead in technology and further improve product quality. But our ability to achieve those vital national objectives is severely handicapped while we continue to incur huge trade deficits.
The time has come to stop dealing in empty pledges, idle hopes and unrealistic dreams. We need decisive action that provides, not promises, a real trade improvement.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (92%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); QUALITY CONTROL (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (67%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%); 

PERSON: BUTCHER, WILLARD C



193 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 15, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 963 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street;
A Paradoxical Anti-Takeover Bill

BYLINE: By Diana B. Henriques

 BODY:
How should investors in Pennsylvania's public companies react to the anti-takeover bill that is about to be signed into law in the Keystone State?
''The same way you'd react to a rattlesnake curled up on your pillow,'' said Ronald Gilson, a professor at the Stanford Law School and an outspoken critic of the proposed legislation, which is intended to curb hostile acquisitions. The law would severely restrict the shareholder's ability to initiate proxy contests.
Roland Machold, the director of the New Jersey State Investment Division, who manages the state's huge public-employee pension funds, is less pointed but equally unenthusiastic. ''I can't see myself buying the stock of any Pennsylvania company coming to market now,'' Mr. Machold said. ''All that company could sell would be a sort of 'zero-coupon, non-maturing, junior subordinated something-or-other.' But it wouldn't be a common stock with accountability to shareholders.'' 
The fundamental paradox of the Pennsylvania proposal is that it is being sponsored in the name of protecting jobs and long-term economic growth, but it is likely to hit hardest at exactly those companies that contribute such an important share of any region's jobs and economic growth: young companies that need new equity capital to grow.
The provenance of the legislation is the Belzberg family's protracted raid on Armstrong World Industries, a home-products company based in Lancaster, Pa. Although some Wall Street firms have already told their clients that the Belzbergs are running out of steam, state legislators are undeterred.
They have approved, and Gov. Robert P. Casey has said he will sign, a bill that restricts the voting rights of any group or investor who buys 20 percent or more of a company's stock; the bill also allows for the seizure of all profits made by short-term investors who sell their stock within 18 months of an unsuccessful hostile-takeover bid. And it assures labor contracts and severance pay to employees in the unlikely event that a takeover occurs in spite of the bill's other provisions.
Defenders of the measure say they are simply making into law what is a simple fact of life: that shareholders are not the only people with a stake in what a public company does. Workers and communities and suppliers - and, of course, managers - have an interest as well. And, in the future, raiders like the Belzbergs will ignore those interests at their peril, at least in Pennsylvania.
Some of the bill's critics see it as the financial equivalent of the Maginot line, a defense against the strategies of the earlier war against ''junk-bonded'' raiders, which will be worse than useless in the current battle for new jobs and global market share. Richard Breeden, the chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, has waded into the fight, condemning the bill as a measure that would disenfranchise shareholders and leave incompetent managers ''free to run a company into the ground.''
But unless Mr. Breeden is willing to put the S.E.C.'s muscle where his mouth is, the measure is likely to affect investors in a host of companies.
Which ones? There are the frequently cited giants: Allegheny International, Consolidated Rail, H. J. Heinz, Mellon Bank, PPG Industries, Scott Paper, the Sun Company and Westinghouse Electric, all listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
There are some lesser-known exchange-listed stocks, too, including Dravo, Equitable Resources, Hunt Manufacturing, Quaker Chemical, Publicker Industries, Tasty Banking, UGI, Weis Markets and Zurn Industries.
But only 22 percent of the companies incorporated in Pennsylvania are grand enough to qualify for the New York Stock Exchange or the American Stock Exchange. The rest trade over the counter. Some are tiny companies whose highly speculative shares trade for a few pennies apiece. But others are enterprises of much more substance.
The latter group includes the mighty Corestates Financial Corporation, the parent of both Philadelphia National Bank and First Pennsylvania Bank, and a host of smaller regional bank holding companies, such as Susquehanna Bancshares, the Bryn Mawr Bank Corporation and the York Financial Corporation. Also on the roster is the C-TEC Corporation, a burgeoning independent telephone company that is frequently the subject of takeover speculation, and such retailers as the Deb Shops, Charming Shoppes and Strawbridge & Clothier.
Some studies show that the adoption of anti-takeover legislation can drag down such share prices by as much as 4 percent; others say the damage is fleeting, a one-time drop that evaporates quickly. However, Professor Gilson of Stanford points out that none of these earlier studies involved a law quite as sweeping as Pennsylvania's.
Several major institutional players, including Fidelity Investments and several large pension fund managers, have said that they will be wary of investing in companies based in Pennsylvania if the bill becomes law. ''This won't be instantaneous,'' said Mr. Gilson, ''because it takes time for institutions to decide to sell. But watch the volume; that's where it will show up first - with an increase in volume for Pennsylvania companies.''
Mr. Machold of New Jersey, however, notes that the new law would fall heaviest on smaller companies trying to raise fresh capital. ''It is those companies who need to raise money in the marketplace who will be hurt the most,'' he said.
As for the future, critics of the bill note that there is only one other standard organizational model that comes close to offering incumbent directors the protections they will have under this bill, protections that make it impossible to replace them without their consent. That model, said Mr. Gilson, is the nonprofit corporation.

GRAPHIC: Chart: the 249 public companies incorporated in Pennsylvania, grouped by how they are traded (Source: Pennsylvannia Chamber of Business and Industry; National Quotation Bureau)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AWI (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS327120 CLAY BUILDING MATERIAL & REFRACTORIES MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3253 CERAMIC WALL & FLOOR TILE (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: LANCASTER, PA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ARMSTRONG WORLD INDUSTRIES INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PENNSYLVANIA

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; LABOR; LAW AND LEGISLATION; CORPORATIONS; SMALL BUSINESS LEGISLATION (92%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); COMMON STOCK (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); LAWYERS (74%); SECURITIES TRADING (74%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (74%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); APPROVALS (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (57%); 

PERSON: HENRIQUES, DIANA B BOB CASEY (58%); 



194 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 15, Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: Searching for the Survivors in Tokyo World Markets

BYLINE: By Jonathan Fuerbringer

 BODY:
In the rubble of the Tokyo stock market - now down 24.8 percent for the year - there are stocks that are doing well. They resisted the downturn and some of them, especially electronics stocks, are now recommended by analysts in Tokyo and elsewhere as the way to beat an otherwise miserable market.
In addition, the wave of selling has brought some other stocks far enough down in price to make them attractive again.
The survivors include the favorites of speculators, like Meiji Shipping, which is rising although its price is at almost 1,000 times earnings; the good small companies, like Konami Industry, which makes arcade-game software, and Keiyo, a do-it-yourself home-improvement store, and those companies riding on renewed demand, like Shimano Industrial, the bicycle-parts maker. 
But the list also includes many household names - like Sony, Nintendo, Canon, Hitachi, Panasonic, Pioneer and NEC - that have been lifted by the rush to healthy electronics and communications companies with good export prospects.
NEC, which makes communications equipment and personal computers, is up 20 percent this year. Hitachi, which has introduced a new mainframe computer, is up 15 percent; Pioneer, the radio and television manufacturer, is up 11 percent. But outdoing them all is Kyocera, which is up more than 44 percent, partly on the profit potential from its 25.5-percent holding in D.D.I., the chief challenger to Japan's telephone company, N.T.T. The others, including Sony, Canon and Panasonic, the American arm of Matsushita, are down only slightly, and renewed investor interest should push them back up very soon.
''It just goes to show that there is someplace to hide,'' said David Warren, executive vice president of Rowe Price Fleming in London, which manages a fund that has just started buying the electronics stocks.
One reason these stocks survived is that they were generally unpopular for several years, ignored in the wave of buying that left the Tokyo market at a record high on the last trading day of 1989. In that frenzy, which sent some companies to price-earnings ratios as high as 200, the most popular companies, from real estate to railroads, owned land, especially in Tokyo, that was rising in value at phenomenal rates. Financial companies, which were buoyed by the low interest rates in Japan, also were in on the ride up.
While the Nikkei 225 stock index rose 236.7 percent from 1985 to the end of 1989, Canon was up 49 percent and Hitachi 78.8 percent. Kyocera was down almost 17 percent. Sony and Pioneer did rise more than 150 percent - still well below the Nikkei.
But now this asset-focused buying binge is over. Interest rates are at their highest levels in years and the Bank of Japan is doing all it can to halt the boom in land prices. All these factors make electronics companies, including makers of microchips, attractive again. The have good, consistent earnings potential; many of them have price-earnings ratios in the 20's and 30's, below current averages in the 40's and 50's. And the weakness of the yen means that these export-oriented companies will be very competitive abroad, adding to their earnings outlook. ''Investors will pay more attention to technology than assets,'' said Yuichi Kohashi, executive vice president of Daiwa Securities America Inc.
The relative unpopularity of these stocks in the past helps in another way, said Yoshiro Katsuya, senior vice president at the Nikko Securities Company International in New York. Because they are not a major factor in portfolios of insurance companies or trust funds and were not bought in large amounts by individuals on margin, there will be little downward pressure on them even if the Tokyo market, which bounced back with a 1,029.72 point rise Friday, declines further.
Other stocks did not weather the downturn but look attractive now because their sharp decline - by as much as 60 percent - has transformed them from overpriced to fairly priced. Their price-to-cash-flow ratio is down to 20 or less, well below the market average of 35. Ron Napier of Salomon Brothers in London has identified 136 of these companies, including well-known names like Nippon Steel, Bridgestone and N.T.T.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CAJ (NYSE) (85%); 7751 (TSE) (85%); 6501 (TSE) (85%); 9115 (TSE) (57%); 7974 (TSE) (56%); KYO (NYSE) (55%); 6971 (TSE) (55%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3861 PHOTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (85%); NAICS334290 OTHER COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS333249 OTHER INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC5084 INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (85%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (85%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (85%); NAICS483111 DEEP SEA FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (57%); SIC4499 WATER TRANSPORTATION SERVICES, NEC (57%); SIC4412 DEEP SEA FOREIGN TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT (57%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (56%); NAICS334416 CAPACITOR, RESISTOR, COIL, TRANSFORMER & OTHER INDUCTOR MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (50%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (96%); LONDON, ENGLAND (53%); 

COMPANY: CANON INC (85%); HITACHI LTD (85%); MEIJI SHIPPING CO LTD (57%); NINTENDO CO LTD (56%); KYOCERA CORP (55%); BANK OF JAPAN (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: TOKYO STOCK EXCHANGE

GEOGRAPHIC: ;JAPAN

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME ELECTRONICS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); INTEREST RATES (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); REAL ESTATE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (77%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (76%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (74%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (74%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); DO IT YOURSELF HOME IMPROVEMENT (69%); HOME CENTERS (69%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MFG (68%); MOTORCYCLE & BICYCLE MFG (68%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (67%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (64%); EXECUTIVES (64%); BONDS (64%); CENTRAL BANKS (60%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN ANN LIVERMORE (53%); 



195 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 3; Page 13, Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 510 words

HEADLINE: The Response From Philadelphia On Penny-Stock Questions

 BODY:
To the Editor:
We read with confusion and considerable dismay your article reproaching the Philadelphia Stock Exchange for its practice of listing emerging companies that trade at low prices (''The Latest Penny-Stock Shuffle,'' April 1). Rather than a brilliant unearthing of facts, the article reflects your point of view that listing such companies is dangerous and the Philadelphia Stock Exchange is derelict in doing so.
Curiously, none of these listings is now under investigation, a point that your story takes a long time to make and does so parenthetically. Further, these and all other primary listings together account for a tiny percentage of the Philadelphia Stock Exchange's volume. Which leaves us baffled as to why the story was so compelling and needed to be illustrated and packaged in such a histrionic way. 
There are obvious advantages to being listed on an exchange, among them a stronger standard of regulation. More than 50 companies began the process of listing on the Philadelphia Stock Exchange last year, not 20 as your story said. Among those, fewer than 1 in 5 were approved for listing and trading was subsequently halted in another instance when the exchange's own regulators identified failures to fulfill obligations in the listing agreement each company must sign.
The Philadelphia Stock Exchange is not a loophole for penny stocks to jump through, nor by any means the only exchange to list small companies with low prices. Here are a few facts. Of all primary issues traded on the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, 27 are priced at or below $2 per share, compared with 71 such issues listed on the New York Stock Exchange (12 of which have filed bankruptcy proceedings) and 102 similarly priced issues on the American Stock Exchange.
The Securities and Exchange Commission's concerns on the subject of penny stock rule circumvention are not news to the Philadelphia Stock Exchange. We share them. In the final analysis, boiler rooms and other unscrupulous sales tactics destroy public confidence in our market. For this reason, we began a review of our listing standards several months ago. However, these are guidelines that the exchange is fully within its rights to apply judiciously in the entrepreneurial interests of companies for which it believes there may be a promising future.
The Philadelphia Stock Exchange recognizes the important role these companies play in our economy. Our listing policy has given starts in public life to many successful companies which might otherwise have gone without recognition. Your concern about our reputation is especially curious. Your story, which unfairly characterizes the exchange's listing activities, does much greater harm to our reputation than the listing of a few small companies. In our 200 years as the nation's oldest exchange, we have learned a lesson that others apparently have yet to: only by putting its reputation on the line can an enterprise hope to grow.
 
NICHOLAS A. GIORDANO
President and Chief Executive
Philadelphia Stock Exchange, April 4

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (90%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NASDAQ OMX PHLX INC (90%); NYSE MKT LLC (53%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: PHILADELPHIA STOCK EXCHANGE

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS STOCK EXCHANGES (94%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); BONDS (73%); APPROVALS (66%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (63%); INVESTIGATIONS (56%); 

PERSON: GIORDANO, NICHOLAS A



196 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1766 words

HEADLINE: THE STATE OF THE CHURCH;
Has Catholicism Lost A Chance to Be Our Moral Clearinghouse?

BYLINE: By PETER STEINFELS

 BODY:
NOT long ago, thinkers of various religious and political persuasions were hailing the coming of a ''Catholic moment,'' in which the church would help fill the moral vacuum left by the decline of mainline Protestantism and the rise of a secular liberalism that many Americans found arid and ineffectual.
Possessed of a sophisticated style of moral reasoning that is rooted in religion but philosophical enough to engage non-Catholics and perhaps even agnostics and atheists, the Catholic church, the religious home for one of every four Americans, seemed poised to make a unique contribution to the country's public life.
Today talk of the Catholic moment is fading; and with it, the hope that the church could bring its history of reasoned discussion to bear on a range of baffling issues that include nuclear deterrence, medical ethics and biotechnology.
For some the church's image has been badly damaged by the political hardball of the abortion debate. Serious moral reasoning on the beginning of life has been eclipsed by headlines about bishops banning Catholic politicians from the communion rail or warning them of eternal damnation. 
At the same time, the church is being shaken by internal problems. Men and women who have often been the mainstay of their parishes feel that, for all the discussion about the laity's participation in the life of the church, their deepest concerns and insights about marital sex, childrearing and other moral issues are still not being heard. In February, a liberal lay group opened a campaign for greater democracy in the church with an ad in The New York Times. Both conservatives and liberals seem to be registering their dissatisfaction by giving less generously in the collection plate.
 
Narrowing the Debate
Adding to the pressure is the fact that the Catholic leadership that will have to meet these challenges is growing steadily more cautious. Pressed by the Vatican and increasingly led by Pope John Paul II's chosen men, the American hierarchy has felt duty-bound in recent months to tighten the limits of debate, a strategy that is meant to rally the faithful but seems at least as likely to leave them resentful and rebellious.
American Catholicism is not in danger of collapse; in many places it is flourishing at the grass roots. But 25 years after the Second Vatican Council released energies that remade a once-conservative institution into a force for worldwide change, the leadership of the American church has grown shy of innovation. While some maintain that this newly imposed doctrinal discipline is the very soul of sound churchmanship, to others it is a recipe for calamity.
There remain a number of reasons to think that the church, the country's largest denomination, could still reach beyond its walls and serve a larger social role for Catholics and non-Catholics alike. Sociologically, the church spans the gap between the center of society and the edges. Throughout the country, Catholic descendents of earlier immigrants are now ensconced in the middle and higher ranks of government, business and the professions. But the church's parishes, priests and various agencies also extend a hand in the other direction, ministering to inner-city blacks and Hispanic and Asian groups still striving to escape poverty and enter the American mainstream.
Liberal proponents of the Catholic moment like the sociologist Robert Bellah saw intimations of a wider reach for the church in the Catholic bishops' 1983 pastoral letter on nuclear defense and disarmament and in their 1986 letter on the American economy and poverty. Conservative proponents of a greater Catholic role like the Lutheran theologian Richard J. Neuhaus saw opportunities in the dynamic traditionalism of Pope John Paul II.
But the church now seems to be having a hard time living up to those expectations. When Joseph Cardinal Bernardin alluded to the Catholic moment three weeks ago, it was in a speech about politics and abortion. He did not back away from the bishops' belief that public figures who profess to be personally opposed to abortion are obliged to translate that conviction somehow into public policy. But the church, he said, should respect honest disagreement over political strategies and should make its case against abortion primarily through ''moral persuasion, not punitive measures.''
To bolster their persuasive powers in the anti-abortion struggle, the bishops, it was announced last week, are hiring two prominent public relations and polling companies. Although it may make sense for the bishops to avail themselves of the kind of expertise used by their opponents, the step was an implicit acknowledgement of the church's difficulty in defining important moral questions even for its own members, let alone for wider society.
The publicists and pollsters will have their work cut out for them. American Catholics are probably the best-educated, most independent-minded laity in the church's history. It is no wonder that many of them chafe at a church leadership that is undergoing a fundamental transformation as Pope John Paul II gradually replaces retiring or dying bishops with leaders of his own stamp - men determined to uphold centralized Vatican authority and to resist pressures for any further revisions in Catholic doctrine and practice.
Of 302 American bishops, this pope has named more than half. And the appointments are having an effect on theological debate. A 1986 draft statement on women's concerns, for example, called for further discussions of the church's stands on contraception and on ordaining women; but a revised version, released last week, underlined the prohibitions and dropped the call for discussion.
The same pattern was seen last November when a blanket condemnation of ''safe sex'' campaigns for AIDS prevention was written into a sequel to a less stringent 1987 statement. In both cases, the bishops showed themselves more concerned with avoiding ambiguity about official church positions than with seeking grounds for cooperation with those of divergent views.
Some believe this uncompromising leadership promises to consolidate the Second Vatican Council's work, to shake down and shore up an institution whose distinct identity they believe is endangered. It is the uncertain trumpet of previous leaders, they believe, that has fostered the laity's new independence.
But the new mood may demoralize many of the church's most creative clergy and alienate many of the laity. The new, blander draft of the pastoral on women's concerns, for example, will frustrate the many Catholic women increasingly impatient, even bitter, about the church's restriction of the priesthood and crucial decision making to men.
But in spite of considerable dissension, even anger, the church continues to grow in numbers, although not as fast as the American population. Catholics leave the church at rates no higher than in the past. Sunday church attendance, after dropping in the early 1970's, has held steady and remains well above the rates for non-Catholics.
The disagreement of many Catholics with official church positions on questions like birth control, divorce, the ordination of women and papal authority has been well documented and well publicized. But on questions like God's existence, the divinity of Jesus, the supernatural meaning of the Eucharist and other sacraments, traditional beliefs appear to remain strong.
In a few decades, Catholicism has had to negotiate its way through the minefields of 150 years of biblical and theological scholarship. It has come through, to this point anyway, with its central doctrines surprisingly intact.
At the parish level, where statements by bishops or even popes may have only a faint impact, observers insist that there is tremendous resilience and vitality. The Rev. Philip J. Murnion, director of the National Pastoral Life Center, said that he found Catholic parishes around the country leading the way in running shelters and soup lines, caring for the elderly, animating community groups.
Still, this grass-roots strength coexists with a daunting list of institutional problems. Many dioceses, as well as the national conference of bishops, are strapped for funds, and Catholics in several cities have witnessed the painful closing of older parishes.
In the last 15 years, almost a million Hispanic Americans have abandoned the church for Protestant denominations. There is a growing feeling that religious education programs have left younger Catholics with a diluted sense of Catholic identity. Most threatening of all, the next decade will see a drastic reduction in the number of priests.
The Rev. Andrew M. Greeley, whose studies of Catholicism earned him a reputation as a sociologist long before he became an author of popular fiction, recently summed up the contrast between such imposing problems and the apparent continuity of Catholic life. ''As an institution the Catholic Church is in terrible condition,'' he wrote, but ''the Catholic community prospers.''
Another widely traveled priest, although deeply impressed with the vigor of grass-roots Catholicism, warns that this vitality is being ''unhooked'' from the institution. ''The muscle,'' he says, ''is coming away from the skeleton.''
What does this mean for the future? Father Greeley, a harsh critic of Catholic leadership, has argued in recent writings that loyalty to the church is largely conveyed in family relationships and that, almost regardless of institutional failings, a distinctly Catholic outlook - what he calls ''the sacramental imagination'' - will perpetuate itself.
Others cannot imagine that the institutional problems, left unresolved, won't eventually undermine Catholic allegiance, belief and practice. And for problems like the shortage of priests, the loss of credibility in sexual matters or the alienation from the church of a sizable number of women, there are no ready solutions that don't fall outside the realm of what Rome considers thinkable.
For some time, the important forces in the American church - its hierarchy, its post-immigrant laity, its angry women, its new immigrants, its diminishing clergy and swelling corps of lay workers - will continue to grind against one another below the surface of Catholic life. Pressures mounting along these fault lines will regularly produce tremors. The American church is unlikely to experience the Big One. But whether the shock waves result in salutary rebuilding or whether they simply prove periodically destructive, the church will remain an earthquake zone.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); HOLY SEE (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH

SUBJECT: ABORTION; ELECTION ISSUES; ETHICS CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (98%); RELIGION (96%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (95%); CONSERVATISM (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ETHICS (77%); MEDICAL ETHICS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); SOCIOLOGY (73%); NEWS BRIEFS (72%); HUMAN SUBJECTS (70%); ABORTION (67%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (54%); 

PERSON: STEINFELS, PETER POPE JOHN PAUL II (57%); 



197 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 940 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
Day Care Bill Marks a Turn Toward Help For the Poor

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
A SWEEPING child care bill has nearly made it through Congress, and it is tempting to see in this some impulses from the Great Society. The House's 265-to-145 vote last week at least marked a sharp departure from the trends in domestic spending during the 1980's.
At a price of $27 billion over five years, the House bill would be the most expensive piece of social legislation since the 1960's. Moreover, it channels the vast bulk of benefits to low-income families. This follows a long and serious contraction of Government spending on the poor, which accompanied an expansion of entitlement programs like Social Security and Medicare that primarily benefited the middle class. 
''What we've seen is a decade of starvation of domestic social programs,'' said John L. Palmer, dean of the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs at Syracuse University. ''The passage of the child care bill is a recognition that there are some fundamental needs that ought to be met.''
Even the criticisms by President Bush, who has threatened a veto, are largely based on disagreements over Federal regulation of state programs and the creation of a small day care program in the public schools. Mr. Bush is not questioning the need for child care. The last child care bill, passed in 1971, was vetoed by President Nixon, who said it ''threatened the sanctity'' of the American family. But between Richard Nixon and George Bush there was a big demographic change. In 1970, the Department of Labor reported that 29 percent of children under age 6 had working mothers. That figure has grown to 51 percent. The National Research Council, an arm of the National Academy of Sciences, projects that in 10 years 70 percent of preschool children will have mothers either working or looking for a job.
Currently, the largest Federal program to help working parents is the Child and Dependent Care Tax Credit, which allows families to deduct from their taxes up to 30 percent of child care costs up to $2,400 for one child and $4,800 for two or more. But if a working family does not make enough money to pay taxes it gets no benefit at all. In 1988, 77 percent of the $3.6 billion in credits went to families with annual incomes above $30,000, and 43 percent went to families making more than $50,000.
At the same time, inflation and budget cuts have shrunk the Federal Government's second-biggest child care effort, a $2.7 billion-a-year program of grants to the states for a variety of social programs, including child care, mainly for the poor.
The House's new bill, the Early Childhood and Education Act of 1990, must be reconciled in conference with the child care measure that the Senate passed by a 63-to-37 vote last June. Both provide $1.75 billion a year to the states, but the House would give them more specific marching orders: 35 percent for Head Start, for example, 35 percent to set up a new program to look after children in the public schools before and after classes. The Senate bill allows states wider discretion, so long as the money is spent on child care.
The big difference is in tax policy. The House bill relies much more heavily on an expansion of the Earned Income Tax Credit, a tax break designed for the working poor that is a particular favorite of Republicans.
Under current law, families with at least one worker but earning less than $20,270 this year can receive a maximum credit of $930. The credit is refundable, meaning that families with no tax liability get money from the Government. Under the House bill, an eligible family with three children would receive a credit of $2,218.
The Senate bill creates a refundable tax credit for health insurance costs and makes the Child and Dependent Care Tax Credit refundable for low-income families.
The theory behind expanding the earned income tax credit is that if poor parents have more money they will spend it on their children. But nothing stops them from spending it on anything else, of course, from rent to beer. ''The earned income tax credit is one of the most important anti-poverty measure today,'' said Ellen Nissenbaum, legislative director for the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. ''It is not child care, however.''
It is also expensive. The tax credits in the House bill would cost $18.5 billion over five years. About half would be paid for by making permanent the 3 percent telephone excise tax, which is due to expire at the end of the year, and reducing the amount of the Child and Dependent Care Tax Credit and other benefits that could be claimed by families with incomes over $70,000 and eliminating these benefits for familes making more than $90,000.
Not everyone feels that asking middle- and upper-income families with children to foot much of the bill for child care for the poor is equitable. ''The question is who's going to pay for the problems of low-income people with children?'' said Eugene Steuerle, a senior fellow at the Urban Institute. ''Should it be higher-income families with children? Or should it be all higher-income families, including those who don't have children?''
The Census Bureau found that in 1986, the latest year for which complete figures are available, families making more than $45,000 a year paid on average 4 percent of their income for child care. Among poverty-level families, 22 percent of the income went to child care.
''I don't think direct help in purchasing the child care itself ought to be going to middle- and upper-income families,'' said Mr. Palmer. ''They have gotten most of the benefits during the 1980's, so they shouldn't expect to go to the front of the line now.''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Children at a day care center in Atlanta. (Saba/Ann States); Graph showing number of children under age 6 with mothers in workforce, 1975-1988 (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics; Census Bureau; Children's Defense Fund)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: CHILD&DEPENDENT CARE TAX CREDIT (60%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); CHILDREN'S DEFENSE FUND (59%); CHILDREN'S DEFENSE FUND (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (56%); SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

SUBJECT: CHILD CARE; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FEDERAL AID (US); INCOME; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING CHILD CARE (93%); LEGISLATION (91%); VETO (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); CHILDREN (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); FAMILY (89%); TAX LAW (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); WORKING MOTHERS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); TRENDS (77%); EDUCATION LAW (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (76%); MEDICARE (75%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (75%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (75%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); PARENTS (69%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (69%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (65%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (64%); BUDGET CUTS (50%); 

PERSON: HOLMES, STEVEN A RICHARD NIXON (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%); 



198 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 7, Column 2; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 393 words

HEADLINE: HEADLINERS;
Threats of Arms Jolt a City

BYLINE: By CARLYLE C. DOUGLAS

 BODY:
JUST when the term ''black militant'' was beginning to seem quaint comes Alderman Michael McGee of Milwaukee. In a stunning reminder of the country's continuing racial and economic divisions, Mr. McGee announced last week that he was forming an armed black militia that would take unspecified violent action unless the city committed $100 million to improve the lot of poor blacks.
''The only way to get respect is to be willing to use violence,'' said the Alderman, a 40-year-old former member of the Black Panther Party. ''We either stand there with our backs to the wall or we fight our way out.'' 
In a city whose recent prosperity has not extended to most black neighborhoods - 40 percent of blacks in Milwaukee live below the poverty level - Mr. McGee's words inspired some and alarmed others. ''He scares people,'' said Thomas P. Donegan, the president of the City Council, who is white.
But Mr. McGee's message was welcomed by more than 600 young blacks who packed a school auditorium meeting at which prospective militia members were signed up. Walter Farrell, a professor of educational policy and community relations at the University of Milwaukee, said blacks in poor Milwaukee neighborhoods, where unemployment runs at 25 percent, were heartened. ''What he has done is restore their dignity,'' he said.
Mr. McGee, who has established a reputation as a maverick during his six years on the City Council, represents a district with some of the poorest of the poor. Anger and resentment in the deteriorating neighborhood has heightened in recent years as the city has committed tens of millions of dollars for new professional sports facilities.
If some whites in Milwaukee were shaken, it was clear that Mr. McGee was posing no immediate threat of armed rebellion. He said he would give the city five years to come up with the sort of programs he demanded. In the meantime, he said, his militia would provide anti-crime patrols.
Though some whites in city government called for Mr. McGee's resignation, others seemed less troubled by the man and the issues he raised. Alderman John R. Kalwitz said Mr. McGee was causing ''divisiveness and dissension,'' but he also allowed as how the black Alderman had raised ''a legitimate question'' - ''Where are our priorities when you spend millions for downtown and dribbles for the neighborhood?''

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael McGee, a Milwaukee Alderman. (The New York Times/John Cumming)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (96%); 

CITY: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: CITY COUNCIL (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MILWAUKEE (WIS)

SUBJECT: BLACKS (IN US); SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS RACE & RACISM (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); TRENDS (66%); SPORTS (50%); SPORTS & RECREATION (50%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (50%); 

PERSON: MCGEE, MICHAEL (ALDERMAN); DOUGLAS, CARLYLE C MICHAEL MCGEE (94%); ALDERMAN JOHN R KALWITZ (90%); 



199 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 18, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 466 words

HEADLINE: Social Security Still Beats Privatized Schemes

 BODY:
To the Editor:
David Boaz of the Cato Institute suggests replacing the Social Security program with private individual retirement account-type savings accounts (''Privatize Social Security,'' Op-Ed, March 21). At the heart of this proposal is the notion that workers can do much better financially by investing their payroll-tax money in the private sector.
The comparisons of retirement benefits between Social Security and private replacement plans are misleading in several ways. They depend on high real rates of return that are not sustainable over the long term that must be considered. With the 2 percent real rate of return that Social Security's board of trustees has used for intermediate estimates for years, some workers would come out ahead under a private plan - particularly those with steady work at high earnings. Others would fall behind and need to rely for retirement income on other sources. 
The benefit comparisons also assume steady lifetime earnings - and contributions - for very long periods. Mr. Boaz, for example, assumes continuous earnings from age 18 to age 67! But real workers often have periods of unemployment or reduced earnings for other reasons, like child raising and early retirement.
In those cases, Social Security protects the retirement benefit by providing ''dropout'' years; with privatization schemes, future benefits would be lost.
Another very important difference is that Social Security benefits are indexed to the cost of living. The benefits from private accounts are not and cannot be so indexed. Thus, while initial benefit amounts may be comparable, the private benefit can be expected to fall further and further behind Social Security with time.
Privatization schemes may provide advantages to high-income, steady workers who are never unemployed and do not become disabled or die young. For the majority of workers, however, Social Security is often better. Moreover, workers simply cannot know in advance whether they will be winners or losers. A 25-year-old cannot know whether he or she will be a lifetime maximum earner or become disabled at age 30 and never work again.
If Social Security were privatized, the demands on the Government to provide supplemental benefits would in many cases be irresistible, and these benefits would be expensive.
I have proposed supplementing Social Security with private savings accounts. But replacing Social Security with such accounts is neither practical nor desirable. As you said in a Feb. 22 editorial, ''schemes that sound too good to be true invariably are.'' The proposal by Mr. Boaz is no exception.
 
BRUCE D. SCHOBEL
 Louisville, Ky., March 23, 1990
 
The writer, an actuary, is principal of the Social Security division of William M. Mercer Meidinger Hansen.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WILLIAM M MERCER COS INC (50%); WILLIAM M MERCER FRASER LTD (50%); WILLIAM M MERCER LTD (50%); CATO INSTITUTE (84%); CATO INSTITUTE (84%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (US); REFORM AND REORGANIZATION PERSONAL FINANCE (92%); SOCIAL SECURITY (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); EARLY RETIREMENT (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); COST OF LIVING (73%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (72%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (71%); 

PERSON: SCHOBEL, BRUCE D; BOAZ, DAVID DAVID BOAZ (76%); 



200 of 763 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1990 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 8, 1990

SECTION: Section 4; Page 19, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: ON MY MIND;
Nobody Is Perfect

BYLINE: By A. M. Rosenthal

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
In offices all through George Bush's Administration are men and women totally committed to him, affectionate and admiring, but who yearn for him to take the one step that national leaders find most difficult of all.
That is to do at least once in public life what every intelligent human being must do throughout his private life: concede an error and change course.
At this moment, there are at least three leaders who are entwined in mistakes that they refuse to correct.
Day by day, Mikhail Gorbachev's policy of pressuring Lithuania by using force and threatening more force diminishes confidence that he will ever deal fairly with those nationalities that feel trapped in the Soviet Union and want to get out. 
In London, Margaret Thatcher clings to a weird head tax that allows the poorest person in town the right of paying the same amount for public services as the richest. It has caused the worst British riots in decades and threatens her achievements and her party's hold on office.
In Washington, Mr. Bush cannot admit what so many of his friends in Congress and the Administration have been saying for months: appeasement of Communist China has failed and should be abandoned. So the damage continues - to his own reputation and the future of a people for whom he says he has a strong attachment.
The Bush policy of trying to placate the top leadership of the Chinese Communist Party is almost a year old - almost as old as the massacre that ended student demonstrations in Beijing.
From the beginning that policy was despised in Congress, which he knows. As time goes on it is opposed by more people within his own Administration, which, given the tendency of officials not to upset any President too much, perhaps he does not know.
The reasons he gave in the beginning are history. He promised us that being nice to the Communist leaders, dealing with them at high level, promising economic goodies, would persuade them to ease off on their own people, persuade them to try decent discourse with dissenters.
It has not happened. The decision to ''lift'' martial law was a farce. Under martial law, in a tyranny, lies just more martial law. Americans find that difficult to get through their heads.
The Chinese leaders did not react to kindness with kindness. They reacted with a kick in the American shin.
The speeches of people like Prime Minister Li Peng get nastier and nastier about the intention to eliminate remnants of freedom, and about foreigners who might object.
Everything that appeasement was supposed to accomplish has been disdainfully rejected. No, Beijing will not stop selling missiles to the Middle East.
No, Beijing will not let Fang Lizhi, the dissident who took refuge in the American Embassy, leave the country. No, Beijing will not cease persecution of intellectual dissent. The opposite: Some students found out that they will be sent to work on the farms before being allowed to open college textbooks.
This will be a hard spring for the Chinese people as the anniversary of the June massacre approaches. Beijing is nervous. Nobody is as mean as a nervous bully.
In Washington, members of Congress will resume the fight against the appeasement policy. There will be hearings on whether the Chinese Communists are illegally selling convict-made goods to this country. The Chinese Communist privilege of receiving most-favored-nation export tariffs will be questioned.
It seems to be fearfully difficult for an American President to concede that a policy is wrong and change it. Apparently whatever makes a man President prevents him from saying he is ever wrong - not a comforting thought. Historians who were consulted could not give an example of that happening.
The reasons probably are fear of repercussion and loss of pride and face. But the Chinese leadership cannot do much more to its people without bringing on another rebellion, or be more rude and rejecting to the United States.
As for loss of face, Mr. Bush can find out how false that fear is. All he has to do is invite everybody in his Administration who opposes his Chinese policy to come forward and speak frankly. He will need a bigger office.
I think they might convince him that if he says the era of appeasement is over, and speaks and acts in opposition to Beijing's repression, his face will shine brighter than ever. And there he will be in the history books, the President who knew a mistake when he saw one, even if it was his own.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-ed

COUNTRY: CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); LITHUANIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHINA

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (84%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (72%); STUDENT ACTIVISM (69%); POLITICS (69%); RIOTS (67%); POLITICAL PARTIES (66%); HUMAN RIGHTS (60%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (60%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); ROSENTHAL, A M GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 

 
