

801 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-14

Bush Welcomes Saudi Plan For Peace in Middle East
President Bush called Crown Prince Abdullah of Saudi Arabia and praised his general proposal for Israel to withdraw completely from the West Bank and Gaza in return for full normalization of relations with all Arab countries. Palestinian officials have reacted favorably to the proposal, but Israel's prime minister, Ariel Sharon, has made no public comment. A1

Japan's Economic Plan Faulted
Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi's economic package got a tepid response from the market and analysts, who said they had been hoping for bolder measures. A3

World Briefing A14

NATION CHALLENGED A8-10

U.S. May Deploy Troops In Caucasus as Trainers
Washington is considering sending Special Operations forces to the former Soviet republic of Georgia to help train that nation's military in counterterrorism tactics to use against foreign fighters who are operating in a mountainous region there and may be linked to Al Qaeda. A1

U.S.-Pakistan Deal on Suspect
President Pervez Musharraf was said to have agreed in principle to give up Ahmed Omar Sheikh, the British-born chief suspect in the killing of Daniel Pearl, once Pakistan concluded its criminal investigation and satisfied its own legal requirements. A1

U.S. Version of Raid Disputed
Local officials and relatives of Afghans killed by Special Forces in a Jan. 24 raid said men were shot without a chance to surrender and that Americans often fired first. A1

Pentagon News Office Scrapped
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld disbanded the Pentagon's Office of Strategic Influence, ending a short-lived plan to provide news items, possibly even false ones, to unwitting foreign journalists to influence public sentiment abroad. A1

Theory on Embassy Bomb Plot
Americans and Italian investigators in Rome showed that terrorists might have been able to reach the American Embassy through tunnels and place a chemical bomb in water pipes. A9

Deciding Prisoners' Fate
Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld said Afghan war prisoners held at an American base in Cuba might be sent back to their countries or might be held indefinitely to keep them from taking up arms again. A10

Anthrax Subpoenas
The Justice Department is issuing subpoenas to microbiology laboratories for samples of the Ames strain of Bacillus anthracis, the kind used in last fall's deadly letter attacks. A10

Backing for Inquiry Into F.A.A.
The head of the government's whistleblower-protection agency said an investigation was warranted into accusations that the F.A.A. covered up and ignored airport security lapses. A10

NATIONAL A16-19

Report on Youthful Drinking Was Flawed, Its Source Admits
The National Center on Addiction and Substance Abuse at Columbia University acknowledged that it had not applied the usual statistical techniques to data in a widely publicized report that asserted that underage drinkers consumed a quarter of the nation's alcohol. Had it applied the usual techniques, it said, the number in the report would have been far smaller. A19

Pharmacist Pleads Guilty
Robert R. Courtney, 49, pleaded guilty in Kansas City, Mo., to watering down chemotherapy drugs for 34 cancer patients and could be sentenced to 30 years in federal prison. A16

Permits for Solicitors
The Supreme Court heard arguments on whether a city can require Jehovah's Witnesses or other door-to-door advocates of religious or political causes to identify themselves to the authorities and obtain a permit. A17

The justices removed an obstacle to employment discrimination suits. A17

Bush Welfare Proposals
President Bush declared the 1996 welfare overhaul a success in ending generations of welfare dependency, and he called for even stronger work requirements and $300 million a year to promote marriage and strengthen families among poor people. A18

Setting Labor's Agenda
Labor leaders at the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s executive council meeting decided to work to shift the nation's focus away from taxes and the war on terror to issues like job creation, unemployment benefits and prescription drugs. A19

NEW YORK/REGION B1-10

Giuliani Fund to Expedite Payments to 9/11 Families
Rudolph W. Giuliani agreed to have the $100 million remaining in the city's Twin Towers Fund distributed to the families of 430 uniformed and civilian rescuers killed on Sept. 11. Many families have criticized his efforts to privatize the fund, hire a staff of 12 and perhaps take months or even years to disburse its millions. A1

Mayor Bloomberg and Governor Pataki suggested that the Manhattan developer Larry A. Silverstein should not proceed with construction at 7 World Trade Center until an overall development plan for Lower Manhattan was completed. B4

ARTS E1-10

A Tree That Fears No Ax
A 50-foot steel tree is one of five art installations cropping up in Central Park as part of the Whitney Biennial. The works signify a change in attitude toward art in the park. B1

EDUCATION B10

DINING F1-12

Taking More Than Leftovers
Restaurants are losing as much as 3 percent of their earnings to theft of furnishings by their customers. F1

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Debate Over a Birth
A 30-year-old woman likely to develop a form of Alzheimer's before she is 40 had a baby girl who will be spared that fate because she was genetically screened as an embryo before being implanted in the womb. A16

OBITUARIES B9

SPORTS D1-8

Knee Surgery for Jordan
Michael Jordan will have surgery on his right knee, putting a damper on his comeback and hurting Washington Wizard playoff hopes. D1

BUSINESS DAY C1-18

Enron's Ex-Chief Testifies
Jeffrey K. Skilling said at a contentious Senate hearing that he did not lie to Congress this month about his role in Enron's collapse, and he criticized members of Congress for the way they were conducting the inquiry. A1

Enron entered a series of deals with an offshore entity and J. P. Morgan Chase in September that appear to have disguised more than $350 million in new bank loans. C1

Global Executives' Ties
The financial relationship between a group of Singapore investors and two Global Crossing directors became more extensive in the days after Global Crossing filed for bankruptcy protection. The investors have links to Singapore Technologies Telemedia, which has made an offer to buy Global Crossing out of bankruptcy. C1

Terrorism Insurance
Coverage for terror attacks is becoming more widely available despite predictions after the Sept. 11 attacks that government intervention would be needed to shield insurers. C1

New Editor for Us Weekly
Wenner Media has chosen Bonnie Fuller, 45, to guide Us Weekly in a newsstand battle against People. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A20-21

Editorials: The latest mammography report; last lap for campaign reform; on Enron, see no evil; what price Petrus?

Columns: Thomas L. Friedman, Maureen Dowd.

Crossword E8
TV Listings E9
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); TERRORISM (88%); SUBPOENAS (87%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); COUNTERTERRORISM (74%); BOMBINGS (74%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (73%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (73%); ANTHRAX (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); HOMICIDE (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (72%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (70%); JOURNALISM (69%); AL-QAEDA (68%); AVIATION SECURITY (67%); BACTERIA (65%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (60%); AIRPORTS (60%); CHILD & TEEN SUBSTANCE ABUSE (60%); STATISTICAL METHOD (60%); BIOLOGY (50%); UNDERAGE DRINKING (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (95%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); JAPAN (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); CAUCASIAN STATES (79%); GEORGIA (56%); CUBA (52%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2002 



802 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 550 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Skilling Says He Didn't Lie And Finds Fault With Inquiry
Jeffrey K. Skilling, the former Enron chief executive, testified during a contentious hearing before a Senate panel that he did not lie to Congress about his role in Enron's collapse, and he criticized members of Congress for conducting their inquiry "with a complete disregard for the facts and evidence."
 Mr. Skilling defended himself against suggestions that he tolerated or encouraged improper financial transactions at Enron. He told the panel he knew little about flawed partnership deals central to the company's collapse and insisted that Enron's auditors and his subordinates had approved them. Page A1. 

Discounts Hurt Gap and Federated
Gap posted a fourth-quarter loss, and Federated Department Stores reported a 23 percent drop in earnings. The retailers had to sharply cut prices to attract shoppers. Gap, which reported after the markets closed, had its first back-to-back loss in 25 years. Gap shares fell $1.03, to $12.52, in after-hours trading, after rising 64 cents, to $13.55, earlier. Shares of Federated rose $2.64, or 6.8 percent, to $41.66, as it raised its annual profit forecast. C2.

A Bill That Lawmakers Can Feast On
Two weeks after the House of Representatives approved legislation to limit the influence of money in politics, the House is expected to approve a telecommunications bill that is largely shaped by the huge campaign contributions it has generated. The measure has little chance of becoming law any time soon. As a result, experts predict it will continue to be lucrative for lawmakers for years to come. C4.

Halt to Tax-Evasion Claims Ordered
A federal judge in Florida has ordered a big seller of tax-evasion plans to stop making statements that income taxes are voluntary and that the Internal Revenue Service has no authority to collect taxes. C12.

Executives' Compensation Detailed
Walter B. Hewlett asserted that the Hewlett-Packard board had considered paying Carleton S. Fiorina, chief of Hewlett-Packard, and Michael D. Capellas, chief of Compaq Computer, a total of $115 million in executive compensation if the merger of the two companies was completed. Hewlett-Packard disputed the information. Market Place. C4.

2-Day Rally Ends as Confidence Falls
A two-day rally ended as consumer confidence declined. The Dow Jones industrial average closed down 30.45 points, to 10,115.26. The Nasdaq composite index fell 3.02 points, to 1,766.86. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was off 0.05 points, to 1,109.38. C13.

Conan O'Brien Renews With NBC
NBC officially signed a new contract with its late-night star, Conan O'Brien, extending his stay as host of its 12:35 a.m. show, "Late Night," for four more years. The terms were not disclosed but executives involved in the negotiations said that with various incentives included in the deal Mr. O'Brien would be paid more than $8 million a year. C10.

Lehman Prepares Its New Home
Lehman Brothers, displaced from its space at 3 World Financial Center by the Sept. 11 attack, is turning the building it bought from Morgan Stanley into its new headquarters. Commercial Real Estate. C6.

Airlines Speed Favored Customers
Airlines continue to find ways to speed favored customers to their flights, despite new security rules. Joe Sharkey: Business Travel. C2.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,115.26 down 30.45Nasdaq composite -- 1,766.86 down 3.0210-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.92% up 0.07The euro -- $0.8639 down 0.0052The dollar -- 134.64 yen up 0.68 Graph: "TODAY" shows durable goods orders and new-home sales from July 2001 to December 2001. Durable Goods OrdersJanuary figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +1.5% New-Home SalesJanuary figures due at 10 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: -0.6% Graph tracks the daily closing price of Gap shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPROVALS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); TESTIMONY (89%); RETAILERS (88%); TAX AUTHORITIES (88%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (86%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (83%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (79%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); POLITICS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); COMPANY LOSSES (75%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (75%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (74%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (74%); JUDGES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); TAX FRAUD (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); MERGERS (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (64%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (50%) 27DIGE; NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (81%); MACY'S INC (56%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (81%); M (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (56%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (56%) SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; 

PERSON: MICHAEL CAPELLAS (58%); CONAN O'BRIEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2002 



803 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 3921 words

HEADLINE: ENRON'S MANY STRANDS; 
Excerpts From Testimony Before Senate Panel Investigating Enron

 BODY:
 Following are excerpts from the testimony of Sherron S. Watkins, an Enron vice president; Jeffrey McMahon, formerly Enron's treasurer and now its president; and Jeffrey K. Skilling, Enron's former chief executive, before a hearing of the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee yesterday, as recorded by Federal News Service Inc. They were questioned by Senators Barbara Boxer, Democrat of California; John B. Breaux, Democrat of Louisiana; Jean Carnahan, Democrat of Missouri; Byron L. Dorgan, Democrat of North Dakota; Peter G. Fitzgerald, Republican of Illinois; Olympia J. Snowe, Republican of Maine; and Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon. A full transcript is available online: nytimes.com/business.

MR. DORGAN --. . . Today we hope to begin the process of hearing from some of those who worked inside the Enron Corporation. . . .
 I have said previously -- let me mention again how important this is. The method by which we accumulate capital in this country is to have an investor in Bismarck, North Dakota -- or anywhere in the country for that matter -- buy a share of stock based on the belief that the financial statements represented by that corporation and approved by the accountants is a fair representation and an honest representation of what is happening inside that corporation. If that trust is broken -- and I believe it was in the Enron Corporation situation -- when that trust is broken it undermines the method by which you accumulate capital for our system of capitalism. . . .

MR. FITZGERALD -- . . . Mr. Skilling, I want to thank you very much for appearing and agreeing to testify. Some of your Enron colleagues who were also asked to testify have made a different choice. Watching them, I have to believe that you are aware that your voluntary appearance before this committee entails a measure of risk, and that you therefore must be somewhat anxious. Consequently, whatever role you may have played in the collapse of Enron, I think there is at least something to be said for your willingness to talk about what happened to your company.
I do, however, approach your testimony with some skepticism. Appearing before the House, you disclaimed responsibility. That disclaimer encouraged the perception that Mr. Andrew Fastow played perhaps that pivotal role in the collapse of the company. But if the theory is that Fastow went rogue somewhere deep in the jungles of Enron, and was a sole agent of the apocalypse, I just don't buy it.

MR. WYDEN -- . . . I think particularly important this morning is examining the question of the relationship of Mr. McMahon and Mr. Fastow, and I would like to just tick through the list of people that say that Mr. Skilling knew or was warned about the partnerships that were managed by Mr. Fastow. . . .
So it is clear there is a long record of individuals right at the center of the company who are saying that you, Mr. Skilling, were aware of this. And I think what I want to examine -- because you have said that you have done nothing wrong and that you didn't know about much of this -- is really how many warnings would have been needed in order to have you take seriously the threats that so many around you were talking about. . . .

MS. CARNAHAN -- . . . Members of Congress also serve as representatives of the people of this nation, and they want to know why this happened. They want to know if it is happening elsewhere, and they want to know will it happen again. It is in the public interest to know why jobs were lost, why savings evaporated, and why confidence was shattered.
Mr. Skilling, if you plan to tell this committee that you did not understand Enron's true financial condition, then you will need to explain why -- why you failed to understand things that any diligent C.E.O. would have understood. And if you insist that you were unaware of the company's financial condition, then I hope that you are prepared to explain why you portrayed yourself as someone who did. . . .

MS. BOXER -- . . . We also hear from Enron traders -- that's T-R-A-D-E-R-S -- that Enron jammed transmission lines, used futures and derivatives to, according to California state senator Joe Dunn, possibly buy and sell the same electricity 15 times in an effort to inflate prices. And as you answer these questions, I hope that you will realize that at the time you were making jokes about California, that we were realizing that energy is a necessity, not a luxury.
We were worried, Mr. Skilling, in the summer that elderly people in the inland parts of my state might lose their air conditioning and face, literally, death. The agriculture industry in my state was fearful that loss of refrigeration would cause economic devastation. Silicon Valley put solving the energy crisis as its No. 1 priority in order to keep the information economy flowing. In the winter months, then, as we still were getting no relief from FERC, we feared that freezing temperatures would harm our people, particularly the elderly and the frail.
From everything I can put together, Mr. Skilling, you helped cause these anxieties while you laughed about it. The people of California were not laughing. They're not laughing now. Our state wants justice. And I hope that today maybe we can get on that path to justice. . . .

MS. WATKINS -- . . . I sent Mr. Lay an anonymous letter on Aug. 15, 2001, in response to a request for questions for an upcoming all-employee meeting to be held Aug. 16 to address Mr. Skilling's departure. At the all-employee meeting, Mr. Lay commented that our vision and values had slipped and that if any employee was truly concerned about anything at Enron, please bring those concerns to him or any number of the top management. . . .
My main point to Mr. Lay was that by this time, Raptor owed Enron in excess of $700 million under certain hedging agreements. My understanding was that the Raptor entities basically had no other business aside from these hedging activities; therefore, they had collectively lost over $700 million. I urged Mr. Lay to find out who lost that money. If he discovered that the loss would be borne by Enron shareholders via an issuance of stock in the future, then I thought we had a very large problem on our hands. . . .
I believe that Enron had a brief window to salvage itself this past fall, and we missed that opportunity because of Mr. Lay's failure to recognize or accept that the company had manipulated its financial statements. . . .

MR. McMAHON -- . . . As part of the new management team at Enron, my focus is on the future -- the future of the business, the future of our nearly 20,000 existing employees worldwide who are looking for continued employment, the future of our over 8,000 retirees who are looking for continued retirement benefits from the company, and the various other stakeholders, including our creditors and former employees who have an interest in Enron's future. . . .

MS. SNOWE -- . . . I wish there had been more Ms. Watkins and Mr. McMahons in the organizations, because it might have well prevented this catastrophic demise of one of the largest companies in America.
There are many plausibility issues here, Mr. Skilling, and I hope that you will address them today. . . .

MR. SKILLING -- . . . If the focus of this hearing is a game of dueling accountants, I will state right now that I am not an accountant, and probably have little to add to that debate between experts. . . .
I will not respond to all the outrageous things said about me in this process, because some have been so silly that they merit no response. Three others, however, do merit a response. First, I have not lied to the Congress or anyone else about my recollection of events while I was at Enron. Second, I never duped Ken Lay. I heard Ms. Watkins testify to her opinion; I have no idea what the basis is for that opinion. Third, I do not believe that my testimony is contradicted by or is materially different than the testimony of either Mr. McMahon or Mr. Mintz, for both of whom I have a tremendous amount of respect.
And now, finally, a few observations about this Congressional process to which I and others have been subjected. What has happened thus far -- primarily in the House -- should be cause for concern of every American. The entire management and board of Enron has been labeled everything from hucksters to criminals, with a complete disregard for the facts and evidence assembled. These untruths shatter lives, and they do nothing to advance the public understanding of what happened at Enron. The framers of the Bill of Rights are watching. . . .
Common decency suggests that I be treated as innocent until proven otherwise. Common sense suggests that accusations made now before the facts are in are likely to be wrong. Unfortunately, neither common decency nor common sense will carry the day in this politicized process. I am nonetheless hopeful that today we can get past the rhetoric and focus on the facts. Frankly, based on this morning's opening statements I believe that we may actually have a constructive dialogue today, and I hope that's the case. . . .

MR. DORGAN -- Is it your contention that structure is appropriate, inasmuch as Ms. Watkins and others, and those of us in Congress, now see that what was backstopping that partnership was Enron stock? Is it your contention that you knew of it and it was appropriate?

MR. SKILLING -- I -- I relied on our accountants who in fact I believe it very clear -- I've seen the minutes of that board meeting, and it's very clear that Mr. Rick Causey, who was the chief accounting officer of the company, represented that Arthur Andersen and our lawyers had taken a very hard look at this structure, and they believed it was appropriate.

MR. DORGAN -- So you are saying Arthur Andersen informed the top executives of the corporation this was an appropriate structure? You knew about it -- therefore believed it was O.K., because your accountant said it was all right?

MR. SKILLING -- The structure was presented to the board of directors. Mr. Causey said the accountants had looked at it and had signed off on it, and the board approved that structure. . . .

MR. DORGAN -- . . . Mr. McMahon, you are currently employed by the Enron Corporation. We know that there has been shredding of documents going on at the Enron Corporation. Can you tell me what records were destroyed, what kind of internal investigation has been conducted, and what we should learn about -- what should we know about the records that were destroyed?

MR. McMAHON -- Currently, I don't believe we do know what records are destroyed. We -- as I understand it, we have cooperated fully with the F.B.I., who has come in and done some work in the building, interviewed a lot of our employees who were on the floors where this shredding may have occurred. . . .
The conflict of interests, as Mr. Skilling just described, manifested themselves in my area on a daily basis, where we had Enron employees negotiating on behalf of Enron and LJM to do transactions, and it was causing some problems internally within the organization. So, after many meetings with Mr. Fastow, and many meetings with other members of senior management, I felt that I needed to talk to Mr. Skilling about those conflicts and how I saw that they should be fixed.

MR. DORGAN -- And so you took your concerns to Mr. Skilling. What happened as a result of that?

MR. McMAHON -- We had about a 30-minute meeting, as I recall. And Mr. Skilling listened intently to my concerns. And at the end of the meeting he indicated to me that he would remedy the situation and fix the problems.

MR. DORGAN -- And did you lose your job as corporate treasurer shortly thereafter?

MR. McMAHON -- About two or three weeks later, I was offered a job internally to move to a different group.

MR. DORGAN -- Do you think it was a result of the meeting with Mr. Skilling?

MR. McMAHON -- Certainly at the time I did not have that view. I had been approached around the same time by the then-head of that division who asked to recruit me in there and I ultimately turned it down, but shortly after meeting with Mr. Skilling I did have a meeting with Mr. Fastow, who was then my boss, who indicated to me that he had spoken to Mr. Skilling about our conversation and he was concerned whether we could actually work together again. So, when that opportunity did arise, I did ultimately take it. . . .

MR. DORGAN -- And Mr. Skilling, do you recall the meeting, when Mr. McMahon came to you and said there are serious problems here? . . .

MR. SKILLING -- Well, I -- you know, everybody -- when you have two people that are in the same meeting, each will have a somewhat different recollection. This was -- this was about two years ago. It was my recollection that when Jeff came in there was a concern about the conflict leading to an impact on compensation. And I've stated that before. I've stated that in the House. And I mean that in no way, in a derisory way, to Mr. McMahon. He was raising an issue -- he was concerned about compensation because of this structural conflict issue that we had. As you know, we had procedures within the board, that the board had approved, to eliminate what we believed was the conflict of interest. When Jeff came to me, he was suggesting that he needed my support to ensure that -- that in addition to the procedures that were in place, he would need my support to ensure that he was not damaged by this conflict. And it's my recollection that I assured him very strongly -- very strongly -- that I was totally on his side, and that the way compensation was determined at Enron Corporation, it was determined by something called a performance review committee. . . .

MR. DORGAN -- Well, Mr. Skilling, it seems to me that what Mr. McMahon is saying about that day is at odds with what you're saying when you say, "I left that company -- I had no idea there was anything going on that was a problem." . . .

MR. FITZGERALD -- Mr. Skilling, I appreciate your testifying today. You've made it quite clear in your testimony before the House and again this morning that you were aware of no accounting improprieties and that you relied on the representation of Enron's auditors, Arthur Andersen, your accountants, in telling you that the accounting was appropriate for the Raptors transactions. And you were aware of the Raptors transactions, but you believed the accounting was appropriate. Is that correct?

MR. SKILLING -- I was aware of the -- yes, that is correct.

MR. FITZGERALD -- Were you -- on the other hand, leaving aside whether the accounting was appropriate, were you aware that the structure of the transactions entailed a degree of risk for Enron?

MR. SKILLING -- No, sir. What was presented to the board and the general concept, as I understood it, of the Raptors was that there would be an entity established. There would be value put in the entity. We would attract third-party equity capital into that entity, and that entity would write a derivative that would basically hedge some of our high technology ----

MR. FITZGERALD -- What was your understanding of how the Raptors were capitalized?

MR. SKILLING -- There was third-party equity from the outside.

MR. FITZGERALD -- Entirely with third-party equity? That was your understanding?

MR. SKILLING -- It was my understanding that there was some Enron equity involved.

MR. FITZGERALD -- What was the Enron equity?

MR. SKILLING -- I don't know, sir.

MR. FITZGERALD -- You didn't know? You didn't know what -- did Enron put its own stock into the Raptors?

MR. SKILLING -- I believe if you go back to the board minutes, where it was approved, that would have laid out in detail what the specific ----

MR. FITZGERALD -- And you were aware Enron had issued its own stock to the Raptors, were you not?

MR. SKILLING -- You cannot issue stock to the Raptors without having approval of the board of directors is my understanding.

MR. FITZGERALD -- So you were aware of that.

MR. SKILLING -- If it's in the minutes ----

MR. FITZGERALD -- You were aware that Enron had issued its own stock. And they issued a lot of stock, didn't they, to the Raptors?

MR. SKILLING -- I don't know, sir.

MR. FITZGERALD -- Did you ever look into it?

MR. SKILLING -- As I said, I had no reason to think there was a problem. My accountants and internal people told me that the hedges were in place and good.

MR. FITZGERALD -- If they had come to you and said they had to double the amount of Enron's allowable outstanding shares so they could issue them all to the Raptors, would that have concerned you?

MR. SKILLING -- I think if they had come to me and said that, probably my first question would have been, "Is this O.K.? Are the accountants O.K. with it?" And if they said, "It's fine," I probably would have ----

MR. FITZGERALD -- So you didn't see issuing stock as being at all risky to capitalize the Raptors with even an unlimited amount of Enron stock?

MR. SKILLING -- See it as risky -- quite frankly, as long as the accountants had told me that they thought this was an appropriate structure, I felt comfortable with it. . . .

MS. BOXER -- Mr. Skilling, Senator Cleland gave you a chance to get a softball, and if I might say, your answers stunned me. This was your chance to tell us what went wrong in the company, how you might do something different. And you know what you said? It's those M.A.C. clauses -- that stands for material adverse changes -- that allowed the banks, federally insured banks, Mr. Chairman, to pull out of this company. And you said if you ran the world, you would change that. Well, you're a good, smart student of history, and we saw what happened in the Depression. That's when we decided it was important, our predecessors, to federally insure banks. And I want to say to you, if that's your answer, I hope no one on this committee takes your advice, because we'd have banks growing broke, and we'd have this government going broke because we would force them to stick with a company that was essentially a shell game -- which apparently you didn't get, but your vice president did. I am absolutely stunned with that answer. . . .
I want to tell you, if you look at Ms. Watkins' testimony, she says it in a sentence. "My understanding, as an accountant," she says, "is that a company could never use its own stock to generate a gain or avoid a loss on its income statement." Did you -- is that true?

MR. SKILLING -- Ummm ----

MS. BOXER -- Were you aware of that?

MR. SKILLING -- I am not an accountant.

MS. BOXER -- I didn't ask you that. Is her statement true?

MR. SKILLING -- I think I'd have to be an accountant to know if it's true. I don't know.

MS. BOXER -- Wait a minute. You have to be an accountant to know that a company could never use its own stock to generate a gain or avoid a loss on an income statement. What was your education, Mr. Skilling? I know I read it was pretty good. What ----

MR. SKILLING -- I have a master's in business administration.

MS. BOXER -- A master's in business administration, and yet you didn't know this simple fact, is that correct, that you are saying you were ignorant of that fact that Ms. Watkins has told us ----

MR. SKILLING -- Well, I ----

MS. BOXER -- It's not complicated. Even ---- even those of us up here understand this very clearly.

MR. SKILLING -- O.K. Well, just a second, Senator. Let me give you ----

MS. BOXER -- A company can never use its own stock to generate a gain or avoid a loss ---- and you're saying, in getting your master's -- and where did you go to school?

MR. SKILLING -- Harvard Business School. (Laughter.) . . .

MR. BREAUX -- You mentioned that Enron's failure was due to a classic run-on-the-bank type of situation that had developed. It seems to me, if that's true, that you were one of the major contributors to the run on the bank by your abrupt resignation, No. 1, by -- I think we're talking about selling $66 million worth of stock over the period when you were running the company while you were talking about the stock being undervalued.
Yet here, as the chief operating officer, you were selling huge amounts of stock while you were telling the general public and employees that the stock is really undervalued. I mean, were you not contributing to the so-called run on the bank at Enron by your actions in selling your own stock and abruptly resigning?

MR. SKILLING: We've talked about the reasons for my abruptly resigning. I resigned -- I don't know that most people would characterize it as abrupt, but I resigned for reasons unrelated to Enron Corporation. And so, in retrospect, you know, I've made clear that when this thing broke out, when we started to see the drain of liquidity in the company that occurred after -- I believe it was Oct. 23 -- I called Mr. Lay and offered to come back to the company at no compensation to do what I could, if I could do anything, to help remedy the situation. . . .

MS. CARNAHAN -- . . . Ms. Watkins just testified that you always looked to the market for guidance. If so, why didn't the fact that the markets had dropped by 50 percent on Enron stock, why did you not see that as a problem? And how could you think that Enron, under those circumstances, was perfectly healthy when you left the company?

MR. SKILLING -- Well, Senator, I was, you know, clearly aware of the drop in the stock price. But there are things other than the drop in a stock price that make a difference. . . .

MS. CARNAHAN -- But how could you say that the company was in good financial condition when you left, under those circumstances?

MR. SKILLING -- I felt that having made the changes that we made in the broadband business, the strength of the wholesale business, the fact that we were potentially going to be resolving the India situation, all of those things made me feel that the company was in good shape. And I believed, when I left on Aug. 14, that the financial statements of the company were an accurate representation of my understanding what the financial condition of the company was.

MS. CARNAHAN -- When you left -- you never really gave a credible explanation when you left in August. You claim that you believed that the company was in sound financial condition at the time and that you simply left for personal reasons.
Frankly, I don't find that a convincing argument. You had spent a decade working your way up through the company to this pinnacle of power. And yet on Aug. 14, just six months after you became C.E.O., you abruptly resigned. It looks suspiciously as if you realized that the company was coming apart and you jumped ship.

MR. SKILLING -- I had personal reasons. You may not find them credible, but they are the reason that I left Enron Corporation. You say it was the perfect job. To be quite frank, I was tired. I mean, I was flat-out tired. This may be the perfect job for some people. It was not the perfect job for me. And there were a lot of people in the company that knew that I was tired and this was not something that was particularly important.
I had issues in my family that were more important to me. I had spent, as you said, the last 10 years of my life. And I think most people at this table will tell you that my car was there first thing in the morning and my car was the last car to leave at night. I spent 10 years working very, very hard to build this company. And I had missed a lot. I had had a clear imbalance in my priorities in life and I had neglected some things that needed to be dealt with at that time. . . . I did not leave the company because I thought the company was in imminent financial danger.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sherron S. Watkins, an Enron vice president, and Jeffrey K. Skilling, Enron's former chief executive, testified yesterday before a Senate committee. Much of the hearing focused on Mr. Skilling's knowledge of Enron's partnerships and how they were used. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (79%); TRANSCRIPTS (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (74%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); APPROVALS (72%); RISK MANAGEMENT (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (66%); ETHICS (66%) ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; ETHICS; BANKRUPTCIES 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (94%); FEDERAL NEWS SERVICE INC (72%)

ORGANIZATION: ENRON CORP; SENATE (US) 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (94%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: BYRON DORGAN (88%); RUSS CARNAHAN (79%); RON WYDEN (77%); BARBARA BOXER (72%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (71%) WATKINS, SHERRON S; MCMAHON, JEFFREY; SKILLING, JEFFREY K; CARNAHAN, JEAN; BOXER, BARBARA (SEN); BREAUX, JOHN B (SEN); DORGAN, BYRON L (SEN); FITZGERALD, PETER G (SEN); SNOWE, OLYMPIA J (SEN); WYDEN, RON (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BISMARCK, ND, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2002 



804 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 439 words

HEADLINE: BRIDGE; 
The Last of the 3 Greatest Invitationals Dies

BYLINE:  By Alan Truscott

 BODY:
The economic downturn in Europe has had a disastrous impact on tournament bridge there. Sponsorship money has dried up, and the three greatest invitational tournaments in the world have died.
 A London event that was originally named for The Sunday Times and then became the Macallan disappeared three years ago. The Cap Gemini World Top Pairs in the Netherlands ended a 16-year run last month. And the Forbo Linoleum International Teams had its last hurrah over the weekend, also in the Netherlands, at Scheveningen. 
 The Forbo field of 60 teams included players from all parts of Europe and some from farther afield. With one round of play remaining, seven teams had a chance to win the top honors. Four Italian world champions, Norberto Bocchi, Giorgio Duboin, Lorenzo Lauria and Alfredo Versace, snatched the prize, teamed with Maria-Theresa Lavazza and Guido Ferraro. They finished one victory point ahead of Michael Polowan and Steve Robinson, both of the United States, and Apolinary Kowalski and Piotr Tuszynski, both of Poland.
Early in the event the diagramed deal helped an American team survive the qualifying stage. Howard Weinstein, whose team had earlier finished second, behind the Italians, in the Nations Cup, had to play in a normal three no-trump as South on the diagramed deal. Note that John Carruthers, sitting North, raised the two-diamond response to three diamonds. This was better than two no-trump, in the absence of a club stopper, or an unhelpful two spades.
A club was led to the ace, and East could have defeated the contract at this point with an inspired shift to the heart 10. Then he would have been able to lead a second heart, breaking up South's endgame chances, when he subsequently won a spade trick.
But East made the normal return of a club, and South held up his ace until the third round. The declarer then cashed the spade ace and finessed the spade 10: He was willing to lose a trick to East but not to West.
East took his spade jack and shifted to the heart 10, but it was too late. South won with dummy's king and played two spade winners. West was already under pressure, and reluctantly parted with both his club winners. This was the position:
Weinstein now administered the coup de grace by leading the last spade from dummy and discarding the diamond eight. When West gave up the diamond five, the declarer led to the diamond ace and played the 10. West had to win and lead from the heart queen at the finish, giving South his game.
Weinstein's team gained 10 imps. In the replay, North was the declarer in three no-trump and was defeated: East led the heart 10 with decisive effect.

GRAPHIC: Diagram 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOURNAMENTS (91%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); AWARDS & PRIZES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: CAPGEMINI SA (58%)

TICKER: CAP (PAR) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (58%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (58%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); NETHERLANDS (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2002 



805 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Circuits; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1471 words

HEADLINE: Mining Cellphones, Japan Finds El Dorado 

BYLINE:  By KEN BELSON 

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
SABURO MASAOKA speaks with the enthusiasm of a Klondike prospector. In rapid-fire sentences that roll figures and the fanciful into one, he talks about panning for gold, silver, platinum and palladium. But Mr. Masaoka is no ordinary 49er. He is a salesman at Yokohama Metals, a scrap metal recycler whose mother lode is found on the dark side of the wireless revolution: the millions of cellular phones thrown in the trash heap each year.
 Yokohama Metals, one hour west of Tokyo on the road to Mount Fuji, is one of a handful of Japanese recycling companies that mine precious metals from high-tech gear past its prime. Walking through the company's spartan warehouse, Mr. Masaoka, 51, waves toward 20-foot-high racks holding baskets of circuit boards, ceramics and wiring that will be melted, with the metal removed and refined into ingots. 
 The prize catch, though, is brought down by forklift: two bales containing thousands of handsets. Sorting through them is like an archeological dig. Clunky models from the early 1990's are tossed in with sleek Star Trek-style handsets that still bear the cutesy stickers applied by their former owners. To Mr. Masaoka, they are all part of a trove because one-quarter of each cellphone by weight is metal. "Old jewelry is easier to recycle," he said. "But it's better than pulling gold out of the ground." 
Cellphone recycling is in essence a numbers game, and the numbers are sufficient to make it viable while, as yet, voluntary. Last year Yokohama Metals hauled in 1.7 million used handsets, about 10 percent of Japan's recycled phone market. The company pays 10 yen (7 cents) for each handset it buys; the gold and other metal in each phone is worth about 30 yen. In all, 120,000 phones are needed to produce a one-kilogram bar of pure (99.99 percent) gold, which sells for just under $10,000.
Japan is not alone in trying to squeeze gold from high-tech discards. Across Asia, recyclers are collecting millions of tons of old electronics from the United States and elsewhere and mining them for precious metals. In places like China and India, where rules governing waste disposal are weak and rarely enforced, electronics recycling can pose both environmental and health hazards, according to a report by five environmental groups issued this week. 
But the same report credited Japan for its approach, which has included steps to put more safely recyclable material into electronics equipment and has given manufacturers the primary responsibility for collecting the used gear. 
Mining cellphones for gold is, in fact, just one way the Japanese are finding new uses for what they cast off. They are among the world's most avid recyclers, and for good reason.
With nowhere near the abundance of natural resources found in the United States, Japanese have long recycled items ranging from lacquered lunch boxes to tatami mats. Still, the amount of garbage produced has soared nearly 60 percent in the last three decades, and the Tokyo metropolitan area, where 20 percent of the population lives, is fast running out of landfills. 
As the cost of waste disposal soars, recycling has increasingly become not only a habit but a requirement, too. Last April, the government passed a law requiring home appliance manufacturers like Hitachi and Toshiba to recycle all the washing machines, refrigerators, air conditioners and televisions they make and import. The government is likely to expand the law to include personal computers and office equipment (though not cellphones), a prospect that is pushing companies to increase the amount of reusable and recyclable content. 
"They see the writing on the wall," said Dylan Tanner, a Briton who is director of the Yokohama office of Environmental Resources Management, an environmental consulting firm. "They are going to have to phase out using a lot of materials, so they want to stay one step ahead."
But with the exception of the cellphones and a few other items, recycling is a money loser. For home appliances covered under last year's law, consumers pay a recycling fee of up to $35, with 60 percent going to manufacturers and the remainder to retailers who collect the goods and turn them over for recycling. 
While motors and metals are easily sold, most of the remainder must be dumped. That makes it difficult for electronics makers to turn a profit on recycling even though they retrieved more than one-third of the nearly 20 million appliances thrown out last year.
"Basically we're losing money, but we're getting more products than we thought, so our loss is shrinking," said Yusuke Tokita, who runs the Recycling Promotion Group at the Mitsubishi Electric Company, which built the nation's first recycling plant that uses no water or incinerators.
Cellphone recyclers have better luck because handsets have no resale value and transporting the phones from shops to warehouses is less expensive. 
But extracting the metals from the phones is not easy. Handsets are poured en masse into a crusher, which spits out a pulp that is then melted at high temperatures and turns into black sludge. Canvas sacks full of that material are suspended from racks and dunked into pools of solvent. Over two four-day periods, chemicals leach silver from the bags. Metal collects like tinsel on the sides and bottom of the tanks. Similar processes extract gold, platinum and other materials from the sludge. (The company says it disposes of the waste properly, and it has been certified as meeting international environmental standards.)
The metal in cellphones, however, is low-grade. Though the gold in Japanese phones is 30 times purer than what is typically mined in South Africa, recyclers must still spend days or weeks on the refining process that ultimately yields the one-kilogram bars of gold that are shipped to stores and manufacturers. Over all, it takes six months to extract metals from a cellphone, compared with a month to melt and refine jewelry.
That limits profit margins, which also depend heavily on market prices. Yokohama Metals makes a profit of up to 7 cents for every gram of gold and palladium that it resells and one-fifth of one cent for every gram of silver. Fortunately for the company, fears of a financial downturn in Japan have driven local gold prices to a three-year high.
There are other hiccups in the recovery and recycling process. Although most carriers tell handset manufacturers not to include certain toxins in their phones, many older handsets still contain lead soldering. And most companies are unwilling to pay recyclers extra to take apart phones by hand, rather than melting, to ensure that plastics are disposed of in the cleanest way possible. 
Even the cellphone recyclers face uncertain economics. With the mobile phone market almost saturated and the recession pushing customers to hang on longer to their phones, handset shipments fell last year for the first time since 1996. "The era of high turnover rates for phones is over," said Mr. Masaoka, who expects collection rates to rise only slightly this year. 
For now, in any case, recyclers are getting a steady flow of phones from Japan's carriers. With little government involvement, NTT DoCoMo, KDDI and J-Phone, the country's three largest mobile phone operators, took back nearly 10 million old phones in the year ended last March, or one-fifth of the 53 million phones produced, the Telecommunications Carriers Association says. Unofficial estimates suggest that the figure may have been closer to 15 million. 
The collection process is relatively painless for the carriers. Retailers receive old handsets from customers who buy new models. Carriers run promotions like the "Come Back" campaigns of NTT DoCoMo, the market leader. For two months, three times a year, customers who turn in phones can win eco-friendly Sony MiniDisc players, solar-powered watches and other items.
"There's no law for us to follow, but we are trying to do our part," said Satoshi Yokoshima, a manager in the corporate citizenship office at DoCoMo, which started collecting handsets in 1997. 
Similarly, battery makers have formed an alliance with retailers to collect and recycle used batteries from phones and other gadgets. And cellphone makers no longer use nickel cadmium, which is toxic, and mainly produce lithium ion batteries that can be recycled. By voluntarily setting up such programs, the companies give the government less incentive to mandate them.
But law or no law, Mr. Masaoka of Yokohama Metals will get his phones. After all, there's gold inside those handsets. 

Treasures Gleaned

The amount of metals in a metric ton (1,000 kilograms, or 2,205 pounds) of cellphones (about 16,670 handsets):

GOLD -- 0.4 pounds
SILVER -- 2.6 pounds
COPPER -- 255.7 pounds
PALLADIUM -- 0.2 pounds
STEEL -- 205 pounds
ALUMINUM -- 83.8 pounds

(Source: NTT DoCoMo Tokai)

GRAPHIC: Photos: ALCHEMY -- Cellphones, far left, are crushed to a pulp at Yokohama Metals in Japan and then melted into a sludge from which metal is collected, center. About 120,000 phones are needed to produce a one-kilogram gold bar. (Photographs by Stuart Isett/Gamma for The New York Times)(pg. G7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (93%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (92%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (90%); ELECTRONICS RECYCLING (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); GOLD MARKETS (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); SOLID WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (76%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (75%); CIRCUIT BOARDS (68%); ARCHAEOLOGY (52%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (52%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; RECYCLING OF WASTE MATERIALS; METALS AND MINERALS 

ORGANIZATION: YOKOHAMA METALS (CO) 

PERSON: BELSON, KEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (72%) JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%); INDIA (76%); ASIA (53%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2002 



806 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 910 words

HEADLINE: Notes From Youngstown; 
The Angry Voice of a City Left Behind

BYLINE:  By Mark C. Peyko; Mark C. Peyko is editor and publisher of The Metro Monthly, a magazine based in Youngstown.

DATELINE: YOUNGSTOWN, Ohio 

 BODY:
To those outside Youngstown, Rep. James A. Traficant Jr. must seem alien -- a curious figure, in his cowboy boots and long sideburns. Mr. Traficant, notorious for thumbing his nose at Beltway convention with his bombastic one-minute speeches on the House floor and his contrived bad-boy costume, is currently defending himself against a 10-count indictment on charges of bribery and obstruction of justice in a federal court in Cleveland. If convicted, the nine-term congressman could face more than 60 years in prison and $2 million in fines. 
 Reaction here in Youngstown has been mixed. Shortly before the trial began this month, an anonymous valentine to Mr. Traficant was found imbedded in the frozen ground of a city park. The perpetrator -- who turned out to be a local-born artist back in town from New York -- called the sculpture, which included a Hollywood-Walk-of-Fame-style star with Mr. Traficant's name above a tommy gun, a work of art open to interpretation. And it was. Some dismissed it as a radio station publicity stunt, while others made the pilgrimage downtown to view it, paying homage to a man who to some here has become a kind of folk hero. 
 Some may wonder why, after this, Mr. Traficant's second indictment on federal bribery charges in nearly 20 years, he still maintains any kind of support among his constituents. (He won nearly 50 percent of the vote in a three-way election in 2000 and recently announced that he would be running for re-election, as an independent.) Mr. Traficant's detractors have often equated this loyalty with voter ignorance. But given the history of this city -- from its position as a major steel-producing town to one mired in a stagnant economy and high unemployment -- Mr. Traficant's appeal is understandable.
Mr. Traficant's rise to power coincided with the collapse of a steel industry that had been the sole identity of this town. From St. Anthony's, an Italian Catholic church located at the summit of Youngstown's Brier Hill District, you can almost take in the full sweep of the city's industrial river valley. Yet what remains represents simply a fraction of an extensive industrial network that stretched for miles along the banks of the Mahoning River. In the 1930's, a Works Progress Administration writer described this northeast Ohio region as "The Ruhr Valley of America," but to Youngstown's plain-speaking residents, it was simply the Steel Valley. Youngstown steel was used in the Panama Canal and in the equipment used to fight two world wars. The city's chief export framed skyscrapers and built suspension bridges. From steel doors and pipe to sheet metal and office furniture, nearly everything Youngstown produced was practical and necessary. J. Edgar Hoover, when describing the Youngstown of the early 20th century, called it one of the toughest cities in the nation. It was a rough-and-tumble town, but for reasons that went well beyond law enforcement. Work in the mills was punishing, and for most, life offered few luxuries. "The smoking factories wanted young men who could take suffering and keep their woes to themselves," recalled the Hollywood mogul Jack Warner when describing his formative years in Youngstown.
Today in Youngstown this suffering has taken on new meaning. No longer is it the pain of too much hard work but of too little. Since 1977, Youngstown and the surrounding area has lost tens of thousands of steel jobs. The city's population, now approximately 80,000, is about half of what it was in 1930. For the disaffected who still live here, Mr. Traficant serves as a screaming infomercial aimed at a world that has moved on. 
 A self-styled populist, Mr. Traficant refers to himself as the "son of a truck driver." (That may be true, but with two master's degrees he is better educated than most of his constituents.) The image imprinted in the collective minds of Youngstown's forlorn working class is of Mr. Traficant as the Mahoning County sheriff who landed in jail himself because he refused to seize the foreclosed homes of unemployed steelworkers.
When he beat federal bribery charges in 1983, he enhanced his legend, and the next year made the first of nine successful Congressional bids. The federal prosecutors had vastly underestimated Mr. Traficant's scrappy instinct for survival. Although he lacked a law degree, he represented himself in court, where he took on the dual roles of victim and aggressor. 
Mr. Traficant is an old-school politician where everything political is local. Throughout his career in Congress, he has publicly recognized the achievements of everyday people. Personal contact with constituents and bringing home federal dollars, like $25 million for a community center, has earned him a reputation for getting things done. Angry and combative, Mr. Traficant gives voice to the community's rage when he rails against free trade, illegal immigrants and foreign steel, which many here cite as the causes of Youngstown's ongoing economic malaise. 
And though he often sounds dangerous, Mr. Traficant is rarely out of control. His speeches are sentences typically held together by profanities, but underneath it all he is a shrewd communicator who has never squandered an opportunity for a sound bite. The loud clothes, overbearing presence and outlandish one-minute speeches may simply be devices for getting noticed, but to the people in Youngstown, they have also come to represent a guy who says he's in their corner.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Robert Grossman) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); INDICTMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); SCULPTURE (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (76%); BRIBERY (76%); CRIMINAL FINES (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (76%); OFFICE DESIGN (72%); ETHICS (71%); JAIL SENTENCING (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); TRENDS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (67%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (62%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (61%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (60%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (54%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (52%) STEEL AND IRON; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BRIBERY; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; ETHICS; PUBLIC OPINION 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); CONGRESS (US) 

PERSON: PEYKO, MARK C; TRAFICANT, JAMES A JR (REPR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (92%) OHIO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); PANAMA (79%) OHIO; YOUNGSTOWN (OHIO)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2002 



807 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Sports Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: THE SKI REPORT; 
A Tricky Val d'Isere Lures the Adventurous

BYLINE:  By BARBARA LLOYD 

 BODY:
When you open the curtains on the south-facing windows of Le Blizzard, the hotel where I stayed three weeks ago at Val d'Isere, France, you will see the Bellevarde Face. It haunted me throughout my visit. Would I ski down it?
 Wending along the mountainside like a serpent sliding down a giant, craggy tree, it is the unforgiving Olympic course that Patrick Ortleib of Austria negotiated to win the men's downhill in the 1992 Winter Games. Two weeks ago -- a decade later -- Fritz Strobl, another Austrian, won the downhill gold medal on a similarly difficult slope at Snowbasin in Huntsville, Utah. 
 Designed by Bernard Russi, the 1972 Swiss Olympic downhill champion, both Alpine trails have a reputation for tough, tricky, intimidating terrain. Val d'Isere has not forgotten the fame that came its way through Bellevarde in 1992. In commemoration of that Olympic history, the Alpine village lighted its own flame at the same time as the opening of the 2002 Winter Games in Utah. The French light came from a bonfire set after dark high on the ridge of its own Russi masterpiece.
But who in the United States would go to Val d'Isere this year, one marked by nagging fears of terrorism on trans-Atlantic flights? For the four skiers in our group, half-price air fares to Europe in the aftermath of the attacks on Sept. 11 made economic sense. So did a personal desire to return to Val d'Isere after lasting memories of a ski trip there 18 years ago.
As it turned out, we were not alone. Hal Aaron, a ski tour operator from New York City, said during an interview in Val d'Isere that he had received only one cancellation among the 40 skiers who booked trips with him last spring for a week in the French Alps. "One older woman said she was too nervous to come here after Sept. 11," he said. "Two-thirds of my clients are from New York City, but others come from places like Boston, Denver, Ohio and San Francisco."
Aaron says Val d'Isere is a popular destination for American skiers, but that it is difficult to book reservations for large groups. Val d'Isere does not have enough hotels, Michel Giraudy, the resort's manager, said in an interview at his tourism office. "Most Americans travel to Europe in ski clubs, but they don't find a room here," Giraudy said. "They need 20 to 30 rooms in one hotel, but our hotels are small. The same people book year after year, so it's very difficult for tour operators to find the number of rooms they need."
Americans, he added, make up only 1.4 percent of the 300,000 skiers on average who go to Val d'Isere each year. The greatest number, 42.8 percent, are French; 30.8 percent are from Britain.
The huge ski area at Val d'Isere -- more than 20,000 acres compared with about 5,200 acres for Vail, Colo., the largest single-mountain resort in North America -- entices American tour operators to keep trying. A neighboring ski area, Tignes, connects to Val d'Isere by lifts and gondolas. The combined area, referred to as Espace Killy, adds another 22,000 acres of skiable terrain. A daily lift ticket good for both areas costs about $36 for adults; a daily ticket at Vail is $67.
More than 50 lifts (90 including Tignes) take beginners and experts alike to distant glacial snowfields and ridge trails. The Leissieres, a two-person chair lift, picks up skiers in one valley, scales a ridge, crosses a precipice at about 9,000 feet, and heads down in a deep descent to another valley. A friend and I both gasped as our chair slipped over the ridge and downward. It is the single most vivid memory I carried with me from my trip to Val d'Isere in 1984. (Eight years later, it was the Bellevarde.)
Other high-speed, four-to-six-person chairlifts, trams and gondolas round out a mix of modern infrastructure with old-world charm. The ski area includes a mountain network of wood and stone chalets offering basic-to-fine French cuisine and wine. The town, brought back to its traditional Alpine architecture over the last 20 years, is the childhood home of Jean-Claude Killy, the French skier who swept the three Alpine gold medals -- downhill, giant slalom and slalom -- at the 1968 Olympics in Grenoble, France.
For some travelers, there is nothing like it. Bettan Laughlin, a Swede who has lived in Vail for 30 years, said that this year's visit marked her second time to Val d'Isere. "I come here for the food and the drinks and the beautiful scenery," she said. 
And as for me, ah yes, the same. But about Bellevarde -- maybe next time.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Bellevarde Face. The village of Val d'Isere, France, is in the foreground. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); WINTER OLYMPICS (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); SKIING (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); ATHLETES (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (88%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); SKIING FACILITIES (77%); MOUNTAINS (77%); SPORTS AWARDS (76%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (76%); BASEBALL (75%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (71%); INTERVIEWS (68%); TOUR OPERATORS (68%); TERRORISM (65%); AIR FARES (65%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (60%) BASEBALL; NAMES, ORGANIZATIONAL; STADIUMS AND ARENAS 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSTON ASTROS (59%) HOUSTON ASTROS; ENRON CORP 

PERSON: WONG, EDWARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); UTAH, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); ALPS (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPE (90%); AUSTRIA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2002 



808 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 120 words

HEADLINE: June 5 Is Hunger Day To Help Feed Poor 

BYLINE:  By The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 27 

 BODY:
With thousands of new families asking for food relief every week, private charities announced a new national Hunger Day today as part of an emergency effort to fill the depleted stocks in their soup kitchens and food pantries.
 Layoffs caused by the recession and the Sept. 11 attacks were blamed for the higher demand for food as well as a steep drop in donations to the food charities. 
 "In recent months hunger in America has reached a whole new level," said Robert Forney, president of Second Harvest, a network of nonprofit food banks that provides 80 percent of the food distributed by private charities.
On June 5, the new Hunger Day, letter carriers across the country will pick up nonperishable food at mailboxes. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD CHARITIES (94%); CHARITIES (91%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (91%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (88%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (88%); NUTRITION (85%) FOOD; SOUP KITCHENS; DIET AND NUTRITION 

ORGANIZATION: SECOND HARVEST (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2002 



809 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1229 words

HEADLINE: Powell Says U.S. Will Grab Chances at Mideast Peace 

BYLINE:  By TODD S. PURDUM 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 27 

 BODY:
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell said today that the Bush administration was prepared to pursue aggressively several new openings for peace in the Middle East and was not "giving Israel a green light" to respond militarily to Palestinian attacks. But he insisted that the onus for curtailing violence remained on Yasir Arafat.
 Secretary Powell also said, in an interview, that President Bush's description of Iran, Iraq and North Korea as an "axis of evil" had been diplomatically useful and "tended to clear the sinuses of various people around the world." He went on to describe such governments even more bluntly as "losers." 
 "In my judgment, any country right now that has a despotic leadership, that is unrepresentative of its people, that is not putting in place market economic systems, that is rife with corruption, a lack of transparency and no rule of law, that thinks it can achieve a position on the world stage through development of weapons of mass destruction that will turn out to be fool's gold for them, is a loser," he said. 
Secretary Powell said that the administration was reviewing whether the international peacekeeping force in Afghanistan should be expanded from Kabul, the capital, to other areas of the country. But he added, "It is not total chaos by Afghan standards, and so there may be needs, but it is not clear that you have a requirement right now to blanket the whole country."
In a fresh indication of how seriously the administration is taking a recent Mideast peace overture by Saudi Arabia, a State Department official said tonight that the assistant secretary for Near Eastern affairs, William J. Burns Jr., was on his way to Saudi Arabia for consultations with the de facto Saudi ruler, Crown Prince Abdullah, on that and other issues.
Secretary Powell spent a good part of a wide-ranging interview defending the administration's frustrated attempts over the course of a year to achieve a cease-fire and resumption of Israeli-Palestinian peace talks. Rejecting criticisms from Europe and the Arab world, he insisted that the United States had been steadily engaged.
He cited Mr. Bush's call for a Palestinian state at the United Nations last fall. He also mentioned his own speech in Louisville last year, in which he sketched out requirements for both sides, one of which was that Israel "knock off the settlements," as he phrased it today.
"We have not put it on the back burner," he said in the nearly one-hour interview in his seventh-floor suite at the State Department. "What that usually means is, 'Go and force the Israelis to do something.' That's what many people think when they say, 'Get more engaged,' or: 'You're standing on the sidelines. You haven't made Israel blink in the face of this violence.' "
Secretary Powell said that Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel "can do a lot and will do a lot, once the overall violence goes down." He expressed hope that there were "a few things moving now," which beyond the Saudi peace overture include renewed security meetings between Israeli and Palestinian officials and contact with both parties by President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt, who arrives in Washington this weekend for talks with Mr. Bush.
"I can go to the region tomorrow if a purpose would be served," the secretary said, adding that he would also be prepared to send the administration's special envoy, Anthony C. Zinni, a retired Marine general, but not yet. "I'd go there every week if there was a purpose to be served," he added. "But I just can't go there if there isn't a purpose to be served."
He again praised the Saudi crown prince's suggestion that his country was prepared to offer full recognition of Israel in exchange for Israel's full withdrawal from the West Bank and Gaza Strip, territories it occupied at the end of the 1967 war. He noted, though, that such a formulation was "easily said, but a very difficult concept to get total agreement on."
He added: "We need to flesh this out more before we declare we have a solution. It isn't a solution in and of itself. It just adds something to the equation." Secretary Powell said that Vice President Dick Cheney would seek to "flesh out the crown prince's ideas" on his trip to the region next month.
"The one thing I'm absolutely sure," Secretary Powell said, is that "unless the violence goes down to some level that allows Israel to continue to engage and continue to engage, then all of these various ideas will just peter out. The violence has to go down; the pressure has to remain on Arafat to do as much as he can. Not that we're giving Israel a green light; we never have. We don't give anybody a green light.
"But it's important that this process get started, and I think it gets started by Mr. Arafat doing everything in his power, a 100 percent effort, and as close to 100 percent performance as is possible to get the violence under control."
European officials have complained that Mr. Arafat will be hard-pressed to make such efforts if he remains confined by Israeli forces to the West Bank town of Ramallah. But the secretary, asked if Mr. Arafat could make a 100 percent contribution from there, replied, "I don't know why not."
Despite surprise in many quarters of the State Department at Mr. Bush's use of the phrase "axis of evil" in his State of the Union message, and widespread criticism among European allies, Secretary Powell said, "I found it quite useful.
"In case everybody thought that, 'O.K., we've done Afghanistan and we'll do some work in the Philippines and a few other places, and we have sort of taken our eye off the ball because these aren't direct Al Qaeda terrorist countries,' the president wanted to make the point that we are just as concerned about these countries as we have ever been, and more so in light of Sept. 11, because they are developing the kinds of technologies that could get in the hands of terrorist organizations."
During the 2000 presidential campaign, Secretary Powell said he "detested" using the term "rogue state," to describe such countries, seeing it as virtually meaningless in lumping together diverse governments.But, he acknowledged today, "It's hard to get rid of. I haven't found a better term for them."
The secretary likened the Iraqi leader, Saddam Hussein, to a kidney stone, "which passes in due course," though he declined to outline any of the various options for removing him from power, except to say, "If you're looking within the country, it's going to be difficult to find the kinds of people that you might want to trust for this mission."
Elaborating on the administration's longstanding contention that Mr. Hussein must allow unfettered access for United Nations weapons inspectors to return to Iraq, the secretary said: "If somebody wants to really hide something, it's hard to find. But an aggressive inspection regime forces you to hide. So my experience in arms control over the years is that if anybody really wants to hide something they can, but the fact that there is an inspection regime forces them to do that, and then you have to ask the question: Is it worth that much to them that they are willing to give up the overt program in order to have a covert program.
"So I think there is some value to the inspection regime," he said, "even though I'm under no illusions that they could find something that's buried in a tunnel or in some van moving around."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, in his State Department office yesterday, said Yasir Arafat must work '100 percent' to curb violence. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (72%); PEACE PROCESS (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); CORRUPTION (68%); WAR & CONFLICT (67%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PALESTINIANS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: PURDUM, TODD S; POWELL, COLIN L (SEC); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); SHARON, ARIEL (PRIME MIN); ARAFAT, YASIR 

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (71%) ISRAEL (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); IRAQ (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); AFGHANISTAN (72%) ISRAEL

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2002 



810 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: Thai Government Orders Expulsion of 2 Foreign Correspondents 

BYLINE:  By SETH MYDANS 

DATELINE: BANGKOK, Thailand, Feb. 27 

 BODY:
Thailand has issued a rare expulsion order against two foreign correspondents, arousing cries of dismay and anger from both the local and foreign press here in one of the freest and most open societies in Asia.
 The expulsion order, which has not yet been enforced, was the first against a foreign journalist here since the 1970's, when Thailand was a military dictatorship, and it came at a time of increasing government pressure on the local press. 
 The action was taken against two resident correspondents for the Hong Kong-based Far Eastern Economic Review, Shawn Crispin, 33, an American, and Rodney Tasker, 56, a Briton. 
The magazine strongly denied wrongdoing and appealed the order, and the two reporters were given 30-day temporary visas today that allowed them to stay while the appeal is considered.
The order mentioned no laws that might have been broken. It cited a brief article in the magazine's Jan. 10 issue headlined "A Right Royal Headache" that referred to frictions between Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra and the royal palace.
A statement from the police said the article posed "a possible threat to peace and morality of the people" and "may cause confusion and disorder in society."
That issue of the magazine had been barred from distribution in Thailand or aboard the national airline, Thai Airways, an action rarely taken.
Thai journalists have complained that Mr. Thaksin's government is using a variety of economic and pressure tactics against their publications in an effort to stifle criticism. The barrage of critical commentary this week was a sign the press does remain free and contentious.
"A threat to national security stretches one's credulity beyond belief," wrote Kanjana Spindler, a prominent columnist and editor at the English-language daily Bangkok Post.
In an editorial on Tuesday, the newspaper said: "Since the 1973 overthrow of the dictators, the country has earned a reputation around the world as a bastion of press freedom. If Mr. Thaksin allows the authorities to try to intimidate the press, he is putting his own reputation and that of the country on the line."
Mr. Thaksin insisted that he had nothing to do with the expulsion order, calling it a police matter. "The press has its freedom as long as the reports do not affect national security," he said. "But if the reports affect national security, it will be the authorities' job to handle the case."
He did not elaborate on what might be a threat to security.
Thailand has strict laws limiting discussion of the king and the royal family. The prime minister was embarrassed last year when King Bhumibol Adulyadej publicly rebuked him for an intolerance of criticism.
This week, the criticism seemed to be coming from everywhere, from local and foreign journalist's associations, from opposition politicians and and from the State Department in Washington.
"We encourage Thailand to uphold its reputation as a strong supporter of freedom of the press consistent with its constitution and its past practices," said Richard Boucher, the State Department spokesman.
Mr. Thaksin seemed to react more strongly to these rebukes than he had to any offense by the magazine.
"We have our own sovereignty," he told reporters brusquely. "We do not need to explain it to anyone." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); POLITICS (87%); DEPORTATION (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); BRITISH ROYALTY (74%); AIRLINES (65%) FREEDOM OF THE PRESS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; ROYAL FAMILY; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; DEPORTATION 

ORGANIZATION: FAR EASTERN ECONOMIC REVIEW 

PERSON: MYDANS, SETH; CRISPIN, SHAWN; TASKER, RODNEY; THAKSIN SHINAWATRA (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (92%) THAILAND (96%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (79%) THAILAND

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2002 



811 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: Japan Says It Will Double Its Annual Whale Harvest in Pacific 

BYLINE:  By ANDREW C. REVKIN 

 BODY:
Japan plans to double the number of whales it kills in the North Pacific each year under a program that it describes as scientific research but that American and some European officials say is commercial whaling.
 On Feb. 22, Japan notified the International Whaling Commission that it planned to kill 50 minke whales and 50 sei whales on top of the 100 minkes it has been hunting annually in its research program. Japan also kills 440 minke whales in Antarctic waters each year. 
 The small, wedge-shaped minke whales are relatively plentiful. But sei whales, which grow to 60 feet and 25 tons and were heavily hunted into the 1960's, are listed as endangered by international conservation agencies and the United States.
An official representing a country on the whaling commission confirmed details of the Japanese plan, which was distributed to reporters by the World Wildlife Fund, a private environmental group.
In the past, the commission, established under a 1946 treaty regulating whale hunts, and many countries have criticized Japan's large-scale hunting of whales for research. But the harvest is not illegal or in violation of the whaling treaty. 
Japan has strongly defended its research hunts, contending that most whale species are not endangered and that in some cases they are overabundant and depleting fish stocks. The Japanese say that the killed whales are dissected to provide a better understanding of their feeding habits and biology. The meat is sold in Japanese supermarkets and restaurants.
Yesterday, American officials said that an expanded whale hunt by Japan would bring condemnation from the United States. 
"We strongly oppose Japan's lethal scientific whaling activities," said Rolland A. Schmitten, the American representative on the whaling commission and assistant administrator for fisheries of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. "This is de facto commercial whaling. If we confirm that they've added any additional whales or new species, we would intend to express our extreme disappointment to the Japanese government."
A year and a half ago, the Clinton administration threatened to impose economic sanctions against Japan the last time it expanded its research haul, adding Bryde's and sperm whales, species that were once heavily hunted and whose numbers today remain unclear.
Once Japan's plans are officially released, the Bush administration will consider whether to consider sanctions or other moves, Mr. Schmitten said. 
The plans for an increased harvest come as Japan prepares to push the whaling commission to consider a new management plan for whales that would include the first resumption of commercial whaling since a moratorium in 1986.
"The Japanese government is attempting to prop up its whaling industry while it sets about dismantling the global moratorium," said Richard N. Mott, the vice president of the World Wildlife Fund.
A statement released by the Japanese Embassy in Washington rebutted such claims, saying that Japan's "research program is a good-faith contribution to the scientific review of the effect of the moratorium on whale stocks." The effort by Japan to sway the commission is expected to culminate in May, when it will host the next meeting of the whaling commission in Shimonoseki, a traditional whaling village. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WHALING (97%); MARINE MAMMALS (95%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (90%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE FUNDING (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (89%); WILDLIFE (89%); OCEANOGRAPHY (89%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (88%); BIOLOGY (78%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (78%); MARINE BIOLOGY (78%); FISHERIES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); FISHES (74%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (66%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (52%) FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; FISHING, COMMERCIAL; WHALES AND WHALING; RESEARCH 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL WHALING COMMISSION (84%); WORLD WILDLIFE FUND (56%) INTERNATIONAL WHALING COMMISSION 

PERSON: REVKIN, ANDREW C 

GEOGRAPHIC: PACIFIC OCEAN (92%) JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (92%); ANTARCTICA (79%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2002 



812 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 630 words

HEADLINE: Computer Program to Help Determine Aid to the Poor 

BYLINE:  By STEPHANIE STROM 

 BODY:
The Human Resources Administration will announce a pilot project today to use a new software program intended to help low-income families develop budgets and financial plans that will set them on the road to self-sufficiency.
 The software, developed by the Women's Center for Education and Career Advancement with the financial backing of the United Way of New York City, lets caseworkers and counselors plug in information about family size, income and expenses, click a computer mouse and determine what sources of public support a client may qualify for. 
 In doing so, it seeks to streamline the welfare process and allow easier navigation of the welter of agencies that provide aid and services. "This is a way of calculating the goods and services available to you to get you down the road to complete independence," said Verna Eggleston, the human resources commissioner. 
She called the software, which will be available online and on disks, an example of the Bloomberg administration's efforts to work with the private sector to achieve public good. 
Chicago has a similar calculator program, but it alerts users only to their eligibility for food stamps and child care subsidies. The Urban Institute, in Washington, also has a calculator, but it does not assess eligibility for child care or housing support. The New York calculator lets someone create a budget taking account of food stamps, housing assistance, tax credits and the like. 
"It's a great tool," said Helen Brown, a retention specialist at the Women's Housing and Economic Development Corporation. "Before, you had to kind of guess about what people were eligible for, wait for them to find out and then recalculate everything. With this, you can tell them they're probably eligible for Medicaid, for transitional assistance, for child care support." 
But it can also tell them if a $2-an-hour raise, for instance, will result in lower benefits. "If an employer understands that giving a raise from $7.50 an hour to $9.50 an hour costs the worker her child care subsidy or food stamps, then instead of offering a raise, it might offer to pay for six months of computer training," said Merble Reagon, president of the Women's Center. "That training in turn may make the worker eligible for a promotion to a job that pays $13.50 an hour."
Nicole Skinner, a 32-year-old woman who has been on and off public assistance for several years, panicked when she took a part-time job recently and then received a letter from the Human Resources Administration, telling her it had cut off her welfare benefits.
She makes $8 an hour, 12 hours a week as a clerical worker while looking for a full-time job, but suddenly, she was cut off from all public support. "I was at the end of my wits," said Ms. Skinner. "We were hungry sometimes."
She figured out that her case worker had mistakenly doubled the amount of income she received, and appealed for the administration to reopen her case. Using the software during a trial period, the Women's Center determined that she was eligible for food stamps and Medicaid, which freed up money for other expenses. "I always had a budget, but the calculator gave me a better look at things," she said. "Because I got help through these subsidies, I was able to budget a little differently, and this month, I'm looking to make ends meet for the first time." 
Ms. Eggleston predicted that critics would say that the software will increase the costs of public support while government budgets are contracting. The calculator has the potential to increase demand for assistance -- the Women's Center estimates that some 800,000 people are unaware they are eligible for food stamps -- and it may also make a dent in tax revenues, because it highlights various tax credits that are underused.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SOFTWARE (92%); POOR POPULATION (90%); HUMAN RESOURCES (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); FOOD STAMPS (89%); CHILD CARE (87%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); PUBLIC HOUSING (73%); MEDICAID (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); COMPUTER POINTING DEVICES (69%) WELFARE (US); COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: MONSTER WORLDWIDE INC (85%)

ORGANIZATION: URBAN INSTITUTE (55%) HUMAN RESOURCES ADMINISTRATION (NYC) 

TICKER: MWW (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES (85%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (85%)

PERSON: STROM, STEPHANIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2002 



813 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE ELECTRIC SYSTEM; 
Electric Power System Is Called Vulnerable, and Vigilance Is Sought

BYLINE:  By MATTHEW L. WALD 

DATELINE: LENOX, Mass., Feb. 27 

 BODY:
The computers that control the electric power system around the nation have been probed from the Middle East, and terrorists may have inspected the physical equipment, said experts at a conference on the security of the electric system. 
 Government experts identified nuclear power plants as perhaps the most attractive targets but said dams, gas pipelines and oil refineries were not far behind. Federal officials urged companies that generate, transmit and distribute electricity to take steps to increase security. 
 "In a single-superpower world, there's a single best target," said Lt. Col. Bill Flynt, director of the Threats to Critical Infrastructures program at the Foreign Military Studies office of the Army. 
"You're the best face of that best target," Colonel Flynt told the power officials. "Your corporations are the best target set."
But the extent of the threat, and of the vulnerability, was not clear from the unclassified two-day conference, where a panel of government and industry experts refused to provide details about what they knew or how they knew it.
The electric system is set up to perform reliably even with significant component failures and to recover quickly from those failures. But it might not stand up to multiple coordinated attacks, and the Sept. 11 attacks demonstrated that such an event was possible. Some parts of the system, like transformers, are large, require months to build and are not held in inventory in an increasingly competitive industry that shuns expensive spares, experts said.
The conference brought together about 60 plant managers, power system administrators, state regulators and other experts from New York and New England to hear from officials of the F.B.I., the C.I.A. and state governments. The industry officials showed some frustrations about the murkiness of federal advice. 
For example, James D. Castle, manager of operations at the New York Independent System Operator, or ISO, said the system was usually operated by running the cleanest and least expensive generating stations. But the system could be less vulnerable if plants close to the high demand cities were started up, to minimize the importance of transmission lines.
Mr. Castle, who is also the chairman of the Northeast Power Coordinating Council, which covers New York, New England, Ontario, Quebec and the Maritimes, said there was no consensus on when to do so. Members of the council have a once-a-week conference call on terrorist threats, he said, and have developed code words to discuss what actions to take to protect the power system from terrorist threat. The problem, he said, was that threats thus far have been vague. 
"Is it really enough for me to change the way I run the power system, in other words, to pollute the air, and cost people money? Probably not," Mr. Castle said.
James Fortune, a program manager at the Electric Power Research Institute, a utility research consortium based in Palo Alto, Calif., said that computers used by a variety of critical industries had been probed by unknown intruders.
"We do know that surveillance has increased, from the Middle East," Mr. Fortune told the industry executives. "Where do you think the majority of those probes have gone? To us, the overall energy system," he said. In an interview, he said this had been verified by a computer security firm, but he would not give further details.
"Are they surveilling now? That's what you do before you launch an attack," Mr. Fortune said, and he urged the participants to re-examine their computers.
Another speaker, Harvey Blumenthal, a C.I.A. official who is on loan to the National Infrastructure Protection Center, a federal agency created by President Bill Clinton, said a review of reports received by the federal government since Sept. 11 showed that electric installations "are under active physical surveillance."
"The bulk of these reports have been discounted as being not credible," Mr. Blumenthal said. "However, there are a few that really may represent an attempt to collect useful intelligence, operational information that could presage future attacks."
Charles E. Noble, the director of Information Technology Security at the ISO New England, the independent system operator for the six-state region, pleaded with the people who run power plants and transmission and distribution systems to report anything they saw so the reports could be analyzed and integrated, with help from the North American Electric Reliability Council, known as NERC.
"If you see suspicious people around, report it," Mr. Noble said. "The nuclear sites and some of the others, if you see airplanes flying around, report it. There's no way at the ISO level, NERC or the federal level we can respond if we don't know what's going on out there."
The conference was sponsored by the New York and New England independent system operators. It was held in the Cranwell Resort and Golf Club here, a complex of stately old buildings that have been recently restored and remodeled; as if to emphasize the centrality of electricity to American life, even the soap and paper towel dispensers in the restrooms at the conference center ran on electricity.
The electricity executives got a pep talk from James K. Kallstrom, the New York State director of public security, who said that a loss of electric service would have "a dramatic major impact to every facet of our economy." But speaking of the power plants and transmission lines, he added, "we have not built these things with the condition we have today in mind." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (91%); TERRORISM (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY RESEARCH (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (74%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); CONFERENCE CALLS (72%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (71%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (57%); AIR POLLUTION (50%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; TERRORISM; ATOMIC ENERGY; DAMS AND DIKES; GAS (FUEL); OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; REFINERIES 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (67%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (90%); ONTARIO, CANADA (52%); QUEBEC, CANADA (52%) UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); CANADA (52%)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2002 



814 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1349 words

HEADLINE: Daschle in '04? Not From His Lips 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD L. BERKE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 27 

 BODY:
Senator Tom Daschle says his instructions to his staff have been unambiguous: Do not utter a word of speculation about whether he will run for president in 2004.
 "I said, 'I don't want any calls made, I don't want any hints expressed,' " recalled Mr. Daschle, the Senate majority leader and the highest-ranking Democrat in Washington. " 'I want to keep the focus solely on being majority leader.' " 
 Yet despite these assertions, Mr. Daschle is trying to have it both ways. He is encouraging talk about a presidential run by refusing to rule it out. His approach may not be as overt as those of the several Democratic senators who are already crossing the country while consulting strategists and fund-raisers. But four of Mr. Daschle's confidants said in interviews that they have quietly discussed the subject with him -- and that he was intrigued by the idea. 
"We've had some pretty candid conversations," one friend of his said. "We talked about, what does it take? When do you have to make these decisions? What does it take in terms of family? Where do you make your best contributions in life?"
In an interview in his Capitol office, the normally restrained Mr. Daschle offered a taste of his ambition. He bristled at the suggestion that he lacked the tenacity to run for president: "I don't do anything halfway. I have many shortcomings, but one isn't lack of focus, lack of discipline. Once I decide to do something, I put all my energy in it."
He also said, for the first time, that he would decide about the White House "quickly -- within a few months" after the November midterm elections. 
Mr. Daschle's reticence, while true to character, is also a political necessity, his advisers say. The paradox he faces in his inherently partisan role as leader of the Senate Democrats, with their brittle majority of one, is that he cannot appear political, either to his Democratic colleagues or to the White House. 
If he does anything to signal greater ambition, he could lose credibility among Senate Democrats -- and the ability to hold together his majority. Just as important, if he appears to be running, Republicans could cast his every move as guided by political self-interest. 
But by keeping alive the idea that he has presidential ambitions, Mr. Daschle can assure that he is viewed as a power to be reckoned with.
"He's trying to lead a caucus where a good six or seven people are considering presidential campaigns," said Anita Dunn, a former staff aide and longtime political adviser to Mr. Daschle. "He needs to be totally out of that process. They need to believe he has a leadership agenda and not a presidential agenda or he would not be able to lead. It's the only course available to him."
Though some advisers have told Mr. Daschle that he cannot wait until after November to put a campaign in place, many others argue that he does not need to scurry around the country doing so because he already enjoys far more stature than other Democrats. Al Gore, the Democrats' standard-bearer in 2000, shied away from the political scene until recently; ever since the Democrats took control of the Senate last spring, Mr. Daschle has been in the ascendant. 
"If you look at him against John Kerry or John Edwards, he's going to be better known than they are among most Democrats around the country," said John D. Podesta, a close adviser to Mr. Daschle who was President Bill Clinton's last chief of staff.
The surest evidence of Mr. Daschle's rise in influence is that his Republican adversaries, from Vice President Dick Cheney on down, have mounted a full-throated drive to demonize him as an obstructionist, accusing him of blocking every administration initiative but the war.
Some of President Bush's closest advisers say they view Mr. Daschle as the most formidable presidential prospect because of his personal appeal and his nimbleness at pressing Democratic positions without appearing uncompromisingly partisan. He has become such a high-profile figure -- becoming better known in October, when a letter laced with deadly anthrax arrived in his office -- that there have been numerous threats against him, his aides say, and he now has a security detail.
Mr. Daschle's role beyond the business of the Senate has changed appreciably. He is now the principal Democrat his party turns to to develop themes in this crucial midterm election year.
He also has a much greater responsibility to raise money. His advisers say they are well aware that the new responsibilities could help him immensely should be run for president. His aides have begun convening a group of his staff and former aides on Fridays to help the senator frame a message for the party. That core group could serve as the infrastructure for a presidential campaign.
Mr. Daschle's closest advisers say they are utterly uncertain about whether he will run. Most said they truly believed that the senator did not know himself, adding that Mr. Daschle's wife, Linda, a lobbyist, has expressed doubts about a run.
Some of Mr. Daschle's most loyal backers said they feared that 2004 would not be the most opportune time because of Mr. Bush's popularity and, more important, because it is tough to run a divided Senate and run for president at the same time. They noted that Mr. Daschle, who is just 54, could pass up 2004 and still have a shot at the White House.
Joel Johnson, one of Mr. Daschle's closest advisers, recalled that Senator Bob Dole quit as majority leader -- and left the Senate altogether -- in 1996 because he could not balance that job with running for president. Explaining that Mr. Daschle knows better than anyone the frustrations of trying to run for president and lead the Senate, Mr. Johnson said: "He understands. He is the guy that forced Bob Dole out of the Senate when he ran for president."
But more and more Democrats are encouraging Mr. Daschle to mount a race. Mr. Daschle marveled at the standing ovation he drew at the California Democratic convention recently, saying it had a fervor he had never experienced outside his home state, South Dakota. "This is new to me," he reflected later.
Still, his higher profile has also made Mr. Daschle a target. But the attacks have helped rally partisans behind him. At the start of his speeches, he often reminds audiences of the litany of names he has been called, from "unpatriotic" to "obstructionist." Then he declares, almost in a shout, "They can call me anything they want -- as long as they call me majority leader of the United States Senate."
His ascendancy has not been seamless. When he delivered an economic speech in January, Mr. Daschle was at first lauded by some Democrats for pre-empting Mr. Bush's State of the Union message -- and for blaming the Bush tax cuts for the nation's economic woes. He did not call for a repeal of the law, and even some allies complained that Mr. Daschle allowed the White House to put him on the defensive, accusing him of trying to raise taxes. 
In fact, Mr. Daschle, who is in his third term and up for re-election in 2004, devotes much of his time deferring to Senate Democrats. After his speech at the California convention, Mr. Daschle was scheduled to appear before reporters. But when he was told that his news conference would overlap with an address by Senator Kerry of Massachusetts, who has made no secret of his designs on the White House, Mr. Daschle demurred. He instructed his aides to scrap the news conference because he did not want to draw coverage from Mr. Kerry's speech. Instead, Mr. Daschle met earlier, on the fly, with a clutch of reporters against a backdrop that made for less-than-flattering photographs.
It may seem a small courtesy. But even in the club of the Senate, where swelled heads are ample, members do not always go out of their way to accommodate their colleagues.
"The Senate is a boat full of titanic egos," said Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, "and Daschle keeps it afloat and moving, which is no small feat." 
Mr. Durbin added, "He is our strongest candidate, but he has been careful and cautious not to indicate any interest to any of us."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Tom Daschle in his office yesterday with Senator Harry Reid. For now, he is the Senate leader and not the presidential candidate. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); CAUCUSES (79%); POLITICS (78%); FUNDRAISING (69%) PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US); SENATE (US) 

PERSON: TOM DASCHLE (94%); HARRY REID (59%) BERKE, RICHARD L; DASCHLE, TOM (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2002 



815 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 361 words

HEADLINE: Orders Rose For Durables In January 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 27 

 BODY:
Orders for big-ticket items rose in January for the third time in the last four months, while sales of new homes fell to the lowest level in one and a half years, the government said today, signaling that the economy is slowly gaining strength.
 "This is shaping up to be an anemic recovery" from the recession that began last March, said Paul Kasriel, senior economist at Northern Trust Securities in Chicago. 
 The Commerce Department said today that orders for large, expensive items, known as durable goods, rose 2.6 percent, reflecting more demand for autos, aircraft and computers. Excluding transportation, orders rose 1.3 percent. 
Sales of single-family homes slumped 14.8 percent last month, to 823,000 units at an annual rate, the slowest since June 2000, the Commerce Department said.
The sales fell from a revised pace of 966,000 houses in December. The decrease was the largest since January 1994, and it suggests that housing will be hard-pressed to repeat the record performance of last year.
Earlier this week, the National Association of Realtors reported that sales of previously owned homes surged last month to a record 6.04 million units at an annual rate.
New-home sales are considered a more current gauge of the housing market because they are based on contracts, while existing-home sales are based on closings and reflect buying decisions that occurred at least a month earlier.
New-home sales fell in the South, West and Midwest. They rose in the Northeast.
The median price of new homes rose 5.7 percent in January, to $183,400 from $173,500 the previous month.
Prices were up 7.1 percent from the January of last year.
A rebound in demand for durable goods -- products like appliances, semiconductors and cars that are intended to last more than three years -- that started a month after the terrorist attacks suggests factories are starting to emerge from a contraction that began in August 2000. Orders rose 0.9 percent in December.
The report also showed inventories of durable goods fell 0.6 percent in January, the smallest decrease since April of last year. That is a sign the record pace of inventory reduction last year is nearing an end.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "New-Home Sales"Annual rate in thousands of new private homes sold during the month, seasonally adjusted. Monthly ChangeJan. -- -14.8%Dec. -- +3.0Nov. -- +9.1 Graph tracks new home sales since August 2000.(Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); NEW HOME SALES (92%); DURABLE GOODS (91%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); EXISTING HOME SALES (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); INVENTORIES (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); RECESSION (78%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (73%); TERRORISM (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; DURABLE GOODS (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); HOUSING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); SALES 

COMPANY: NORTHERN TRUST SECURITIES INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (55%) COMMERCE DEPARTMENT 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (72%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2002 



816 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1497 words

HEADLINE: With Germany In Recession, Many Ask Why 

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, Feb. 27 

 BODY:
Ten years ago, in the economic boom after German reunification, nothing seemed capable of stopping this country.
 Now, nothing seems capable of starting it up. Like the United States, Germany is struggling to climb out of recession. But unlike the United States, Germany has become something of a laggard with problems that started long before the current slowdown and that seem likely to continue long afterward. 
 Once Europe's industrial locomotive -- home to Mercedes and Porsche, Siemens and Bosch -- Germany has had either the slowest growth or second-slowest growth in Europe for the last six years. 
"It doesn't matter whether we are in a boom or a recession, we are always the last in economic growth," said Hans-Werner Sinn, director of the Ifo Institute for Economic Research in Munich. "I do not think the trend will change soon."
Today, the German government confirmed that the economy shrank for the last two quarters -- the worst performance of any European country and a common definition of recession in the United States. Many economists say growth will resume later this year, but there is widespread doubt it will soon reach respectable levels. The country's central bank said it thinks that Germany's long-term "potential" growth rate has slowed to less than 2 percent a year -- slower than the United States and other European Union nations.
Germany's long-term pattern resembles a much milder version of the stagnation Japan is going through -- economic anemia at home, unhealthy dependence on exports, a paralyzing culture of consensus decision-making and an inability to carry out much-needed financial and economic changes.
This is bad news for other countries, too. Germany's economy is the world's third largest, after those of the United States and Japan, and accounts for one-third of the euro zone's output. When Germany slumps, it drags the rest of Europe with it. And when the United States is in recession, Germany's weakness makes it impossible for Europe to step in as the engine of world recovery.
The conventional wisdom is that Germany's problems merely stem from the global downturn. Exports make up a third of the economy, so Germany is sensitive to slumps elsewhere.
The real problems, though, seem to be at home. Even last year, a terrible year for global demand, German exports were slightly higher than those the year before.
Carmakers like BMW, Mercedes and Volkswagen all reported big increases in foreign sales, particularly in the United States. The shoe manufacturer Puma said its sales in the United States rose 28 percent.
By contrast, the mood at home is anxious, pessimistic and risk-wary.
"Everyone is looking for security, security, security," said Manfred Wittenstein, owner of Wittenstein G.m.b.H., which makes motors for automated machinery.
German job-protection rules remain rigid, discouraging companies from hiring full-time employees. Many stores close at 2 p.m. on Saturday, and most do not open on Sunday. Ordinary discounts are illegal, the notion being that they might confuse consumers.
Adjusted for inflation, retail sales have been stagnant in Germany for six years, and shop owners say that last Christmas season was the worst in 10 years. Car sales dropped 5 percent last year and were stagnant in 2000, when the economy was stronger.
Investment in factories and equipment has lagged behind the rest of Europe and far behind that in the United States. Manufacturers, fearful about any trouble in export markets, canceled plans for new investment last year when the United States stopped growing.
"Germany reacts very sensitively to swings in the world economy," said Hermann Remsperger, chief economist for the central bank. "Business sentiment is much more closely tied than before to changes in U.S. sentiment."
Such caution would have been hard to foresee a decade ago. Driven by boundless optimism and tax subsidies, western Germans pumped hundreds of billions of dollars into reconstruction of the formerly Communist East. Consumers in the eastern region -- who had been allowed to convert their nearly worthless East German marks into western marks -- streamed westward to buy Volkswagens, television sets, kitchen appliances and clothing.
"It was unbelievable, like a wildfire," recalled Gunter Sander, owner of Horstmann & Sander, a retailer of luxury leather goods in Hanover. But after two delirious years, the party ended and not started back up again.
Today, Mr. Sander's sales have yet to reach their former peak. Brinkmann's, a chain of appliance superstores, went bankrupt two months ago. Unemployment in Hanover is 11 percent and rising. For western Germany as a whole, it is running about 8 percent and for eastern Germany, above 15 percent.
Germany's problems have meant acute embarrassment for Chancellor Gerhard Schroder, who campaigned for office on a reduction in unemployment and is up for re-election this September.
Not only is joblessness climbing, but government finances are coming unglued. Last month, the European Union nearly issued a warning that Germany's ballooning budget deficit threatened to violate fiscal rules that Germany had itself insisted upon.
Germany avoided a reprimand, but only after Mr. Schroder lobbied other European leaders and not before he endured scathing criticism for trying to wriggle out of the European rules.
"I ask myself all the time, how can it be that exports do so well and consumers spend so little of their money at home?" said Mr. Sander, whose store sells shoes, handbags and luggage from the likes of Prada, Tumi and DKNY.
"The answer," he said, "is that every consumer is like a small businessman. A businessman only invests when he sees something positive in the future, and consumes are the same way. Right now, the consumer is saying things don't look that good."
The gloominess has been evident for years. Even when the economy accelerated in 2000, unemployment never fell below 8.6 percent and has now climbed back to 9.6 percent.
Germany remains a manufacturing country, particularly of industrial equipment and components. The problem is that its export exuberance masks an internal anemia, which means that Germany has become even more dependent on exports than before.
Mr. Remsperger, the central bank economist, said that since 1995, the share of the economy attributed to exports had climbed to 35 percent from 24.5 percent. So now, business confidence, investment and the economy as a whole are more vulnerable to swings in the global economy.
But why?
Economists say some of the problems are not of Germany's making. The adoption of the euro as a common currency created virtually identical interest rates in all 12 member countries. Germany, which has consistently had low inflation and low interest rates, lost an important competitive advantage.
The collapse of Communism and the reunification of Germany created other burdens. Companies shifted manufacturing to Poland and the Czech Republic, where wages can run one-fifth of those here. Eastern Germany became a drain on the rest of the country, swelling its debt burden.
More enduring problems have to do with economic reform. Taxes and employer-paid contributions to social security, including health and retirement benefits, account for about half of a worker's gross wages. Job protection rules have been relaxed, but it is still expensive to lay off workers. Germany's postwar consensus culture, which pervades labor relations and corporate decision-making, has made change tortuous.
An unemployed person with a family of four is entitled to receive, indefinitely, an income of 74 percent of the average wage. That works out to about $1,500 a month. Any company with more than three employees can be required to form a "works council," a group of workers who must be consulted on issues including hiring and firing. Larger companies must follow rules laid down in a 500-page book governing employee issues.
"The sum of these labor laws results in a very strict environment," said Mr. Sinn of the Ifo Institute. Because of wages and work rules, he said, German companies have overinvested in automation and hired the minimum number of skilled workers at high wages.
"That only makes sense when you are not trying to eliminate jobs," he said. "German firms cut back on their labor force by not employing people. It sounds strange, but Germany needs to create a new sector of low-wage, low-skilled jobs."
With national elections in September, significant changes are unlikely this year. Some industry experts, German and foreign, think such changes are unlikely anytime soon.
"In the German psyche, the state is the protector," said Fred Irwin, president of the American Chamber of Commerce in Germany, who has worked here for nearly 30 years. "On the surface, people talk about reforms and lower taxes. But the bottom line is that people don't really want reforms. Regardless of whether it's the Christian Democrats or the Social Democrats in power, there is a consensus around the way things are."

GRAPHIC: Photos: If German shoppers seem susceptible to confusion, matters can be more puzzling for some employers, who find it costly and bureaucratic to lay off workers, and, who, therefore, limit the job force by not hiring people. (Harald H. Schroeder for The New York Times)(pg. C5); Only a few stores in Germany, like this one in Frankfurt, discount prices. A rigid economic outlook suggests that discounts on a regular basis might confuse shoppers. (Harald H. Schroeder for The New York Times)(pg. C1) Graph:Germany has lagged behind the United States in economic growth for most of the last decade, with a sluggish performance that more closely resembles that of Japan. Graph tracks G.D.P. Growth Change from preceding year for Japan, Germany and the United States. (Sources: Eurostat; Goldman, Sachs; BNP Paribas; German Finance Ministry; Economy.com) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (91%); TRENDS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (76%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (76%); AUTOMAKERS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); MONETARY UNIONS (71%); FOOTWEAR MFG (60%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (54%); CENTRAL BANKS (51%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: SIEMENS AG (57%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (82%); STATISTICAL OFFICE OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES (59%) EUROPEAN UNION 

TICKER: SIN (SWX) (57%); SIE (LSE) (57%); SIE (FRA) (57%); SIE (BIT) (57%); SI (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%) GERMANY (98%); EUROPE (98%); JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%) GERMANY; EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2002 



817 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 654 words

HEADLINE: Bus Drivers for 3 Companies Strike in Queens 

BYLINE:  By SARAH KERSHAW 

 BODY:
Bus drivers at three companies that serve a sprawling area of southeastern Queens went on strike yesterday morning, leaving as many as 165,000 riders scrambling for alternatives, vying for parking spaces near subway stations, and, in some cases, hitchhiking. And after negotiations ended after 9 last night with no progress reported, the strike appeared likely to continue today. 
 The morning trip in yesterday was further disrupted when drivers from a fourth company refused to drive their routes, cutting the morning service on that line in half. 
 After that company, Green Bus Lines, obtained a court order yesterday afternoon to stop striking bus drivers from picketing in front of the company headquarters in Jamaica, the Green Bus drivers returned to work and were driving all routes during the evening rush, officials said. 
But the 1,500 members of Transport Workers Union Local 100, who work for the three other private bus companies, continued to strike. Those companies are subsidized by the city and the state, and serve 115,000 riders daily.
"We want it to be a short strike," said Noel Acevedo, recording secretary of the union. "But we need some serious movement."
Drivers, mechanics and maintenance workers for the three bus companies -- Queens Surface Corporation, Jamaica Buses Inc. and Triboro Coach Corporation -- have been working without a contract for 14 months, and are at odds with the company over job security, wages and pensions. 
In a joint statement yesterday, two of the companies, Jamaica Buses and Triboro Coach, said, "While negotiating a new contract within the context of New York City's current economic and budgetary climate is certainly a challenge, we look forward to continuing to work constructively with the unions to arrive at an agreement."
One official close to the negotiations said he did not expect the strike to last longer than two days.
After the 1,500 union members staged a surprise one-day strike in early January, the city's Department of Transportation put in place a series of contingency plans and warned riders of the possibility of a walkout.
Yesterday, vans and livery cabs recruited by the city ferried passengers -- many of them in a huff after waiting in the rain and snow -- from bus stops along the six routes affected by the strike to subway stations. The van rides are $1.50 -- the price of a token -- and the livery cars $2.50, officials said. Some commuters parked their cars at Shea Stadium, as city officials had suggested, and carpooled or took the subway from there to Manhattan. But some complained about having to pay the $3 parking fee at Shea, in addition to subway fare. 
Tom Cocola, a department spokesman, said yesterday that it appeared that many riders had heeded the warnings, or listened to television and radio reports of the likely strike on Tuesday night, and were not lined up at bus stations.
"Generally, we saw only two or three people at a bus stop," Mr. Cocola said. "The word was out in a very major way the night before, and it seemed to us that people made other plans."
However, on the streets of Queens yesterday, there were still plenty of confused and impatient riders, fighting over spots in the vans and livery cabs, desperately searching for parking spaces near subway stations and navigating two- and three-legged trips. 
Vanessa Simon, a sophomore at Forest Hills High School who lives miles away in Jamaica and usually takes one bus to school, missed her first class, global studies, after taking a van, a subway and then a bus, tripling her normal 20-minute trip. 
"It's the worst," she said about 9:30 a.m. on the final leg of her journey, waiting for the Q23 in Forest Hills, a route that was not affected by the strike.
"I would strike, too, if I weren't getting my money," she said, shivering inside the bus shelter and glancing out at the light snow that was falling early in the day. "But it sure is a bad day to strike."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Riders at a Queens bus stop waited for their buses yesterday, not knowing that a drivers' strike had begun. (Angel Franco/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (93%); STRIKES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (89%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); BUS STATIONS & TERMINALS (79%); BUDGETS (76%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (73%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (70%); CITIES (67%) TRANSIT SYSTEMS; STRIKES; LABOR; BUSES 

COMPANY: JAMAICA BUSES INC (82%); TRIBORO COACH CORP (82%)

ORGANIZATION: TRANSPORT WORKERS UNION; GREEN BUS LINES; QUEENS SURFACE CORP; JAMAICA BUSES INC; TRIBORO COACH CORP 

INDUSTRY: SIC4111 LOCAL & SUBURBAN TRANSIT (82%)

PERSON: KERSHAW, SARAH 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2002 



818 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: Lines Are Redrawn, And Battles Renewed; 
In Redistricting, Cries of Politics

BYLINE:  By SHAILA K. DEWAN 

 BODY:
Sure, being a Republican lawmaker in the Democrat-dominated State Assembly is something akin to being a bottle of near-beer at a frat party. Still, Roy McDonald thought he could do well by the 100th District, which includes the town of Wilton, N.Y., near Saratoga Springs, where he had been supervisor for 23 years. 
 At the least, the office would expand Mr. McDonald's ability to pump up the local economy. Voters apparently liked the idea: on Feb. 12, in a special election, Mr. McDonald won with more than 70 percent of the vote. Two days later, he was minding his own political business, attending a Valentine's Day dinner for the elderly at Elks Lodge 161, when he got a call. The Legislature had released its redistricting plan. The 100th District was gone, butchered neatly and parceled among four Assembly seats, including one with no incumbent, and in time for the next election. In November, when Mr. McDonald is up for re-election, he may have to run against a fellow Republican Assembly member. 
 Welcome to Albany. 
It is no secret that in New York State, redistricting is a decennial sacrificial festival of brute political muscle and lines drawn in extra fine point. This time around was no exception. The new district lines, which are not final, have been scrutinized as if they were tea leaves, and all manner of intent has been divined, from mischief-making to revenge to blind ambition. 
It is impossible to tell how calculated the wiggles of any one border may be. But where some see nothing more than the predictable machinery of Albany, in which the majority grinds mercilessly away at the minority, the 100th District sees a strategic assault. 
In Mr. McDonald's case, the new lines created a nearby Republican district with no incumbent. Through the use of a cul-de-sac, Mr. McDonald has been lumped into a district with Elizabeth O'C. Little, a fellow Republican and seven-year veteran of the Assembly. Under the plan, 24 Republicans, but only 2 Democrats, would run against incumbents, which the Democrats say is because most population losses occurred in Republican territory. 
The current 100th District includes a good chunk of Saratoga and all of Washington County, where Mr. McDonald's family has farmed for generations. The new McDonald-Little district also includes all of Washington County -- all, that is, except for Easton and Cambridge, where Mr. McDonald's relatives live. 
Coincidental or not -- and Democrats say it is -- that is enough to make Mr. McDonald, an investment banker and son of a steelworker who was born in Troy, N.Y., practically a martyr. "He will be an outspoken official for upstate New York and that's the last thing Sheldon Silver wants to see," said Assemblyman James N. Tedisco, a Republican, referring to the Assembly speaker, who controls the redistricting process in that house.
While the plan is supposed to keep counties as intact as possible, Saratoga County has been divided among six districts. County officials complain that the plan dilutes the political voice of one of the few bright spots in upstate's lagging economy, while giving New York City more districts than its population warrants (The Senate plan has been criticized for being overly generous to upstate districts.)
But nothing that was done to Saratoga County was done on purpose, the Democrats say. "There wasn't any particular purpose to the plan in that area other than to balance population requirements," said Assemblyman William L. Parment, the Democratic co-chairman of the redistricting committee. "When we drew the plan, I didn't know who Roy McDonald was."
It was Monday, the day Mr. McDonald took his oath of office, and Mr. Parment sat in the rear foyer of the Assembly chamber, where passing lawmakers stopped to rib him about changes to their districts.
"What are you trying to do, make me learn how to speak Spanish or something?" one said.
Mr. Parment, who is from upstate, said: "You see, it's not just Republicans who are unhappy. I've got one Democratic member who isn't speaking to me."
True, even if the new lines do not force a lawmaker to face an incumbent, they can make life difficult, and for many Democrats they have. In Rochester, Joseph E. Robach was involuntarily divorced from the area where he grew up and attends church. In Queens, Brian M. McLaughlin's new district, shoved over to make way for an Asian-American district, has only about 15 percent of his former territory. And Nettie Mayersohn, also in Queens, met a similar fate.
Critics point out that many of the Democrats who are disadvantaged under the plan were instrumental in an attempted coup against Mr. Silver in 2000. But Assemblyman Ivan C. Lafayette, who was promoted after the coup attempt, has also lost more than half of his district in Queens.
North Country politicians say they will look to Albany's most powerful Republicans -- the Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, and Gov. George E. Pataki -- to restore their lines. But the two previous governors have not intervened in the redistricting process for state lawmakers, and it remains to be seen what Mr. Pataki will do.
At the swearing-in, Mr. Bruno congratulated Mr. McDonald and his three fellow new Assemblymen, all of whom are Republicans, and told them how much they were needed in Albany. But when questioned by a reporter, Mr. Bruno stopped short of saying that redrawing the North Country would be one of his priorities. "There'll be a lot of input," he said with a bright smile. "I'm sure the speaker will be as fair and equitable as he can."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Assemblyman Roy McDonald with another Republican, Elizabeth O'C. Little. The two may have to run against each other. (Photographs by David Jennings for The New York Times) Map of New York state: Under the state's redistricting plan, District 100 is gone, possibly leaving Roy McDonald, from Wilton, N.Y., out in the cold.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REDISTRICTING (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); FAMILY FARMS (71%); SENIOR CITIZENS (69%) ELECTIONS; LEGISLATURE; REAPPORTIONMENT; GERRYMANDERING 

PERSON: DEWAN, SHAILA K; MCDONALD, ROY (ASSEMBLYMAN); LITTLE, ELIZABETH O'C (ASSEMBLYWOMAN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2002 



819 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1121 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-15

Arafat Says Peace Plan Can't Succeed Without U.S.
Yasir Arafat said in an interview that a Saudi Arabian proposal for a comprehensive Middle East peace was a "very strong platform" but that it could not succeed without Washington's support. A1

Secretary of State Colin L. Powell said the administration was prepared to pursue several peace openings and that responsibility for curtailing violence remained with Mr. Arafat. A11

A Palestinian bomber blew herself up at an Israeli checkpoint in the West Bank, wounding two policemen. A8

India Mob Burns Train
A mob in Godhra set fire to a train carrying Hindu activists on a mission to build a temple on the site of a demolished mosque, killing 58 people and raising anxiety about a spiral of broader violence. A3

Files Dispute Kissinger Account
Henry A. Kissinger used his meeting with Prime Minister Zhou Enlai of China in 1971 to lay out a radical shift in American policy toward Taiwan in exchange for China's help in ending the war in Vietnam, according to previously classified documents that contradict Mr. Kissinger's memoirs. A11

World Briefing A8

NATION CHALLENGED A12-13

Muslim Militants Gather In a Caucasus Haven
Georgian officials say some Afghan and Arab fighters hiding in the Caucasus Mountains are plotting terrorist strikes in Russia or seeking to reach Europe and the United States, possibly to mount attacks. But senior officials also say that any military operation will endanger Chechen refugees and risk bringing Russia's war in Chechnya to Georgia. A1

Russia's foreign minister expressed misgivings about an American proposal to send about 200 soldiers to train and equip Georgian armed forces to fight terrorism. A12

Anti-Hussein Radio Plan
The Bush administration is prepared to finance construction of a radio transmitter in Iran or the Kurdish enclave in Iraq so the Iraqi opposition can begin broadcasts to encourage opposition to Saddam Hussein. A1

Power System Called Vulnerable
The computers that control the electric power system around the nation have been probed from the Middle East, and terrorists may have inspected the physical equipment, experts said at a conference on the security of the electric system. A13

Arrests at Boston Airport
Officials charged 20 people at Logan International with giving false data to get jobs or security badges. A13

Guard Admits False Accusation
Ronald Ferry, 48, a security guard at the Millenium Hilton hotel, near the World Trade Center site, told a judge he had lied when he told investigators he had found an aviation radio in the room safe of an Egyptian student, who spent a month in jail. A13

NATIONAL A16-24

Father of 5 Slain Children Recalls Wife's Depression
Russell Yates, taking the stand at the murder trial of his wife, Andrea Pia Yates, said she was a "wonderful" mother who relapsed into a severe depression after the death of her father and failed to respond to psychiatric treatment, including an appointment two days before she drowned her five children in a tub. A16

A Child's Body Is Found
Searchers combing a rural area east of San Diego for signs of a missing 7-year-old girl, Danielle van Dam, found the partly burned body of a child hidden in foliage. A16

Judge Orders Files Opened
A federal judge, ruling on an environmental group's freedom of information request, told the Energy Department to release files related to Vice President Dick Cheney's energy task force. In a separate case, a Congressional agency, the G.A.O., has sued to force the White House to reveal the identities of industry executives whom the task force consulted. A19

Bush Presses Higher Debt Limit
President Bush urged Congress not to play politics with his request to raise the limit on the national debt, invoking the war on terrorism to suggest the two parties should not squabble over who is to blame for the nation's deteriorating fiscal condition. A18

Election Overhaul Hits Snag
The effort to overhaul the election system stalled in the Senate in a dispute over how to curb fraud without disenfranchising voters. A20

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Interim Road to Restore Access to Battery Tunnel
City and state officials said construction would begin immediately on a temporary six-lane road leading to the Brooklyn-Battery Tunnel and on a temporary footbridge connecting Battery Park City to Lower Manhattan. Mayor Bloomberg also said the city was close to having a temporary memorial for victims of the World Trade Center attack. B1

The leadership of the New York City Opera has begun meeting with other cultural institutions and government officials to fashion a plan for an arts complex at the trade center site. B4

Bus Strike in Queens
Bus drivers at three companies that serve a sprawling area of southeastern Queens went on strike, leaving as many as 165,000 riders seeking alternative transportation. Negotiations continued into the night. B3

Guilty of Harassment
Al Goldstein, 66, the publisher of Screw magazine, was convicted on 6 of 12 counts involving the harassment of an ex-employee. He faces a maximum of two years in prison. B3

CIRCUITS G1-10

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Not So Fleet of Foot
Scientists said new research shows Tyrannosaurus rex lacked the leg muscle to break into a sprint, let alone achieve the 45 m.p.h. speed some paleontologists once assumed. A22

OBITUARIES A25

ARTS E1-10

Grammy Awards
The soundtrack to "O Brother, Where Art Thou?" garnered five awards, including album of the year, in an upset. Alicia Keys won five of the six awards she was nominated for, including best new artist. A24

BUSINESS DAY C1-14

Congress Questions Analysts
Lawmakers investigating the collapse of Enron criticized financial analysts for continuing to urge investors to buy Enron stock even as the company's fortunes sank. A1

Recession in Germany
The German government confirmed that its economy shrank in the last two quarters. C1

Rules Helped Global Crossing
The Pentagon relaxed security requirements for a planned military communications network in a way that let Global Crossing remain in the bidding even as it ran into financial troubles last year. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

HOUSE & HOME F1-14

SPORTS D1-8

Enron Field No More
The Houston Astros bought back the naming rights to their ballpark, which will be known as Astros Field. D4

Jordan Surgery Successful
The Washington Wizards' team physician said he had repaired torn cartilage in Michael Jordan's right knee. Recovery time is about six weeks. D2

EDITORIAL A26-27

Editorials: Support for the Saudi initiative; reform struggle in Massachusetts; unlocking $100 million; the new Tweed Courthouse.

Column: William Safire.

Bridge E7
TV Listings E10
Crossword E6
Weather D8
Public Lives B2

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERVIEWS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (86%); INVESTIGATIONS (85%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); ARSON (75%); ARRESTS (75%); COUNTERTERRORISM (74%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); FIRES (70%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (70%); ARMED FORCES (69%); REFUGEES (68%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (68%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (68%); VIETNAM WAR (67%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (66%); AIRPORTS (65%); MOUNTAINS (65%); BROADCAST EQUIPMENT (62%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (62%); JAIL SENTENCING (60%); MURDER (54%); PRIME MINISTERS (53%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CAUCASUS MOUNTAINS (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); CAUCASIAN STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); GEORGIA (91%); EGYPT (79%); TAIWAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); VIET NAM (79%); INDIA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2002 



820 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1077 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene; 
Lessons in keepingbusiness humming, courtesy of Wal-Mart U.

BYLINE:  By Virginia Postrel; Virginia Postrel is the author of "The Future and Its Enemies" and is writing a book on the increasing importance of aesthetics in the economy and society. E-mail: vpostrel@dynamist.com.

 BODY:
WAL-MART STORES has just passed Exxon Mobil to become the world's largest company by sales and will thus top the Fortune 500. Wal-Mart's achievement is particularly striking as its once-mighty competitor, Kmart, struggles under bankruptcy protection.
 Wal-Mart is not just big. It's popular. In an annual survey by WSL Strategic Retail, a consulting firm, a plurality of Americans, around 25 percent, say Wal-Mart is their favorite store. And in a recent survey of children 8 to 18, Teenage Research Unlimited found that 58 percent declared Wal-Mart their favorite place to shop for clothes. (It ranked fifth when price was no object.) 
 Critics carp about consumerism and wax nostalgic about the old corner store. Some even mount performance-art protests, called Whirl-Mart, in which groups push empty carts through Wal-Mart's aisles.
But most people aren't complaining. By making goods cheap and available, Wal-Mart has raised the standard of living of average Americans.
Now the McKinsey Global Institute, the research arm of the McKinsey consulting firm, reports that Wal-Mart's impact on the economy goes further than most ever imagined. Wal-Mart's managerial innovations contributed mightily to the big increase in American productivity in the late 1990's, an increase most observers assumed came from high-technology companies.
The McKinsey study looks at why labor productivity shot up in the late 1990's and how important information technology was in that acceleration.
"Surprisingly, the primary source of the productivity gains of 1995 to 1999 was not increased demand resulting from the stock market bubble, as some economists have claimed. Nor was information technology the source, though companies accelerated the pace of their I.T. investments during those years," reports a summary of the findings published in The McKinsey Quarterly. "Rather, managerial and technological innovations in only six highly competitive industries -- wholesale trade, retail trade, securities, semiconductors, computer manufacturing and telecommunications -- were the most important causes." (The journal is online at www.mckinseyquarterly .com, and the entire study is at www .mckinsey.com/knowledge/mgi/feature /index.asp.)
Competition and better management, not simply the spread of computers and the Internet, made the difference. Nowhere was that clearer than in retailing.
From 1987 to 1995, labor productivity grew an average of 1 percent a year. From 1995 to 1999, it grew 2.3 percent a year. This big jump, combined with increased employment, meant that real output per capita grew nearly 4 percent a year -- an extraordinarily fast rate, comparable with those of some Asian economies during their period of economic takeoff.
A quarter of that increased productivity came from retailing. And about a sixth of the improvement in retail productivity came from general merchandise, most of it directly or indirectly from Wal-Mart.
"More than half of the productivity acceleration in the retailing of general merchandise can be explained by only two syllables: Wal-Mart," writes Bradford C. Johnson in a McKinsey Quarterly article "The Wal-Mart Effect." As Wal-Mart became more and more efficient, its share of the market expanded, thereby applying its efficiency to a larger portion of total purchases. And Wal-Mart's rivals began to emulate its highly productive practices.
Most of those practices aren't glamorous. Take the big-box format. Larger stores increase sales per square foot by encouraging customers to buy additional goods, often on impulse. Big-box stores also let retailers spread fixed labor costs like store management and cleaning crews across more sales.
While the public knows Wal-Mart for low prices, business analysts admire its logistics management. It has always been efficient at moving and stocking goods, building its stores as spokes around distribution center hubs. In the late 1990's, it was better.
Instead of simply maximizing efficiency at the warehouse, for example, Wal-Mart began to analyze costs over the entire shipping process, including how quickly goods can be moved onto shelves once they arrive at the store. In some cases, not completely filling a pallet with goods can save so much time in stocking the store that what seems "inefficient" at the warehouse is more productive over all.
That attention to detail makes for big savings when it is applied to an operation the size of Wal-Mart and then spreads to competitors. Other advances include tracking how busy cashiers are, so they can be used elsewhere during slack times, and using forecasting tools to figure out how many checkout employees to have in the first place.
Throughout its operations, Wal-Mart applies information technology. But the operations come first.
After the fact, the study's results seem obvious. Retailing employs a huge number of people and accounts for a lot of the economy. But the importance of retailing to the late-1990's boom wasn't clear before the study began.
"It's certainly surprising to people outside the United States," says Lenny Mendonca, a McKinsey director and chairman of the McKinsey Global Institute. Europeans tend to assume that American growth is driven by Silicon Valley and that they can emulate that growth by developing their own high-technology industries.
When retail and wholesale operations turn out to be as important as semiconductors and communication, that can change how foreigners think about economic policy.
"It's as much about competition policy that discourages retail innovation" as about technology policy, Mr. Mendonca said. In Europe, anticompetitive retail policies are common, restricting real estate use, store hours and what can be sold by whom. Wal-Mart developed in a largely unregulated retail environment, so its big-box model can't be copied in much of Europe.
"If anything, the restrictions on retail in other parts of the world may hurt standard of living more than they hurt productivity," he says, "because you can still have a very productive store if it's only open five days a week." This summer, McKinsey Global will have a similar report on productivity growth in Europe. "When you complete the whole story about what's going on around the world, it's quite an informative picture," Mr. Mendonca says. "It reinforces the view of how important the basics of competition and capitalism are to improving productivity. It gives you a sense of don't hope for silver bullets -- let the market work."

GRAPHIC: Photo: While the public knows Wal-Mart for prices like those posted at its store in Monroe, N.Y., analysts admire its ability to move and stock goods and build a hub system. (Richard L. Harbus for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); PRODUCTIVITY (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (86%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (72%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); LIVING STANDARDS (72%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (70%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (69%); STOCK EXCHANGES (68%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (66%); COMPUTER MAKERS (63%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; PRODUCTIVITY 

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (96%); MCKINSEY & CO INC (84%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: WAL-MART STORES INC; MCKINSEY & CO 

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (96%); XOM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (96%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (96%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (58%) SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%)

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2002 



821 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 192 words

HEADLINE: Times Appointment 

 BODY:
Adam Cohen, a lawyer, author and journalist, has been appointed to the editorial board of The New York Times, the newspaper said yesterday. 
 Mr. 
Cohen, 39, joins The Times after seven years as a senior writer at Time magazine, where he wrote about Internet privacy, the new economy and recession, the Microsoft antitrust case and other subjects. 
 Earlier in his career, he worked as a public interest lawyer in New York, specializing in education reform litigation, and for the Southern Poverty Law Center in Montgomery, Ala.
Mr. Cohen is co-author of "American Pharaoh: Mayor Richard J. Daley, His Battle for Chicago and the Nation," which was selected as a New York Times Notable Book in 2000, the year it was published by Little, Brown & Company. He has also written "The Perfect Store: Inside E-Bay," which is scheduled for publication by Little, Brown in June. 
A native of Manhattan and graduate of the Bronx High School of Science, Mr. Cohen received his law degree from Harvard Law School, where he was president of the Harvard Law Review. He also graduated from Harvard College, where he was associate managing editor of The Harvard Crimson. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); BOARD CHANGES (78%); LAWYERS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (75%); LITIGATION (73%); NEW ECONOMY (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); EDUCATION REFORM (70%); INTERNET PRIVACY (57%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (56%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (55%) BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (91%); LITTLE BROWN & CO INC (83%); SOUTHERN POVERTY LAW CENTER (83%); MICROSOFT CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); SOUTHERN POVERTY LAW CENTER (57%) NEW YORK TIMES 

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (91%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (91%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (91%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (83%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%)

PERSON: COHEN, ADAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); MONTGOMERY, AL, USA (75%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (69%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2002 



822 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: ENRON'S MANY STRANDS: THE ACCOUNTANTS; 
Volcker Names 2 to Join Panel That Will Oversee Andersen

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN D. GLATER and MICHAEL BRICK 

 BODY:
Paul A. Volcker, head of the oversight panel charged with overhauling the embattled accounting firm Arthur Andersen, announced yesterday that Charles A. Bowsher and P. Roy Vagelos would serve alongside him on the board.
 The two men -- Mr. Bowsher is chairman of the Public Oversight Board, which oversees the accounting profession, and Mr. Vagelos is the former chief executive of Merck -- bring added credibility to plans for changes at Andersen, academics and analysts said. Andersen is under pressure to rebuild its scandal-stained reputation quickly to retain clients and stay in business. 
 Andersen's efforts to resolve the mounting lawsuits filed over its role in the collapse of Enron suffered a setback yesterday when a meeting brokered by the Securities and Exchange Commission to discuss possible settlement terms was canceled.
At yesterday's news conference, Mr. Volcker, the former Federal Reserve chairman, said the oversight board would first focus on procedures at Andersen for resolving "technical accounting issues," like how to treat certain complex transactions. He said the board would also focus on enforcement of restrictions on auditors going to work for Andersen's clients and a review of how partners are compensated. 
"There's a lot we want to look at, there are a lot of procedures we want to review," Mr. Volcker said. He emphasized that the board would not undertake its own investigation of Andersen's role in Enron's collapse but would direct its attention to helping the firm survive. "We're forward looking," he said.
Mr. Volcker, an economist by training, said he had also asked several people with extensive experience in accounting and finance to serve on a panel that will advise the oversight board. That panel will be coordinated by Russell E. Palmer, chairman and chief executive of the Palmer Group and former dean of the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania, and will include John C. Bogle, retired chairman of the Vanguard Group; John A. Bohn, retired president and chief executive of Moody's Investors Service; and Frank J. Borelli, retired chief financial officer at Marsh & McLennan, among others.
"They're looking for as much credibility as they can get," said Wayne H. Shaw, an accounting professor at the Cox School of Business at Southern Methodist University's in Dallas. "They're looking for high-quality people to help solve their problems."
Both Mr. Bowsher and Mr. Vagelos will be paid a $50,000 retainer, plus $1,000 a meeting; Mr. Volcker will not be compensated. Andersen will pay the board's expenses and the salary of its executive director, William C. Mutterperl, former general counsel at FleetBoston Financial. Mr. Volcker said he hoped to bring in the New York law firm of Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz, which held the news conference at its Midtown offices, as an adviser.
Also yesterday, plaintiffs' lawyers said the S.E.C. had contacted them to set up a meeting with the S.E.C., the Justice Department, Enron, Enron's creditors and possibly Andersen to discuss the possibility of settling all claims against the firm. But the meeting, which could have been held as early as tomorrow, was canceled, said a person close to the matter. 
The government is one of several parties, including plaintiffs, Enron itself and its creditors, that Andersen must satisfy to achieve a viable settlement -- one that would allow it to stay in business and generate income.
The plaintiffs' lawyers said Andersen had told them it could pay around $250 million from insurance covering "errors and omissions," as well as an additional amount from future earnings. One lawyer said the additional amount Andersen proposed was $500 million over five years. This lawyer also said S.E.C. officials had proposed the meeting to compare notes on Andersen's finances and the offers it had made. According to this lawyer, Andersen lawyers told plaintiffs' lawyers they had outlined a similar settlement proposal for both the S.E.C. and the Justice Department.
There is a powerful incentive for both Andersen and those suing it to reach a settlement soon. The longer the prospect of litigation and huge damage awards looms over the firm -- after all, Enron's market capitalization fell by billions of dollars last year -- the more likely it is that clients will defect, and the more clients defect, the less revenue Andersen will have to pay off claimants.
In addition, many public companies will choose auditors for this year once the audits of last year's financial statements are completed over the next month or so. Before board members recommend an accountant and shareholders vote on that recommendation, Professor Shaw said, Andersen's partners would very much like to have all the lawsuits resolved.
"If you don't get that behind you," he said, "you've got something sitting over your head that could really put you in a difficult position. A settlement gets them out of any worry whether they survive or not." 
Reaching a settlement would not be easy, though, because so many different parties are interested in suing Andersen. It would have to involve Enron creditors and shareholders, and Enron itself, and would somehow have to address potential criminal lawsuits the government might bring. Theoretically, reaching such terms could release the firm but not certain partners from liability, leaving Andersen in a position to settle with the other parties. So far, though, there have been no signs that the S.E.C. has engaged in direct negotiations with Andersen.
If Andersen were not a partnership, it might be possible to file for bankruptcy to force everyone suing it to agree on terms of a settlement. But the outcome of a bankruptcy involving a limited-liability partnership is unclear, Professor Shaw said, and bankruptcy would just hurt the firm's prospects more, perhaps irrevocably. 
"I just don't think they could go through a Chapter 11 proceeding from a credibility standpoint," he said, "even if they had to from a financial standpoint." 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Paul A. Volcker, inset, has chosen two men to serve with him on a panel that will oversee the rebuilding of Arthur Andersen. The men are Charles A. Bowsher, chairman of the Public Oversight Board, left, and P. Roy Vagelos, former chief executive of Merck. (Photographs by Carol Halebian for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (79%); ETHICS (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); LAWYERS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); LITIGATION (75%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (70%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (70%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (60%); SUITS & CLAIMS (55%) ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; ETHICS; BANKRUPTCIES; WAGES AND SALARIES; PARTNERSHIPS; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%); WACHTELL LIPTON ROSEN & KATZ (84%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (63%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); VANGUARD GROUP INC (52%); MARSH & MCLENNAN COS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (59%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%) ENRON CORP; ANDERSEN, ARTHUR, & CO; PUBLIC OVERSIGHT BOARD; PALMER GROUP; UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA; VANGUARD GROUP INC; MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE; MARSH & MCLENNAN COS 

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%); MMC (NYSE) (52%); MHM (LSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (52%) SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; 

PERSON: VOLCKER, PAUL A; BOWSHER, CHARLES A; VAGELOS, P ROY (DR); PALMER, RUSSELL E; BOGLE, JOHN C; BOHN, JOHN A; BORELLI, FRANK J; MUTTERPERL, WILLIAM C; GLATER, JONATHAN D; BRICK, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (51%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2002 



823 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 665 words

HEADLINE: To Rebuild Afghanistan, Look Next Door 

BYLINE:  By Olga M. Davidson and Mohammad J. Mahallati; Olga M. Davidson is a professor of Near Eastern and Judaic studies at Brandeis University. Mohammad J. Mahallati served as Iran's ambassador to the United Nations and led the negotiations to end the Iran-Iraq war.

 BODY:
One of the best hopes for a prosperous Afghanistan is also the least appreciated: Iran. Its ties to Afghanistan are deep. As Hamid Karzai, interim leader of Afghanistan, told Iran's Parliament on Monday, the two countries have "a common culture and language and these bonds have made our friendship eternal." The occasion may have led Mr. Karzai to exaggerate, but not by much.
 Iranians, especially the 65 percent of its population that is under 25, can best be described as masses of unemployed skilled labor and underemployed talent that have not been, and cannot be, absorbed into the domestic market because of the economic problems facing the government. 
 This labor force is culturally the closest to Afghanistan's among neighboring countries. Iranians speak the same language as a large percentage of the Afghani population and share the same literature. Such ties help explain why Iran has already committed $500 million over the next five years to help Afghanistan.
In the warlord years, Iran mainly supported the Hezb-i-Wahdat group, which represented the interests of Afghan Shiites and particularly the Hazara ethnic minority. During the period of Taliban power, Iran continued to aid what there was of the Hezb-i-Wahdat active in the Northern Alliance. More important, Iran gave shelter to more than 3 million Afghan refugees -- "a big burden on your shoulders," as Mr. Karzai put it Monday, to the applause of Iran's legislators. It also sheltered Ismail Khan, who has since returned to his power base in Herat, Afghanistan, and Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, a former prime minister of Afghanistan now sought by the Kabul government as a "war criminal." Many in Iranian political circles are seeking Mr. Hekmatyar's expulsion from Iran, an indication of how close Teheran has become to the new regime in Kabul.
Iran knows the good and the bad of Afghanistan, as Afghans know a great deal about Iran. They have been through many similar experiences in the past 25 years, particularly having to do with the overlap of church and state.
Many Afghan refugees are permanently settled now in Iran. But others wish to return home. Some already have. Together, these people form a ready-made network for cooperation between the two countries.
Such cooperation would directly benefit the United States in that it would help stabilize Afghanistan. There could be additional benefits. Discussions of Afghanistan have served in the past to give Teheran and Washington a means for talking to each other; until President Bush's "axis of evil" speech, they were performing this function again.
Private American efforts to employ Iranians in Afghanistan would not necessarily run afoul of American sanctions, which have been in place since 1979. Perhaps the most promising field is education. Afghanistan desperately needs to build school systems, and Iranians -- in particular Iranian women, who are highly educated by regional standards -- could help in that task. With access to education, women could become the next generation of doctors, engineers, lawyers, teachers and members of Parliament in Afghanistan, as women are in Iran. 
An initiative in medical education is already being discussed by the University of Virginia and Shiraz University of Iran: to build a medical school together in Afghanistan. The Iranian reaction has been overwhelmingly positive.
America needs more than just a military legacy in the Islamic world. The United States should not end its involvement short of reconstruction; any partial solution would pose a serious threat to the Karzai government. If it or its successor falls, even the American military success story will be in doubt.
The reconstruction of Afghanistan with the help of the United States is also imperative for the simple reason that the whole Islamic world is tracking this experiment. America's leadership in economic and humanitarian development will help reduce terrorism. The Iranian people can be a positive force in reconstructing Afghanistan. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TALIBAN (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ETHNIC GROUPS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); LABOR FORCE (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); REFUGEES (72%); ETHNICITY (72%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (72%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (70%); TRENDS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); TERRORISM (59%); RELIGION (50%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; AFGHANISTAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-IRAN; LABOR; TERRORISM 

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) DAVIDSON, OLGA M; MAHALLATI, MOHAMMAD J 

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); HERAT, AFGHANISTAN (79%) AFGHANISTAN (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN (90%) AFGHANISTAN; IRAN

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2002 



824 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: Israel Tries Legislator For Praising Hezbollah 

BYLINE:  By JOEL GREENBERG 

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Feb. 27 

 BODY:
An Israeli Arab lawmaker went on trial today on charges of voicing support for a terrorist organization, the first time a member of the Israeli Parliament has been prosecuted for remarks made in office.
 The trial of the legislator, Azmi Bishara, leader of the pan-Arabist Balad Party, focused attention on the civil rights and loyalties of Israel's million Arab citizens, as well as on the limits of free speech in Israel. 
 Greeted outside the Nazareth Magistrate's Court by chanting supporters waving Palestinian flags, Mr. Bishara said the trial was a rightist attempt to discredit Israeli Arab political views. 
"The trial is clearly a political trial," Mr. Bishara told reporters as the hearings began before a three-judge panel. The proceedings were attended by several members of the European Parliament and representatives of human rights groups.
The case has aggravated a sense of grievance among many Israeli Arabs, who have long complained of official discrimination in budgets, land allocation, education and other government services, and whose communities have high levels of poverty and unemployment. Alienation has deepened since October 2000, when the police killed 13 people during violent protests in Israeli Arab communities sympathetic to the Palestinian uprising.
According to an indictment submitted by Attorney General Elyakim Rubinstein, Mr. Bishara, 45, praised the Lebanese guerrilla group Hezbollah in two speeches and urged that its tactics be adopted by the Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza Strip. He will face up to one year in jail if he is convicted.
Hezbollah waged a guerrilla war against Israeli forces in southern Lebanon before they withdrew in May 2000; its campaign was widely seen in the Arab world as a model of successful resistance to occupation. Israel and the United States regard Hezbollah, which is backed by Syria and Iran, as a terrorist organization.
Mr. Bishara's lawyer, Hassan Jabarin, asked the court to dismiss the indictment, arguing that it was a politically motivated attempt to delegitimize his client's views. He asserted that the remarks in question did not amount to a criminal offense and fell within the limits of free speech.
According to the indictment, Mr. Bishara praised Hezbollah and encouraged violence in speeches at the Israeli Arab town of Umm al-Fahm in August 2000 and at a memorial gathering in Syria for President Hafez al-Assad last June.
At the gathering in Syria, Mr. Bishara said that "the option of resistance" could only be maintained by "widening this domain again, so that people can struggle and resist." Among the Arab dignitaries in the audience were Sheik Hassan Nasrallah, leader of Hezbollah, and heads of militant Palestinian groups based in Damascus.
Mr. Bishara asserts that he was talking about resistance to Israeli occupation in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, not encouraging aggression toward Israel proper, and that "resistance" in any case did not necessarily mean violence, which he says he opposes.
Mr. Jabarin said that in prosecuting Mr. Bishara -- who advocates turning Israel from a Jewish state into "a state of all its citizens" -- the Israeli political establishment was trying to discredit his opinions.
"Because Azmi Bishara challenges the Zionist ideology," Mr. Jabarin said, "this was the way to criminalize him and remove him from the public debate. The trial is not about the indictment, but about what he symbolizes regarding the status of Arab citizens in Israel."
In a separate trial, Mr. Bishara has been charged with organizing family visits by Israeli Arabs to relatives in Syria, with which Israel is technically at war. The Israeli Legislature voted in November to strip him of his parliamentary immunity, clearing the way for his prosecution on both counts.
Before the trial began today, Mr. Bishara promised to use the courtroom as a forum for his ideas. "They can't try me for my political positions without the trial becoming a platform for the question of whether resistance to occupation is a legitimate right or not," he said.
Arguments will also be heard about "why an Arab member of Parliament is being tried for what he says, and whether we can be Israeli patriots at all, and whether I am loyal to the rights of my Palestinian people to self-determination.
"I think they will regret every minute." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); HEZBOLLAH (91%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (91%); TERRORISM (90%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (90%); INDICTMENTS (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); MAGISTRATES (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (76%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (76%); DISCRIMINATION (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS (76%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (74%); JUDGES (73%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (71%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (70%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (70%); JAIL SENTENCING (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (68%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (67%); RIOTS (66%) TERRORISM; FREEDOM OF SPEECH AND EXPRESSION; PALESTINIANS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (72%)

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (94%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (56%) HEZBOLLAH 

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (72%)

PERSON: HASSAN NASRALLAH (56%) GREENBERG, JOEL; BISHARA, AZMI 

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%) ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (97%); SYRIA (93%); LEBANON (92%); EUROPE (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) ISRAEL; WEST BANK; GAZA STRIP

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2002 



825 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: Bush Tries to Head Off Fight Over Raising the Debt Ceiling 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 27 

 BODY:
President Bush urged Congress today not to play politics with his request to increase the legal limit on the national debt, invoking the war on terrorism to suggest that the two parties should not squabble over who is to blame for the nation's deteriorating fiscal condition.
 Speaking to reporters after an appearance in Charlotte, N.C., Mr. Bush said Congress should deal with the issue in a "professional way" by acting quickly to approve the Treasury Department's request to raise the debt limit by $750 billion, to $6.7 trillion. 
 Mr. Bush notified Congress late last year that the federal government was likely to bump up against the debt ceiling next month, six years earlier than the administration forecast a year ago. 
While arcane, the issue is rife with political implications, and some Democrats said Mr. Bush would not be able to push his request through Congress without an election-year debate covering tax cuts, Social Security and other economic issues that divide the parties.
"Until the administration is prepared to advance a budget that reflects fiscal discipline and a game plan for getting us back to financial health, I don't think we want to just willy-nilly increase the debt limit," said Representative Earl Pomeroy, Democrat of North Dakota.
The administration has attributed the problem mostly to a downturn in tax revenues from the recession and increased government spending. Democrats say the main cause is the tax cut Mr. Bush signed into law last year and the resulting swing from budget surpluses to projected deficits.
The debt limit encompasses two categories of government obligations. One is the debt held by the public, the nearly $3.4 trillion the government has borrowed from investors in the form of Treasury bonds and other securities. 
The other is money, currently around $2.6 trillion, the government in effect owes to itself. Most of the $2.6 trillion represents an obligation to repay Social Security for revenues that are generated by the retirement system but that in practice go to pay for other government programs.
Without an increase in the debt limit, the Treasury Department would be unable to raise money through the issuance of new securities, and in a worst case could face the threat of defaulting on some of its outstanding obligations.
Mr. Bush said he recommended to Congressional leaders at a White House breakfast this morning that they avoid politicizing the issue because "we're at war, we've got troops all around the world, we've got men and women whose lives are at risk."
The president added, "And now is not the time to be playing politics, or using the debt ceiling as an excuse for some individual's cause."
The last time the debt ceiling was an issue, in 1995, Republicans in Congress held up approval of an increase sought by the Clinton administration, unsettling financial markets and forcing the government to scramble to avoid a default.
Administration officials said they were as much concerned by how Republicans in Congress would approach the issue as they were about Democrats. Some Republicans in the House, loath to vote for a debt increase, have suggested trying to keep the government below the current debt ceiling until April 15, when a flood of tax payments will temporarily improve the government's financial condition. 
Administration officials said such a move, even if it worked, would only postpone the problem for a few months. 
Republicans have also suggested tying the debt limit increase to some other legislation, like a supplemental defense spending bill or a proposal by the House majority leader, Representative Dick Armey of Texas, to issue a certificate to all Social Security recipients guaranteeing them their currently promised level of retirement benefits.
But White House officials have begun signaling to Congressional Republicans that they would prefer to avoid having the debt limit measure linked to any other issue.
Democrats have seized on the president's request as evidence that last year's tax cut was fiscally irresponsible, and they contrast it with Mr. Bush's assertions last year that the nation could afford the tax cut and still pay off most of the public debt by the end of the decade. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEBT CEILING (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); WAR ON TERROR (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); APPROVALS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); BUDGET FORECASTS (74%); LEGISLATION (73%); RECESSION (73%); BONDS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (66%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TERRORISM; FINANCES; NATIONAL DEBT (US) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); EARL POMEROY (58%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2002 



826 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Shares Are Mixed, With Technology Issues Again Weakest

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Reassuring words from the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, gave the stock market a lift yesterday, but the rally fizzled after an analyst lowered earnings estimates for Cisco Systems, prompting nervous investors to take profits.
 The volatility fit the pattern of some recent trading, amid conflicting signs of economic recovery and corporate profitability. 
 "The market ran up a bit and people wanted to cash out," said Mark Vitner, an economist at Wachovia Securities. "That's the way it's been going for a while." 
The Dow Jones industrial average was up nearly 140 points after Mr. Greenspan spoke to Congress, then fell into negative territory before recovering to close up 12.32 points, or 0.12 percent, at 10,127.58.
Broader market indicators were mixed. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index eked out a 0.51 point gain, or 0.05 percent, to 1,109.89.
The technology-laden Nasdaq composite index again fared worse than the blue chips, losing 14.98 points, or 0.85 percent, and closing at 1,751.88.
Advancing issues on the New York Stock Exchange exceeded those declining by more than 3 to 2. Nasdaq stocks rising slightly outnumbered the decliners. Volume rose to 1.41 billion shares from 1.33 billion on Tuesday.
Mr. Greenspan told Congress he saw increasing signs that the recession was nearing an end, although he cautioned that the recovery would not be robust.
Also yesterday, the Commerce Department reported that factory orders for durable goods rose more than expected in January, another sign manufacturing might be pulling out of its slowdown.
Investors reacted to the news positively, then began selling after Stephen Koffler, an analyst at Wachovia Securities, lowered his estimate for Cisco's fiscal third-quarter financial results to reflect continued cuts in capital spending by telecommunications companies. Cisco fell $1.26, or more than 8 percent, to $14.24.
Other technology companies also fell. Emulex dropped $3.48, or more than 9 percent, to $33.52. Sun Microsystems lost 35 cents, closing at $8.66. Intel, which has lost ground in recent days, eased 13 cents further, to $29.89. Microsoft was down 16 cents, at $58.39.
Financial stocks rose broadly. Citigroup was up 44 cents, at $44.24. American Express rose 53 cents, to $35.77.
ImClone surged on reports that the Food and Drug Administration might not require a new clinical trial for its cancer drug Erbitux. ImClone shares closed up $5.01, or 32 percent, at $20.53. They had dropped after the F.D.A. declined to review ImClone's application for Erbitux in December, saying crucial data was missing. Bristol-Myers Squibb, which has a deal with ImClone to market Erbitux, rose $1.98, to $47.49.
 --------------------

Treasury Prices Higher
 (By Bloomberg News) -- Treasury prices had their biggest gain in four weeks yesterday after Mr. Greenspan said the economy's rebound might be sluggish, dampening expectations that the central bank would soon raise interest rates.
The new two-year Treasury note traded at a price to yield 2.97 percent. The current two-year note rose 7/32, to a price of 100 6/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 2.90 percent from 3.02 percent on Tuesday.
The Treasury 10-year note rose 26/32, to a price of 100 14/32. Its yield fell to 4.89 percent from 4.92 percent. The 30-year bond rose 24/32, to 100 6/32. Its yield dropped to 5.36 percent from 5.41 percent. Here are the results of yesterday's two-year note auction:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
High Price: 99.886
High Yield: 3.059%
Low Yield: 2.980%
Median Yield: 3.014%
Accepted at low price: 35%
Total applied for: $51,952,645
Accepted: $31,734,810
Noncompetitive: $1,320,420
Interest set at: 3
The two-year notes mature on Feb. 29, 2004.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" shows stocks with large price percentage gains and losses for the day. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Blomberg News, Dow Jones, Reuters); "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); BOND MARKETS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); RECESSION (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); FACTORY ORDERS (75%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (69%); DURABLE GOODS (69%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (64%); CLINICAL TRIALS (64%); CANCER (60%); CANCER DRUGS (60%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX 

COMPANY: CISCO SYSTEMS INC (76%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); INTEL CORP (58%); BLOOMBERG LP (57%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (52%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%)

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (76%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); AXP (NYSE) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%); BMY (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (76%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (76%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (52%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (52%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (52%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (51%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2002 



827 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: Recovery Near, But Its Vigor Is in Doubt, Greenspan Says 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 27 

 BODY:
Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, said today that the recession appeared to be ending but that the recovery was likely to be sluggish.
 His forecast was taken by analysts and economists to mean that the central bank would leave interest rates unchanged at least until the middle of the year, after cutting rates 11 times last year as the economy slipped into the first recession in a decade. 
 Stock and bond prices ended the day higher. After surging 140 points during Mr. Greenspan's appearance on Capitol Hill, the Dow Jones industrial average fell back to close at 10,127.58, up 12.32 points for the day. 
Testifying before the House Financial Services Committee, Mr. Greenspan touched on an array of subjects. He said he did not expect the collapse of the Enron Corporation to have any broad economic impact, though he suggested it should result in changes, including new accounting rules for stock options.
Taking sides on a politically delicate issue facing President Bush, he suggested that he had little sympathy for calls from domestic steel makers for the imposition of big tariffs on imports.
With business conditions improving, the Fed chairman repeated that he saw less of a need for Congress to pass a package of tax cuts and other measures to help the economy, although he supported the administration's position that such a package could be helpful should the recovery not continue as expected.
In assessing the economy, Mr. Greenspan said there were encouraging signs in the recent data, including a stronger-than-expected report today on sales of durable goods like autos, aircraft and computers.
The government reported that orders for durable goods in January rose 2.6 percent, well above the 1.5 percent analysts had expected.
But Mr. Greenspan said the development helping the economy most right now -- the gradual completion of a yearlong effort by companies to whittle down their inventories of excess supplies and unsold goods -- would be temporary. It remains unclear, he said, whether other forces that typically power an economy out of recession will kick in this time.
Economic recoveries are usually marked by a surge in consumer spending. But during this recession consumer spending held up remarkably well and is unlikely to increase at a robust pace, especially because upper-income households are still feeling the pinch of stock market losses, Mr. Greenspan said.
More important, he added, there is no assurance that businesses will again start spending heavily on capital equipment like new factories, computer systems and telecommunications equipment. A high level of capital spending was a main reason for the economic boom of the late 1990's.
"Despite the disruptions engendered by the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, the typical dynamics of the business cycle have re-emerged and are prompting a firming in economic activity," Mr. Greenspan said. "An array of influences unique to this business cycle, however, seems likely to moderate the speed of the anticipated recovery."
Mr. Greenspan said the central bank's forecast was for the economy to grow at a 2.5 percent to 3 percent annual rate this year, below what most economists consider to be the rate at which inflation inevitably begins creeping up.
He said unemployment would be 6 percent to 6.25 percent, up from its current level of 5.6 percent. He said the Fed expected inflation to remain restrained, with his favored gauge, the price index for personal consumption expenditures, increasing 1.5 percent.
He said the rate of growth of productivity, or output per hour worked, had held up remarkably well during the recession. 
Analysts said the combination of modest growth, rising unemployment and low inflation all but assured that the Fed would hold interest rates steady at its next two meetings, on March 19 and May 20. Should growth or inflation pick up, they said, the Fed could begin raising rates by summer, though some analysts said the Fed could remain on the sidelines for much of the year if its forecast of a slow, moderate recovery proves correct.
"If growth is actually that sluggish, there is no reason to expect the Fed to tighten policy this year," Bruce Steinberg, Merrill Lynch's chief economist, said in a report issued after Mr. Greenspan's appearance.
Mr. Steinberg said he expected the economy to perform better than the Fed's forecast. Even so, he said, the Fed will probably not begin raising rates until late summer or early fall.
Mr. Greenspan's testimony appeared to balance optimism about the economy's resilience and underlying strength with a central banker's typical caution and a desire to retain as much policy flexibility as possible.
But it also seemed intended to avert a run-up in long-term interest rates in the bond market by emphasizing the risks to the recovery even as it hinted at an economic comeback strong enough to support a rebound in corporate profits and stock prices.
During the question-and-answer period with members of the committee, Mr. Greenspan was asked repeatedly about the lessons of Enron's collapse, a subject he also addressed in his prepared testimony. 
He argued against a rush to impose tighter regulation on trading of derivatives. He said an "unfortunate" 1995 change of the accounting rules governing the use of stock options as compensation contributed to the acceleration of reported corporate earnings by allowing companies to use options rather than cash to pay employees. 
He said the use of options as compensation was one aspect of an effort by corporations "to try to game the accounting system in a manner to create the perception of short-term earnings growth which would be confused with long-term earnings growth."
But he suggested that market forces, rather than new rules or regulations, were already correcting the problems exposed by Enron's fall.
"There is now a very significant shift toward corporations endeavoring to be far more transparent on what they are doing," Mr. Greenspan said. "The markets are clearly creating price-earnings premiums for corporations which are perceived to be without spin, so to speak."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK OPTIONS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); RECESSION (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); BONDS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (89%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (89%); DURABLE GOODS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); INVENTORIES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); BOND MARKETS (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); FACTORY ORDERS (75%); ACCOUNTING (73%); ETHICS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (72%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (72%); IMPORT TRADE (71%); STOCK INDEXES (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); TAX LAW (71%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (69%); AIRLINES (69%); HIJACKING (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); TERRORISM (62%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (60%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (60%); AFFLUENT MARKET (60%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; BANKRUPTCIES; ETHICS; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; STOCKS AND BONDS; STEEL AND IRON; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CUSTOMS (TARIFF); TAXATION; TERRORISM; PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; PRODUCTION; GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); STOCK OPTIONS AND PURCHASE PLANS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (69%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); ENRON CORP 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (69%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W; GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) ; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2002 



828 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 112 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE 

 BODY:
 Tale of Two Economies
Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve head, said the United States recession appeared to be ending. At the same time, Germany's economy continues to struggle. PAGE C1

Probing the Electrical Grid
Computers that control the nation's electrical power system have been probed from the Middle East, experts on security said. PAGE A13

Ruling on Cheney Files
A judge has ordered the release of thousands of documents related to Vice President Dick Cheney's national energy task force. PAGE A19

A Dinosaur's Achilles' Heel
Tyrannosaurus rex, once thought to have been not only big and fierce but fast, may have lacked the leg muscles to move quickly. PAGE A22

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (87%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (84%); JUDGES (54%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (73%); DICK CHENEY (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2002 



829 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 302 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Is Urged Not to Rule Out Tax Increases 

BYLINE:  By DIANE CARDWELL 

 BODY:
A group of more than two dozen City Council members, along with union officials and leaders of the Working Families Party, made its first major foray into the budget debate yesterday, urging Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg to consider raising taxes in an effort to close the city's huge projected deficit.
 Mr. Bloomberg and his aides have repeatedly said that he opposes raising taxes, with the main exception of an increased levy on cigarettes. But council members have said that they are concerned by many of the proposed service cuts, and that they want to consider tax increases as options for balancing the budget. 
 "We need to have every option possible put out in front of the Council, in front of his administration and in front of all New Yorkers," Councilwoman Christine Quinn of Manhattan, chairwoman of the Health Committee, said. "If it's O.K. to discuss closing six senior centers and making massive cuts to schools and closing health clinics in the city, then it must be O.K. to talk about reinstating the commuter tax or a tax surcharge or other revenue enhancements."
Some in the group, perhaps mindful of how unpopular tax increases can be, said they were calling only for dialogue and debate on the issue as opposed to backing specific increases. Still, that did not stop others from volunteering their own ideas.
Bill de Blasio of Brooklyn, chairman of the General Welfare Committee, spoke in favor of reinstating a stock transfer tax. James Sanders of Queens, chairman of the Economic Development Committee, said affluent New Yorkers should think of a potential income tax increase as an opportunity "to join in the rebuilding of New York." Allan Jennings of Queens, chairman of the Civil Service and Labor Committee, promoted his proposal to increase the tax on beer and liquor and add a wine tax. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); BUDGETS (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); TAX INCREASES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FAMILY (90%); TAX LAW (90%); MAYORS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); LAYOFFS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); BEER & ALE (62%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (53%); INCOME TAX (50%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION 

ORGANIZATION: WORKING FAMILIES PARTY 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%) BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR); CARDWELL, DIANE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2002 



830 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1548 words

HEADLINE: To City's Burden, Add 11,000 Tons of Daily Trash 

BYLINE:  By KIRK JOHNSON 

 BODY:
New York City's trash disposal system, a creaking industrial giant even in the best of times, is emerging as yet another trouble hotspot -- political, logistical and financial -- for a new mayor and a city that seem to have troubles enough as it is.
 A $6 billion long-term Giuliani administration plan to rid the city of its mountain of daily garbage through a system of barges, terminals and trains is stalled and may yet unravel entirely, city officials say. 
 A short-term plan to get the city through the next few years by trucking waste out of the city, mostly to landfills in places like Pennsylvania and Virginia, is facing what many experts say could be sharply higher costs as available landfill space contracts and states seek to restrict interstate trash transfers.
A cost-cutting proposal that would send some of Queens's garbage to the Bronx threatens to ignite a political firestorm by reneging on a Giuliani administration promise that none of the city's five boroughs would be used for dumping by the others, as Staten Island was for half a century at the Fresh Kills landfill, which closed last year.
A plan to cut the city's recycling program nearly in half as an emergency measure to save money over the next 18 months may have to be extended indefinitely, and may not return at all in any recognizable form, Sanitation Department officials say. 
"We have to rethink," said Sanitation Commissioner John J. Doherty.
That rethinking goes in many directions. And it's more than just a search for lower costs, Mr. Doherty and others say. Waste disposal in New York City has long been a fiercely emotional issue that touches on other urban fault lines, like fairness, class and race, especially when it comes to locating and building the trash-collection centers on which the system depends. Recycling goes beyond disposal as well -- to the goals of environmentalism and civic consciousness that have been carefully cultivated by the city itself in supporting the recycling program through millions of dollars in promotion and advertising over the years. 
Under the mayor's budget proposal, all recycling of metal, glass and plastic would be halted for 18 months beginning this summer because that part of the sanitation system has become an economic drain that Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg says New York cannot afford. (Paper recycling would continue, because pulp markets readily compete for the city's paper supply.)
Mr. Doherty said in an interview this week that if the city's financial picture or the economics of recycling did not improve, restoring the program could be difficult. Alternatives include a permanent abandonment of glass recycling, which has proven to be the most difficult and costly material to reprocess. 
The proposal to go back on the city's pledge that each of New York's five boroughs would be self-sufficient in trash disposal, made in connection with the closing of Fresh Kills, is similarly driven purely by budget pressures, Mr. Doherty said. 
The mayor's budget for the fiscal year beginning July 1 assumes a savings of $7 million a year by taking 1,500 tons of trash collected daily in Queens to a transfer station in the Bronx, where costs are lower, and shipping the trash out of state from there. Fifteen hundred tons is about 13 percent of the city's total daily collection of 11,000 tons.
That proposal, though, is not sitting well in the Bronx, where the new borough president, Adolfo Carrion Jr., said City Council members from the Bronx would certainly call for hearings into why the borough was being singled out.
"The basis of the current way that we manage," Mr. Carrion said, "is based on a fair-share principle -- 'you create this, you process this and deal with it.' One shouldn't violate that. Second, we certainly shouldn't put the burden of saving $7 million on the backs of a particular constituency in a particular part of the city."
City officials have also begun exploring alternatives to Rudolph W. Giuliani's plan to ship waste through a giant barge-to-rail transfer station proposed for Linden, N.J. The Linden proposal has been delayed by New Jersey regulators pending a series of investigations, and Mr. Doherty said he believed that the ultimate viability of the project was now "very questionable."
Meanwhile, the states that receive New York's garbage say their patience is wearing thin. Legislation is pending in Congress and in the Pennsylvania General Assembly that could result in restrictions and tighter regulations of so-called trash exports. Those bills could bring whole new rounds of headaches and higher trash bills for the New York region. 
Attempts to send the trash to closer landfills in New York or New Jersey would not help much either, because disposal costs are generally far higher closer to the city than in less densely populated areas. 
What complicates New York City's trash story more than anything else is that it has a kind of split personality -- a long-term plan on the one hand, and a short-term contingency system on the other, meant to be in place only until the long-term system is built. And both face very different kinds of troubles.
When Mr. Giuliani and Gov. George E. Pataki announced in 1996 that Fresh Kills would close, the city came up with its long-term plan, centered on the barge-to-rail transfer station in Linden. The Linden station would take up to 10,000 tons of city garbage a day, and mile-long trash trains would then transport it to landfills in Pennsylvania and elsewhere.
Under that plan, transfer stations would be built in each borough -- to handle only that borough's trash -- and barges would float it all serenely through the city's waterways.
That $6 billion system, the city said, would take at least four years to build, and so an interim solution, mostly relying on fleets of trucks, was created. The residential trash-by-truck system requires about 264,000 outbound truck trips every year, according to a study by the Tri-State Transportation Campaign, a coalition of environmental and planning groups. The city's Independent Budget Office projected last year that the sanitation budget would rise by more than 66 percent, to nearly $1 billion, from 1997 to 2004, primarily because of the increasing costs of out-of-city garbage hauling. City officials concede that the trucking system is expensive and does not help air quality or traffic congestion, but say it is only temporary. 
From the beginning, however, the long-term plan was plagued by doubts. An investigation by the New Jersey attorney general's office said last fall, for example, that "serious questions" had been raised about the Linden property, which is partly owned by the son-in-law of Linden's mayor.
The proposed system of transfer stations also fell through, mainly because of community opposition. Mr. Doherty said three new stations are being considered -- one in Brooklyn near Coney Island, and one each on either side of Newtown Creek, which divides Brooklyn and Queens. Those proposals are all years away from regulatory approval and completion, which means that parts of the city, even in a best-case scenario, could have to rely on the short-term truck transport system for perhaps another decade, Mr. Doherty said.
Meanwhile, waste industry experts say a consolidation in the private waste-hauling industry and shrinking landfill space in the Northeast are likely to push up the costs during that truck-dependent interim. 
Over just the last four years, for example, the number of small private trash-hauling companies that once dominated the garbage business in the metropolitan area has plummeted as giant companies like Waste Management Inc. and Allied Waste have bought out their competition. Waste Management alone now controls about 32 percent of New York City's out-of-town trash transport system. The company also controls about 38 percent of the waste-disposal market within a 100-mile radius of New York City, up from 33 percent in 1997, according to Chartwell Information Publishers, a market research firm based in San Diego that tracks the waste industry.
"There's a limited number of exporters because the mom-and-pops are being bought out by big guys, so when the city puts out to bid, it's usually one of these big firms, and there are fewer of them because they keep merging," said Marjorie J. Clarke, an environmental consultant and scientist-in-residence at Lehman College in Manhattan.
Less competition for trash hauling is in turn compounded by what waste experts say will be a decreasing number of landfills willing to take the city's garbage in years to come. Chartwell Information projects that constriction of landfill space could push disposal costs up by more than 63 percent by 2010 across a wide swath of the Northeast, especially in Pennsylvania, which currently receives about 68 percent of New York City's garbage. (Fourteen percent goes to Virginia, and the rest ends up in landfills and incinerators in New York State, New Jersey and Ohio, according to the Department of Sanitation.)
Mr. Doherty said he did not think that price increases for dumping the city's trash would be as dramatic as that. But he conceded that delays in building a long-term solution would inevitably raise the costs by an unknown factor. 
"Nothing gets cheaper," Mr. Doherty said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); SOLID WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (90%); LANDFILLS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); CITIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (78%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PULP & PAPER MARKETS (74%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (73%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (71%); INTERSTATE COMMERCE (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (65%); PAPER & PACKAGING (63%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); PULP INDUSTRY (50%) WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; RECYCLING OF WASTE MATERIALS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LANDFILL 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (59%) JOHNSON, KIRK; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR); GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2002 



831 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1222 words

HEADLINE: Big Winners at the Grammys: Alicia Keys, U2 and the Film 'O Brother' 

BYLINE:  By NEIL STRAUSS 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Feb. 27 

 BODY:
Proving the contention that it is nearly impossible to ever predict the tastes of Grammy Awards voters, the CD that music fans assumed was least likely to succeed earned the night's top honor, album of the year. Beating out recordings from Grammy favorites U2 and Bob Dylan, the big winner at the 44th Annual Grammy Awards, held tonight at the Staples Center here, was a southern roots music album: the soundtrack to "O Brother, Where Art Thou?" 
 "It was a sweet defeat," said the Edge, guitarist for U2, on losing to a soundtrack he was a fan of. 
 It was the climax to a long night in which bluegrass music wreaked its vengeance on the music business and country radio for giving old-time songs and pioneering musicians short shrift. Songs and albums associated with the film (a Homeric Southern odyssey directed by the Coen brothers) won five Grammys. One of its awards, for best country vocal collaboration, even went to a band that doesn't really exist: the Soggy Bottom Boys, characters in the movie whose vocals were provided by a Nashville pick-up band (featuring Dan Tyminski, Pat Enright, and Harley Allen). 
And one of the night's most poignant moments was the mountain-music pioneer Ralph Stanley singing a cappella, in a black suit against a stark black backdrop, one of bluegrass's most moving ballads of mortality, "O Death."
T-Bone Burnett, who produced the soundtrack, said in his acceptance speeches that not even "minds as elliptical as the Coen brothers' could write this ending."
Elsewhere, other songs and acts associated with bluegrass won four Grammys, dominating the country field. And that doesn't even include the classical crossover award that the banjo player Bela Fleck won for his classical-music interpretations on "Perpetual Motion." Southern music's surprise domination of this year's show was sealed with the standing ovation the country star Alan Jackson received for his poignant response to Sept. 11, "Where Were You (When the World Stopped Turning)."
The night's other big winner was the neo-soul singer and pianist Alicia Keys, who practically ran out of people to thank as she collected five of the six awards she was nominated for. In each of these categories, she was in competition against another R&B newcomer, India.Arie, who was shut out. Among Ms. Keys's awards were best new artist, song of the year (a songwriter's award), best R&B song, and best R&B album.
U2, who opened the show with a fervent, Grammy-glitz-free rendition of "Walk On" (especially in comparison with the over-the-top all-star version of "Lady Marmalade" that followed), picked up four awards: record of the year (given to a single song), best rock album, best pop vocal performance by a duo or group, and best duo or group rock performance for three separate singles from its comeback album, "All That You Can't Leave Behind." (The first single from the album, "Beautiful Day," won three Grammys in last year's ceremony.)
The album's return-to-rock paeans to universal peace, the transcendent human spirit, the gift that is life, and the city of New York, which already resounded deep with listeners and fans, took on even greater significance after Sept. 11. "The songs did change their meaning," Bono said backstage. "You're the songwriter, you're supposed to know what those songs are about. You're often wrong. Music changes shape to fit the predicament it finds itself in. And this year, the predicament was a very different America."
In the rap field, Outkast and Missy Elliott won two awards each. But again and again, the winner's circle was dominated by bluegrass and roots music. What does this mean? 
In the press room backstage, musicians shared their answers. "I think it means good music," said Earl Scruggs, the 78-year-old banjo player whose latest version of "Foggy Mountain Breakdown" won for best country instrumental. (His only other Grammy was in 1968 for this same song.) Jerry Douglas of Alison Krauss and Union Station (which won two Grammys, apart from the "O Brother" soundtrack) said that he believed the events of Sept. 11 caused Americans to search for the roots of their culture and yearn for earlier times. 
Emmylou Harris, who sings on the "O Brother" soundtrack, said backstage that she was surprised that the album was even nominated. "To win it," she said of the album of the year award, "something's going on but I don't know what it is." 
Ralph Stanley won his first Grammy ever by beating younger stars like Tim McGraw and fellow legends like Johnny Cash in best male country vocal performance (for "O Death."). Still glowing from the award, Mr. Stanley said that, as a result of the awards, this type of music "is going to take over for a while and do great, and replace some of the music that they've had for the past couple of years.
In general, the awards reflected the current turmoil in the music business, where sales are down roughly 5 percent, Internet piracy and CD burning seem to be spiraling out of control, artists are banding together to confront their labels on certain issues, and the economic downturn and increasing consolidation are leading to major cuts for major labels. 
The Grammy choices also showed a distance from the mainstream music business, favoring more traditional and independent-minded musicians. Elsewhere in country, the best album award went to a Hank Williams tribute album ("Timeless") and the award for best female country vocal performance went to Dolly Parton (who has lately been recording bluegrass for an independent label).
In the pop field, other underdogs won: Sade beat 'N Sync for best pop vocal album category and Lucinda Williams took home the best female rock vocal prize. 
Even Ms. Keys, on receiving her best R&B album statuette, dedicated it to "thinking out of the box."
But perhaps the biggest message to the industry came from the classical field: Sir Colin Davis won a coup for the London Symphony Orchestra when his recording of the Berlioz opera "Les Troyens" won awards for best classical album and best opera recording. The honor is especially significant since the album was released on the orchestra's private independent label, LSO Live, which was formed in part in reaction to the neglect by major labels of classical music. 
"I think this is a message to absolutely everybody in the record business," said the album's producer, James Mallinson. He then added a message to the classical music business: "This is living proof that you can be successful with classical music on record, and you can sells lots and lots of it."
For best small ensemble performance, Gidon Kremer and Kremerata Baltica's innovative concept album "After Mozart" (complete with the sounds of modern electronic gadgets in Leopold Mozart's "Toy Symphony") took home the prize. And in jazz, the tenor saxophonist Sonny Rollins won his first-ever Grammy for best jazz instrumental album.
And in other fields, The winner of best musical show album was no surprise: "The Producers." The video "Recording the Producers: A Musical Romp with Mel Brooks" won Best Long Form Video.
A surprise was the winner of the best song written for film or television award, in which Grammy favorite Sting (for a song written with David Hartley from "The Emperor's New Groove") lost to They Might Be Giants, who perform the theme for the TV show "Malcolm in the Middle."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Alicia Keys, above, who won five Grammys; at right, Bono, singing, and the Edge of U2, who won four, performing at the awards ceremony in Los Angeles last night. Southern roots music took in a raft of awards, including five for the soundtrack for "O Brother, Where Art Thou?" (Agence France-Presse); (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (93%); MUSIC (92%); MOVIE SOUNDTRACKS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); COUNTRY MUSIC (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (78%); POP & ROCK (78%); SONG WRITING (78%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); RECORD INDUSTRY (78%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (78%); FILM (76%) MUSIC; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS; GRAMMY AWARDS 

ORGANIZATION: U2 (ROCK GROUP) 

PERSON: ALICIA KEYS (90%); BONO (73%) STRAUSS, NEIL; KEYS, ALICIA; BONO (MUSICIAN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (88%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2002 



832 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 699 words

HEADLINE: Bush Campaigns for Mrs. Dole in North Carolina Race 

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: CHARLOTTE, N.C., Feb. 27 

 BODY:
Two years ago, George W. Bush and Elizabeth Dole were rivals for the Republican nomination for president, and when Mrs. Dole pulled out of the race she complained that "the message is money and that's too bad." 
 Neither she nor Mr. Bush seemed especially concerned about that today, as the president came here to speak at a $1,000-a-plate lunch in which he endorsed Mrs. Dole's run for the Senate and raised nearly $1 million for the state's Republicans. 
 Rarely does a president endorse a candidate for Senate so early, months before the Republican primary here. But with the Democrats holding a one-vote majority, Mr. Bush cannot afford to lose the Republican seat now held by Jesse Helms, the conservative stalwart who last year said he was retiring.
Though Mr. Bush made no mention of it, the Republican National Committee, presumably with White House acquiescence, has helped to assure that Mrs. Dole faces only token resistance for the nomination. Winning back the Senate is critical for Mr. Bush, who has watched many of his initiatives, including the economic stimulus bill he promoted again today, languish there.
So Mrs. Dole was on the tarmac of the Charlotte airport this morning, greeting the president, escorting him to a meeting of single mothers who have found jobs while raising their children, and basking in the glow as Mr. Bush told them, "I thank you for getting ready to send a fabulous woman to the United States Senate."
Despite the scant time Mrs. Dole has spent in the state in recent years, when she has lived in Washington with her husband, former Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, local polls show her running ahead of all the potential Democratic candidates, including President Bill Clinton's chief of staff Erskine B. Bowles. Mrs. Dole was raised in North Carolina, and her mother, now 100, still lives here.
It was Mr. Bush's fifth fund-raising trip in the past two months, and he made clear today that he was determined to campaign actively, war or no war, as the mid-term Congressional election approaches. White House officials said they expected him to make roughly two appearances a week in the months ahead, often mixing a policy message -- today it was new proposals to amend the welfare laws -- with a political appearance.
The White House splits the costs of these trips with the Republican Party. But if the expenses are separated into different accounts, the message is not: In recent months Mr. Bush has learned to meld his political endorsements with impassioned repetitions that the fight against terrorism is the mission of his presidency.
"This is what people want to hear about these days," one of his senior political aides said the other day. "They don't want partisanship. They'd rather hear him denounce the Al Qaeda than mention the Democrats."
Supporters will pay for the privilege. Some organizations bought tables for $10,000, and fund-raisers who take in at least $30,000 get their picture taken with the president. 
Today, Mr. Bush acted almost as if he was inspiring the troops rather than filling the coffers for Mrs. Dole's campaign, the re-election effort of Representative Robin Hayes and the state Republican Party. He spoke only briefly about how "my job will be easier" if Republicans hold on to the House of Representatives and retake the Senate. He mentioned Mrs. Dole's lengthy experience in Washington, where she has served in two cabinet posts, in the Reagan and first Bush administrations, and as head of the American Red Cross.
But then Mr. Bush shifted to a speech about how his presidency now had a mission to wipe out terrorism around the world and his confident assertion that "the evil ones misjudged us, they thought we were weak."
Mrs. Dole is the prohibitive favorite in the primary, especially after the best-known other candidate, former Mayor Richard Vinroot of Charlotte, dropped out in November. Her remaining Republican opponents are doctors, an insurance agent and a lawyer. 
The general election is still nine months away, but early polls show Mrs. Dole leading her probable opponent, Mr. Bowles. There are three other Democratic candidates for the nomination, all of whom have backgrounds in state and local politics.

GRAPHIC: Photo: At a fund-raiser in Charlotte, N.C., President Bush yesterday endorsed Elizabeth Dole's Senate bid months before the Republican primary. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); FUNDRAISING (75%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (73%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (72%); PARENTING (67%); SINGLE PARENTS (65%); AL-QAEDA (60%); TERRORISM (60%); POLLS & SURVEYS (51%) ELECTIONS; FINANCES; ENDORSEMENTS; PRIMARIES 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%) SENATE (US) 

PERSON: ELIZABETH DOLE (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); BILL CLINTON (73%); ERSKINE BOWLES (58%) SANGER, DAVID E; DOLE, ELIZABETH; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); HELMS, JESSE (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (92%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); KANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NORTH CAROLINA

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2002 



833 of 833 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 28, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1115 words

HEADLINE: Pledge to Canadian Unit Is Now HauntingAT&T 

BYLINE:  By BERNARD SIMON 

DATELINE: TORONTO, Feb. 27 

 BODY:
AT&T thought that it was protecting itself against the excesses of the high-technology boom when it promised in June 1999 to buy all the stock of AT&T Canada that it did not already own, at a price that would rise gradually over four years, once Canadian law was changed to allow it. 
 But the pledge has turned into a millstone around AT&T's neck. With the Canadian unit now in severe financial difficulty and the American parent beset by its own problems, shareholders in AT&T Canada are wondering whether AT&T will keep its word. 
 And the holders of the Canadian company's debt are even edgier about the 4.3 billion Canadian dollars ($2.67 billion) they are owed. With no similar guarantees from the American company, they may find themselves in the curious position of ranking behind equity holders in recovering their money in the event that AT&T Canada files for bankruptcy protection, as some analysts say may happen. 
AT&T had visions of returning to the Canadian market as a leading player when it bought a stake in a new long-distance phone company in 1992, just as Canada was starting to deregulate the industry. Before then, phone service in Canada was like that in America before the breakup of AT&T in 1984 -- it was the exclusive preserve of monopoly operators licensed by each province. The biggest by far was Bell Canada, now a BCE subsidiary, serving Ontario and Quebec; AT&T had once owned a stake in Bell Canada but severed its remaining ties in 1975.
Since 1992, AT&T has plowed about $2.5 billion into Canada, first into the long-distance business and later into local service, after that segment was deregulated in 1998. But the competitive market has gotten a much slower start than anyone -- the government, the entrenched former monopolies or, most of all, the new entrants -- expected.
"There was a little naivete on everyone's part on how quickly this thing would take off," said Christopher W. Peirce, AT&T Canada's senior vice president for regulatory and government affairs. "The government wanted strong incumbents and strong competitors," he said, drawing a contrast with the United States, where deregulation essentially started with the AT&T breakup.
So far, though, only the incumbents are strong. Bell Canada retains complete command of residential service in its turf, which accounts for nearly two-thirds of the country's population, and it has extended its reach by buying stakes in phone companies in other provinces. Next largest is Telus, the former monopoly in Alberta, which now serves one-quarter of the country's phone lines.
Eleven new entrants, meanwhile, have gone out of business in the last 18 months, leaving only three major new rivals to the former monopolies. AT&T Canada is by far the biggest; it focuses on business customers in Toronto, Montreal and Ottawa.
AT&T Canada's 550,000 lines in service are dwarfed by the nearly 20 million operated by Bell and Telus. Despite all it has invested, AT&T Canada must still make use of parts of the Bell or Telus networks to complete more than half the calls its customers make. The high cost of doing so is a major obstacle, AT&T Canada says -- it paid those companies 417 million Canadian dollars ($259.2 million) last year, more than half again what the company said it would have spent had it owned the lines itself. For some services, like digital network access, AT&T Canada is charged the same price charged to business end users, Mr. Peirce said.
Another handicap for the newcomers, they say, has been a government-imposed ceiling on foreign ownership -- currently 33 percent -- that has had the effect of starving them of capital. AT&T now owns 31 percent of AT&T Canada.
For its part, Bell Canada says AT&T Canada has been doing better in garnering business than it lets on. By Bell's reckoning, by the end of 2001 it had lost 23.2 percent of calling revenue in downtown Toronto and Montreal and in parts of Ottawa to rivals, mainly to AT&T Canada.
Even so, AT&T Canada's losses have mounted -- $325 million in 2000 and $456 million in 2001 -- and its debt has ballooned. As a result, AT&T wrote down the value of its stake in the Canadian unit by $1.8 billion last fall.
"It's got zero equity value because the value of the asset doesn't cover the debt," said Dvai Ghose, an analyst at CIBC World Markets in Toronto who follows the stock.
In 1999, AT&T thought that the Canadian government would soon be lifting its foreign ownership curbs. So in the course of acquiring a smaller rival in Calgary for stock, it promised to buy out other AT&T Canada shareholders when it was allowed to do so, at a minimum share price that would start in June 2000 at 37.50 Canadian dollars (then worth $25.16) and rise 4 percent each quarter to a peak of 60 Canadian dollars ($37.31) in June 2003. Under that formula, the current floor price is 48.24 Canadian dollars ($30).
A government-appointed task force recommended last year that the foreign ownership ceiling be lifted, a move that would free AT&T to begin buying shares, but the cabinet in Ottawa has yet to act. In the meantime, the company's dire financial condition has made some shareholders wonder whether AT&T will keep its promise. Their worry is evident in the stock price: AT&T Canada closed in Toronto today at 37.90 Canadian dollars ($23.19), 21 percent below AT&T's promised price.
Mr. Ghose said the stock was trading so low mainly because "no one is really sure what will happen if this thing goes bankrupt."
AT&T has so far given no indication that it plans to renege. David Dornan, president of AT&T, told analysts recently that "we see the Canadian market as an attractive market, provided that there is a competitive interconnection regime that justifies further investment."
Last week, though, Standard & Poor's lowered its rating of AT&T Canada's debt to BB, below investment grade, from BBB, citing "heightened concerns about AT&T Corporation's economic incentive to provide support" to bondholders of AT&T Canada over the long term.
Linli Chee, a credit analyst at Standard & Poor's in Toronto, said of the American parent: "They are committed to the shareholder agreement. They don't have an obligation to the bondholders."
To help it carve out a profitable future, AT&T Canada is depending heavily on a regulatory ruling, due in April, that it hopes will make the newcomers' access to the incumbents' networks easier and much less costly. Bell Canada called that expectation "wanting something for nothing." 
"Competition remains an objective of the government," said Allan MacGillivray, director of industry framework policy at the industry department in Ottawa. "It's the responsibility of the regulator to try and achieve that."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Also Ran"New competitors like AT&T Canada have barely cracked the Canadian market for local phone service, which is dominated by the former provincial monopolies. SHARE OF INSTALLED LINES FORMER MONOPOLIES Bell Canada -- 66%Telus -- 25%Manitoba Telecom -- 5%*AT&T Canada -- 3%All others -- 2%* *Estimates(Source: AT&T Canada)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); DEREGULATION (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (87%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (74%); POPULATION SIZE (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; INDUSTRY PROFILES; FINANCES 

COMPANY: AT&T INC (95%); MTS ALLSTREAM INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: AT&T CORP; AT&T CANADA INC; BELL CANADA; TELUS CORP 

TICKER: T (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (95%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (90%) SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS EX. RADIO; 

PERSON: SIMON, BERNARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (58%) MANITOBA, CANADA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (73%); QUEBEC, CANADA (58%); ALBERTA, CANADA (58%) CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%) CANADA

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2002 

 
