

201 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1430 words

HEADLINE: Wounds Salved, Clinton Returns To Health Care

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER and ANNE E. KORNBLUT

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 9 

 BODY:
No policy issue has bedeviled Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton more than health care. Ever since the collapse of her proposal for universal coverage in 1994, critics have used the issue as prime evidence in their case that she is, at heart, a big-government liberal with a zeal for social engineering.
 But now, as Mrs. Clinton heads into her re-election campaign and a possible bid for the presidency, she is trying to recast the political disaster of 1994 as something else: as a badge of honor, as a symbol of lessons learned and, perhaps most significant, as invaluable preparation for dealing with the problems in the health care system today.
''A lot of people know that I was involved in health care back in '93 and '94, and I still have the scars to show for it,'' Mrs. Clinton says in a new biographical film that she is showing on the campaign trail. After raising the topic in a recent speech, she added, ''But it's worth wading into again -- and we're going to have to.'' 
 Mrs. Clinton's approach to health care is strikingly different this time around, a measure of her evolution from an impatient agent of change to a cautious senator -- and potential presidential contender -- keenly attuned to the political center. 
 In 1994, she and President Bill Clinton insisted that anything short of universal coverage was unacceptable and proposed a vast overhaul of the health care system to provide it: a 1,342-page plan that drew withering fire from an array of interest groups and died in a Democratic Congress.
 Today, her plans to expand coverage are tempered and incremental. Her first major goal appears to be universal health coverage for children, which she hopes to advance by expanding the State Children's Health Insurance Program, or Schip, an existing federal program up for review in 2007.
 ''I have to do what the political reality permits me to do,'' Mrs. Clinton said in a recent interview. She said that covering everyone remained her ultimate goal, but that Democrats would be fighting ''a lot of rear-guard actions'' as long as Republicans controlled Congress.
 Mrs. Clinton has not pushed a comprehensive coverage plan in her first term in the Senate. As part of the Democratic minority, she says she has primarily focused on defending existing programs from cuts by conservatives.
 She also continues to shy from the ultimate challenge: describing what a comprehensive Democratic health care plan would look like. When pressed, for example, on how to control costs, usually the thorniest issue, she replied: ''It depends on what kind of system you're devising. And that's still not at all clear to me, what the body politic will bear.''
 Mrs. Clinton's supporters say voters have forgotten the gory details of the last Clinton health plan, which proposed huge new bureaucracies and new mandates on employers, and assumed that one-seventh of the American economy could be reinvented over the objections of powerful groups like the insurance and pharmaceutical industries. 
 Rather, her allies say, voters remember her for having tried to change the system.
 Mrs. Clinton is quick to admit errors and thereby distance herself from the old plan. ''I think that both the process and the plan were flawed,'' she said in the interview. ''We were trying to do something that was very hard to do, and we made a lot of mistakes.''
 But some analysts say the old vulnerability -- the memory of what conservatives scornfully called ''Hillarycare'' -- remains, and could be revived in the heat of a presidential campaign. Moreover, the history puts Mrs. Clinton in a peculiar box. 
 ''On the Democratic side, people will hunger for a major proposal,'' said Robert J. Blendon, a Harvard professor and expert on public opinion and health. ''But she's extremely vulnerable to Republicans saying, the minute she articulates something, 'Here we go again, a major expansion of government plans and plans that hurt business.' ''
 The woman who was sharply criticized a decade ago for a lack of political realism is now steeped in it. If her cardinal sin in 1993-94 was overestimating the public's appetite for change, as many analysts contend, she seems intent on not repeating the error. When employers complain to her about the need for federal action on health care, she said, ''I say back to them, 'Fine, what are you going to do to help us create the consensus that has to develop in order to move the political system?' '' 
 In her own search for consensus, Mrs. Clinton hired as her domestic policy adviser Laurie Rubiner, a health policy expert who for many years worked for Senator John H. Chafee, the moderate Rhode Island Republican, until his death in 1999. That has fueled suspicions on the left that Mrs. Clinton is growing too cautious and moving to the center on health care. 
 She encounters that perception on many issues these days; on health care it has been reinforced by her work alongside prominent Republicans like Newt Gingrich and Senator Bill Frist on goals like upgrading medical information technology.
 Still, that cautious and occasionally bipartisan approach could help lighten the ideological baggage of 1993-94, when she ended up in a ferocious battle with small businesses, the insurance industry and the drug companies. 
 Mrs. Clinton often frames the problem today as one of economics as much as social justice. She asserts that soaring health costs are weighing down American corporations and hindering their ability to compete in a global marketplace, against countries with government-financed health benefits or no expectation of health coverage at all.
 In a speech at the Economic Club of Chicago in April, the first of several policy addresses she is giving this year, Mrs. Clinton cited the domestic auto industry. ''Profits are up, but so are the costs of health care and energy, adding more than $1,000 to the cost of every car built by the Big Three and driving up family health insurance premiums five times faster than incomes,'' she told a group of business leaders.
 In a March speech to the American Medical Association, her first appearance before the group since the battles of 1993-94, Mrs. Clinton struck a decidedly pragmatic tone. 
 ''No quick fixes. No Band-Aids,'' she told the group. ''No partisanship or ideology. Let's retire the old debates. They haven't served our country well.''
 Mrs. Clinton talked about health care during her 2000 campaign, running an ad that hailed her perseverance in the face of defeat. The problems of cost and coverage have persisted, giving her even more ammunition -- and a clear sense of vindication -- as she returns to the subject.
 There are now, in the most recent estimates, about 45.8 million uninsured Americans (8.3 million of them children), up from 39.8 million in 1994. Premiums for family coverage in employer-sponsored insurance -- the way most Americans under 65 get their coverage -- have risen by 73 percent in the past five years, according to the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation. 
 On policy and political grounds, Democrats view the return of the health care debate as inevitable in the midterm and presidential campaigns. For the moment, Mrs. Clinton says, Democrats need to fight to protect the existing government health programs. 
 ''If we could get back into control of one or both houses of Congress,'' she said, ''we could stop the assault on the pieces of the health care system that have provided coverage for people over the last several decades: Medicare, Medicaid, Schip, the Veterans Administration. All of these, because of the budget deficit and the ideology of the Republican majority in the House, are under attack.''
 Mrs. Clinton is also looking ahead to what may be the next major legislative struggle in health care: the review and renewal, in 2007, of the State Children's Health Insurance Program. Mrs. Clinton says it should be ''funded to the most we can get.''
 She added: ''I think you should cover all children who don't have other access to coverage. We shouldn't have any uninsured children. But we have to take that step by step.''
 Mrs. Clinton said she was also closely watching the bipartisan health plan recently approved in Massachusetts. ''If you've got an executive and a legislature who are willing to work together,'' she said, ''you can actually make progress.'' 
 In a sense, though, the heart of Mrs. Clinton's message seems to be that she is back in the debate. ''It's one of my passions, it's what I care deeply about,'' she said. ''It would not be possible for me not to talk about it and try to help change it.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Hillary Clinton visited Capitol Hill in 1994 in an effort to lobby support for a universal health care plan for which she was sharply criticized. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); POLITICS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%) Medicine and Health; Election Issues; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Elections; Children and Youth; Medicine and Health; Presidential Election of 2008

ORGANIZATION: Senate (US); Children's Health Insurance Program

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); BILL CLINTON (79%) Robin Toner; Anne E Kornblut; Hillary Rodham (Sen) Clinton

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2006



202 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: The N.B.A.'s Secret Superstars

BYLINE: By David J. Berri. 
David J. Berri, an economist at California State University at Bakersfield, is a co-author of ''The Wages of Wins: Taking Measure of the Many Myths in Modern Sports.''

DATELINE: Bakersfield, Calif. 

 BODY:
THE N.B.A. finals tipped off Thursday night, and while most reports of the Dallas Mavericks' victory over the Miami Heat focused on the stars -- Dwyane Wade and Shaquille O'Neal of the Heat and Dirk Nowitzki and Jason Terry of the Mavericks -- few mentioned two players who were arguably just as important to the result: Antoine Walker and Erick Dampier. 
 To understand why these two gentlemen mattered, one has to look beyond the standard focus on points scored and consider a new way of judging athletic performance: whether a player's actions -- both scoring and non-scoring -- help his team win or not. 
 For several years now, baseball professionals (and rotisserie-league wannabes) have used so-called sabermetrics to judge a player's objective value based on his individual statistics. Of course, because one bats or pitches in baseball without the help of teammates, it is easy to separate a player from his team. Plus, the numbers in baseball are easy to understand: a home run clearly creates more wins than a single. 
 Basketball, however, is a true team sport, and thus the numbers are not as obvious. Which is more valuable, a basket scored or the assist that made it possible? Is a rebound more valuable than a blocked shot?
 This is not such a mystery if we are judging the individual impact of, say, Michael Jordan, a player who excelled at every facet of the game. Most N.B.A. players, though, are not ''Like Mike.'' Rather, they contribute in only one or two aspects of basketball, and ascertaining the relative value of such diverse talents is difficult. 
 To make it possible to compare the apples and oranges, it helps to look at each statistic in terms of how it contributes to wins. So, along with two other economists, Martin Schmidt of the College of William and Mary and Stacey Brook of the University of Sioux Falls, I developed an algorithm that measures a player's ''wins produced'' for his team. 
 The algorithm begins with the factors tracked for individual players: points, field goal attempts, free throw attempts, turnovers and so on. Then, through a fairly standard statistical analysis, it links these factors to team victories. What we find is that each point, rebound and steal has relatively the same positive impact on wins. Each field goal attempt and turnover has an equal negative effect. The other statistics -- like free throw attempts, blocked shots, assists and personal fouls -- do matter, but to a lesser degree.
 After an entire 82-game season, we take all these numbers and decipher how many wins every player in the league produced for his team. How accurate is this system? Well, when we add up the wins of each team's players, the results are shockingly close to the official standings. By our measure, Dallas should have won 57.4 games this regular season, and the Heat 51.2 games. In actuality, they won 60 and 52, respectively. For the past 10 seasons, the average difference between our projection and the actual number of games won by each of the league's teams is only 2.3 wins. 
 So what does this tell us about individual players? Well, one result is obvious. The players who excel at many aspects of the game produce a lot of wins. In the six years Michael Jordan led the Chicago Bulls to the N.B.A. title, he averaged 23.4 wins per season. Versatile players like LeBron James, who produced 20.4 wins for Cleveland this year, and Kevin Garnett, who produced 26 for Minnesota, also dominate.
 But there are players who score a lot but also have a significant deficiency or two, like poor shooting efficiency or lots of turnovers. These players often have a level of win productivity far below expectations. This group includes supposed superstars like Allen Iverson of the Philadelphia 76ers and Carmelo Anthony of the Denver Nuggets, who this season combined to produce only 13 wins for their teams. Among players in the finals, the Heat's Walker, a three-time All-Star, produced only 1.7 wins; and Jerry Stackhouse of Dallas, who has averaged 20 points a game in his career, actually cost his team a third of a win overall this year. 
 Our system also shows that it is possible for a non-scorer to produce high numbers of wins. For example, extreme rebounders like Ben Wallace and Marcus Camby have produced much higher win totals than fans might expect. Wallace led the Detroit Pistons with 20.1 wins produced this season while Camby, despite missing a third of the games because of injury, produced 13.7 wins to lead Denver.
 So, who are the ''best'' -- or most productive players -- on the teams vying for the title? Each team has at least one player who does many things well. On Dallas it's Nowitzki, who produced 18 wins this season; the multitalented Wade led the Heat by creating 18.2 victories. O'Neal played in just 59 games this year, so his 8.5 wins produced was low by his standards; but in his career he has averaged 21.3 wins produced per 82 games played. 
 Certainly, saying those three players are great is hardly a shock. What might be surprising, however, is the importance of some non-stars. After Nowitzki, Dallas is led in wins produced by Dampier, a low-profile center, and starting forward Josh Howard, who each accounted for 7.8 wins. For the Heat, Wade and O'Neal are primarily assisted by the workmanlike forward Udonis Haslem (7.0 wins produced) and O'Neal's backup, Alonzo Mourning (5.7 wins produced). Of these role players, only Howard averages more than 15 points per game. 
 So why do I think Dampier and Walker were vital to Thursday's outcome? Dampier scored only eight points, but he was efficient: making three of four shots and adding seven rebounds. Walker, on the other hand, scored an impressive-seeming 17 points, but he took 19 shots and turned the ball over an astounding six times in the loss. 
 What should you watch for in the N.B.A. finals? When looking at the scorers, think about efficiency. And keep an eye on role players like Dampier and Haslem. What the non-scorers do matters, and in fact, it is those players who might ultimately decide who gets to be crowned N.B.A. champions.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Dan Page)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (91%); BASEBALL (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SPORTS (76%); ATHLETES (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%) Basketball; Productivity

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); DALLAS MAVERICKS (90%); MIAMI HEAT (84%)

PERSON: MICHAEL JORDAN (79%); SHAQUILLE O'NEAL (73%) David J Berri; Martin B (Prof) Schmidt; Stacey Brook

GEOGRAPHIC: BAKERSFIELD, CA, USA (59%) CALIFORNIA, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (59%)

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2006



203 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; NEXT STOP: BUENOS AIRES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1485 words

HEADLINE: The Pride of the Pampa, on Hoof and Wing

BYLINE: By JONATHAN KANDELL

 BODY:
PLEASANTLY tepid water poured down Senor Sol's regal head, washing away a rich lather of shampoo. An outsized blower dried his auburn hair into crisp curls. His pedicure created a sheen. There was a hint of a smile on his sensuous pink lips. Ah, the life of a young Hereford stud especially on championship eve at La Rural, the annual Argentine Rural Society Fair in Buenos Aires.
 Senor Sol is one of 4,000 gorgeous breeders -- cattle, pigs, sheep, goats, horses and poultry -- that are on display for the two winter weeks straddling July and August at the 50-square-block fair grounds in Palermo, the city's wealthiest neighborhood. La Rural is also an opportunity for upper-crust ranchers and farmers -- called estancieros -- to gather at what has been the country's great annual social event ever since it started 120 years ago.
 There are livestock fairs all over the world from Fort Worth to Paris, but nothing quite compares to the pageantry, historical magnitude and pure fun of La Rural, which attracts more than a million spectators -- Argentines and foreigners -- many of whom crowd the viewing stands to watch the judging of the champions. 
 Until the 1920's, Argentina was one of the wealthiest nations in the world, thanks to the fertile farms and ranches that spread over the pampa -- the grasslands that stretch in a huge arc from Buenos Aires. Back then, free-spending estancieros reveled for months at a stretch in London, Paris and New York, returning just in time for La Rural. ''Rich as an Argentine'' was a phrase my Brooklyn grandfather often repeated to my bewilderment.
 Those days are long gone. But at La Rural, as I learned when I went there last summer, a whiff of prosperity blends with the barnyard smells. Thanks to the high prices of agricultural exports, estancieros are leading the country out of the worst economic crisis in its history. 
 Marta La Valle, and her husband, Horacio, who own Senor Sol, along with 3,000 head of other cattle on their 6,000-acre estate about 90 miles southeast of Buenos Aires, have been bringing their Herefords to La Rural for 20 years, and coming to the event themselves since they were children back in the 1940's. ''You don't see the lavish balls they used to hold when I was kid,'' said Mrs. La Valle, whose weathered complexion and calloused hands suggested more hours spent tending livestock than swooning to the tango.
 Still, after months in the pampa, Buenos Aires during La Rural can be intoxicating for estancieros. Many keep urban pied-a-terres in nearby apartment buildings that offer stunning views of the broad, shimmering Rio de la Plata. Today's estancieros may no longer be able to afford lengthy stays in Paris, but Palermo's leafy parks with expansive rose beds can make people forget about the Bois de Boulogne. 
 There are dozens of superb restaurants in Buenos Aires, including Palermo's own La Raya, a neighborhood place that also draws soccer stars and tango greats. But for lunch, there's little reason to leave La Rural's sprawling grounds. The Restaurante Central, preferred by estancieros and their families, offers such pampa delicacies as asado con cuero, a slab of beef baked with the hide still attached and served cold, and locro, a thick stew of beef, pork and hominy. Then there are the Hereford Grill and the Angus Restaurant, each serving their own breed's beef, at tables a few feet away from the animals' open stalls. 
 Of course, these breeding animals are too valuable to be sent to slaughter. Senor Sol's father, Satan, a past grand champion, commands a $35,000 price tag, and will earn more money than that from frequent sales of his sperm. When Satan was declared the best-in-show in 2004, his gaucho attendant, Fernando Pondovila, burst into tears. ''After all those months spent with the animal and to have him recognized as the greatest of his breed -- well, I was so happy that I just couldn't contain my emotions,'' Mr. Pondovila said.
 He has lavished just as much attention on Senor Sol. Since birth in 2003, the animal has been caressed, brushed and chatted up to encourage the sweet disposition that judges at La Rural prize highly. Senor Sol will also score points for learning to walk at a slow, decorous pace. ''Don't forget, there are no feed lots in Argentina,'' Mr. La Valle told me. ''So cattle must have the leg strength to wander about grazing all day long.''
 The only un-macho indignity Senor Sol must bear is the pom-pom frizz at the end of his tail. ''It draws attention to the hindquarters -- and all that meat,'' Mrs. La Valle said.
 In all, there are 20 breeds of beef cattle on display at La Rural. Among the lesser known -- to me, at any rate -- are the Braford (a cross between Hereford and the humpbacked Brahmin), the chocolate Retinta (native to southern Spain) and the mottled Piemontese (an Italian with origins that are said to date back to prehistory). While I can readily taste the difference between a richly marbleized Hereford steak and a lean, smooth-fleshed Brahmin filet, Argentine connoisseurs claim their palates are sophisticated enough to distinguish between the meat of a dozen breeds.
 Because cattle are the undisputed stars at La Rural, it is easy to make the mistake of overlooking the other species. At the opposite end of the fair grounds, a cavernous Victorian-style pavilion is dedicated to poultry. The plumage of the roosters is astonishing: silky white French chanticleers, chestnut-red New Hampshires and satiny black Orpingtons (originally an English breed) are standouts. But my favorite bird during my visit was a golden pheasant with a feathery coat that lived up to its name.
 The next day, despite a windswept drizzle that plunged temperatures into the 40's, I returned to La Rural for the judging of several horse breeds: sleek quarter-milers, muscular Percherons and skittish Arab steeds. Their handlers got the animals to stand like statues -- heads held high, backs perfectly straight and tails raised -- while the judges, dressed in tweed suits and caps, circled slowly. The afternoon ended with an explosive charge of a gaucho cavalry riding Argentina's own stocky criollo breed.
 Unfortunately for me, the judging of the Herefords took place a day after my return to New York. Would Senor Sol prove worthy of his father and impregnate a generation of noble female Herefords? Or would he spend the rest of his days servicing cows of lesser breeding? Did his gaucho, Mr. Pondevila, contain his emotions? After a few failed phone calls, I reached Mrs. La Valle, who told me that Senor Sol did indeed win top prize in his category. ''Nobody cried this time,'' she said. ''But we were all awfully happy!''

IF YOU GO

GETTING THERE
 In 2006, La Rural is scheduled between July 20 and Aug. 1, the middle of the Southern Hemisphere winter, with daytime temperatures usually between 45 and 60 degrees Fahrenheit. American Airlines has direct flights from Kennedy Airport to Buenos Aires (about 10 hours, 30 minutes), with prices starting at $1,141. Economy fares on Varig, the Brazilian airline, which makes a stopover in Sao Paulo, start as low as $911. 

WHERE TO STAY
 At the 165-room Four Seasons Buenos Aires, one of the city's top luxury hotels, rooms start at 1,265 pesos ($411 at 3.07 Argentine pesos to the dollar), including tax and breakfast. Posadas 1086; 54-11-4321-1200; www.fourseasons.com/buenosaires. 
 If you want to stay with the estancieros and gauchos, check in at the Torre Cristoforo Colombo Suites, with 160 one- and two-room furnished apartments with kitchenettes, at prices that start as low as 260pesos and go up to 610 pesos, including taxes and breakfast. It adjoins the grounds of La Rural. Fray Justo de Oro 2747; 54-11-4778-4900; www.torrecc.com.ar. 

WHERE TO DINE
 La Raya is on everybody's short list for the best beef restaurant in Buenos Aires. The steaks and grilled offal are cooked to the diner's detailed specifications. A meal for two with a good Argentine Malbec and a 10 percent tip is about 225 pesos. Visa, MasterCard and American Express. Ortiz de Ocampo 2566; 54-11-4802-5763.
 Oviedo has a great steak, but estancieros and others come here for the fish and roast suckling pig. A meal for two, with wine from the large cellar is 225 pesos. All major credit cards. Beruti 2602; 54-11-4821-3741; www.oviedoresto.com.ar. 

TANGO
 At Esquina Carlos Gardel, the evening begins with a leisurely dinner while ancient film footage on stage recounts (in Spanish with English subtitles) the birth and evolution of tango in early 20th-century Buenos Aires. Then, at 10:30 p.m., come the live fireworks -- tango duos, vocalists and choreographed skits. Upstairs is pricier, but worth it, at 300 to 370 pesos per person, including a fairly wide selection of meat, fish and vegetarian dishes with wine, and the show. All major credit cards. Carlos Gardel 3200; 54-11-4867-6363; www.esquinacarlosgardel.com.ar.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Chefs prepare meat on an open grill at La Rural, the annual Argentine livestock fair in Buenos Aires. Jorge Luis Ayala waits his turn to wash his bull. (Photographs by Horacio Paone for The New York Times)Map of Argentina highlighting Buenos Aires.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FARMERS & RANCHERS (77%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (76%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (70%); EXPORT TRADE (70%); POULTRY (70%); AGRICULTURE (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%) Travel and Vacations; Livestock; Trade Shows and Fairs

COMPANY: RIO DE LA PLATA BANK (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (50%)

PERSON: Jonathan Kandell

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (96%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%); LONDON, ENGLAND (54%) NEW YORK, USA (87%) ARGENTINA (96%); FRANCE (90%); UNITED STATES (87%) Buenos Aires (Argentina); Argentina

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2006



204 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; TELEVISION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2006 words

HEADLINE: 'Deadwood' Gets a New Lease on Life

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

 BODY:
FOR all intents and purposes, the set of HBO's ''Deadwood,'' David Milch's blood- and profanity-drenched western, is a real (your favorite expletive here) town. 
 Located at Melody Ranch, a film studio about 35 miles north of Los Angeles, ''Deadwood'' -- the town and the show -- has real streets, real buildings and real manure. And when one of the residents of the town needs a fancy new house, HBO builds a fancy new house, from the stone foundations to the lacy curtains. If you were willing to do without indoor plumbing, you could probably be very happy there.
But about three weeks ago, something very strange happened: ''Deadwood,'' which begins its third season Sunday night, started to disappear. 
 In mid-May, even as the promotional push for the new season began, word leaked that HBO was going to forgo a fourth season, after it had promised Mr. Milch only six episodes (the usual is 12) and Mr. Milch passed.Chris Albrecht, the chairman of HBO, said the decision was a complicated one. He and Carolyn Strauss, the president of HBO's entertainment division, had attended a meeting with Mr. Milch about his next show, ''John From Cincinnati,'' about surfers living on the polluted border between California and Mexico. The meeting, in Mr. Albrecht's Los Angeles office -- a secluded suite decorated with New York Yankees memorabilia and a ''Sopranos'' pinball machine -- was dominated by Mr. Milch reading aloud from the pilot script for ''John,'' which thrilled Mr. Albrecht and Ms. Strauss. 
 Eager to get it on the air, the executives wanted Mr. Milch (who has been known to rewrite while filming) to focus on the new project rather than on a fourth season of ''Deadwood.'' ''He's not a guy who has a lot of scripts available in advance,'' Mr. Albrecht said. ''So we said, can we figure a way to do a truncated version of the last season, as we'd really like to prioritize your time.'' 
 Mr. Milch, the creator and executive producer of ''Deadwood,'' recalled that his reaction to the decision was cordial, but very disappointed. ''It seemed to me that some sort of partial order for the show would make it impossible to do anything but superimpose all sort of interpretations that would deprive it of its own emotion,'' he said, in typical Milch fashion. ''The viewer would come to it with all sorts of second agendas, and I didn't want to do that.''
 So he declined the offer, and just like that ''Deadwood'' seemed destined to become a ghost town.
 When he heard about it, Timothy Olyphant, who plays Seth Bullock, the brooding, occasionally lethal town sheriff, was at home in Los Angeles, at a house he had just purchased. ''David called and said, 'I've got sad news, it doesn't look like the show is going to happen,' '' he said. ''And I said, 'Stop and come over, because I want you to see this place before I sell it.' ''
 The fans were a bit less wry. Some set up anti-HBO Web sites: hbonomo.com gathered more than 600 signatures of people who said they would cancel their HBO subscriptions if ''Deadwood'' died; savedeadwood.net placed an open letter to HBO in Variety on May 25, threatening to do the same thing. ''HBO seems to be forgetting who it is that pays the bills around here,'' read a menacing message on that site. ''Which leaves us with but one option to make our voices heard.'' 
 As angry e-mail messages streamed into HBO offices -- and the end date for the actors' contracts approached -- Mr. Albrecht and Mr. Milch searched for a compromise. Last weekend, Mr. Milch rushed to New York and proposed a final idea. By the end of the meeting they struck a deal: two two-hour final episodes to run next year. Last Sunday night, just after the deal was settled, Mr. Milch said he was ''deeply gratified'' that the show would return, at least for a farewell bow. ''I've always known that the support for this show was not a mile wide,'' he said. ''But it was a fathom deep.'' 
 ''DEADWOOD'' was saved. But how did a show with almost universal critical support, a star creator and a fan base strong enough to force HBO's hand end up on the chopping block in the first place?
 Based on the real events that surrounded a gold rush in Deadwood, S.D., in 1876, ''Deadwood'' combined down-and-dirty realism and the twisted dreamscape of Mr. Milch. A former heroin user, alcoholic and compulsive gambler, he imbued the show with all his past vices: early episodes of Season 3 feature a drunken street fight and an ill-advised interlude between two characters with a taste for narcotics. 
 More than anything, however, characters in ''Deadwood'' are addicted to words: big, looping passages of quasi-Elizabethan prose that immediately set the show apart from the usual western repertory of variations on the word ''pardner.'' ''He created a language,'' said Ian McShane, the English actor who won a Golden Globe for his performance as Al Swearengen, the coarse, brutal and often hilarious owner of the Gem, a brothel and bar. ''Shakespeare might invert a sentence once or twice. David inverts it three or four times.'' The first line of the third season -- ''Fetchin' toward a bloody outcome, boss'' -- is both typical and, given the recent circumstances, a little prophetic.
 Mr. Milch also added copious measures of profanity and sexuality, dropping dirty language and bare skin into almost every encounter. Viewers have devised a ''Deadwood'' drinking game: every time someone uses a certain expletive on the show, you drink a shot. No one goes home thirsty. 
 The show also won plaudits for its distinctive look, taking home five Emmys in 2005 for its design and cinematography, a grittily beautiful wash of dirt and despair. 
 All of which was real purdy, of course, but also real expensive. An episode of ''Deadwood'' costs about $4.5 million, Mr. Albrecht said, with a very large ensemble cast and expenses such as horses, wagons and livestock coordinators. On occasion Mr. Milch would take up to two weeks to shoot a single episode. ''I think HBO understood from the first the way that I work,'' he said. ''I'm not derelict, and I'm not profligate.''
 Still, there's little doubt that Mr. Milch -- a Yale graduate and former fraternity brother of President Bush -- had an unusual artistic approach. And an unusual conversational style, for that matter. A casual question about the plot of the third season can prompt a seminar about the symbolism of money, Rome (the empire, not the show) and the myths people create about themselves to justify acquisition of goods, all in one very, very long sentence. 
 Asked about the curlicue language of his show, his response is a little -- but just a little -- more succinct than his characters': ''The characters are very fastidious about emotion. But there are many of them that have access to Victorian-slash-Elizabethan locutions, in so much as they read the early Victorians or Dickens. And they use it to express distance or alienation with themselves.'' 
 Mr. Milch, on the other hand, is almost chronically confessional, and views his work as a way to exorcise demons and exercise personal discipline. ''If I'm not writing, I'm reporting to my parole officer,'' he said kiddingly. ''Goethe said he'd never heard of a crime he couldn't commit. I'm certainly down with that idea.'' 
 In the writing room at Melody Ranch, Mr. Milch lies on the floor while dictating long passages of dialogue to waiting assistants. ''The script never came in before a day or two before you shot,'' said Mr. McShane, who likened the experience to jumping out of a plane with only the promise of a parachute. ''And then he'd add 10 or 12 lines the day of, and sheepishly say, 'Sorry about this.' '' 
 Mr. Albrecht said HBO had no problems with the way Mr. Milch worked. ''Quality takes time,'' he said. ''The show was never squeezed into a schedule that would have cut into the quality.'' But the budget was an issue. ''I wouldn't say it was a burden on HBO,'' Mr. Albrecht explained, ''but if you look at a year, say 2007, and there's a set production fund and there's a set amount of scheduling time. And there's only so much you can fit in.'' 
 As the discussions began, Mr. Milch worried about his cast -- ''I tried to be a faithful steward to everyone involved,'' he said -- but once he told them the status of the negotiations, word soon reached to the media.
 Even after the trade papers had announced the demise of ''Deadwood,'' Mr. Milch and HBO kept talking. On June 2, Mr. Albrecht, in New York, and Mr. Milch, in Los Angeles, spent an hour on the phone but hung up without a deal. That's when Mr. Milch got on the red-eye. He arrived with an unusual idea about how to end the show with dignity, but without a full season. At a table at the Regency Hotel in New York -- fearful of eavesdroppers, he slipped the waiter some cash to keep other diners away -- Mr. Milch pitched his idea, and Mr. Albrecht said yes. 
 MR. MILCH was pleased, but the plan had come at a cost. ''All those transcontinental flights cut into your editing time,'' he said.
 For Mr. Albrecht, meanwhile, the negotiations had the unfortunate effect of shifting public attention from the show's creative horizons (it's the new season of ''Deadwood''!) to its financial limitations (it's the last season of ''Deadwood''!). They also raised questions about HBO's primacy in the field of narrative drama, which it had long dominated. Popular shows like ''Sex and the City'' and ''Six Feet Under'' have ended, and their replacements haven't permeated popular culture in quite the same way. Some have been yanked altogether. (Remember ''Carnivale''?) 
 Mr. Albrecht strongly rejected the notion that HBO -- which will also begin a new season of ''Entourage'' on Sunday night -- might be seen as faltering. ''We've still got 'Deadwood' this year and 'The Wire,' and in January, 'Rome' and the next season of 'Big Love,' and the final season of 'The Sopranos.' We feel very positive about the things we have.''
 Still, for HBO, the idea that it was making an artistic decision based on economics was obviously an uncomfortable one; Mr. Albrecht also said that he started to fear that the real victim would be ''John From Cincinnati,'' because it would be ''The Show They Canceled 'Deadwood' For.'' (For his part, Mr. Milch said, ''It was never my understanding that I was offering to curtail in any fashion my connection with 'Deadwood' in order to work on 'John From Cincinnati.' '') 
 By striking the compromise, Mr. Albrecht said: ''I not only felt like we were trying to do the right thing for 'Deadwood' and the new show, but we were doing what HBO does well, which is come up with creative solutions. It's possible that this turns out to be a plan that doesn't come to fruition, but at least we have one.''
 Mr. Milch, meanwhile, said he was excited about the creative possibilities of a new structure. Episodes of ''Deadwood'' tended to run the course of a day in the life of the camp; in the two two-hour finales he plans to touch on events in the history of the real Deadwood, including perhaps a fire and a flood. 
 ''What we've come to, or how it was come to, is a different approach, an approach to the temporal canvas, which will permit, I believe, a separateness, and a different kind of imaginative life for the actors who participate,'' he said. ''And under those circumstances, I was happy to go forward.'' 
 The fans, as usual, are more agitated. Visitors to savedeadwood.net, for example, said they were still holding out for a complete season. (They shouldn't hold their breath.) 
 Reached at home on Monday, Mr. Milch sounded tired of talking about the whole thing. But then, typically, he did, arguing that the entire idea of bringing closure to a series was egotistical, paraphrasing a William James idea: ''The world does not begin or end with the expiration of any living thing. It just becomes an exercise in bitterness or self-congratulation.'' As for his final perspective on the town of Deadwood, he seemed bittersweet. ''It all depends on how you crop the picture,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Al Swearengen (Ian McShane), the brutal saloon owner, and Sheriff Seth Bullock (Timothy Olyphant) in ''Deadwood.'' (Photo by Doug Hyun/HBO)(pg. 1)
David Milch, right, the creator of ''Deadwood,'' on the set with Powers Boothe, who plays Cy Tolliver. Mr. Milch's next project is ''John From Cincinnati,'' about surfers living on the California-Mexico border. (Photo courtesy of Rita Milch)
A scene from ''Deadwood,'' above, which begins its third season on Sunday night. Each episode costs about $4.5 million to make. Left, Molly Parker, who plays the widow Alma Garret, and Paula Malcomson (right) as Trixie, a prostitute. (Photo by HBO)
 (Photo by Doug Hyun/HBO)(pg. 35)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (77%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); BASEBALL (68%); MOVIE FILMING (57%) Television

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (54%) Home Box Office

PERSON: Jesse Mckinley

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); MEXICO (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2006



205 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; MUSIC; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 2199 words

HEADLINE: The Philharmonic's Double Challenge 

BYLINE: By ANTHONY TOMMASINI

 BODY:
LAST weekend Lorin Maazel ended the New York Philharmonic's season with Berlioz's dazzling ''Symphonie Fantastique.'' The performance I heard had a characteristically Maazelian blend of incandescent colorings, unerring execution and cool brilliance. But the audience that cheered Mr. Maazel might have forgotten that by original plans, these concerts were to have concluded his fourth and final year as the orchestra's music director. 
 When his appointment was announced early in 2001, he was presented as a transitional figure. At the time, Zarin Mehta, just five months into his tenure as the Philharmonic's executive director (he later became president), all but conceded that the orchestra's three-year search to find a dynamic younger replacement for Kurt Masur had been bungled. Months had been wasted courting the Italian maestro Riccardo Muti, a hard-to-please perfectionist, who ultimately left the Philharmonic at the altar.
Mr. Mehta turned to Mr. Maazel, a formidable but strong-willed and controversial conductor who had not even been under consideration -- not, that is, until November 2000, when he conducted the Philharmonic for the first time in nearly 25 years, wowing the players with his commanding technique and comprehensive musicianship. Mr. Maazel was hired, and the search for the next Leonard Bernstein was put on hold. 
 The Philharmonic gave itself some leeway in 2004, announcing an extension of Mr. Maazel's contract through the spring of 2009, when he will be 79. But in a field where even younger conductors are committed years in advance, that is not a lot of lead time. In a recent interview, Mr. Mehta, seeming casual (or maybe cagey) about it, said that he hoped to make an announcement within the next year or so. 
 But finding a new music director is not the only challenge facing the Philharmonic. In what Mr. Mehta called an ''inconvenient overlapping of agendas,'' the orchestra is also preparing for a two-year exile from Avery Fisher Hall, which will undergo a major renovation, now scheduled to start in the summer of 2010. 
 The Philharmonic is counting on this sweeping renovation to transform the hall into a more acoustically vibrant, more intimate and altogether more appealing place. Still, for two full seasons the orchestra will endure a nomadic existence.
 Just two years ago, Mr. Mehta worried that such a disruption would mean ''the end of the New York Philharmonic.'' This was one reason he was so intent on leaving Lincoln Center and merging the Philharmonic with Carnegie Hall, a misbegotten project that was scuttled just four months after negotiations had begun. 
 Mr. Mehta seems to have had an epiphany about the renovation. During the recent interview he touted the Philharmonic's nomadic future as a potentially exciting adventure. The orchestra will present concerts in various locales: not just the obvious ones at Lincoln Center -- Alice Tully Hall and the Rose Theater -- but possibly the Seventh Regiment Armory on Park Avenue, the New Jersey Performing Arts Center in Newark and other places still under consideration. Carnegie Hall is another option. 
 Mr. Mehta is also contemplating breaking the Philharmonic into chamber orchestras and presenting concerts in smaller halls throughout New York City: the ultimate outreach program. Serendipitously, the New York Philharmonic, which for all its technical finesse and musical depth has been a stodgy institution artistically, will be forced to be innovative. 
 For years, as American orchestras have faced economic challenges and struggled to reinvent themselves for a new century, one proposal has kept coming up: they should loosen their reliance on the weekly subscription series. Younger concertgoers, in particular, tend to shun committing in advance to specific nights at the symphony.
 The old subscription series with 14 or 15 programs per season ''has been annihilated,'' Mr. Mehta said.
 ''The biggest we have now is a series of eight concerts,'' he added, ''though that is a very loyal base.'' Still, on any given night, only some 30 percent of the audience comes from that base, he said. So a lot of seats are left to fill.
 In mixing a little of this, a little of that, so as to avoid risks and court mainstream concertgoers, the subscription format has produced a lot of blandly balanced programming.
 Imagine if the status quo were shaken up. For a month or so an orchestra would present varied weekly programs, like those today. This could be followed by, say, a minifestival focused on a single composer or an overall theme, with a different program for each concert. Then the musicians might subdivide into chamber orchestras and perform in high school auditoriums and smaller halls before reassembling at the homestead for another installment of weekly programs. 
 Such a shift in format would, of course, require a wholesale reconfiguration of the orchestra's rehearsal schedule, not to mention long-established union rules governing musicians' pay. Still, if fostering the most varied and rewarding music-making is to be the goal, a scheme like this should be tried. And in effect, this is what the Philharmonic will be forced to do when the renovation of Avery Fisher Hall takes place.
 But what about the search for a new music director? If the Philharmonic seems unsure of the next step, it has notable company in the orchestra world.
 Take the Chicago Symphony Orchestra. After all the speculation about who would succeed its music director, Daniel Barenboim, who decamps this month, the orchestra decided to punt for now, albeit with two eminent maestros. Bernard Haitink, 77, and Pierre Boulez, 81, will share artistic leadership as the search for a younger successor goes on. 
 With all the young talent available, why has that search been so hard? There is no mystery about what must be done. In a sobering 1998 report on the precarious overall state of American orchestras, the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation cited a lack of creative artistic leadership as the main problem. Too many orchestras, the report said, appoint name conductors who hold multiple appointments and are away much of the time. Too few think about how to engage their communities, to forge distinctive regional identities and to create a receptive climate for works by living composers.
 Lately, two orchestras in America's heartland have demonstrated what can be accomplished when a progressive board empowers a courageous music director.
 After a dismaying period of near-bankruptcy and bitter labor disputes, the St. Louis Symphony Orchestra has been re-energized after just one season under the technically adroit and wide-ranging conductor David Robertson, 47. His quirky and insightful spoken introductions to pieces during concerts are hugely popular. He is determined to engage the public. Indeed, it was the orchestra's refusal to cut education and outreach programs even when the budget crisis was dire that persuaded Mr. Robertson to take the job.
 And since 2003 the commanding Finnish conductor Osmo Vanska, 53, has been instilling discipline and engendering excitement in the ranks of the Minnesota Orchestra. Concerts in Minneapolis have been packed.
 Both conductors devise programs that dynamically juxtapose new and old works. Often, when Mr. Maazel sets off a standard repertory piece with modern or contemporary scores -- as he did last weekend, conducting works by Elliott Carter and Stravinsky, with the pianist Pierre-Laurent Aimard, before the Berlioz symphony -- there is little sense of why these pieces belong together.
 Contrast that program with a typical one by Mr. Robertson in St. Louis this season. Titled ''Mourning,'' it offered a Renaissance lament by Josquin, followed by an anguished memorial for a departed friend by the Hungarian modernist Gyorgy Kurtag and Mozart's Requiem.
 And representing the over-60 set, James Levine, a very un-spry 62, has more than justified the faith of the Boston Symphony Orchestra's board and players, who wanted him so badly that they were willing to go for two years without a music director while they waited for him to be available. Today, under Mr. Levine, the musicians who had sounded so demoralized by the end of Seiji Ozawa's overlong tenure (29 years) play everything from exuberant Mozart symphonies to Charles Wuorinen's gnarly Piano Concerto with stylistic authority, luminous sound and edge-of-the-seat intensity.
 The Baltimore Symphony Orchestra has taken a leap by hiring Marin Alsop, who starts next year. Finally a major American orchestra has put its trust in a female music director: a feisty musician with strong ties to living composers from all camps and a kinetic conductor with eclectic ideas about programming. Despite open protest from some musicians after her appointment was announced, the board stuck by its decision. From all reports, the musicians have come around, and the Baltimore Symphony is poised to jolt the American orchestral world. 
 Though these conductors have varying talents and artistic interests, they share one essential quality: they are natural proselytizers for music, engaging speakers with a yearning to teach. They have the quality Tom Wolfe ribbed in Bernstein when he called him ''the village explainer.'' Yet at a time when musical literacy among the public is plummeting, a Bernsteinian compulsion to teach has become an essential component of the music director's job. Michael Tilson Thomas, the charismatic music director of the thriving San Francisco Symphony Orchestra, is the closest we have to a Bernstein today.
 It is in this realm that Mr. Maazel has been so disappointing. No one questions his immense skills as a conductor. This season, in a stunning performance of Schoenberg's daunting Variations for Orchestra (Op. 31), he made the music sound so organic and arresting that you forgot you were listening to a complex 12-tone score. On the other hand, Mr. Maazel can be exasperating, with his penchant for interpretations that shout ''interpretation,'' especially in familiar works. Yet whether you like or dislike his Beethoven and Mozart is a lesser matter. The problem is his negligible impact as a cultural leader in the city. The attitude he conveys is that he is here to conduct; others at the Philharmonic can do the proselytizing. 
 Others have. The Young People's Concerts and, new this season, the Very Young People's Concerts have been imaginative and popular. The ''Hear and Now'' series, which previews works by living composers before they are performed in full programs, has been another success.
 Recently, several hundred people attended an early evening ''Hear and Now'' program in which Mr. Carter discussed his 1996 ''Allegro Scorrevole'' with the composer Steven Stucky. The gifted young French conductor Ludovic Morlot, who recently made a memorable Philharmonic debut, conducted the orchestra in illustrative excerpts from Mr. Carter's 11-minute work and in two complete performances.
 That such an appreciative audience turned up for this event suggests there is a hunger out there for edifying programming. But Mr. Maazel plays only a nominal role in these educational offerings.
 Orchestras would also help themselves by lightening up. Many err in promoting a concert of symphonic music as a sublime experience. Every week a sublime experience?
 I prefer the attitude fostered at the Los Angeles Philharmonic Orchestra by Esa-Pekka Salonen, who entices audiences to come downtown to the breathtaking Disney Hall and check out the latest happening. In one program this season, a discombobulating new piece by Magnus Lindberg twitted Beethoven's ''Eroica'' Symphony. A typical program last year began with Ives's ''Unanswered Question,'' to engender a contemplative listening environment, followed by John Adams's transfixing ''Dharma at Big Sur'' for electric violin and orchestra, ending with a sumptuously carnal account of Ravel's ''Daphnis et Chloe.'' The mood generated is open and unpretentious.
 As the New York Philharmonic searches for a new music director, it should remember that when Mr. Salonen reported for duty in 1992, he was a 34-year-old risk, not the star he is today. 
 Any number of younger conductors would embrace the Philharmonic's two-year displacement from Avery Fisher Hall as a chance, quite literally, to think outside the box. And not just those who are becoming Philharmonic regulars, like Alan Gilbert, Mr. Robertson and, more recently, the impressive Mr. Morlot.
 How about Antonio Pappano, 46, who brings refined musicianship and dramatic flair to his work as music director at the Royal Opera in London? The former Brooklynite Robert Spano, 45, a probing musician and incisive technician now at the Atlanta Symphony Orchestra, would be a good fit for New York. I had not thought of the urbane Italian Riccardo Chailly, 53, as a possibility until I heard him do an electrifying concert with the Philharmonic last season, capped by a blazing account of Stravinsky's ''Firebird.'' 
 Whoever is picked will preside over that disruptive yet potentially momentous two-year exodus. American orchestras will be watching. The New York Philharmonic a trailblazer? It has been a long time.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Wrapping up the season: The pianist Pierre-Laurent Aimard with the conductor Lorin Maazel and members of the New York Philharmonic in a performance earlier this month at Avery Fisher Hall. Mr. Maazel's contract continues through the spring of 2009. (Photo by Jennifer Taylor for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (71%); BUILDING RENOVATION (66%) Music; Avery Fisher Hall (NYC)

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: New York Philharmonic

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: Anthony Tommasini; Lorin Maazel

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2006



206 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2266 words

HEADLINE: Was Earning That Harvard M.B.A. Worth It?

BYLINE: By ABBY ELLIN

 BODY:
ABOUT a year before Adam Richman was to graduate from the Harvard Business School in 1996, he took on an extracurricular project. It was long before the Internet bubble inflated and burst, and well before one of the school's graduates landed in the White House. Mr. Richman wondered: What was the real-world value of a master's in business administration, especially one from the iviest of Ivies? Was it, as widely perceived, an ace in the hole, a get-out-of-jail-free card, a ticket to the good life? 
 To that end, Mr. Richman decided to track a core group of his Harvard classmates, to converse with them about their personal and professional aspirations, and then to revisit them every five years until 2026. He also decided to film them along the way, a la ''7 Up,'' Michael Apted's celebrated documentary series, which chronicled the lives of the same 14 people every seven years. 
''I wanted to know how students made their career and leadership decisions, how they defined success,'' said Mr. Richman, 36, the co-founder of Double Nickel Entertainment, a television and film production company. His academic adviser, Monica C. Higgins, an associate professor at the business school, became a consultant for the series, titled ''Building Career Foundations,'' which she uses for case-study work in her classroom. 
 ''We're very interested in how external shocks affect careers -- like 9/11, the dot-com boom and bust -- and this class was right before the dot-com boom,'' said Professor Higgins, 41. ''We wondered: 'How do people make the decision to drop everything and go after a dream? Who makes those type of choices and why?' People ask alums, 'What was the most important class you took in school?' But the real test comes once you're out.''
 In that regard, their documentary is a litmus test of sorts about how much bang Harvard Business School graduates get for their buck after their academic sojourn to Boston. It is, of course, a narrow, microcosmic gauge, limited by the number of people Mr. Richman and Professor Higgins are following, the questions they ask and the complexities of education and personal choice.
 Even so, their work offers a window into the value of a Harvard degree that carries a two-year tuition bill of more than $70,000 and, more generally, onto the overall utility of any M.B.A. degree. 
 THE popularity of the degrees has surged. In 1970, for example, business schools handed out 26,490 M.B.A.'s, according to the Department of Education. By 2004, after a period marked by an economic boom and heightened competition for top-flight business careers, that figure had jumped to 139,347. But opinion and data appear divided on the tangible benefits of an M.B.A. 
 ''The M.B.A. is the most versatile degree out there -- most of the others are very field specific, but you can apply an M.B.A. to any field,'' said Rachel Edgington, a research director for the Graduate Management Admission Council, a nonprofit group in McLean, Va., that is overseen by leading business schools and administers annual admission exams.
 But others advocate hands-on experience over academic buffing and polishing. ''M.B.A. programs train the wrong people in the wrong ways with the wrong consequences,'' said Henry Mintzberg, a management professor at McGill University in Montreal. ''You can't create a manager in a classroom. If you give people who aren't managers the impression that you turned them into one, you've created hubris.'' 
 In 2003, Professor Mintzberg tracked the performance of 19 students who graduated from the Harvard Business School in 1990 and were at the top of their class academically. Ten of the 19 were ''utter failures,'' he said. ''Another four were very questionable, at least,'' he added. ''So five out of 19 did well.'' 
 Research varies on the value of an M.B.A. A 2006 study by the Lubin School of Business at Pace University, looking at 482 companies listed on the New York Stock Exchange, found that only 162 of them had chief executives with graduate degrees in business. The companies with chief executives who went to more prestigious schools did no better than those who went to less prestigious schools, according to the study. Why this was so is unclear.
 ''One possibility is that if you don't have a graduate degree from a top school then you have to work that much harder to succeed,'' said Aron A. Gottesman, an associate professor at Pace and a co-author of the study.
 On the other hand, Professor Gottesman and a colleague found in a separate study, published earlier this year in the Journal of Empirical Finance, that mutual fund managers with M.B.A.'s from BusinessWeek's 30 top-ranked business schools -- including Harvard -- generally outperformed other mutual fund managers. Professor Gottesman is not sure why this was so, either. ''One possibility is that at higher-quality schools they simply teach better technical skills,'' he speculated. ''Or students at top-tier schools have a higher I.Q.'' 
 Wherever the broader value of an M.B.A. degree resides, most graduates themselves appear to be satisfied with their diplomas. According to the 2006 Global M.B.A. Graduate Survey from the Graduate Management Admission Council, 63 percent of M.B.A. alumni described the value of their degree as ''outstanding or excellent,'' when comparing the cost of their degree to the quality of their educations; 29 percent called it ''good.'' 
 And the subjects of ''Building Career Foundations'' have told Mr. Richman that they are pleased, indeed, with the professional and personal doors that their Harvard degrees have opened. Mr. Richman and Professor Higgins initially chose four women and six men to be their subjects in 1996 after a lengthy interview process. They surveyed about 130 other students along with their main focus group, asking questions about post-Harvard goals, salary expectations, relationship status and other topics. They also sent similar questionnaires to the same people in 2001 and had their cameras ready to film their core group.
 Last weekend, when the class of 1996 returned to the Harvard Business School for its 10-year reunion, Mr. Richman and Professor Higgins were present with their cameras and notepads.
 ''The experience lets you handle challenges, gives you the confidence to take calculated risks and enables people to pursue passions or dreams that maybe they otherwise couldn't at that point in their life,'' said Terrence M. Mullen, 39, a subject of the documentary who is a co-founder of Arsenal Capital Partners, a private equity fund in Manhattan.
 In 1996 and 2001, Mr. Richman and Professor Higgins asked their 140 subjects how they defined success. Their answers, in descending order of importance, were the same in each of those years: personal satisfaction or ''balance,'' the respect of their peers, and the chief executive's or chief financial officer's post at a corporation. High salaries ranked last each year. 
 ''It did surprise me that the folks coming right out of school would put money last, because they had all this debt,'' Professor Higgins said. ''But they want to have it all.''
 Respondents to her survey this year offered a different mix of priorities. They said that balance, financial security and corporate power were their top goals, but they placed less emphasis on becoming C.E.O.'s and were more interested in general corporate leadership positions. Ranked last was ''respect by peers.'' Another category that often emerged, Professor Higgins said, was ''impact'' -- defined as making ''areal difference'' or ''a positive difference to society.''
 Professor Higgins said the focus on ''balance'' and ''happiness'' seemed to stem from having or planning to have children, from feelings about the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, and from the bursting of the dot-com bubble. ''They seemed to have come to realize that certain things are precious in life, not the least of which is family,'' she said. 
 At this year's reunion of the documentary's main subjects, it turned out that 6 of the 10 had been involved in Internet businesses previously -- four as C.E.O.'s of their own companies, and two as investors in other companies. Five of the 10 had experienced a major career trauma -- their businesses collapsed or were taken over or they lost jobs because of layoffs. The other five had invested successfully or cashed in on initial public offerings in companies where they had worked.
 The documentary's main subjects now have jobs in various fields. Stephen Klein is executive vice president of Too Far, an arts and entertainment company in San Francisco; Kevin Hall is the chief operating officer of the Broad Foundation, a Los Angeles nonprofit group; Kim Malone is director of online advertising sales for Google Adsense in Mountain View, Calif.; Mareva Grabowski is a bank executive in Athens; Jeff Flemings is a senior executive at Digitas, an advertising and consulting firm in Boston; Clare R. Scherrer is a managing director at Goldman Sachs in New York; Levent Kahraman is a managing director of a New York bank; Cheryl Pegues is the director of business development at Cox Enterprises in Atlanta; and Humphrey Chen is a director at Avaya, a software company in Basking Ridge, N.J.
 MR. HALL, 39, pursued a series of corporate jobs after getting his Harvard degree and then founded a company that ran charter schools. At the Broad Foundation, he focuses on improving public education in Los Angeles. ''September 11 really reinforced for me that I'm willing and want to devote my energy toward K through 12 from a patriotic standpoint,'' he said. ''I think it's really critical for us as a country to do this.'' 
 Mr. Richman, who was a creative writing and drama major when he graduated from Tufts University in 1992, later went to Harvard Business School without formal business training and no plans to seek a corporate job. He did, however, want to do something in television and film, and rather than start as a gofer in Hollywood he applied to business school to ''round myself off,'' he said. 
 ''When I first got out, people in Hollywood were like: 'Why did you get your M.B.A.? You would have been better off sitting at someone's desk answering phones,' '' he recalled. ''But it certainly has been helpful for me now that we're doing bigger deals. It was helpful even before I started my company, putting together financing for projects and closing deals.''
 Another benefit of an M.B.A. degree, especially from a top-notch school, is the public perception of it -- and, by default, its holder -- according to a 2005 report by the University of Maryland. The study found that recruiters paid higher salaries to graduates of top-tier business schools compared with those from less prominent ones. ''The school's prominence provides legitimacy in the eyes of third parties,'' said Violina P. Rindova, an associate professor of strategy at the University of Maryland and co-author of the study. 
 ''The real value of an Ivy League business degree is arguably not the education itself, but the screening of intelligence, drive and past accomplishments that the schools do,'' said Ben Dattner, founding principal of Dattner Consulting in New York. ''Just like with undergraduate degrees, if you're smart enough to get into a top-tier school, you're likely to inspire confidence.''
 MICHELLE MADDEN, 39, a 1994 Harvard Business School graduate who lives in New York and worked at an online media company which she and her partners sold in 2001, agrees. ''People tend to give you the benefit of the doubt that you're somewhat intelligent,'' she said. ''They assume that if H.B.S. has done the screening, they don't need to concern themselves with the intelligence screener.'' 
 The degree also gave Ms. Madden the confidence to leave the business world several years ago to pursue interests in photography and mountain climbing before resuming work as a consultant. ''Today, there's much less of a stigma to taking time off and changing careers,'' she said. ''With the M.B.A., I felt I could do it and return to work without much problem.''
 Others say that they preferred actually being an entrepreneur to just contemplating becoming one. Jamie Rosen, who quit Harvard Business School in 1995 after getting funding for a software start-up, sold his company in 2004 and founded Memorystone Publishing, a company that produces digital photo albums, a year later. 
 ''The reason I went to B-school was to learn to be an entrepreneur, and here was an opportunity to build a business and get paid for it,'' said Mr. Rosen, 35, of his decision to leave Harvard. ''I'm not necessarily happy that I didn't finish, but I don't regret not going back because I enjoyed what I was doing.''
 Ms. Malone, one of the subjects of Mr. Richman's documentary, said she never expected to enjoy Harvard as much as she did. ''I went in with great skepticism,'' she said with a laugh. But what Ms. Malone, 38, found at Harvard surprised her -- ''a pretty friendly, warm, welcoming, nice place.'' 
 After Harvard, Ms. Malone spent a year working at the Federal Communications Commission and then helped begin an Internet telephone start-up, which eventually went public. She quit in 1999 to write her first novel, as yet unpublished, before joining Google in June 2004. Like Ms. Madden, Ms. Malone said her degree allowed her to take time off while knowing that it would be easy to get another job. 
 ''It's this big safety net; it's a credential that makes it easier to get a job later,'' she said. ''Maybe life shouldn't be that way, but it is what it is.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Kim Malone, left, during filming of a Harvard documentary with Adam Richman, Prof. Monica Higgins and Michael McEachern, the cameraman. (Photo by Rick Friedman for The New York Times)(pg. 4)
Graduates of Harvard Business School at commencement last week in Boston. There is no consensus data on whether most of them will become corporate stars. (Photo by Harvard Business School)(pg. 1)
 Harvard Business School alumni, from left, Kevin Hall, Kim Malone, Levent Kahraman, Humphrey Chen, Mareva Grabowski and Terrence M. Mullen. All are subjects of a documentary that is tracking the careers of the school's class of 1996. (Photo by Rick Friedman for The New York Times)(pg. 7)Chart: ''Harvard Business School's Bottom Line''Class compositionWomenCLASS OF '96: 29%CLASS OF '05: 35%MinoritiesCLASS OF '96: 18%CLASS OF '05: 22%International studentsCLASS OF '96: 25%CLASS OF '05: 33%Median base salary in first job after graduationIN 2005 DOLLARSCLASS OF '96: $99,579CLASS OF '05: $100,00First job after graduationCLASS OF '9637%: Consulting27%: Financial services12%: General management8%: Marketing5%: Other5%: Business development4%: Strategic planning3%: Corporate financeCLASS OF '0530%: Financial services18%: Consulting17%: Marketing10% General management8%: Business development8%: Strategic planning7%: Corporate finance2%: Other(Source by Harvard Business School)(pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS EDUCATION (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (89%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (88%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); TUITION FEES (73%); FILM (73%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (73%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (68%) Colleges and Universities; Business Schools; Degrees, Academic; Documentary Films and Programs; Motion Pictures 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%) Harvard University; Double Nickel Entertainment

PERSON: Adam Richman; Monica C (Prof) Higgins; Abby Ellin

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2006



207 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3450 words

HEADLINE: Dollars and Dreams: Immigrants as Prey

BYLINE: By GARY RIVLIN

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
IT was when his immigration attorney asked him for $3,000 several years ago that Celso Lima Mejia started to wonder whether his lawyer was taking him for a very costly ride. Mr. Mejia, a Guatemalan immigrant who was residing illegally in the United States, said he had already paid Miguel Gadda $3,600 to help him apply for asylum. Mr. Mejia recalled in a recent interview that Mr. Gadda promised him that the legal fees -- a large chunk of his annual pay of about $20,000 as a handyman -- would land him a coveted prize: a green card allowing him to come out from the shadows and live in the United States as a permanent resident. 
 But immigration authorities rejected the application, and Mr. Mejia said Mr. Gadda pressed him for the extra $3,000 to appeal the decision. Until that point, Mr. Mejia said, Mr. Gadda had done virtually no work on the case -- ''He hadn't even done any prep work with me before my hearing'' -- but his asylum application had revealed him to immigration authorities. Mr. Mejia, who is now 29, felt that he had to keep fighting, so he scrounged up the money. And that was the last time he saw Mr. Gadda. 
When Mr. Mejia found a deportation order in his mail in 2001, he rushed in panic to his lawyer's office. ''But the office wasn't there anymore, and there was nowhere to find him,'' said Mr. Mejia, who gained permanent resident status -- his green card -- after turning to a second lawyer he described as ''my angel.''
 Mr. Mejia wasn't Mr. Gadda's only victim. When the State Bar of California disbarred Mr. Gadda in 2002, it cited him for professional misconduct and legal incompetence involving eight illegal immigrants he had advised. (Mr. Mejia's case was not among them.) 
 Mr. Gadda is hardly alone. As the number of illegal immigrants in the country has swollen to what the Department of Homeland Security conservatively estimates at nine million, so have the ranks of those who inhabit the immigration business's underbelly, posing as well-meaning advisers to those in search of a new job, a new home and a green card if not full citizenship. Immigrants, strangers in a foreign land for whom a green card means a ticket to a fuller life, are ideal prey for con artists and would-be consultants out for a quick buck. 
 ANALYSTS, lawyers and immigration specialists say that the current debate over immigration reform is also providing a perfect business environment for those who prey on the undocumented in the Chinatowns, barrios and other immigrant enclaves around the country.
 ''Every time there's talk of a new law passing, these scammers basically pop up'' and aim at immigrants, said Victor D. Nieblas, an immigration lawyer based in Los Angeles who teaches at Loyola Law School there. ''It's big business.'' 
 The worst offenders, Mr. Nieblas and others said, tend to be immigration consultants, or ''notarios'' -- nonlawyers who, whether or not they are qualified to do so, are in the business of helping aliens negotiate the immigration system. Even the name ''notarios'' rankles immigrant advocates: in many Latin American countries, a ''notario publico'' is a professional licensed to represent people in legal matters.
 ''For unscrupulous attorneys and other practitioners, a change in the law represents a kind of open season on aliens,'' said Jennifer J. Barnes, the general counsel for the Executive Office for Immigration Review, a unit of the Justice Department. ''That's what's happened in the past when we've enacted changes in immigration law, and I'm sure if a new law passes this time, we'll see people out there trying to take advantage of the situation.'' 
 Yet that seems to be happening already. People who closely monitor the national immigration debate may know that the House of Representatives and the Senate are so far apart on their immigration bills that no new amnesty laws may be enacted -- but that information reaches illegal immigrants only in fractured pieces. Even then, immigrant advocates say, some notarios and others milking the process for financial gain warp and bend the true parameters of asylum opportunities to take advantage of legions of hopefuls. 
 Mr. Nieblas, who is a host of a weekly immigration advice program on a Spanish-language radio station in Southern California, said he was already hearing from callers who contended that local notarios were ''asking them for money so they can start processing people under the new law, though there is no new law.'' 
 Lori A. Nessel, an associate professor at the Seton Hall University School of Law who runs its Immigration and Human Rights Clinic, has picked up on the same chatter on the East Coast. 
 ''The concern is that you have these notarios out there saying, 'Pay now and get your applications in now for the amnesty,' when there's no reason to be taking people's money until there's a law,'' Professor Nessel said. 
 Nelly Reyes is a well-regarded immigration consultant in San Francisco who has spent the last 15 years helping her Spanish-speaking clients fill out forms, translate documents and navigate the federal bureaucracy. She earns roughly $60,000 a year, and says that she could make several times that amount if she emulated the practices of some of her more nefarious competitors. ''I've gotten two or three calls over the last month from people saying, 'Let's go into business together, this is the time to start making a lot of money,' '' Ms. Reyes said.
 By her estimation, more than half her counterparts should be put out of business, because they are either scam artists or incompetents selling skills they do not possess. 
 ''What's scary right now,'' Ms. Reyes said, ''is that people are saying, 'Whatever it takes, whatever I must pay to become legal.' ''
 ''It's that attitude that people can take advantage of,'' she added.
 Over the past three years, Greg Abbott, the Texas attorney general, has secured judicial orders to shut down a dozen notarios around the state. That includes the Aplicacion de Oro, a large immigration consulting firm in West Texas that a judge ordered closed in January after Mr. Abbott said that its two owners had ''scammed'' hundreds of immigrants out of thousands of dollars each, according to a press release. In California, the state attorney general, Bill Lockyer, has obtained civil judgments against roughly two dozen immigration consultants since 2000, a department spokesman said. 
 But advocates for immigrants say that California and Texas are the exception to the rule, and that most local district attorneys, who are also charged with monitoring consumer fraud, contend that their resources are too thinly stretched to devote much -- if any -- time to investigating immigration consultants. Moreover, advocates say, the problem is so widespread in California, Texas, New York and other states where illegal immigrants tend to live that even the most well-meaning efforts seem futile. 
 ''The authorities will close down one of these shops, and a couple of weeks later they'll open up someplace else,'' said Mr. Nieblas, who is also an officer in the American Immigration Lawyers Association. ''There are literally hundreds of these businesses in the Los Angeles area alone that are targeting the community.''
 At the moment, the most common fraud perpetuated on illegal immigrants -- and certainly the most lucrative -- is the kind that Mr. Mejia and his new lawyer believe almost had him sent back to Guatemala. ''There are any number of immigration scams, but the asylum scam is by far and away the most popular right now,'' said Nora Privitera, a lawyer for the Immigrant Legal Resource Center in San Francisco. The brilliance of asylum fraud, at least from the perspective of the perpetrator, is that the federal government ends up sending most of the casualties back to their lands of origin.
 ''Their victims are typically deported and can't rat on them,'' Ms. Privitera said. 
 There are two general versions of the asylum scheme. The more simple of the two has a lawyer or notario convincing an illegal immigrant to pay the going rate of about $5,000 -- more if a client is willing to pay for appeals -- to apply for asylum. The payment changes hands, even though the illegal immigrant is unlikely to secure asylum status, which is meant for those who would face persecution back in their home country if they were deported. 
 That is among the accusations that the State Bar of California was leveling at Walter Pineda, an immigration lawyer, in a San Francisco hearing room last week. According to immigration experts, people typically emigrate from Mexico to search for better economic opportunities, not because they fear for their safety. Even so, Mr. Pineda routinely encouraged his Mexican clients to file ''meritless'' asylum applications, according to the state bar, which has accused him of more than two dozen counts of incompetence and five counts of moral turpitude for what it called ''repeatedly and knowingly'' lying to his clients. 
 The bar association contends that Mr. Pineda would routinely ''take client money to file frivolous applications, spend no time actually trying to develop a viable position for the clients to stay legally in the United States, lose the applications for asylum and take more money to file frivolous appeals.'' 
 Doron Weinberg, Mr. Pineda's lawyer, said, ''We admit to the general facts, but as you can imagine, we deny every judgment that has my client doing something reprehensible.''
 An immigration lawyer typically works hard for a $5,000 fee -- assembling evidence, prepping witnesses, drawing up arguments to convince a skeptical immigration hearing officer that a client deserves asylum. Then there are cases like those of Mr. Mejia, the Guatemalan handyman who lost $6,600 pursuing his asylum case. 
 Guatemalan rebels kidnapped Mr. Mejia, the son of a government employee, when he was 7 years old and the country was in the midst of a prolonged civil war; two years after securing his release, his family fled Guatemala for the United States. Like so many illegal immigrants, Mr. Mejia and his parents did their best to live their lives out of the view of the authorities -- until a family friend referred Mr. Gadda to them a half-dozen years ago.
 Another lawyer might have been able to make a credible case that Mr. Mejia deserved asylum. But Mr. Gadda apparently was unwilling or unable to do so. Mr. Mejia says he believes his own experience reflects the accusations that the California bar made against Mr. Gadda: that he proved willing to collect fees but not to do the work for which he was paid.
 ''This was a lawyer who took money from his clients and repeatedly failed to perform legal services,'' said Sherrie B. McLetchie, the lead lawyer for the California bar in the disbarment proceedings against Mr. Gadda. And the undocumented ''are among the most vulnerable clients any lawyer can represent,'' she said.
 Despite his travails, Mr. Mejia stayed the course. It would eventually cost him over $10,000 more in legal fees beyond what he paid Mr. Gadda, but Ilyce Shugall, a local immigration lawyer, was able to secure him a green card in April. ''I worked after work, and I worked on weekends,'' to pay the added fees, Mr. Mejia said.
 Ms. Shugall said that Mr. Gadda ''had made such a mess out of the asylum claim that we decided to drop it.'' Instead, Ms. Shugall, who works for the law firm of Van Der Hout, Brigagliano & Nightingale in San Francisco, pursued an alternative claim known as a ''cancellation-of-removal'' order. Such orders grant green cards to anyone who has lived in the United States for at least 10 years and can demonstrate that a parent or a child in the country legally would suffer ''exceptional and unusual hardship'' if the applicant was deported. Mr. Mejia, who arrived here in the late 1980's and later became the primary care provider for his ailing parents, met that criteria and won his green card.
 MR. MEJIA was fortunate to have an advocate like Ms. Shugall, because cancellation-of-removal orders are often central to the other type of fraud involving an asylum claim. In it, a deceitful notario or lawyer tells potential clients that they qualify for a cancellation order, but does not disclose a crucial prerequisite: that even if they are care providers for a legal but ailing resident who is a parent or child, they must still prove that a loved one would suffer extreme hardship if the authorities deported the caregiver.
 ''That's a very difficult standard to meet, but people are not told that part of it,'' said Ms. Privitera of the Immigrant Legal Resource Center. The most insidious aspect of this unfortunate legal strategy, Ms. Privitera said, is that first the lawyer or immigration consultant must get someone into the system, because only if there is a removal order in place can someone petition to have the order rescinded, which would lead to a green card. The simplest way to do this is to request asylum, so the client will typically pay thousands of dollars for a futile asylum claim and, after the loss, will spend thousands of dollars more to pursue a legalization strategy that is far more likely to snare a deportation order than a green card. 
 ''Once you're in immigration court, there's only two ways out,'' Ms. Privitera said. ''You get granted something, or you get told to leave. There's no prosecutorial discretion for people who come into court because they've been defrauded.'' 
 Illegal immigrants who escape this trap are those who find a capable lawyer willing to take on their botched cases before they are deported -- immigrants like Silvia Castillo of San Jose, Calif. Ms. Castillo, along with four other plaintiffs, has filed a suit accusing Rose Ann Martinez, an immigration consultant, and several San Francisco Bay Area lawyers of conspiring ''on a fraudulent immigration scheme.'' Ms. Castillo, a housekeeper and single mother of two, said the process cost her about $10,000. 
 ''My mother basically spent her entire life's savings,'' said Glancy Robles, her 16-year-old daughter. 
 According to the complaint, filed earlier this year in California, Ms. Martinez persuaded Ms. Castillo and her fellow plaintiffs, all of them illegal immigrants from Mexico, to pursue the cancellation-of-removal strategy. But, court papers say, Ms. Martinez never informed her clients that they also had to file an asylum application, which would put them in peril of deportation. The victims also contend that Ms. Martinez failed to tell them that a cancellation-of-removal order was rare and that they would be successful only if they also proved that their deportation would cause extreme hardship for a parent or child. Ms. Martinez declined to comment.
 Because both of Ms. Castillo's children were born in the United States, they are citizens. But both are healthy. Ms. Castillo lost her case -- and her family would have been forced to move back to Mexico if not for the intervention of Vaughan de Kirby, a San Francisco lawyer. 
 Mr. de Kirby was able to convince a judge that sending Ms. Castillo back to Mexico also meant deporting her two children, both of whom were in school at the time. He also was able to prove that her two daughters would experience extreme hardship if they were forced to leave the country, thereby clearing up the mess that he said Ms. Martinez -- and the outside law firm she commissioned -- had made of Ms. Castillo's case.
 ''Immigration consultants serve a valuable function, because they can operate at a cost factor for people who can't afford an attorney,'' Mr. de Kirby said. ''But unfortunately they're not well regulated, and there are abuses.'' 
 Mr. Nieblas, the Los Angeles immigration lawyer, is not nearly so generous in his comments about notarios. He estimates that he meets with as many as 20 people a month who have shown up in his office after an immigration consultant has botched a case through incompetence or malfeasance. If it were up to him, he said, he would outlaw immigration consultants altogether. 
 Another Los Angeles immigration lawyer, Alan R. Diamante, says that ''70 to 80 percent of my clients have either been victims of a notario, or a lawyer working together with a notario.'' He, too, says he does not believe that notarios play a legitimate role in handling the legal mechanics of immigration.
 LIKE other lawyers interviewed for this article, both Mr. Nieblas and Mr. Diamante said that they would never advise clients to reveal their residency status to authorities on the chance that they might secure a cancellation-of-removal order. He said that the stakes were very high, and the chances of winning low. 
 ''I've had clients come to me and say, 'I've got a son who is suffering from this disease or that disease, let me turn myself in,' '' Mr. Nieblas said. ''I always tell them no. But some then just find someone else to handle the case. They've heard from people on the streets that this is the perfect opportunity to get a green card, and they don't want to believe me -- and they can always find a notario who'll take their case.'' 
 The undocumented are not always on the losing end of immigration schemes. In Chinatown in San Francisco, for instance, an immigrant can spend $20,000 to $40,000 over six to seven years fighting to secure a green card, said Steve W. Baughman, a local immigration lawyer. Alternatively, he said, the same person can find an unscrupulous consultant who, for roughly $5,000, ''will teach you how to lie and cheat your way into a bogus asylum claim.'' 
 For example, the granting of asylum is nearly automatic for a Chinese expatriate who claims religious and political persecution because he or she is a member of the Falun Gong spiritual sect. So some immigration consultants, Mr. Baughman said, maintain libraries of materials and videos about the group so that illegal immigrants can fake membership in Falun Gong when an asylum officer quizzes them. 
 ''I can hardly blame people for doing it,'' he said. ''It's the supply side that needs to be dealt with.'' 
 The federal government's Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said Chris Bentley, a spokesman, does what it can to spread the word that illegal immigrants must be careful about whom they turn to when seeking legal assistance. ''If people snuck in the country illegally, we still don't want them to be taken by someone hanging out a shingle on a street corner, claiming they're an immigration expert when they're not,'' Mr. Bentley said.
 Yet the abuses of immigration consultants are hardly a top priority, Mr. Bentley acknowledged, for an agency now tucked inside the Department of Homeland Security. 
 The San Francisco district attorney's office will ''vigorously prosecute any complaints we receive'' about immigration consultants, said an assistant district attorney, June Cravett. Her office, she said, is trying to spread the word that it offers a haven for illegal immigrants who feel that they have been fleeced by a scam artist. 
 BUT limited resources mean that her office does not set up sting operations or the like, Ms. Cravett said. ''Unfortunately, we haven't received that many complaints,'' she said. 
 The local authorities in Los Angeles have adopted a similar approach, said Mr. Diamante, a former president of the local Mexican American Bar Association. ''They do one major token case every five years, it gets a lot of attention, and then that's it,'' he said. 
 Immigrant advocates and law enforcement officials in California point to the district attorney's office in Santa Clara County, in the heart of Silicon Valley, as a model enforcement program. But they say that while county officials have taken impressive steps to crack down on unscrupulous notarios, the office's experiences and limited resources still underscore how hard it is to rein in the problem. 
 ''There are so many of them it's really hard to go after every single one,'' said Martha J. Donohoe, a deputy district attorney in the county who oversees her office's efforts to monitor immigration consultants. ''Basically our focus has had to have been going after the really bad actors.''
 When she has a law clerk, Ms. Donohoe says, her office can monitor the immigration consultant industry more proactively. Otherwise, her office must wait until it receives complaints from local advocacy groups that represent illegal immigrants, she said.
 ''I hate to say it, but by the time we go after someone, they've typically hurt so many people,'' Ms. Donohoe said. ''Typically it takes years to bring one of these cases, and the word has to really spread that someone is a bad, bad actor before we get people who are here illegally to bring a complaint.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Celso Lima Mejia says he lost $6,600 to an immigration lawyer, who was later disbarred. Mr. Mejia stood near a mural by the artist Joel Bergner. (Photo by Jim Wilson/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
Victor Nieblas, an immigration lawyer in Los Angeles, says talk of a new law on amnesty has helped prompt dishonest people to step forward to prey on the fears of people who are living in the United States illegally. (Photo by Jamie Rector for The New York Times)
Nelly Reyes, an immigration consultant in San Francisco, says that in the current climate, ''People are saying, 'Whatever it takes, whatever I must pay to become legal.' It's that attitude that people can take advantage of.'' (Photo by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)
 Nora Privitera, a lawyer in San Francisco, points out that many victims of shady immigration schemes are deported, making it less likely that the person or people who collected their money will be caught. (Photo by Jim Wilson/The New York Times)(pg. 8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (96%); LAWYERS (92%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (89%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (78%); DISBARMENT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGAL MALPRACTICE (78%); REFUGEES (78%); DEPORTATION (78%); LITIGATION (78%); LEGAL ETHICS (78%); SLUM DWELLINGS (77%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (77%); ETHICS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); MISCONDUCT (70%); CITIZENSHIP (64%); NATIONAL SECURITY (50%) Immigration and Refugees; Frauds and Swindling; Consultants; Illegal Immigrants; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Suits and Litigation; Deportation; Ethics; Immigration and Refugees; Citizenship

PERSON: Gary Rivlin

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) California; New York State

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2006



208 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SUNDAY MONEY: SPENDING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1260 words

HEADLINE: Trading Places, and Saving a Bundle on Vacations

BYLINE: By KATE MURPHY

 BODY:
THE summer travel season is here, and many vacationers won't be checking into hotels, inns or B.& B.'s. Instead, they will swap homes with people they have never met, but who live somewhere they want to go. They will hang their clothes in each other's closets, stash their socks in each other's drawers and make coffee in each other's kitchens. If you can stand the thought of a stranger sleeping in your bed, it is an economical and culturally broadening way to travel. 
 A burgeoning number of listing services assist in these home exchanges. Finding a suitable swap requires a modest investment, patience and some marketing skill.
Home exchanges are not new. Listing services have been around since the 1950's and were originally used by teachers and professors to swap residences during summer vacations. But these services, no longer limited to academics, report that membership has surged in the last five years as the dollar has fallen against other currencies and Americans search for more-affordable vacations abroad. Swapping homes, of course, means no lodging expense and considerable savings on dining because you don't have to eat every meal at a restaurant. 
 But those who started exchanging homes for economic reasons say they have found that the real value is greater cultural understanding. ''You really get the feeling of living there and being a part of the community,'' said Lori Horne, a lawyer who, with her husband, Mark, a pharmacist, live in a four-bedroom, two-and-a-half-bath house in Marin County in California., an hour's drive from San Francisco. They have exchanged their home more than 20 times for houses and apartments in England, France, Spain, Greece, Ireland and Italy.
 Ms. Horne said she began swapping homes in the late 1980's, by asking friends and neighbors if they knew anyone who lived in places she wanted to travel. ''Inevitably, I'd find someone who knew someone,'' she said, ''and I'd suggest they have them visit and they could stay at our house if we could stay in their house.'' 
 Ms. Horne now advertises her home on two of the largest home exchange listing services, Intervac (intervac.com) and HomeLink International (homelink.org), which have searchable online databases as well as print catalogs. Other popular services include HomeExchange.com andExchangeHomes.Com, which are based exclusively on the Web.
 These services cost $40 to $126 for a yearlong membership and vary in their ease of use, quality of customer support and number of listings. One service may have more members in France, while another may be stronger in Spain. As a result, many people list their homes on more than one service.
 ''It gives you more options,'' said Ms. Horne, who most recently exchanged her home for one in Cape Town, South Africa.
 She laughed when asked if she was apprehensive about entrusting her home to strangers she found on the Internet. ''The idea that someone would travel all that way to steal my silver is totally absurd,'' she said. 
 Representatives of major listing services say they have never had a reported theft and have had few, if any, reports of damage. They encourage users to ask for references and to communicate extensively by e-mail and telephone before swapping. But experienced home exchangers say the reciprocity of the deal is all the reassurance they need.
 ''You know where they live,'' said Sonny Schreiner, a retired schoolteacher and now a hockey coach in Littleton, Colo., outside Denver. He and his wife, Mary, have traded their three-bedroom, two-bath house for places in Santa Fe, N.M., Phoenix and Washington, as well as several sites in England. ''In over 30 exchanges,'' he said, ''we have not had one bad experience.'' 
 Some home traders place fragile belongings in an off-limits closet, cabinet or bedroom. ''You can lock things up, but I don't,'' Ms. Horne said. ''Just put a note on the cupboard that says 'Don't use these dishes' or whatever.'' Accidents can happen: she said one person who stayed in her house burned a pot, and she broke a Baccarat drinking glass while staying in a house in Paris. ''I just went out and bought another one,'' she said, and the person staying in her house left her money to buy another pot. ''People who do this tend to have a 'guest' attitude.''
 Though prospective home swappers should check with their insurers, most homeowner's policies cover accidental damage caused by guests. Many home exchanges include the use of a car, and auto insurance will usually cover accidents. But all policies are subject to limits, said David Snyder, vice president and assistant general counsel for the American Insurance Association, a trade group. If the damage and perhaps legal costs associated with an accident exceed those caps, ''then you will most certainly be responsible,'' he said.
 As a result, Mr. Snyder advises against offering the use of your car because ''the potential to hurt someone and your potential liability is greater.''
 People swap apartments and condos as well as houses; some exchangers list only second homes. The trades often involve similar kinds of housing -- and circumstances. For example, people with children tend to swap with other people with children. 
 COMPLETING any exchange, of course, is harder than just picking dates and making hotel reservations because the two parties have to coordinate their travel. And contingency plans must be made in the event that one side backs out at the last minute. Ms. Horne gets a verbal agreement that she can use the house at her destination anyway, and that the owner will find another place to stay. 
 People who live in or near popular tourist destinations like New York, Los Angeles and San Francisco generally have an easier time arranging swaps. ''If you live somewhere most Europeans have never heard of, you really need to sell what's good about your location,'' said Cecilia Lobdill, who lives in a four-bedroom, one-and-a-half-bath house in the central California city of San Luis Obispo, where she is the chief financial officer of a small technology company. She lists her home on HomeExchange.com and on ExchangeHomes.Com and includes in her description the nearby hiking trails, beaches and wineries, as well as the foosball and air hockey tables in her den. She has also posted several pictures, including the mountain view from her backyard deck. 
 A single mother, Ms. Lobdill prefers to exchange homes on weekends or during school vacations so she can bring along her two teenage sons. Recent trips have been to Salt Lake City and Santa Cruz, Calif. ''This is such a great way to go, especially if you are traveling with kids,'' she said. ''You have all the amenities of home, and if it's raining you're not all stuck in a tiny hotel room.'' 
 She also arranges for the people staying in her home to feed her dog and two cats. ''And I do the same for them,'' she said. 
 Owen Berkowitz, a baker and father of five, who lives in New Rochelle, N.Y., has been exchanging his home for houses in Europe for three years. With that many children, ''it's unaffordable to do it any other way,'' said Mr. Berkowitz, adding that he prefers to shop in local markets and cook his own meals when he travels anyway. 
 He leaves a welcoming fruit basket, maps, brochures and recommendations for local restaurants. Similar items are usually waiting for him at his destinations. ''You learn that people are all right, that they just want to enjoy life like we do,'' he said. ''Sure, it's a leap of faith to do something like this, but we've got plenty of that.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Lori and Mark Horne at home, top, in Marin County, Calif. For their vacations over the years, the couple have traded for many houses across Europe, including these in, from left above, Giverny, France
Aiguafreda, Spain
 and Strasbourg, France. (Photo by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEISURE TRAVEL (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (78%); RESTAURANTS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%) Travel and Vacations; Housing; Computers and the Internet; Catalogs

PERSON: Kate Murphy

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); ALSACE, FRANCE (68%) FRANCE (90%); UNITED STATES (90%); SPAIN (90%); EUROPE (75%); ENGLAND (68%); GREECE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2006



209 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 2; Magazine; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 6-11-06: consumed; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: Off the Skids

BYLINE: By Rob Walker

 BODY:
Cash America
 The core tenets of building a retail chain are well known. The stores need to be consistent and welcoming -- a brand you can trust. This idea has guided chains for decades. It guides recent iterations selling organic vegetables, expensive lattes and well-designed kitchenware to what has been called the ''mass affluent'' consumer. And it guides chains of pawnshops. It turns out that there are several such chains, the biggest of which is Cash America: from one location in 1983 it has grown to 468 today, and it reported 2005 revenue of about $600 million. 
Of course, when a new pawnshop location opens, it doesn't attract the same kind of attention as, say, a new Whole Foods. What attention it does get can be gauged by some of the ''frequently asked questions'' on the Web site of the National Pawnbrokers Association, a trade group for the industry: ''Do pawnbrokers downgrade the neighborhood and hurt property value?'' Or, ''Do pawnbrokers attract indigents and derelicts?'' (The site offers reassuring answers.) But if the pawnshop still seems, in the popular mind, like a seedy backdrop for some kind of illicit behavior, Cash America naturally takes a different view. According to the company's annual report (filled with images of happy and hard-working Americans), its ''core purpose'' is to ''provide financial solutions that help ordinary people meet their needs and pursue their dreams.''
 More to the point, the chain sees pawnshop habitues not as the desperate riffraff of crime drama, or the exploited underclass described by critics of the industry, but as customers to be courted. Mary Jackson, spokeswoman for Cash America, calls those customers ''young working families or single people who need a short-term loan.'' Maybe it's $100 for an emergency, or perhaps it's just a ''cash management'' issue, she says: ''Some people use a necklace like others would a Visa card. You just use it continuously to get loans as you need them.'' Unlike other kinds of chains, Cash America doesn't really compete on price. After all, pawnbroking is regulated: interest rates vary from about 4 percent a month to 25 percent a month, depending on state laws, and in general the chain charges as much as it's allowed to. But Jackson says that it does do many of the same things any chain would. It conducts focus groups, stresses customer service, uses sophisticated software to track inventory as well as consumers' profiles and has even hired ''mystery shoppers'' to keep tabs on how individual stores are maintained and how friendly the staff is. ''When you want to brand a store,'' Jackson says, ''you are trying to separate yourself. We're separating ourselves from the independent pawnbroker.'' 
 When I mention ''the unbanked,'' Jackson says that is not a term the industry cares for, because it ''conjures up images of people who are ignorant or not sophisticated in their financial transactions.'' Cash America focus groups, she says, found that 60 percent of its customers do have bank accounts. Those who come to Cash America, she suggests, simply find borrowing $100 on that necklace to be more practical and easier to grasp than dealing with banks. It's also a ''more disciplined'' borrowing strategy, she notes, insofar as if you fail to pay off your short-term loan, Cash America will keep your necklace and sell it. Generally speaking, the chain would prefer that you pay back the loan, since it makes more money through those fat interest rates than it does from retailing seized collateral.
 In any case, you don't have to buy into any negative caricatures of Cash America's customers to conclude that a thriving pawnshop chain tells a story about American consumers that undercuts the ''mass affluent'' theme. But maybe there's something useful in remembering the common ground between the Cash America constituency and every other chain-store customer. Jackson mentions the chain's entry into the Kansas City market, where a new location was able to thrive even though a locally owned rival took out a billboard to point out that his loan rates were better than Cash America's. But the local shop had ''the old stereotype image,'' right down to a shirtless guy with a Doberman. Cash America competed with service, clean stores and employees with uniforms and name tags. ''Just because you need cash for your personal items,'' Jackson says, ''doesn't mean you don't want to be treated well.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Leif Parsons)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); FOCUS GROUPS (78%); ORGANIC FOODS (72%); AFFLUENT MARKET (71%); ANNUAL REPORTS (70%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (68%); WEB SITES (68%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (67%); FAMILY (67%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Pawnbroking; Customer Relations

ORGANIZATION: Cash America International Inc

PERSON: Rob Walker

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2006



210 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 6-11-06; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1590 words

HEADLINE: The American Way of Debt

BYLINE: By Jackson Lears. 
Jackson Lears, editor of Raritan: A Quarterly Review, is the author, most recently, of ''Something for Nothing: Luck in America.''

 BODY:
Americans are awash in red ink. Consumer indebtedness is soaring, the savings rate is down to zero and people are filing for bankruptcy at record rates. To many observers, these are symptoms of cultural decline, from sturdy thrift to flabby self-gratification -- embodied in the current obesity epidemic. The fattest nation on earth is also the greediest consumer of global resources and now is borrowing more than ever to satisfy its appetites. There is a large core of truth to this indictment.
But as the history of debt in America shows, condemnations of extravagance can obscure more than they illuminate. The equation of debt and decline assumes that once upon a time Americans lived within their means and saved for what they bought. This is fantasy: there never was a golden age of thrift. Debt has always played an important role in Americans' lives -- not merely as a means of instant gratification but also as a strategy for survival and a tool for economic advance. 
 Yet our moral traditions have concealed this complexity. ''Owe no man anything,'' St. Paul warned, and from the New England Puritans forward, legions of Protestant ministers made this their text. Indebtedness signified a sin against the Protestant ethic of self-control; it also threatened the ideal of independent manhood that underwrote the founders' vision of a virtuous republic. The indebted man ''must smile on those he hates, he must extend his hand where he would strike, he must speak pleasantly with a curse in his throat,'' a Harper's contributor wrote in 1894. ''He wears dependence like a yoke.'' Benjamin Franklin coined similar lessons in aphorisms later memorized by generations of Victorian-era schoolchildren: ''The Borrower Is a Slave to the Lender.'' ''Be frugal and free.'' The link with lost freedom was more than metaphorical: you could still be imprisoned for debt in many places (including New York City) down to the early 1900's.
 Still, the case against debt was more principled than practical. Every generation of moralists imagined the same fall from financial rectitude. In their novel ''The Gilded Age'' (1873), Mark Twain and Charles Dudley Warner mourned the disappearance of the antebellum ''horror of debt'' amid the speculative borrowing of the post-Civil War years. 
 In 1924, the editor of The Saturday Evening Post complained that ''the firmly rooted aversion to debt in any form which prevailed a generation ago has almost completely evaporated.'' In 1958, John Kenneth Galbraith noticed that ''there has been an inexplicable but very real retreat from the Puritan canon that required an individual to save first and enjoy later.''
 In fact, debt is as American as cherry pie. For George Washington and Thomas Jefferson, debt was the price they paid to participate in the world of big-spending Southern planters. Among plainer rural folk, through most of the 19th century, cash was scarce, and country-store ledgers carried local peoples' debts for years, sometimes forever. Factory workers and laborers used debt to make ends meet, resorting to pawnshops, loan sharks, relatives and friends.
 Even moralists admitted distinctions between good (''productive'') debt and bad (''consumptive'') debt. The other side of debt, after all, was credit -- ''Beautiful credit! The foundation of modern society,'' as Twain and Warner called it in ''The Gilded Age.'' They had a point. The root of credit was credo -- ''I believe'' -- and faith was a necessary component of most transactions in an expanding economy. Borrowing money was ''getting trusted,'' in the argot of Victorian commerce. Among businessmen, indebtedness was a sign that you were ''a man of importance in the community,'' as a euphoric young John D. Rockefeller said after he was ''trusted'' by a Cleveland bank for $2,000. Not financial obligations but the failure to meet them was what made you ''good for nothing.''
 Among the failures in the late 19th century were farmers, whose crop prices fell while they struggled to pay for threshers and combines. Desperate for relief from creditors, they demanded an expansion of the money supply through the free coinage of silver. The ''money question'' peaked in the election of 1896, when the Northeastern creditors' candidate, William McKinley, defeated William Jennings Bryan, the spokesman of the agrarian South and West. Those last two regions, a writer for The Atlantic Monthly observed, had ''nothing in common but a lack of thrift.'' Imprudent borrowers took on debt ''with only a speculative opportunity to pay'' -- and this, the magazine charged, violated the trust required to maintain the credit system. This rhetoric of ''sound money'' concealed a clash of interests between bankers and farmers, Wall Street and Main Street. It would not be the last time that moralism would mask class conflict in debates over monetary policy.
 After 1900, the proliferation of mass-marketed products encouraged a more open tolerance for consumer debt. By the 1920's, millions of middle-class Americans bought durable goods on time payments -- sewing machines, washing machines, radios, automobiles, houses. Lenders acquired legitimacy, reinforced by reassuring names like Household Finance Corporation or General Motors Acceptance Corporation. ''Acceptance'' implied membership in a national community of responsible borrowers. Indebtedness could discipline workers, keeping them at routinized jobs in factories and offices, graying but in harness, meeting payments regularly. Good consumers would be good producers. The economist who proposed this idea was Simon Nelson Patten, in ''The New Basis of Civilization'' (1907). By providing new sanctions for spending, Patten helped create a cultural landscape where consumer debt could find a decent suburban home. He predicted that workers' desires for things would not undermine their capacity for disciplined achievement, as generations of moralists had claimed; rather, the multiplication of wants would become part of the civilizing process, as workingmen and their wives would broaden their horizons and take pride in their accumulating possessions. Patten's New Basis began the project that E.R.A. Seligman would complete in ''The Economics of Installment Selling'' (1927) -- the abolition of the distinction between ''productive'' and ''consumptive'' debt.
 Patten was onto something. The disciplining power of debt was undeniable. Even during the Depression, while Americans cut back on new borrowing, they also denied themselves food and clothing to avoid repossession of refrigerators or real estate. ''Oh, the tension in the house,'' one of Studs Terkel's informants recalled in ''Hard Times,'' ''when Pa used to scramble around trying to get enough money to pay that installment loan. That was the one degrading thing I remember.'' In 1932, a Harper's contributor observed that the middle-class homeowner ''no longer has possessions but only obligations.'' This homeowner did not exactly represent an ethos of self-gratification.
 The true fulfillment of Patten's vision depended on an economically secure working population. These conditions awaited the rise of strong industrial unions and the comparative prosperity of the post-World War II era. The acquisition of appliances, cars and houses was often financed on the installment plan or with the assistance of government agencies like the Federal Housing Administration. Thanks largely to union power, more fortunate workers could depend on steady wages that allowed them to pay off big-ticket items over time. Patten would have been pleased.
 The upward spiral of earning and spending survived until the 1970's, when the midcentury ideal of corporate citizenship evaporated in the harsher climate of renewed international competition. Fearing foreign rivals, American business ended its implicit social contract with unions by seeking cheap labor in overseas markets. During the 1980's, while real income continued to stagnate for most Americans, the ascendancy of Ronald Reagan gave government sanction to unprecedented consumer spending. Reagan's rhetorical refusal of limits combined with the deregulation of the lending industry to detach dreams of luxury from previous constraints. As money worship mounted, job security disappeared and inequalities widened, pundits spoke of a new Gilded Age. By the 1990's, bloated icons of affluence proliferated: the gargantuan pseudo-military vehicle, the 10,000-square-foot hacienda. A bigger standard package of household goods demanded deeper debt and accelerated the pace of the consumer treadmill. No one wanted to look like a ''loser.''
 But for many borrowers, debt has not been just about keeping up appearances. Less-affluent Americans have resorted to borrowing for groceries as well as cars. Public policies have intensified their plight. The freezing of the minimum wage, the tightening of unemployment insurance and workmen's compensation programs, the shifting of the tax burden from the rich to the rest -- these changes have starved public services while leaving ordinary Americans more dependent than ever on debt. One of the most consistent statistical findings of recent years is that about half of all personal bankruptcies have been caused by medical bills. Whatever else our current indebtedness may signify, it is hardly a riot of hedonism.

 Chart shows the median household debt by reasons for borrowing
 Source: ''Drowning in Debt,'' Center for American Progress, May 2006. Full report: www.americanprogress.org; graphic by L. Eckstein

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph By Robert W. Kelley/Time Life Pictures/Getty Images)Chart: ''WHAT WE OWE''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (90%); CHILDREN (72%); ETHICS (70%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (70%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (66%); OBESITY (57%); EPIDEMICS (57%) Credit

PERSON: Jackson Lears

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (67%) NORTHEAST USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2006



211 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; ESSAY; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 1415 words

HEADLINE: Under Western Eyes

BYLINE: By Rachel Donadio. 
Rachel Donadio is a writer and editor at the Book Review.

 BODY:
At a recent conference on faith and reason organized by the PEN American Center, Martin Amis introduced a passage by Joseph Conrad about religious belief. ''Or faith,'' as Amis qualified it in his gravely voice, ''faith, recently and rather endearingly defined as 'the desire for the approval of supernatural beings.' Terribly sweet, that.'' At this, the packed audience at Town Hall in Manhattan issued a knowing and slightly complicit laugh, as if to suggest there was a stark choice between faith or reason --and it would take reason. 
A century ago, Conrad wrote about terrorism in ''The Secret Agent'' and ''Under Western Eyes,'' novels that drew on European political turmoil to address deeper moral questions. Today, some of our most ambitious novelists are struggling to do the same thing -- only a vast cultural and linguistic divide separates them from their chosen subjects, men like those who attacked the World Trade Center. In John Updike's new novel, ''Terrorist,'' published this month, Ahmad Mulloy, an Irish-Egyptian high school student from New Jersey, falls under the sway of a radical imam who encourages him to become a suicide terrorist. In April, The New Yorker published an excerpt from Amis's fictional reckoning with terrorism, which focused on Mohamed Atta, the Egyptian tactical leader of the Sept. 11 attacks. (The book will appear early next year.)
 The two accounts raise questions about how far the Western literary imagination can take us into the minds and motivations of Islamic terrorists. For a writer with no Arabic and a limited understanding of Islam, is literary skill enough? What kind of research is needed? What's the best way in: focusing on the mind of the terrorist, or the society from which he emerges? 
 For his part, Updike approached the subject with an awareness of his limitations. ''I thought that I could present a sympathetic view of a terrorist, or dramatize or animate the terrorist's point of view,'' he said in a recent telephone interview. But the character ''had to be an American. . . . With so many journalists and other novelists on the job, there was no need to try to understand the Saudi or Syrian or Palestinian terrorist. Others can do that better.'' To prepare, he consulted the Koran, ''The 9/11 Commission Report,'' a few books on suicide terrorism and Islam, and ''New Jersey Day Trips.''(Ahmad becomes a truck driver there.) ''I even bought something called 'The Koran for Dummies,' '' Updike said. ''I tried to acquaint myself with Arabic and the Arabic of the Koran as it might be handled in lessons, probably not very realistically rendered lessons.'' (Ahmad studies Arabic at his local mosque.) 
 As in Hanif Kureishi's prescient short story from the mid-90's, ''My Son the Fanatic,'' Updike's Ahmad sees Islam as an alternative to a sex-crazed culture. Other characters sympathize with him, albeit in complicated ways. ''The crazy Arabs are right,'' Ahmad's high school guidance counselor says while in bed with Ahmad's mother, with whom he's having an affair. ''Hedonism, nihilism, that's all we offer. Listen to the lyrics of these rock and rap stars.''
 The suburban adulterers in the bedroom are characteristic Updike, just as Amis's fictional portrait of Mohamed Atta comes off as pure Amis. The New Yorker excerpt opens with a quotation from ''The 9/11 Commission Report'': ''No physical, documentary or analytical evidence provides a convincing explanation of why Atta and [Abdulaziz] Omari drove to Portland, Me., from Boston on the morning of Sept. 10, only to return to Logan on Flight 5930 on the morning of Sept. 11.'' Amis finds the explanation in the repression of various appetites. He imagines Atta as constipated, his digestive system a stand-in for a deeper existential blockage. ''Atta was not religious; he was not even especially political. He had allied himself with the militants because jihad was, by many magnitudes, the most charismatic idea of his generation. To unite ferocity and rectitude in a single word: nothing could compete with that,'' Amis writes. ''If you took away all the rubbish about faith, then fundamentalism suited his character, and with an almost sinister precision. For example, the attitude toward women: the blend of extreme hostility and extreme wariness he found highly congenial.''
 Some writers in the Islamic world say they're wary of Western fictional treatments of Islamic terrorism. ''I find them speculative, sometimes dangerous,'' the Algerian novelist Yasmina Khadra wrote in an e-mail message. ''It's hard for a Westerner to get to the bottom of things. He's forced to dwell on the networks, the operations and motivations of terrorist organizations and to ignore the essential: the mentality, the fundamentalist philosophy.'' Khadra's new novel, ''The Attack,'' is the story of an Israeli-Arab doctor trying to understand how his wife became a suicide terrorist. Khadra is the nom de plume of Mohammed Moulesshoul, a former Algerian Army officer. He said he spent eight years fighting against Algeria's Islamist opposition and sees fundamentalism as ''an extremely violent way of expressing one's identity, one's ferocious need to exist. Hatred against the West is only a catalyzing pretext, a way of rallying the kamikazes around a utopian ideal'' -- establishing a caliphate from Indonesia to Morocco. 
 Islamism can feed on a broader malaise. ''It's more a general oppressiveness of the culture,'' the Iranian-American novelist Nahid Rachlin said in a recent interview. Angry young men in Islamic countries are contending not just with sexual repression, she said, but with oppressive governments, a bleak economy, ''the general frustrations of daily life.'' In her novels ''Foreigner'' (1979) and the just published ''Jumping Over Fire,'' Rachlin, who has lived in the United States since the 70's, writes about people caught between two cultures. In ''Foreigner,'' set in Iran on the brink of the Islamic revolution, an Iranian woman who has been living somewhat joylessly in Boston with her American husband returns to Tehran for a visit and decides to stay. In spare prose, Rachlin explores the unresolved tensions between the familiar cultural and religious restrictions of Iran and the anxious-making freedom of the West. 
 For the most part, ''Arab writers are dealing with the conditions and situations that lead young people to consider violent reactions,'' according to Marilyn Booth, a translator of Arabic and professor of comparative literature at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. She cited the Lebanese writer Hoda Barakat's ''Disciples of Passion'' (1993), a novel about the Lebanese Civil War, in which a brief cameo of a suicide bomber ''helps to fill in the alienation and utter craziness of the war,'' and the Iraqi novelist Muhsin al-
 Ramli's ''Scattered Crumbs'' (2000), set in an Iraqi village during the Iran-Iraq war. Such novels ''are not so likely to focus on the end result'' -- a terrorist attack -- ''that is perhaps more of interest to Western audiences,'' Booth said. ''Arab authors (and audiences) are more likely to focus on process, and the resulting picture isn't going to resemble a front-page news story in an American newspaper.''
 Newspaper reporting, however, forms the basis for a notable recent American novel about Islamic terrorism, Lorraine Adams's ''Harbor'' (2004), about a group of Algerian illegal immigrants in Boston who become somewhat unwittingly enmeshed in a possible terrorist plot. A former investigative reporter for The Washington Post, Adams covered the federal investigation into a group of Algerians accused of plotting to blow up the Los Angeles airport in 1999, and had access to hours of phone calls recorded by the F.B.I. ''I got to hear the conversations that these men had with one another when no one's listening, when they're not talking to infidel white woman Lorraine Adams,'' she said. In ''Harbor,'' the main factor in the young men's lives is economic hardship and hopelessness, not religion. Adams conducted extensive interviews with a jailed suspect. ''He was a believer in certain ways,'' she said, but his beliefs ''started to waver'' when she questioned him. 
 It may take some time for the novelistic accounts to eclipse the journalistic ones. ''We're all a little slow maybe to wrap our minds around this fundamental new factor in American life, and in Western life really,'' Updike said. ''These are deep waters that have us all kind of puzzling.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Ray Bartkus)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (94%); TERRORISM (92%); RELIGION (92%); LITERATURE (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); WRITERS (89%); QURAN & ISLAMIC TEXTS (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (79%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (74%); APPROVALS (71%); INTERVIEWS (71%) Books and Literature; Terrorism; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Books and Literature; Islam

PERSON: Rachel Donadio; John Updike; Lorraine Adams; Yasmina Khadra; Hoda Barakat; Mushin al- Ramli

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); SYRIA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2006



212 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1964 words

HEADLINE: The Truman Show

BYLINE: By JOE KLEIN. 
Joe Klein, the political columnist for Time magazine, is the author of ''Primary Colors'' and, most recently, ''Politics Lost.''

 BODY:
THE GOOD FIGHT
 Why Liberals -- and Only Liberals --
 Can Win the War on Terror and
 Make America Great Again.
 By Peter Beinart.
 288 pp. HarperCollins Publishers. $25.95.
ONCE upon a time -- 60 years ago, to be precise -- liberals were the moderates in American politics. They were flanked on the left by so-called progressives who were either unconcerned about the threat posed by the international spread of Communism or covertly sympathetic to it, and on the right by conservatives who wanted to use anti-Communism as a rationale for domestic demagogy and unilateral military crusades. The liberal ''vital center'' -- to use Arthur Schlesinger Jr.'s phrase -- was not, however, a force for milquetoast moderation or take-half compromise. It was a tough-minded, aggressively creative political movement. It was led by courageous politicians like Harry Truman and Hubert Humphrey, who received policy support from a remarkable generation of public servants that included George Marshall, George Kennan, Paul Nitze and Dean Acheson. Intellectual ballast was provided by Schlesinger, Kennan and the theologian Reinhold Niebuhr, among others. Their immediate achievement was the containment of Communism. But Peter Beinart argues that cold war liberalism has enduring value as well: he believes it is the most plausible philosophical framework for an enlightened American foreign (and domestic) policy in the 21st century. However, he writes, ''before today's progressives can conquer their ideological weakness, they must first conquer their ideological amnesia.'' 
 This is a brave and crucial book that should inspire a much needed policy donnybrook in the Democratic Party. Beinart is a former editor (now editor at large) of that grand, fusty liberal bastion The New Republic. (Caveat lector: I've written for The New Republic in the past, but never for Beinart. And he reviewed my latest book in The Washington Post on April 30, long after I wrote this review.) He writes clearly and concisely, with a pellucid intelligence. His most important attribute as a writer and thinker, though, is what he is not: at the age of 35, he is not a member of the baby boom generation. His political sensibility was not molded by Vietnam, the civil rights movement or hallucinogens. He is not afflicted by the excesses, delusions, indulgences or grandiosity of the current leaders of the Democratic Party. He is attempting some heavy lifting here, nothing less than the resuscitation of liberalism as a ''fighting faith,'' in Schlesinger's term. He comes to the task fresh and defiant, unwilling to accept the prevailing Fox News definition of ''liberalism'' as an epithet denoting weakness or moral relativism. 
 This is not to say Beinart has always been right. He supported the war in Iraq -- for two reasons, he writes. He wanted to prevent Saddam Hussein from acquiring nuclear weapons, which was reasonable. He also hoped the American-led invasion might produce an admirable democratic government in Iraq, which was not. ''On both counts, I was wrong,'' he writes. ''It is a grim irony that this book's central argument is one I myself ignored when it was needed most.''
 Beinart's humility is charming, but unfair to himself. The argument at the heart of ''The Good Fight'' is a product of intellectual growth. It evolved as Beinart watched the disaster unfold in Iraq; it is the result of a rigorous search for principles that might guide the United States as it confronts the challenge of Islamist totalitarianism and the other viral threats of the Information Age. The real irony here -- and it's a fecund Oedipal harvest -- is that Beinart finds such supple answers in the liberalism created by his grandparents' generation and rejected by his parents'. Indeed, Truman laid out the essentials in his 1949 Inaugural Address, offering a foreign policy with three pillars: a willingness to use military force to contain Soviet expansion, an aggressive effort to promote economic development abroad -- especially in Western Europe's tottering democracies -- and the resolve to remain humble in the process. ''We all have to recognize -- no matter how great our strength,'' Truman said, ''that we must deny ourselves the license to do always as we please.'' A fourth pillar was implicit in the third: that in order to be respected in the world, the United States would have to work assiduously to perfect its democracy at home. Hence, Truman's insistence on programs like civil rights legislation and universal health insurance. 
 All the pillars were essential, and each was controversial. The left predictably opposed military action in all but the most extreme cases -- the fascist threat in World War II, for example -- because it believed the use of violence, especially actions not condoned by the United Nations, was immoral and would damage America's reputation in the world (the far left simply assumed that the United States was immoral and ''imperialistic''). Beinart quotes Niebuhr's response to the left's argument: ''We must take . . . morally hazardous actions to preserve our civilization.''
 The right predictably opposed prodigious overseas development projects because they cost so much: ''During the Marshall Plan, the United States spent 15 percent of its budget on foreign aid,'' Beinart writes; ''today it spends far less than 1 percent.'' But conservatives also opposed the Marshall Plan because it gave the money away without strings, often to governments that included socialists: ''Marshall and Truman required the Europeans to draw up the program themselves so it would not bear the taint of U.S. imperialism. And they resisted efforts to use it as a lever to force European countries to remake their economies in America's image.''
 The need for American restraint and humility was at the heart of Truman's liberalism. It was the most significant difference between cold war liberalism and conservatism -- and it is the most difficult part of Beinart's agenda to sell to the American public today. Conservatives passionately assume American exceptionalism, the uninflected righteousness of American power. But ''in the liberal vision,'' Beinart writes, ''it is precisely our recognition that we are not angels that makes us exceptional. Because we recognize that we can be corrupted by unlimited power, we accept the restraints that empires refuse.''
 Beinart spends the first part of the book tracing the rise and fall of cold war liberalism. The fall is a more familiar story than the rise: liberal anti-Communism turned intellectually sclerotic in the 60's. Any local Communist movement -- even a fairly independent, nationalist, peripheral one like Ho Chi Minh's Vietnamese guerrillas -- had to be forcibly confronted, even if the rest of the world disagreed. There was a myopic ugliness and arrogance to the Kennedy-Johnson-Nixon mission in Vietnam, an unwitting abandonment of Truman's humility. And a new generation of liberals -- actually, the baby boom left hated being called liberals; they saw themselves as ''radicals'' at first, and later as ''progressives'' -- responded to the stubbornness of their anti-Communist parents with ballistic self-righteousness. The New Left's anti-anti-Communism was a classic double negative: it played, for most of the public, as simple anti-Americanism -- and the ''progressive'' reluctance to acknowledge the possibility of the judicious use of American power, even when the world supports it (as the United Nations did during the first gulf war), has crippled the Democratic Party's credibility on matters of national security in perpetuity. Meanwhile, the party's white, working-class base -- especially the Roman Catholics -- fled when it became apparent that liberalism now meant racial preferences instead of racial equality. Some of the idealistic, intellectual supporters of cold war liberalism began to call themselves neoconservatives and took their crusading anti-
 totalitarian faith to the Republican Party as well. 
 In the second part of the book, Beinart makes a powerful argument that the conservative comic-book alternative -- the notion that America has the moral authority to impose its vision on the world -- has been a disaster. ''George W. Bush has faithfully carried out the great conservative project,'' Beinart writes. ''He has stripped away the restraints on American power, in an effort to show the world that we are not weak. And in the process, he has made American power illegitimate, which has made us weak. He has denied America's capacity for evil, in an effort to bolster America's faith in itself. And in the process, America has committed terrible misdeeds, which have sapped the world's faith in us -- and ultimately, our faith in ourselves.''
 This is obviously a difficult argument to make, politically. But if Americans are congenitally unwilling to listen to arguments about America's capacity for evil, they are also growing quite tired, thank you, of President Bush's percussive insistence on America's capacity for good -- the idea that America is doing the Lord's work of spreading freedom throughout the world . . . and that things are going just hunky-dory in, for example, Iraq. But Bush and Beinart do have more than a few things in common. Both are idealists, and they share an assumption that seems to be rapidly losing traction with the American people: that Islamic totalitarianism poses as great a threat to the United States as international Communism did. Bush and Beinart may have another common enemy as well: the growing public desire to make the world go away -- the prevailing skepticism about utopian adventures abroad, which is now accompanied by anger over ''unfair'' foreign economic competition and the rush of illegal immigrants pouring across the Southern border. The neo-populist tendency toward nativism, protectionism and isolationism may well render both the Bush and the Beinart forms of internationalism untenable.
 But the world won't go away. The global viruses -- terrorism, plagues, transnational criminality, economic exploitation and environmental depredation -- seem likely to intensify, rather than diminish, especially if the American response remains as feckless as it has been under the current administration. Even if radical Islamic power turns out to be a low-grade fever in a world challenged by more deadly viruses, Beinart's argument for a return to a more judicious American idealism seems essential. The world's problems will not be solved by authoritarians or, in most cases, by a superpower acting alone. If President Bush is right when he says democracy is the truest path toward global stability, he is wrong when he calls freedom a ''gift from the Almighty.'' Beinart knows that freedom is a struggle, not a gift, and that democracy is an achievement, and not always attainable. It requires economic nurture and sometimes military support, and the humility of action taken only within an international context. It requires a fervent attention to detail and, above all, patience. 
 At the end of World War II, America's leaders realized it was no longer possible to retreat behind our oceans after a period of international conflict. We were indispensable to global stability, and there were difficult choices to be made about how to exercise our power and moral authority. Remarkably, on their very first try, Harry Truman's liberal anti-Communists developed a global leadership strategy that was strong, sophisticated, optimistic and humane. Happily, Peter Beinart reminds us that the values and methods Truman deployed were not just a momentary response to the crisis of Communism, but an enduring legacy that can guide us now in a world far more complicated than the one Truman faced -- and every bit as dangerous.


CORRECTION-DATE: June 25, 2006

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a review on June 11 about ''The Good Fight,'' a book on American liberalism by Peter Beinart, gave an incorrect source for a quotation by Harry S. Truman that illustrated one of his foreign-policy principles. It was in a speech at the 1945 United Nations conference on international organization in San Francisco, not in his 1949 Inaugural Address, that he said, ''We all have to recognize -- no matter how great our strength -- that we must deny ourselves the license to do always as we please.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In his 1949 Inaugural Address, Harry Truman laid out the three pillars of a strong foreign policy: humility, aid and a willingness to use force. (Photograph by Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); LIBERALISM (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); COLD WAR (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); LITERATURE (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); WRITERS (77%); BABY BOOMERS (67%); RELIGION (66%); CIVIL RIGHTS (60%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (60%); HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (58%); WASHINGTON POST CO (53%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (60%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (60%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (53%)

PERSON: Joe Klein; Peter Beinart

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2006



213 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; DataBank: JUNE 5-9; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 197 words

HEADLINE: Fear of Inflation Prompts Big Losses in Stocks 

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
It was an awful week for the stock market. All three major domestic indexes fell sharply, and the Dow Jones industrial average had its steepest weekly decline since April 2005. 
 For many foreign stock markets, the damage was more severe. The Morgan Stanley Capital International Europe, Australasia, Far East index, or E.A.F.E., fell 5.9 percent for the week, and the M.S.C.I. Emerging Markets index plummeted 8 percent.
Much of the turmoil in global markets stemmed from concern about inflation. Several central banks in Europe and Asia raised short-term interest rates last week, and Wall Street expects Federal Reserve policymakers to do the same later this month. 
 For the week, the Dow Jones industrial average fell 355.95 points, or 3.2 percent, to close at 10,891.92. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 35.92 points, or 2.8 percent, to close at 1,252.30. The Nasdaq composite index lost 84.35 points, or 3.8 percent, to close at 2,135.06.
 The nervousness in the stock markets strengthened demand for Treasury bonds, raising bond prices and lowering their yields. The yield on 10-year Treasuries fell to 4.97 percent, from 4.99 percent the previous week. JEFF SOMMER


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''STOCKS IN THE NEWS''Note: Graphs are scaled so that percentage changes are comparable.Jos. A. Bank ClothiersNMM: JOSBThe men's clothing retailer reported a steeper-than-expected drop in quarterly profit as the company cut prices to reduce inventory. The shares posted a one-day fall of almost 29 percent.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $25.41WEEK'S CHANGE: -32.46%EST. '06 P/E: 11.21L-3 CommunicationsNYSE: LLLShares of the maker of communications equipment for the military rose after the death of its chairman, Frank C. Lanza, prompted speculation that the company could become a takeover target.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $76.77WEEK'S CHANGE: +2.07%EST. '06 P/E: 15.39La-Z-BoyNYSE: LZBThe furniture maker reported a quarterly loss of $10.3 million, or 20 cents a share, after it wrote down the value of a unit. The company also warned of weak sales because of high energy costs and rising interest rates.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $13.52WEEK'S CHANGE: -9.87%EST. '06 P/E: 14.43Human Genome SciencesNMM: HGSIThe biotechnology company agreed to work with Novartis to develop and market a treatment for chronic hepatitis C. Human Genome will receive an initial payment of $45 million in the deal.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $10.46WEEK'S CHANGE: -1.69%EST. '06 P/E: N.A.TiVoNMM: TIVOThe digital video recording company introduced a new service, TivoCast, that allows users to watch video and other images downloaded from the Internet on their television sets.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $6.36WEEK'S CHANGE: -2.00%EST. '06 P/E: N.A.LaserscopeNMM: LSCPThe company, which makes lasers that are used to treat enlarged prostate glands that are not cancerous, agreed to be acquired by American Medical Systems, a medical devices maker, for $715 million.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $30.64WEEK'S CHANGE: +43.11%EST. '06 P/E: 52.56Novellus SystemsNMM: NVLSThe provider of semiconductor-making equipment said it expected a second-quarter profit of 37 cents to 40 cents a share, well above previous estimates. The company cited strong demand for memory chips.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $24.05WEEK'S CHANGE: +1.99%EST. '06 P/E: 17.34Herley IndustriesNMM: HRLYShares in the electronic components manufacturer fell after the company and its chairman were indicted on fraud charges related to military contracts. A lawyer for the Herley chairman, Lee N. Blatt, denied the charges.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $15.19WEEK'S CHANGE: -21.62%EST. '06 P/E: 15.77(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); BONDS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (70%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); INTEREST RATES (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index

PERSON: Jeff Sommer

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (93%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2006



214 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MEDIA FRENZY; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1353 words

HEADLINE: Coming Soon (Maybe): Even More TV Channels

BYLINE: By RICHARD SIKLOS

 BODY:
LET'S take a poll, couch potatoes. Raise your hand if you are excited about the possibilities of television multicasting. 
 We jest, of course. Chances are that only people who work as lobbyists or media executives have a vague notion what multicasting means, though it has been kicking around for years.
But the word is likely to gain a much higher profile in coming weeks -- not just because a regulatory showdown is looming but also because of a wave of new television channels and ventures that are suddenly being hatched.
 Indeed, as America careers toward its much-touted conversion to the all-digital transmission of television signals -- the digital switchover is now set in stone for February 2009 -- the debate over multicasting is looking like another shining example of the law of unintended consequences when technology comes into play. 
 Multicasting, by the way, is the entertainment industry term for broadcasting several television channels in the space, or bandwidth, of a current analog broadcast signal. 
 There are technical issues related to this, but the upshot is that with new digital frequencies and equipment, a local station can now beam roughly four digital channels on its signal where a single analog channel once existed. Or it can broadcast the current signal and sublet the extra spectrum, or space, for other purposes, like Internet access, infomercials or pay-TV services.
 Now, the first question one might rightly ask is this: Who cares about multicasting when there are already hundreds of cable channels available in millions of households, and a bewildering array of new download services and Webby ways of getting video material? Where television programming is concerned, there is no reason to believe that more is more.
 But there is a compelling argument to be made that multicasting is a public good because it uses a national resource -- the airwaves -- to deliver more and better free television into people's homes. While only 15 percent of America's households currently receive their television over the airwaves, rather than through cable or satellite, some cool new channels may help to quell a potential uproar over the fact that old analog televisions will not work with new digital signals. Bruce Leichtman of the Leichtman Research Group in Durham, N.H., estimates that when the digital switch is thrown in 2009, there will be about 75 million analog TV's nationwide that get their signals only from rabbit ears. Their owners will need to buy $50 converter boxes to tune in after that. 
 Unfortunately for broadcasters -- and, arguably, for viewers -- that 15 percent of households is not a big-enough market to make these new niche channels economically viable. For the model to work, broadcasters also need to make the new channels available to people with cable and satellite services -- and they want the channels to be distributed free, in the way federal law currently obligates cable companies to carry their primary local channels.
 The law is known as the must-carry rule, and several groups, led by the National Association of Broadcasters, are lobbying for what they call the digital must-carry rule: that all their broadcast signals, including whatever new digital multicast channels they cook up, should be included, free, on the basic cable lineup.
 There are several arguments for this. One of the most sensible is that local broadcasters have had to invest small fortunes in equipment to convert to digital broadcasting at Washington's behest, and that this is a way for them to recoup their costs.
 The broadcasters have a powerful ally for this cause in the chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, Kevin J. Martin. The F.C.C. has rejected digital must-carry twice already -- the last time in 2005, when Mr. Martin, before he was chairman, was the sole vote in favor -- but the composition of the commission has changed and the subject is expected to come up for a vote again in the next few weeks. 
 Some cable companies are already carrying the big television networks' new channels -- NBC Weather Plus, for instance, is carried by Time Warner Cable in Manhattan. But that is because cable companies have broad relationships with the big broadcast networks, which supply much of the programming that causes people to buy cable service in the first place. Digital must-carry is crucial for independent station groups, which do not have that leverage.
 The cable industry, to no one's surprise, regards this as rubbish and views digital must-carry as an unconstitutional way to force them to put free channels on their private networks. Kyle E. McSlarrow, president of the National Cable and Telecommunications Association, has said that his members spent $100 billion upgrading their systems over the past decade and would be forced to carry channels ''that may have no appeal at all.'' That would be unfair not only to operators like Comcast, the argument goes, but also to all the CNN's and ESPN's that have to compete on their merits for places on the cable dial.
 Besides, some broadcasters are talking about multicasting eventually growing into a free, over-the-air alternative to bare-bones cable service. 
 Even as that regulatory showdown shapes up, some viewers are already seeing glimpses of what multicasting promises to bring into America's households: CBS is planning an entertainment-based channel that provides the rough equivalent of extra features on DVD's for some of its top network shows; NBC is already offering local weather channels around the country and, in New York, a spin-off of its Channel 4 flagship called WNBC 4.4. 
 Broadcasters like multicast channels because they help them to aim at smaller and smaller slices of the overall audience, which is rapidly being fragmented by the Internet and other new technologies. ''It's a great advantage for us because it gives us a number of alternative platforms to give more local programming to our viewers,'' said Jay Ireland, the president of NBC Universal Television Stations. 
 But in addition to local and network spinoffs, multicasting is giving rise to wholly new national channels. One start-up broadcaster, for example, is offering a channel called the Tube, promoted as a free competitor to MTV; another company, Ion Media Networks, has announced plans with partners to start national channels with health and children's programming as themes.
 Ion was previously known as Paxson Communications, a group of 60 TV stations. Ion's new chief executive, R. Brandon Burgess, said he believed that multicasting was the ticket to making free TV a viable alternative to cable for the first time in decades. That is no small matter as he tries to rescue the company from the brink of financial collapse. Mr. Burgess, a former NBC Universal executive (NBC has a big stake in Ion), said that a package of free national channels could be assembled alongside all the new local digital signals. 
 A typical viewer would then have a package of 30 or more free channels that could represent a far better alternative to cable than what is now available over the air. A similar service in England, called Freeview, has attracted seven million households; it delivers free channels via a set-top box that viewers buy.
 Beyond the free services, companies like USDTV and Moviebeam are already leasing spare spectrum from local broadcasters to offer pay-TV and pay-movie services to people who buy special set-top receivers.
 DESPITE all this activity, it is far more likely that you would raise your hand about high-definition TV than about the equally game-changing notion of multicasting. And, indeed, even if cable companies are forced to carry the new channels by the F.C.C., legal challenges could delay their widespread availability. 
 ''The industry has done a pretty good job of marketing HDTV but not as good a job of even hinting to the public that they could get lots more channels for free,'' Martin D. Franks, executive vice president of CBS, said. The uncertainty over whether these new channels will ever see the light of day, he added, ''does not help.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Illustration by The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (93%); DIGITAL TELEVISION (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (78%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (78%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (78%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (78%); CABLE TELEVISION (78%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (78%); BANDWIDTH (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (73%); DIRECT RESPONSE TELEVISION (73%); CABLE INDUSTRY (73%); INFOMERCIALS (73%); SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (72%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (71%); SUBSCRIPTION TELEVISION (70%); INTERNET & WWW (69%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (69%) Television; Digital and High-Definition Television; Television

PERSON: Richard Siklos

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2006



215 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FUNDAMENTALLY; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1027 words

HEADLINE: The Case for Blue Chips (Despite the Dow's Swoon)

BYLINE: PAUL J. LIM. 
Paul J. Lim is a financial writer at U.S. News & World Report. E-mail: fund@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
THE recent market sell-off, which has already shaved more than 750 points off the Dow Jones industrials, may have come as a bit of a surprise.
 But the real shock, for those investors who haven't been paying attention lately, is how much worse other stock indexes have fared. For instance, gauges of small and speculative stocks, which have been red hot for the past three years, have suddenly turned ice cold and are on the verge of a real correction.
The Russell 2000 index of small stocks has lost 10 percent since its peak. And many emerging-market stocks, considered by many to be the most speculative types of equities, have posted 20 percent declines. ''Greed is finally giving way to fear and safety seeking,'' said Joseph Quinlan, chief market strategist at Bank of America's investment strategies group. 
 Is this change in attitude a bad thing? Not necessarily. It ''happens in every bull market run,'' said Wendell L. Perkins, chief investment officer at Johnson Asset Management in Racine, Wis. 
 In fact, so long as safety seekers do not flee stocks altogether, a shift in emphasis away from speculative stocks and into safer, higher-quality names may be a positive sign that the bull market is evolving, not dying. 
 There are plenty of signs that investors are finding stability in high-quality investments. For starters, while large, blue chips in the Dow have declined recently, their losses have been moderate when compared with those of higher-risk investments. Since April 30, the Dow has lost 4.2 percent while the Standard & Poor's 500 is down 4.4 percent.
 Moreover, the highest-quality domestic stocks have fared better than that. S.& P. assigns letter grades to publicly traded domestic companies based on the quality of their long-term earnings performance. Since April 30, stocks with a grade of ''A'' have held up quite well. They are down less than 3 percent, on average. But shares of companies graded ''C'' have fallen by an average of nearly 9 percent. 
 ''When times are good, when everyone is making money, investors are willing to take big risks because they don't see the pain,'' said Howard Silverblatt, equity market analyst at S.& P. ''But quality regains its appeal when times get tough.''
 For several months, many market strategists have been predicting this shift from speculation to fear. And, quite frankly, investors who acted early probably missed out on some spectacular gains from emerging-market and small-company stocks. 
 Nevertheless, a change in market leadership is long overdue. ''As you get to the midpoint of an economic expansion, you tend to see a shift away from speculation and toward companies that can sustain earnings growth amid a slowing economy,'' said Jeffrey N. Kleintop, chief investment strategist at PNC Wealth Management in Philadelphia.
 By most accounts, this economic expansion is well beyond its midpoint. Most money managers say that we are in the late stages of this economic cycle, according to a recent survey by Merrill Lynch. 
 So what finally scared investors straight?
 Mr. Quinlan says he believes the change is a natural outgrowth of global monetary policy. At the start of this decade, global central banks were frantically easing monetary policy, driving down the cost of capital to jump-start economies. This cheap money wound up stoking speculation. But now that central banks are raising interest rates to fight inflation, cheap liquidity is drying up.
 Jack A. Ablin, chief investment officer at Harris Private Bank in Chicago, attributes the recent market volatility to one central bank in particular: the Federal Reserve in the United States. Though the new Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, has pledged to be more open about monetary policy, investors are increasingly confused about the Fed's real feelings about inflation, Mr. Ablin said. ''The Fed has moved from an environment of transparency and predictability to one of transparency and uncertainty,'' he said.
 If anxiety surrounding the Fed is a driving force behind recent market volatility, investors should probably brace themselves for several more weeks of bumpiness. The next Fed monetary meeting will not be held until the end of June, and even after that session, there are no guarantees that the Fed will clarify its intent.
 David Dreman, chairman of Dreman Value Management in Jersey City, says he thinks that renewed fears over inflation ''could lead to a pretty unstable market for the next six to nine months.''
 Even though this road may be bumpy, the good news is that the signposts are clear. Chris Orndorff, head of equity strategy at Payden & Rygel in Los Angeles, says he thinks that growing fears in the equity market mean that investors should focus on high-quality large caps. ''Your reward for taking risks in this type of market are becoming smaller and smaller,'' he said.
 Mr. Orndorff asserted that earnings growth among large-cap companies was still strong. And, thanks to years of neglect, large-cap stocks are actually quite cheap, relative to small stocks.
 Indeed, the S.& P. 500 trades at a price-to-earnings ratio of less than 15, based on estimated 2006 operating earnings. By comparison, the S.& P. 600 index of small stocks trades at a P/E of 17.2.
 THERE are plenty of other reasons to shift to large stocks from small ones. For starters, if inflation does become a real problem, large companies that dominate their industries should have more pricing power than smaller ones. Moreover, if the economy is slowing, large-cap companies are likely to continue to generate profit growth based on their industry dominance, Mr. Perkins said. That is especially true in sectors like health care and consumer staples, he said.
 He said global investors should also consider shifting from risky assets like emerging-market stocks to safer bets like blue-chip companies in Western Europe.
 ''As far as we know, this is just turbulence,'' he said. ''The hope is that the economy will cool down, taking inflation concerns down with it, and investors will focus on steadier but slower growth.'' If that's the case, it's time to look for a safer ride, not to abandon this trip altogether.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Risky Business''While the Dow Jones industrial average has fallen recently, other indexes have performed worse.Graph tracks the following in May and June:PERCENTAGE CHANGE SINCE APRIL 30*Dow Jones industrial average: - 4.2%EMERGING MARKETS (MSCI EM index) - 16.1%SMALL CAPS (Russell 2000 index) - 8.3%(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (87%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (64%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: Paul J Lim

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2006



216 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET: CHECKING IN; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1151 words

HEADLINE: Manhattan Hotel Deals, With Foreign Accents

BYLINE: By ALISON GREGOR

 BODY:
THE New York City hotel market, which struggled after the dot-com bust and then after 9/11, has been steadily rebounding: occupancy rates now hover around 80 percent, compared with 67 percent just three years ago. And the shift has not gone unnoticed by foreign investors, who see the market as crucial to their international hotel operations, as well as a haven for their money. 
 ''I think all the stars are aligned for foreign investors to be investing in hotels in the United States and, in particular, New York City,'' said Daniel H. Lesser, a senior managing director who leads the hospitality group at CB Richard Ellis, explaining how hotels were once considered somewhat risky, specialized investments, but are now more mainstream.
In New York, the most recent transaction involving foreign investors was announced just last weekend, when Istithmar Hotels, which is controlled by the royal family of Dubai, said it had agreed to buy the former Knickerbocker Hotel in Times Square, at Broadway and 42nd Street, for around $300 million. Although the 16-story red brick building had been turned into office and retail space and includes a Gap store, Istithmar says that it plans to convert it back to a luxury hotel. 
 Joe Sita, the chief executive of Istithmar Hotels, called the Times Square district ''extremely buoyant.''
 Last October, Prince Alwaleed bin Talal of the Saudi royal family bought back a stake in the Plaza Hotel, which he had sold in 2004 with his partner at the time, Millennium & Copthorne Hotels of London, for $675 million to El-Ad Properties, which has its offices in New York and is backed by an Israeli investor. The Plaza, at Fifth Avenue and Central Park South, is being redeveloped into condominiums, hotel rooms and condo hotel rooms, and the prince will focus on the hotel part. 
 Another big transaction was the purchase last fall of the Essex House, at 160 Central Park South, by Sheik Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum, now the ruler of Dubai, for around $440 million. It was one of the most expensive hotel deals in the nation last year, according to PricewaterhouseCoopers, the accounting and consulting firm. The hotel will be the first of his Jumeirah chain in North America. 
 Last July, Taj Hotels Resorts and Palaces of India assumed management of the Pierre Hotel, at Fifth Avenue and 61st Street, from Four Seasons Hotels. Taj Hotels agreed to pay an annual lease of $5 million to the co-op owners of the property and to spend around $40 million on hotel renovations. The hotel has been renamed the Taj Pierre.
 ''It is a very strong market now, so certain people are presumably taking advantage of this cycle and selling into the strength of the market,'' said Bruce Blum, an executive vice president and principal of the Oxford Lodging Advisory and Investment Group, which advised Sheik Mohammed on the Essex House deal. Mr. Blum said that it was unusual for these opportunities to become available all at once.
 Taj Hotels had been looking to enter the luxury market in New York City for several years, having made unsuccessful bids for the Carlyle and the Ritz-Carlton New York, Central Park, according to Raymond Bickson, the company's chief executive and managing director.
 ''If you're not in New York or London in some way, shape or form, you're really not on that global platform,'' Mr. Bickson said. ''We look to the key gateway cities, which are our main feeder markets. You need to have a presence in New York if you want to have brand cognizance of any hotel chain.''
 Other deals involving foreign investors are advancing. Mark Gordon, principal and managing director of the lodging group at the investment banking firm Sonnenblick-Goldman, which put together the Essex House deal, said his team was preparing the sale of two New York City hotels to a new European hotel investment fund, which does not yet have a name. Mr. Gordon would not reveal which two hotels were being sold.
 ''They have a nonrefundable deposit to acquire two hotels,'' he said. ''They were so excited by this opportunity, they actually pursued these assets before they even had time to finish creating their vehicle, which is an interesting commentary on market demand.''
 When a hotel management contract becomes available, fierce competition often ensues. ''There were over 15 or 16 hotel companies that were considered for the Pierre,'' Mr. Bickson said, ''so we're obviously pleased that we're able to enter the New York market.''
 The competition has helped to drive up prices for the hotels. Kirk Reed, a manager of the hospitality and leisure practice at PricewaterhouseCoopers, said: ''If it's an international brand wanting to come to New York, they might take terms or buy in at a price that would be less desirable than a regular hotel investor might take, in the interest of getting brand presence in the States.'' After the deals are completed, international chains are likely to make significant renovations along with other changes, said Jose C. Alvarez, a senior vice president who leads the hotel group of the Trammell Crow Company.
 ''They may increase service levels, as many of them are luxury operators, which are trying to distinguish themselves in the very competitive New York City market,'' he said.
 So what does that mean for domestic hotel operators in New York City? Art Adler, a managing director of the hotels division of Jones Lang LaSalle, the commercial real estate services firm, says the market is so underserved with hotel rooms that it probably won't have a huge effect.
 WITH about 3,700 hotel rooms lost to condo conversions since 1999, according to PricewaterhouseCoopers, New York City actually runs the risk of having a shortage of rooms to meet demand. That demand has already driven up room rates, to $211.80 a night, on average, in the first quarter this year, compared with $189.41 a year ago.
 ''When the city's busy, you get a room wherever you can get a room,'' Mr. Adler said. ''It's very tight in New York right now.''
 Few new hotels are being built, especially in the luxury category. The high price of land, climbing construction costs and a robust condo market have discouraged hotel development in general.
 ''There's plenty of international money, but the basic economics in New York City, even with a lack of supply that is not getting better, still make it difficult to get the economics pointing in the right direction for development,'' said Richard Bassuk, president of the Singer & Bassuk Organization, which arranged financing for a W Hotel currently under development in Lower Manhattan.
 But Mr. Gordon of Sonnenblick-Goldman says he thinks that the opportunity is there for foreign hotel developers. ''The deals may have a residential component, just because the economics are so favorable,'' he said, ''but I think there will be some meaningful luxury hotel development in the city in the next three years.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Foreign investors have been involved in several recent hotel transactions in Midtown Manhattan, including deals for these three hotels that are near Central Park: the former Essex House, now known as the Jumeirah Essex House, above left
the Pierre Hotel, now the Taj Pierre, above right
 and the Plaza Hotel, below. (Photographs by Keith Bedford for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (94%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (91%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (90%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (90%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (75%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (73%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (73%); FAMILY COMPANIES (73%); RESORTS (73%); RETAIL PROPERTY (71%); OFFICE PROPERTY (71%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (71%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (65%); CONSULTING SERVICES (65%) Hotels and Motels; Foreign Investments; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (92%); FOUR SEASONS HOTELS INC (58%); MILLENNIUM & COPTHORNE HOTELS PLC (57%); CBRE GROUP INC (56%); KNICKERBOCKER HOTEL (56%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (52%)

TICKER: MLC (LSE) (57%); CBG (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (92%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (58%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (58%); NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (56%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (56%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (52%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: PRINCE ALWALEED BIN TALAL (53%) Alison Gregor

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); LONDON, ENGLAND (74%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (71%) UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (71%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2006



217 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 3; Book Review Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: It Takes the Village

BYLINE: By LORRAINE ADAMS. 
Lorraine Adams, a writer in residence at the New School and the author of a novel, ''Harbor,'' is a frequent contributor to the Book Review.

 BODY:
THE WHOLE WORLD OVER
 By Julia Glass.
 512 pp. Pantheon Books. $25.95.
BEFORE Julia Glass won the 2002 National Book Award for her first novel, ''Three Junes,'' she was almost invisible in New York's literary life, despite having lived in the city for more than 20 years. Yet she couldn't reliably be called an outsider. Nonconformist writers are typically knowing and self-regarding, but the aptly named Glass is more of a windowpane than an oddball. Her prose is transparent, her characters lifelike, their problems universal.
 Structured like a triptych, ''Three Junes'' is an elegant work. It begins with a widowed Scotsman's 1989 encounter with a young American woman on the Greek island of Naxos. Its central -- and much longer -- section focuses on his son, an emotionally constricted gay bookstore proprietor in the West Village of 1995. The final chapters rejoin the young American woman, now pregnant and a widow herself, a decade later as she happens upon the Scotsman's son during a weekend in the Hamptons. 
 One of the strengths of ''Three Junes'' is its rendering of the West Village, a setting that resonates with the loss felt by Glass's characters. Deftly interweaving the varying manifestations of grief and absence in these diverse lives, she illuminates the ways people devise -- or stumble across -- their strategies for maintaining emotional equilibrium. As the plot progresses, the sounding and resounding of loss and consolation becomes increasingly affecting, like the deepening elaboration of a fugue.
 Glass has returned to both the triptych form and the West Village in her second novel, ''The Whole World Over.'' But while the main figure of ''Three Junes,'' the gay bookstore owner, Fenno McLeod, also reappears, he cedes the foreground to Greenie Duquette, an unhappily married pastry chef. ''Certainty. Clarity. Packaged up with modesty.'' That's how Greenie's husband, Alan, summed her up at their first meeting. But she has grown unsure of this once-adoring man, a morose psychotherapist with a dwindling private practice. He, in turn, is worried about a secret he has kept from her since before the birth of their 4-year-old son.
 Despite being confounded in his own marriage, Alan provides couples counseling to his neighbors, including a pair of gay men at odds over whether they should adopt a child. Further complications arise when one of Greenie's closest friends, the owner of a successful neighborhood restaurant, pursues a romance with one of these men, even as he agrees to let his nephew, the young Stanford-bound son of his conservative brother, live with him and work in his restaurant. Soon enough, the nephew is involved with a local girl who fancies herself a Goth.
 Drifting in and out of the lives of these characters is Saga, an unemployed 33-year-old who wanders off to New York from the rambling old Connecticut house she shares with her uncle, a Yale professor. Saga is afflicted with intermittent amnesia, a lopsided face, a minor limp, difficulty recognizing numerals and a strange gift for visualizing words: ''The word rape -- a very dark purple, strangely royal.'' ''Godfather: Red as a ruby, bottomless vibrant purplish red, a big word, impressive but airy, the silk dragon in a Chinese parade.'' ''Accommodations. (A long, long train, all its cars the same dark blue.)'' One of the novel's most powerful story lines concerns the gradual revelation of how this woman came to be so impaired.
 ''Three Junes'' was populated with widows and widowers, but ''The Whole World Over'' has an abundance of orphans. And the issue of pregnancy, either devoutly wished for or out of reach, affects the lives of all the characters in ways that are never predictable. It's difficult to speak more of the novel's particulars without giving away its many satisfying surprises. Just when the reader feels sure of an outcome, other forces are set to work, shifting the momentum in unexpected directions. This is particularly admirable because Glass is so unobtrusive a writer, conveying meaning not through insightful asides, philosophical musings or verbal pyrotechnics but through storytelling.
 This is her gift, but, paradoxically, it's also the source of the novel's weakness. On the page-by-page level, ''The Whole World Over'' can feel almost obvious and certainly ordinary. There is a great deal about pets. There are a great many cakes. One is tempted to read all these pets and cakes as symbols -- or at least as carriers of some kind of heavier meaning. But Greenie's confections aren't like the boeuf en daube of Virginia Woolf's ''To the Lighthouse,'' which is, in its way, a work of art and a symbol of the novel itself. Mrs. Ramsay's creation requires careful timing, a magical melding of ingredients; if her family returns late, it's threatened with ruin.
 Greenie's pinon torta de cielo, a traditional wedding cake from the Yucatan, ''slim and sublime, light but chewy, where pulverized almonds stood in for flour,'' is one of countless concoctions gracing Glass's novel. But these desserts function primarily as devices to get past the practical problem of moving Greenie through the chapters. They are props for her day job, as shoes would be if she were a cobbler. But the story has little to do with the sugar she's measuring and everything to do with whether Greenie will leave her husband. You can't help wishing Glass had cut back on all those lists of cooking ingredients. And she also could do with fewer dogs -- even the most enthusiastic pet lover may become tetchy after so many scenes given over to The Bruce, a bulldog owned by Greenie's pal the restaurateur.
 Glass is too capable to need recipes and four-legged friends to make her fiction a pleasure. It's a tribute to this unassuming but conspicuously talented novelist that even with far too many of them, ''The Whole World Over'' so often manages to sing.


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Dennis Cowley)Drawing (Drawing by Danijel Zezelj)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (73%); GAYS & LESBIANS (73%); ADOPTION (68%); MARRIAGE (67%); COUPLE COUNSELING (67%); RESTAURANTS (67%); TALKS & MEETINGS (62%); PSYCHOLOGY (60%); BOOKSTORES (58%) Books and Literature; Reviews

PERSON: Lorraine Adams; Julia Glass

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%); GREECE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2006



218 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1280 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: June 11, 2006

 BODY:


	 	 	 			Weeks		This	Last	On		Week	Week	List	FICTION		 	 	 	1		1	AT RISK, by Patricia Cornwell. (Putnam, $21.95.) A Massachusetts state investigator applies DNA and other forensic techniques to a cold murder case; written as a serial for The New York Times Magazine.		 	 	 	2	1	4	BEACH ROAD, by James Patterson and Peter de Jonge. (Little, Brown, $27.95.) An East Hampton lawyer becomes involved in a highly publicized trial that pits locals against the super-rich.		 	 	 	3	2	2	DEAD WATCH, by John Sandford. (Putnam, $26.95.) A political operative investigates the murder of a former senator.		 	 	 	4	3	2	THE HARD WAY, by Lee Child. (Delacorte, $25.) When his wife is kidnapped, a man who deals in illegal soldiers turns to the former military cop Jack Reacher.		 	 	 	5	4	8	TWO LITTLE GIRLS IN BLUE, by Mary Higgins Clark. (Simon & Schuster, $25.95.) A small girl communicates telepathically with her kidnapped twin.		 	 	 	6	5	4	DIGGING TO AMERICA, by Anne Tyler. (Knopf, $24.95.) Two families, one of them Iranian-American, become involved with each other when both adopt baby girls from Korea.		 	 	 	7	8	165	THE DA VINCI CODE, by Dan Brown. (Doubleday, $24.95; special illustrated edition, $35.) A murder at the Louvre leads to a trail of clues found in the work of Leonardo and to the discovery of a secret society.		 	 	 	8	6	6	BLUE SHOES & HAPPINESS, by Alexander McCall Smith. (Pantheon, $21.95.) The seventh novel in the No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency series.		 	 	 	9	9	5	PROMISE ME, by Harlan Coben. (Dutton, $26.95.) Myron Bolitar becomes a suspect when a high school girl disappears after he drives her to a friend's house.		 	 	 	10*	10	5	EVERYMAN, by Philip Roth. (Houghton Mifflin, $24.) A man grapples with aging and physical decline.		 	 	 	11	7	4	I SAY A LITTLE PRAYER, by E. Lynn Harris. (Doubleday, $21.95.) As a gay singer struggles with homophobia in the black church, he must come to terms with his past.		 	 	 	12	14	3	BAD TWIN, by Gary Troup. (Hyperion, $21.95.) A private investigator faces danger as he helps a man search for his irresponsible missing brother; the ''author'' is a character on the ABC hit series ''Lost.''		 	 	 	13		1	KILLER INSTINCT, by Joseph Finder. (St. Martin's, $24.95.) A mild-mannered executive hires a former Special Forces officer who will stop at nothing to help his friend get ahead; from the author of ''Company Man.''		 	 	 	14	16	4	SUITE FRANCAISE, by Irene Nemirovsky. (Knopf, $25.) Two novellas, which came to light more than 50 years after the author's death at Auschwitz, about life in France under the Nazis.		 	 	 	15		1	THE POE SHADOW, by Matthew Pearl. (Random House, $24.95.) A Baltimore lawyer investigates the poet's mysterious death; from the author of ''The Dante Club.''		 	 	 			Weeks			 	 	 	This	Last	On			 	 	 	Week	Week	List	NONFICTION		 	 	 	1	1	32	MARLEY & ME, by John Grogan. (Morrow, $21.95.) A newspaper columnist and his wife learn some life lessons from their neurotic dog.		 	 	 	2		1	WISDOM OF OUR FATHERs, by Tim Russert. (Random House, $22.95.) The host of ''Meet the Press'' presents readers' letters about their fathers in response to his book ''Big Russ and Me.''		 	 	 	3		1	DISPATCHES FROM THE EDGE, by Anderson Cooper. (HarperCollins, $24.95.) The CNN correspondent describes a year of covering the tsunami in Sri Lanka, the war in Iraq and Hurricane Katrina.		 	 	 	4	2	3	MAYFLOWEr, by Nathaniel Philbrick. (Viking, $29.95.) How America began, from the author of ''In the Heart of the Sea.''		 	 	 	5	3	60	THE WORLD IS FLAT, by Thomas L. Friedman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $30.) A columnist for The Times analyzes 21st-century economics and foreign policy. 		 	 	 	6	8	59	FREAKONOMICs, by Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner. (Morrow, $25.95.) A maverick scholar and a journalist apply economic theory to everything from cheating sumo wrestlers to the falling crime rate.		 	 	 	7	7	3	MYTHS, LIES, AND DOWNRIGHT STUPIDITY, by John Stossel. (Hyperion, $24.95.) The ''20/20'' anchor questions conventional wisdom.		 	 	 	8	5	3	MY LIFE IN & OUT OF THE ROUGH, by John Daly with Glen Waggoner. (HarperCollins, $25.95.) A memoir by the bad-boy golf champion.		 	 	 	9	4	7	DON'T MAKE A BLACK WOMAN TAKE OFF HER EARrings, by Tyler Perry. (Riverhead, $23.95.) The man behind ''Diary of a Mad Black Woman'' muses on life.		 	 	 	10*	6	4	BURNT TOAST, by Teri Hatcher. (Hyperion, $24.95.) The actress urges women to pursue their own satisfaction rather than continually sacrificing for others.		 	 	 	11	10	4	POSSIBLE SIDE EFFECTS, by Augusten Burroughs. (St. Martin's, $23.95.) Autobiographical essays from the author of ''Running With Scissors.''		 	 	 	12	9	4	THE MIGHTY AND THE ALMIGHTY, by Madeleine Albright with Bill Woodward. (HarperCollins, $25.95.) The former secretary of state reflects on America, God and world affairs.		 	 	 	13	12	6	THE OMNIVORE'S DILEMMA, by Michael Pollan. (Penguin Press, $26.95.) Tracking dinner from the soil to the plate, a journalist juggles appetite and conscience.		 	 	 	14	11	3	THE GREAT DELUGE, by Douglas Brinkley. (Morrow, $29.95.) A historian describes the human toll during the week following Hurricane Katrina.		 	 	 	15	16	66	BLINK, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Little, Brown, $25.95.) The author of ''The Tipping Point'' explores the importance of hunch and instinct to the workings of the mind.		 	 	 	16*	13	2	CRIME BEAT, by Michael Connelly. (Little, Brown, $25.95.) A crime reporter turned novelist describes a decade of covering cops and killers.		 	 	 	


Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended May 27, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 50,000 other retailers, statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger () indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available at The New York Times on the Web: nytimes.com/books.

Editors' Choice
 Other recent books of particular interest

AMERICAN MOVIE CRITICS: An Anthology From the Silents Until Now, edited by Phillip Lopate. (Library of America, $40.) A century of film through the eyes of the country's best critics.
 THE BIG BAM: The Life and Times of Babe Ruth, by Leigh Montville. (Doubleday, $26.95.) Ruth's on-field genius and outsize personality set baseball on the path to its prime-time glory.
 SPALDING'S WORLD TOUR, by Mark Lamster. (PublicAffairs, $26.) Lamster rollickingly recreates the exhibition baseball tour that Albert Goodwill Spalding led around the globe in 1888-89.
 L'AMERICA, by Martha McPhee. (Harcourt, $25.) An Italian boy and an American girl, in love with each other and with each other's countries. 
 DOING NOTHING: A History of Loafers, Loungers, Slackers, and Bums in America, by Tom Lutz. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux. $25.) A study of our attitudes about working and slacking. 
 BLACK MAESTRO, by Joe Drape. (Morrow/ HarperCollins, $24.95.) A galloping biography of the cosmopolitan black jockey Jimmy Winkfield, who won the Kentucky Derby in 1901 and 1902.
 MOONLIGHT HOTEL, by Scott Anderson. (Doubleday, $24.95.) In a fictional third-world country, an American villain stirs up a war bearing traces of several recent real-world conflicts. 
 THE HERETIC, by Miguel Delibes. (Overlook, $25.95.) This absorbing novel of the Inquisition delights in the details of 16th-century Spanish life.
 ROUGH CROSSINGS: Britain, the Slaves and the American Revolution, by Simon Schama. (Ecco/HarperCollins, $29.95.) An account of the thousands of runaway slaves who served the British crown in hopes of securing their freedom. 
 LA PERDIDA, by Jessica Abel (Pantheon, $19.95.).
 The heroine of this graphic narrative seeks intuitive kinship with Mexican culture, but grim reality intrudes on her folkloric illusions.
 LATE BLOOMER, by C. Tyler (Fantagraphics, $28.95.) A collection of graphic work amounting to a wise autobiographical sketch of the cartoonist as she struggles with life and motherhood. 
 The full reviews of these and other recent books are on the Web: nytimes.com/books. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MURDER (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); FORENSICS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); WRITERS (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); FORENSIC DNA TESTING (78%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (77%); ARMED FORCES (74%); FAMILY (74%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%)

PERSON: DAN BROWN (71%); JAMES PATTERSON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (50%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2006



219 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 3; Book Review Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1125 words

HEADLINE: PAPERBACK BEST SELLERS: June 11, 2006

 BODY:


	 	 		Weeks		This	On		Week	List	FICTION		 	 	1	9	THE DA VINCI CODE, by Dan Brown. (Anchor, $14.95 and $7.99; Broadway special illustrated edition, $22.95.) A murder at the Louvre leads to a trail of clues found in the work of Leonardo and to the discovery of a secret society.		 	 	2	140	ANGELS & DEMONS, by Dan Brown. (Pocket, $9.99 and $7.99.) A scholar tries to save the Vatican from the machinations of an underground society.		 	 	3	4	BROKEN PREY, by John Sandford. (Berkley, $9.99.) Lucas Davenport, working for the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension, searches for a killer.		 	 	4	5	VELOCITY, by Dean Koontz. (Bantam, $7.99.) A bartender becomes an unwitting accomplice in choosing a serial killer's next victim.		 	 	5	4	A WEDDING IN DECEMBER, by Anita Shreve. (Back Bay, $14.95.) Seven friends reunite for a wedding and remember the tragedy that drove them apart.		 	 	6	37	DIGITAL FORTRESS, by Dan Brown. (Thomas Dunne/St. Martin's, $14.95 and $7.99.) A cryptographer at the N.S.A. breaks a mysterious code.		 	 	7	7	TRUE BELIEVER, by Nicholas Sparks. (Warner, $12.95.) A hip young New Yorker finds love with a beautiful librarian who lives in a North Carolina town.		 	 	8	5	MAP OF BONES, by James Rollins. (Avon, $7.99.) An ancient secret society steals the bones of the Three Wise Men to accomplish a nefarious goal.		 	 	9	5	THE INNOCENT, by Harlan Coben. (Signet, $9.99.) An ex-con who was unjustly sent to prison years earlier finds himself a suspect in a pair of murders.		 	 	10	5	A GOOD YARN, by Debbie Macomber. (Mira, $7.99.) The lives and loves of a group of women who meet at a knitting class in Seattle.		 	 	11	66	DECEPTION POINT, by Dan Brown. (Pocket, $9.99 and $7.99.) An intelligence analyst is sent to the Arctic on a special assignment by the White House.		 	 	12	1	GHOST HUNTER, by Jayne Ann Krentz writing as Jayne Castle. (Jove, $7.99.) A powerful ghost hunter and his former fiancee investigate a disappearance.		 	 	13	1	THE UNDOMESTIC GODDESS, by Sophie Kinsella. (Dial, $12.) At her wit's end, an attorney leaves London and winds up a housekeeper in a small town.		 	 	14	10	NO PLACE LIKE HOME, by Mary Higgins Clark. (Pocket, $9.99.) A woman who is trying to conceal her past becomes the target of a killer.		 	 	15	3	THE DEVIL WEARS PRADA, by Lauren Weisberger. (Broadway, $13.95; Anchor, $7.99.) A young woman gets a job at a fashion magazine, and a difficult boss. 		 	 	16*	1	GOODNIGHT NOBODY, by Jennifer Weiner. (Washington Square, $15.) An unhappy mother gains independence by investigating a murder.		 	 		Weeks			 	 	This	On			 	 	Week	List	NONFICTION		 	 	1	19	NIGHT, by Elie Wiesel. (Hill & Wang, $9.) A new translation of an account of the horrors of Auschwitz and Buchenwald, first published in English in 1960.		 	 	2	67	IN COLD BLOOD, by Truman Capote. (Vintage, $14.) A murder in Kansas in 1959 and its consequences.		 	 	3	94	THE TIPPING POINT, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Back Bay/Little, Brown, $14.95.) A journalist's study of social epidemics, otherwise known as fads.		 	 	4	12	THE COVENANT WITH BLACK AMERICA. (Third World, $12.) Essays aimed at improving life for African-Americans, introduced by Tavis Smiley.		 	 	5	37	HOLY BLOOD, HOLY GRAIL, by Michael Baigent, Richard Leigh and Henry Lincoln. (Delta, $15; Dell, $7.99.) Remarkable conclusions about Christ's lineage.		 	 	6	20	THE GLASS CASTLE, by Jeannette Walls. (Scribner, $14.) The author recalls a childhood during which she and her siblings were constantly moved.		 	 	7	4	THE FAIRTAX BOOK, by Neal Boortz and John Linder. (ReganBooks/HarperCollins, $14.95.) A radio host and a United States congressman call for the abolishment of the federal income tax and the I.R.S.		 	 	8	119	THE DEVIL IN THE WHITE CITY, by Erik Larson. (Vintage, $14.95.) The tale of an architect and a killer, linked by the Chicago World's Fair of 1893.		 	 	9	6	EATS, SHOOTS & LEAVES, by Lynne Truss. (Gotham, $11.) An Englishwoman expounds on the use and misuse of punctuation marks.		 	 	10	154	TUESDAYS WITH MORRIE, by Mitch Albom. (Broadway, $12.95; Anchor, $6.99.) The author tells of his visits to his old college mentor.		 	 	11	1	HOW WOULD A PATRIOT ACT?, by Glenn Greenwald. (Working Assets, $12.) A lawyer criticizes the Bush administration's use of presidential power. ()		 	 	12*	19	CONFESSIONS OF AN ECONOMIC HIT MAN, by John Perkins. (Plume, $15.) A former employee of an international consulting firm denounces the American global empire and its ''corporatocracy.''		 	 	13	9	GARLIC AND SAPPHIRES, by Ruth Reichl. (Penguin, $15.) The editor of Gourmet relives her days as restaurant critic of The New York Times.		 	 	14	23	COLLAPSE, by Jared Diamond. (Penguin, $17.) Why some societies succeed and others fail.		 	 	15	35	A MILLION LITTLE PIECES, by James Frey. (Anchor, $14.95.) Both author and publisher acknowledge that this memoir contains numerous fabrications. 		 	 	16*	16	ANIMALS IN TRANSLATION, by Temple Grandin and Catherine Johnson. (Harvest/Harcourt, $15.) How autism can help lead to a better understanding of the brains, emotions and talents of animals.		 	 		Weeks			 	 	This	On			 	 	Week	List	Advice, How-to and Miscellaneous: Hardcover		 	 	1	8	CESAR'S WAY, by Cesar Millan with Melissa Jo Peltier. (Harmony, $24.95.) The star of the television show ''Dog Whisperer'' offers insight into canine psychology and help solving problems.		 	 	2	3	LIES AT THE ALTAR, by Robin L. Smith. (Hyperion, $24.95.) A psychologist advises couples on how to turn wedding vows into a successful marriage.		 	 	3	32	YOU: THE OWNER'S MANUAL, by Michael F. Roizen and Mehmet C. Oz. (HarperResource, $24.95.) A guide to how the body works.		 	 	4	1	THE ALPHABET OF MANLINESS, by Maddox. (Citadel, $15.95.) Ribald humor for men, based on the author's Web site. ()		 	 	5	175	THE PURPOSE-DRIVEN LIFE, by Rick Warren. (Zondervan, $19.99.) The meaning of life through God. ()		 	 		Weeks			 	 	This	On			 	 	Week	List	Advice, How-to and Miscellaneous: Paperback		 	 	1	6	EXPRESS LANE MEALS, by Rachael Ray. (Clarkson Potter, $18.95.) Quick and easy recipes, and what ingredients to shop for, from the Food Network host.		 	 	2	280	RICH DAD, POOR DAD, by Robert T. Kiyosaki with Sharon L. Lechter. (Warner, $16.95.) Teaching one's children how to get rich and stay rich. ()		 	 	3	267	WHAT TO EXPECT WHEN YOU'RE EXPECTING, by Heidi Murkoff, Arlene Eisenberg and Sandee Hathaway. (Workman, $13.95.) Advice for parents-to-be. ()		 	 	4	1	SOUL MIND BODY MEDICINE, by Zhi Gang Sha. (New World Library, $15.95.) A guide to healing that starts with the soul.		 	 	5	50	THE SOUTH BEACH DIET, by Arthur Agatston. (St. Martin's, $14.95 and $7.99.) A weight-loss plan.		 	 	


Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended May 27, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 60,000 other retailers (gift shops, department stores, newsstands, supermarkets), statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger () indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available at The New York Times on the Web: nytimes.com/books.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MURDER (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); BESTSELLERS (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); HOMICIDE (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (77%); RELIGION (71%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (70%); JAIL SENTENCING (70%); WOMEN (67%); SEWING & NEEDLECRAFTS (63%); KNITTING & CROCHETING (63%); FASHION & APPAREL (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: DAN BROWN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAVENPORT, IA, USA (77%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (53%) IOWA, USA (77%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (74%); WASHINGTON, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (79%); ARCTIC (52%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2006



220 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; CHAPTER 3: THE STUDENT; Pg. 60

LENGTH: 6265 words

HEADLINE: Forgive Us Our Student Debts

BYLINE: By Jon Gertner. 
Jon Gertner, a contributing writer for the magazine, often writes about business.

 BODY:
One thing that executives at even the most successful corporations struggle with is how to lure talented candidates into their organizations or professions -- how to ''incentivize'' a job, as an economist might put it -- so that an entry-level position has a chance to become a lasting career. The most direct method, of course, is to pay a dazzling salary, a common tactic at many of this country's elite law firms, which now pay first-year associates up to $145,000 a year (not including bonuses). Tech companies like Microsoft and Google, meanwhile, woo engineers with visions of autonomy and stock options. Tighter financial constraints have prompted the social sector, on the other hand, to test different enticements. New York City recently introduced a program of housing subsidies -- up to $14,600 annually -- available to some teachers who might otherwise look for work elsewhere because of the area's stratospheric housing prices. And a few years ago, the National Institutes of Health began an ambitious experiment when it received Congressional authorization, and many millions of dollars, to create an educational loan-repayment program designed in large part to increase the ranks of this country's ''physician-scientists'' -- that is, M.D.'s who forgo private practice for a career that mixes patient care, typically at a university hospital, with research into diseases, diagnoses and treatments. 
In the entire United States, there are perhaps only 15,000 physician-scientists, down from more than 23,000 in the mid-1980's. For years, N.I.H. administrators have been watching this decline with concern, as medical-school graduates, carrying debt loads of $100,000 or more, increasingly choose private practices that are far more lucrative than scientific research posts.
This career shift within the medical community might strike those on the patient side as arcane and trifling. But it shouldn't. New cures and treatments don't come from big drug companies alone. They're just as likely to depend on the work of doctors in the field who treat sick patients and discern pathologies that a Ph.D. in a lab cannot see. In the early days of the AIDS epidemic, for example, when patients first presented symptoms of a confounding immunodeficiency disease, it was impossible to start with curative work at the laboratory bench. Doctors working with patients were the ones who tracked the symptoms of the disease and then tested various hypotheses at patients' bedsides. According to Alfred Johnson, a cancer research scientist at N.I.H. who oversees its loan-repayment program, the country's small corps of physician-scientists made one of the biggest contributions to the fight against H.I.V. and AIDS.
 Each year since 2002, the N.I.H. has offered to pay off as much as $35,000 of a medical resident's educational debt in exchange for his post-residency commitment to work in a salaried physician-scientist post -- whether at the N.I.H., at a university lab or in the field as a researcher. So far, the N.I.H. has accepted nearly 4,000 applicants into its loan-repayment program. The N.I.H. is among the many other organizations, particularly graduate schools and state governments, that have begun using loan forgiveness in recent years to encourage teachers, lawyers, social workers and health professionals to work in underserved geographic areas or among needy populations.
 One week in April, I visited some of the nurses and doctors in Minnesota who had agreed to take jobs in the state's far-flung small towns for three or four years in return for a sizable reduction in their student debt -- anywhere from $3,000 to $16,000 a year. Last fall, Minnesota extended these loan-forgiveness contracts to rural pharmacists too. Like the physician-researcher, the rural pharmacist is a hidden stitch in the social fabric. ''Often these pharmacists will do a kind of triage,'' Tom Larson, a pharmacy professor at the University of Minnesota, told me. Many work in small towns that lack a doctor, making them the primary health-care expert for miles around. These jobs in the country pay well enough -- typically, between $75,000 and $90,000 a year -- but they are less lucrative than city jobs, and small-town pharmacists are closer to retirement than their urban counterparts. For Larson and many of his colleagues, something like loan forgiveness is needed to help draw pharmacy grads out into the rural areas, near the farms.
 Whether these incentives are financially efficient and socially effective remains an open question among educators and economists. When I asked Alfred Johnson whether the N.I.H. program can replenish the ranks of physician-scientists, he told me that several years of hard data -- the N.I.H. is tracking the careers of those who have received loan repayments as well as those who were turned down -- are needed before a verdict can be rendered. Even then, it may take a decade or more to evaluate the results. For now, the evidence is anecdotal: e-mail messages from doctors telling Johnson that the loan repayment changed their lives, that it helped them enter a field they never could have afforded otherwise.
 A similar indeterminacy colors Minnesota's effort to influence the distribution of pharmacists. Any proof of its effectiveness is years away, but the pharmacists I spoke with equated loan forgiveness with a winning lottery ticket. Their debt was generally about $90,000. Uniformly, they considered it so burdensome as to determine their life choices. ''When the lady told me I was accepted to the program,'' Kurt Schiffler, a young pharmacist in the town of Sauk Centre, told me, ''I really thought I was talking with an angel.''

Higher Tuition, More and More Loans
 One pharmacist's debt is another health administrator's opportunity -- in Minnesota, to subtly re-engineer rural society. But whether debt can help an organization recruit candidates, or even, more grandly, whether a wholesale rejiggering of this country's student-loan policies can help ensure that we have enough teachers, pharmacists, nurses, doctors and computer engineers for the 21st century, would seem to depend on how profoundly debt affects a student's (or a graduate's) behavior. In an era when an increasing number of students borrow heavily to finance their educations, are those with less debt, or no debt at all, more likely to stay in school longer? Will they choose a different career path upon graduation? Will they marry earlier, buy a house sooner or save more for retirement? In short, will they live different lives?
 A striking aspect of America's educational system is the fact that extensive changes in the financing of higher education over the past three decades have failed to inspire a groundswell of discontent. The transformation has been relentless: as the expense of paying for teachers and research has risen, the cost of educating each student has risen, too. That cost, however, is not the same as what a student pays in tuition. State colleges have long been heavily subsidized by state governments, a factor that has kept tuition manageable and, in many cases, even quite low. Yet these subsidies have diminished over the past couple of decades, forcing students (or parents) to shoulder more of the costs. This evolution can be seen as another form of market privatization. Ed St. John, a professor of education at the University of Michigan, says that the increases in tuition reflect a societal choice to make the ''consumers'' of education carry more of its costs. Or as he puts it: ''We've shifted taxation for education from taxpayers to individuals in the form of loans.'' In St. John's view, the free-market transition has produced benefits: hundreds of small colleges that otherwise might have been expected to close have flourished instead, and the percentage of high-school students who go on to college has risen steadily. At the same time, however, complex financing schemes have become a fact of life for students and their families. Those from middle- and lower-income backgrounds for whom financial aid falls short -- federal grants have not kept up with tuition costs -- have taken on loans that are more likely to be onerous and, in many instances, life-altering.
 This is an unintended consequence. Since the early 1970's, the college-aid system -- now comprising federal programs like Pell Grants, Perkins Loans, Stafford Loans, PLUS loans for parents and myriad state and institutional programs -- has been outfitted with countless gears and pulleys. ''It's like the tax system,'' Sandy Baum, an economist for the College Board who teaches at Skidmore College, says. ''Each piece gets piled on another piece. And the way they fit together is generally not something people would design by purpose.'' Even simple questions like what's the best way to save for college -- a 529 college savings plan? a Coverdell Education Savings account? -- have become incredibly confusing.
 One thing that has become easier, though, is borrowing. And not just small sums. Two-thirds of all graduates of four-year colleges now finish with sizable loans; their average burden, according to the Project on Student Debt, a task force financed by the Pew Charitable Trusts, has risen by more than 50 percent over the past decade, even after accounting for inflation. With respect to public colleges, which turn out a majority of United States graduates annually, those who borrow now finish with a median of about $16,000 of debt. The figure for a private school graduate who borrows is greater -- about $20,000.
 Many educators believe that these numbers portend an emergency. They also view undergraduate debt as materially different from -- and more threatening than -- graduate- or professional-school debt, which ranges between $50,000 and $150,000 a student. That's because the earning power of an M.B.A. or a medical or law degree is far greater. ''When young people are training to be doctors or lawyers they should pay the freight because they can earn so much more,'' says Elizabeth Warren, a professor at Harvard Law School and a leading expert on personal bankruptcy. On the other hand, Warren is convinced that rising levels of undergraduate debt have diminished the potential -- long taken for granted -- of a four-year degree to deliver someone into the middle class. ''We tend to talk about student loans in the abstract, 'Ten or twenty thousand dollars -- it's not that much,''' she explains. ''But I think it's really about what it means to be 28 and try to make loan payments and health insurance premiums and still put something aside for a down payment for a house. Think about how much extra room you have to have in your budget to cover those three things. Most can't do it.'' When Warren was at the University of Houston in 1970, she notes, her tuition was $52 a semester.
 The view that today's student debt may have explosive consequences for society seems to be gaining support in some quarters. Recently, two authors, Tamara Draut and Anya Kamenetz, have made forceful arguments in their books (''Strapped'' and ''Generation Debt,'' respectively) that college debt -- and particularly the repayment arrangements between the federal government, private banks and students -- interfere with the dreams and potential of an entire 20-something generation. ''It's not about whether these policies are stopping these people from applying to college, though there is some evidence that they are,'' Kamenetz, a 2002 Yale graduate, says of the rising borrowing rates. ''It's whether they're fair, whether they represent our ideals as a society and whether in the long term they're effective as compared to the policies of other countries that are pulling ahead of us.'' 
 One day this spring, Susan Dynarski, an associate professor of public policy and an economist at Harvard, joined Kamenetz in a colloquy at the American Enterprise Institute to address the question of whether college is still worth the cost. In conversation, Dynarski often returns to an incontrovertible point: a bachelor's degree remains a tremendously good investment, and virtually all estimates put its value at a million dollars in extra earnings over the course of a lifetime. ''It's never been a better time to be a college graduate and a worse time to be a high-school dropout,'' Dynarski says. While she agrees that student borrowing has risen steadily, she counters that critics like Kamenetz need to put that debt into perspective: ''Credit card debt is up, car debt is up, people are spending more,'' she says. ''Among all of those sources of debt, a college education is one of the best reasons to go into debt.'' For those who get a bachelor's degree at a public university and end up owing the median of $16,000, Dynarski puts their monthly payment at about $210 a month. Meanwhile, she points out, average car debt for people who borrow money to buy a new car is $24,000, with a monthly payment of about $450. 
 The issue she raises seems clear enough: Is the problem really student debt? Or is it that student debt is now colliding with a larger culture of consumer debt? And if that's the case, which takes precedence?

The Borrowers
 Most of the questions researchers ask about the links between college borrowing and behavior focus on what happens when students from low-income backgrounds are faced with high tuition and inadequate financial aid. In academic circles, this is called the ''work-loan burden'': the amount of money students have to come up with out of their own pockets to be able to attend school. Faced with a high work-loan burden, do they work for another year before attending college? Or do they go to a cheaper, two-year school instead of a more expensive four-year one? Should they study part time and work part time? For low-income high-school seniors, it's conceivable that virtually every decision made about college is influenced by their willingness to borrow. According to one recent estimate, 200,000 qualified students every year put off college for financial reasons. 
 ''I think the key issue is that these students' aversion to debt is a rational choice,'' Nicole Barry, deputy director of the federal Advisory Committee on Student Financial Assistance, says. ''If work-loan is a high percentage of their family income, then it makes sense that they would be averse to taking on such high levels of debt.'' As Barry also points out, one of the most punishing outcomes occurs when those with a high work-loan burden take out loans to pay for their tuition for a year or two but never complete their degree, saddling them with a future of monthly payments but little chance of reaping any benefit from their investment. A recent report for the National Center for Public Policy and Higher Education, a nonpartisan research organization, estimated that about one in five students who take on loans fall into this category. 
 To Dynarski of Harvard, low-income students should be our real worry, rather than middle-class students with debts. A few years ago, Dynarski calculated that $1,000 in grant aid increases the likelihood of a student attending college by about 3.6 percentage points. Since then, she has written several papers that consider the effects of various state merit scholarships that reward high school students who maintain, say, a B average or better with partial or full college tuition. Dynarski discovered that these programs typically increase the probability that students will attend college by 5 to 7 percentage points. What's more, they shift students toward four-year schools and away from two-year schools. Merit-aid recipients are slightly more likely to finish their degrees, Dynarski told me. While Georgia's HOPE scholarship has stirred controversy for having seemingly been awarded disproportionately to those from affluent backgrounds, Dynarski defends merit scholarships. The bottom line, she says, is that ''these programs increased college enrollment quite a bit.''
 Other experiences have yielded similar conclusions about costs and access. In 1999, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation established the Gates Millennium Scholarship Program, a yearly award given to 1,000 high-achieving students of color from low-income backgrounds. The scholarship is what's known as a ''last dollar'' scholarship -- meaning that once a student has a final offer of financial aid from a college, the Gates Foundation will cover all remaining costs. In effect, it reduces a student's work-loan burden to zero. The scholarship covers up to five years of school and may extend through some graduate schooling as well. When I spoke with Jim Shelton, who is the foundation's program director for education, he told me that the scholarship has two goals: to make a difference in recipients' lives and to help them become leaders in their communities. ''By reducing their financial barriers,'' Shelton says, ''you're allowing students to take on leadership roles on college campuses and spend more time focused on academics. Otherwise they would have been burdened with work or making lesser college choices.''
 The foundation intends to track some of the scholarship winners though age 36, but last year, researchers sifted through the program's data for the first graduating class. What they found, Shelton explains, is that when the financial barriers were removed, students became far higher achievers. A student in the program who would have tended to go to a two-year school went to a four-year school instead; a student who would have chosen a fairly nonselective school chose a very selective school. And students who previously might have gone to public schools opted for more elite private schools. Another curious effect emerged, too. Ed St. John, the Michigan professor and a researcher working with the Gates Foundation, noticed that the Millennium scholars, compared with a control group, are more likely to take a job related to their college major and that more frequently they are choosing education. ''The people who don't have to worry about debt, like the Gates cohort,'' he says, ''are making life choices that are more contingent with their interest rather than to the market.'' Put simply, among low-income high-achievers, those who don't have to take out loans often make different life choices from those of their counterparts who borrow.

The Psychology of Debt
 Between 1987 and 2002, the student lender Nellie Mae surveyed American students four times to get a sense of how much debt they carry and how it affects their professional outlooks. Sandy Baum, an economist in charge of the surveys, told me that over the years there has been a slight ''creeping up'' of the correlation between debt and the pressure felt by undergraduates to go into certain careers. Still, as recently as four years ago, less than 20 percent of those surveyed said their loans influenced their postgraduate career plans. Baum agrees that the percentages may be higher today, in light of tuition increases; she also says that an increase in college-loan interest rates this summer, which may push up monthly payments for millions of students, makes her think that more families will be struggling. And yet Baum is very much in the rationalists' camp, noting that a degree remains an extremely good investment and that student debt is not yet a full-blown crisis. ''If you graduated from college, and you could be a social worker or an investment banker, the fact that you have $20,000 in student debt is hardly a deciding factor,'' she says. ''It would be irrational to make a lifetime decision based on that.''
 Maybe. But students don't necessarily behave rationally, especially when it comes to money. (Mounting evidence in behavioral economics shows that the rest of us don't, either.) Moreover, what's sensible for an upper-income family may seem unconscionably risky to the less affluent. Consider Princeton's experience. When the school replaced all student loans with grants five years ago, it apparently created the first modern university class in the United States -- the class of '05 -- without any significant debts. ''What we were after in eliminating loans was to make it simpler for students of modest means to think about private higher education,'' Nancy Malkiel, dean of Princeton's college, says. ''Those families, we thought, based on what we were hearing, couldn't quite imagine taking out loans. It wasn't part of their experience, it wasn't part of their idea of what was sensible and feasible.'' The administrators, Malkiel adds, did not intend to influence students' post-college careers; mainly they wanted to ensure that a high work-loan burden would not drive lower- or middle-income students away. Still, when the financial aid office surveyed the class of '05 just before graduation last spring, it learned that two-thirds of the students sampled said that graduating with little or no debt had made a significant impact on their postgraduate plans. Some said that becoming a teacher, or working for a nonprofit, was now a viable option.
 This is particularly interesting in light of a White House report that predicted that over the next few years the United States will need to recruit two million new teachers for the nation's classrooms. The mathematics of student debt makes such a goal seem utopian. Two months ago, the State Public Interest Research Groups' Higher Education Project calculated that student-debt loads will be unmanageable for 38 percent of private-school graduates who enter the teaching profession and for nearly 55 percent of private-school graduates who become social workers. (At public four-year colleges, the numbers were 23 percent for teachers and 37 percent for social workers.) While Congress added provisions in 2004 for debt forgiveness on new student loans to help recruit more math, science and special ed teachers to underserved areas, and while a number of states (and cities like New York) have added various incentives to do the same, these steps may not address the crux of the teacher-shortage problem. Nor will easier licensing standards. If we want more teachers, we'll probably need to try something financially drastic.
 That's because loan forgiveness can't necessarily change how students think about debt and careers right after graduation. Perhaps the best research on this subject comes from the experience of several hundred recent New York University School of Law graduates. The pay disparities between public- and private-sector law jobs have widened over the past two decades to the point that law-firm jobs can pay three to five times what graduates earn in the public realm. Many elite law schools, and many bar associations and public interest law groups, have responded to the disparity with various pay incentives -- mainly, debt-forgiveness programs that try to ensure that highly qualified lawyers will continue to take jobs as public defenders and in law enforcement. But from 1998 to 2001, N.Y.U. Law tried something called the Innovative Financial Aid Study. Of the participants who received aid, some students received loans (meaning they would graduate with large debts) and some received grants of two-thirds tuition (meaning they would graduate with smaller debts). This randomized arrangement came with conditions, however: students who received loans could have them forgiven if they took jobs in the public sector; students who received grants would see them converted into loans (and large debts) if they did not enter the public sector. N.Y.U. is tracking these students' job choices for 10 years.
 For all of them, of course, the choice was the same: low debt if they took jobs in the public sector versus high debt if they went into the private sector. But the psychological difference between completing school with low debt (thanks to tuition grants) or high debts (albeit with a promise of loan forgiveness) proved significant. When Erica Field, an assistant professor of economics at Harvard, analyzed the early survey data, she concluded that grant recipients had a strikingly higher rate (between 36 and 45 percent) of first-job placement in public sector jobs than those who had received loans instead. ''I think what my results suggest is that people are debt averse and there's a psychic cost to debt,'' Field says. ''If you can reduce the amount of time that they're in debt, people will value this. You can influence their behavior.''
 The problem, and it's a big one, is not only that college can't be made free for everyone. It is also getting more expensive every year. N.Y.U.'s immense resources enabled it to explore the effects of big scholarships on schooling; only a handful of other institutions in the world can do that. To Jim Shelton at the Gates Foundation, the expense of the Millennium Scholarship Program (even with its $1 billion endowment) is such that he's certain the college-financing problem will never be resolved through private or philanthropic funds. Government must lend a hand. ''The reality is that if we really want to address this issue, it will have to be at a public policy level,'' he says.
 Elizabeth Warren, the Harvard law professor and bankruptcy expert, has spent the spring working out a policy paper that essentially calls for using loan forgiveness to make college free to anyone. ''Let's lend any student the money for college,'' she says, ''and then provide four years of loan forgiveness for public-service work. That means that people could be 26 years old, have a college education, four years of work experience and be debt free.'' In Warren's opinion, the country's main hope to remain competitive is to get more people into college and more students out of debt. ''We need a big program, otherwise it's not transformative,'' she says. ''We don't need changes at the margin.''

The Income-Contingent Repayment Plan
 What makes student loans more problematic than other kinds is that the lender is helping someone invest in his own intellectual development, not in a house or small business. But investing in human capital is risky. A lender can't be sure that you'll land a good job after graduation; even worse, it can't secure any collateral. Nor can a bank repossess your skills. More than 50 years ago, the economist Milton Friedman called these aspects of student debt ''an imperfection in the capital market''; Friedman suggested that it would be more efficient to tax students a percentage of their future earnings rather than to have them take out fixed-rate loans for their education. His idea has taken many different iterations since then, but income-contingent repayment, as it's now called, has never really gained a foothold in the United States beyond a limited option available in the federal direct-lending program. It is, however, being put fully into practice in several countries, most notably Australia and New Zealand. While the specifics vary, the loans generally allow students to pay nothing while they are in school and to pay a percentage of their income -- usually about 4 to 8 percent -- after they graduate. Thus a low earner (a new teacher or social worker) pays the same proportion of his income as a high earner.
 One main ambassador for an income-contingent repayment system in this country is Thomas J. Kane, who recently moved from U.C.L.A. to Harvard's Graduate School of Education. I met with Kane on a recent afternoon in downtown Manhattan. Kane's message is that this country needs to figure out a better way to pay for college and that income-contingent repayment is simply the most practical solution available. As government subsidies for higher education continue to shrink relative to the costs of running institutions of higher learning, we can either squeeze the quality of our colleges or raise tuitions. ''But we can only do that so much,'' Kane told me. ''It just seems like the current system is untenable.'' He also notes that it makes little sense to base all federal aid on a student's present financial circumstances. Rather than relying only on ''backward-looking means testing,'' as he calls the current criteria for student financial aid, ''why not provide some of it based on forward-looking means testing, based on the way your career turns out?'' he asks. Income-contingent repayment promises to do that. Who you are -- rich, poor, middle class -- when you apply for aid before college would not be the main determining factor. And what you become after college wouldn't matter greatly, either. You would still just pay a percentage of your income.
 Lately, the word ''Australia'' has almost become a tic among economists who study educational debt issues, an example of both a big idea and a reasonably good idea. Recently I spoke to one of that system's main architects, Bruce Chapman, an economist at the Australian National University. At the moment, the base line for paying back college debt there is $36,200 (Australian), Chapman told me, which translates into about $27,000 (United States). Any student who makes above that threshold must pay back a portion of his income to the government. There is no monthly check to write; the money is deducted from your pay -- much like the Social Security tax here -- and is funneled through the tax system. Chapman sees two big advantages to the process. First, a graduate cannot default on an income-contingent loan because of inability to pay. And second, the system offers insurance against hardship in repayment. ''Imagine you have a U.S. loan and I have an Australia loan,'' he says, ''and then we both have an accident, or we lose our job, or we're just unlucky for a year. Something that decreases our income substantially. You still have to pay the bank loan. Your income may fall by 70 percent, but the bank doesn't care about that, nor should it, since it's profit-maximizing. In the Australian system, if something unfortunate happens, then the payment is zero.''
 There's no guarantee that a United States system would work like Australia's, of course -- there are great differences in the ways the two countries pay for their higher education -- but that country's example presents some intriguing possibilities. Kane has worked out a proposal whereby income-contingent loan repayment could be implemented through our tax system without costing more than some current federally financed college-aid programs. Kane says he believes that it would make the gamble of going to college far less risky, attracting new students who might otherwise be debt averse, while removing the inhibitions of recent graduates who want to take lower-wage jobs that they find more interesting than higher-wage ones. I asked Ed St. John at Michigan about this. With a massive income-contingent plan, would we have more teachers and nurses? ''I think we would, sure,'' he said.

The Societal Benefits of a College Education
 Still, to convert the student-aid system into a vast loan-repayment organization as Elizabeth Warren proposes, or to take an arguably more pragmatic approach like Thomas J. Kane's income-contingent scheme, requires more than a group of scholars agreeing that students and families face a debt crisis. Our conception of what college is supposed to do for individuals and society has to be transformed. One remarkable thing about the rise in college tuition and student debt is that it has coincided almost precisely with a perceptual (and rhetorical) shift in the value of a college degree. When young writers like Anya Kamenetz point to the effects that college debt may have on reducing this country's economic competitiveness, they are largely referring to what economists call the ''externality'' effects of a college-educated public. Jargon aside, this expresses the notion that a college degree doesn't merely yield a private economic benefit (a million dollars over a lifetime) but that an educated public can keep health care costs down (college grads take better care of themselves), raise levels of economic development (they create more jobs and companies) and increase tax receipts (they make more money and pay more taxes).
 Efforts to call attention to these external, public benefits of higher education have not entirely withered. Though it often goes unremarked, many of the new merit programs started by various states, like Georgia's HOPE scholarship, arise from a conviction that it is in a state's best economic interests to expand the benefits that accrue to a more highly educated population. In 2004, the College Board issued a lengthy report, written by Sandy Baum and Kathleen Payea, that tries to measure some of those benefits; the report details the civic windfalls of education, and it notes that college graduates smoke less, give blood more and volunteer far more frequently than high-school graduates. (They also have far lower rates of incarceration and rely less on government entitlement programs.) If we want a better, richer, healthier society than we have today, the evidence suggests that the best way to get there is to have more college graduates.
 Yet almost certainly the argument about the personal financial payoff of college has become the more compelling narrative -- and when the benefits of college are increasingly considered personal, large personal debts sound like a fair trade-off. Susan Dynarski at Harvard suggests that the shift from ''public good'' to ''personal gain'' reflects how the rewards of a degree have changed since the 1970's, when the gulf between the earnings of high-school graduates and college graduates was not so substantial. ''And then it started going up, up, up,'' she says of the payoff. In the meantime, the public benefits of higher education -- like more competitiveness in the global economy, lower health care costs -- have proved extremely difficult to measure. Economists are often left with correlations (more college graduates volunteer, for instance) rather than causations (graduates were inspired in college to volunteer). It can be vexing to calculate the externality effects of college graduates on a small town, city or state, never mind trying to figure out the imprecise impact on our huge national economy.
 Loan-repayment programs like those at the National Institutes of Health or in Minnesota are beset with similar limitations. They can't necessarily demonstrate, in numbers, what they do for residents who suddenly get a new local doctor or pharmacist. How do we value the work of physician-scientists dealing with a viral outbreak? Or the casual exchange between a pharmacist and a rural neighbor who describes a pain running down his left arm? 
 Still, the programs do present a chance to see, in a modest but visible way, that a degree yields a mix of personal and public payoffs. One crisp April morning in Minnesota, I drove north several hours from Minneapolis, past farm fields and frozen lakes just beginning to thaw along their embankments, to a small town of 3,040 called Long Prairie. Kathy Smith, a 41-year-old registered nurse, met me at the Long Prairie Nursing Home, a clean, bright, low-slung complex on a hill at the edge of town. Anyone working in or intending to work in a rural nursing home can apply to Minnesota's loan-forgiveness program. Smith, who grew up in the neighboring town of Browerville, had $22,000 in debt and a commitment to staying in a rural area. She applied and won the forgiveness grant, which works out to about $3,200 a year. ''It's the small-town life, that's why I stay here,'' she told me as we toured one of the home's residential wings. ''When you leave work, if you're downtown, if you're at the church, wherever you are, you're still around the people that you've helped and taken care of all day.''
 Smith did well in high school, she says, but neither of her parents went to college, and no one in her immediate family (there were 11 children) was interested in a degree. ''The money was tight, and my parents didn't really have anything when we were in high school, so they couldn't help at all,'' she said. When she couldn't get a grant after high school, she worked for five years in a factory that makes eyeglasses. Eventually, she earned a license to work as a practical nurse and, at the urging of her bosses at the nursing home, decided to go back to school for two years to become a registered nurse. She drove to classes an hour away in Detroit Lakes -- it took much longer when she had to wait at a crossing for a freight train -- with a friend in the nursing program. They studied on the drive to and from school.
 What seems surprising is that she made it through at all. She'd been baffled by the loan forms and nearly paralyzed by the idea of taking on large debts. ''A lot of people, they ask, 'What did it cost you to go to college?''' Smith said. ''I say: 'O.K., was that just for the costs of the tuition and the books, or do you want to factor in that we've had to lose hours of work because my husband had a part-time job and I had a part-time job, so both of us had to give those up when school started? And do you factor in the fact that you're not there to take care of your son anymore so now you have day-care expenses?'''
 Smith makes $22 an hour today. ''I wish I had gone on right away instead of waiting,'' she told me. ''Even if I couldn't afford it back then, I should have. It was a lot of years wasted.'' For Long Prairie, too, you might argue. If things had turned out different, the town would have had another registered nurse 20 years earlier. And what small differences could that have made?


GRAPHIC: Drawings: (Drawing by David Foldvari)
DONALD TRUMP: RICH: Makes inaugural Forbes 400 richest Americans list in 1982
rises to No. 26 with $1.7 billion in 1989.
NOT SO RICH: Casino operations in bankruptcy, drops off list in 1990.
 RICH: Returns to Forbes 400 in 1996, peaks at No. 71 with $2.5 billion in 2003. (Drawing by James Taylor)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCIENCE NEWS (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); STUDENT LOANS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (88%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (87%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (87%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (87%); AIDS & HIV (87%); PERSONAL DEBT (86%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (76%); LAW FIRM ASSOCIATE SALARIES (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); LAW PRACTICE (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (73%); LEGAL SERVICES (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (72%); SCIENCE FUNDING (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); EPIDEMICS (69%); CANCER (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (68%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (68%); HOME PRICES (68%); IMMUNE SYSTEM DISORDERS (67%); ONCOLOGY (65%) Colleges and Universities; Student Loans; Education and Schools; Medicine and Health; Doctors; Teachers and School Employees

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (71%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (82%) National Institutes of Health

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (71%)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (59%) Jon Gertner

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2006



221 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 2; Society Desk; FIELD NOTES; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1198 words

HEADLINE: This Wedding Is Brought to You by 

BYLINE: By HEATHER FLETCHER

 BODY:
HERE'S the bride and the bridegroom, and now for the first pitch. 
 After dating for just three months, Dave Kerpen and Caroline Fisher brainstormed about having a dream wedding that they did not have to pay for.
Recalling that moment two years ago, Mr. Kerpen and Ms. Fisher, both 29 and sales and marketing professionals from Little Neck, Queens, asked themselves, how do ordinary people have a sponsored wedding, the kind of over-the-top event -- remember Star Jones's wedding? -- where merchandise and services are traded for publicity and advertising?
 Ms. Fisher and Mr. Kerpen wanted an extravaganza, and they are getting one, complete with a 7,500-seat stadium, dozens upon dozens of roses and 3,000 bride-and-bridegroom bobble-head dolls. 
 But affording it was another matter. 
 Ms. Fisher, a single mother and a sales manager for WBLI, a radio station in West Babylon, N.Y., said she couldn't afford a big wedding and couldn't ask her parents to pay for a second $40,000 wedding ceremony when her first marriage lasted little more than two years. And Mr. Kerpen, an eighth-grade teacher at Intermediate School 237 in Queens, wanted hundreds of guests to see him marry Miss Right. 
 So on July 8 after the Brooklyn Cyclones baseball game in KeySpan Park, 500 guests and an expected crowd of 7,500 ticketholders will view an otherwise traditional Jewish ceremony with a $100,000 price tag, brought to them in part by the Cyclones, 1800flowers.com, the Broadway Mall, the Staten Island Hotel and Entenmann's. 
 ''This was an event to sell, our wedding,'' said Ms. Fisher, who with her fiance, also runs a marketing consulting business that bears his name. ''And also to reduce the cost significantly.''
 This comes at a time when the national average cost of a wedding is $28,000 (far more in New York City), according to the Conde Nast Bridal Group. The notion of a sponsored wedding now has so many followers that simply offering a captive audience of guests is no longer enough to beguile sponsors into donating cash and products. Brides must have an angle, something that will generate publicity. 
 And because sponsored brides also need to have a thick skin to cope with traditionalists who find these brand-name weddings crass, the mission for money can seem daunting. 
 ''It really takes away so much of the beauty and dignity of a wedding,'' said Peggy Post, the etiquette expert and great-granddaughter-in-law of Emily Post. ''You will find some guests who will say it's tacky or crass.''
 Ms. Fisher is not fazed by such criticism. ''Some people are so particular about what a wedding should and shouldn't be,'' she said. ''Those people can have their weddings the way they want to.''
 Creating a sponsored wedding requires more than the love of a future spouse. It requires a love of sales. Antonia van der Meer, the editor in chief of Modern Bride, said she was aware of one bride who dedicated up to 20 hours a week to creating the wedding she wanted. 
 ''It's just a lot of knocking on doors,'' Ms. van der Meer said. ''You really are running sort of your own promotional campaign.'' 
 Christina Fanizzi of North Akron, Ohio, was confident enough in her sales skills to negotiate sponsorships for her July 1 marriage with George Crosier. She has already swapped advertising space on her 175 guests' programs for $5,000 white gold wedding bands and her diamond engagement ring, a $1,000 gown and a $250-an-hour Lincoln Navigator stretch limousine. She will pay only $3,000 of the $15,000 price tag.
 ''I have a huge Italian family, and there's no way that we could've just had a little wedding,'' Ms. Fanizzi said. ''No way.''
 Ms. Fisher and Mr. Kerpen have left only the ceremony as off-limits to advertisers. They were, however, in league to compete for a larger share of sponsor dollars than Ms. Fanizzi, with the possibility of thousands more onlookers and a baseball-theme event, which already has television networks dialing their number.
 The couple ensured that sponsors, like the Broadway Mall in Hicksville, N.Y., which donated the bobble-head dolls, worth $12,000, and the shop that donated $5,700 in bridal gowns and bridesmaids dresses, would get creative exposure in ways other than being included on the couple's wedding Web site, www.ourfieldofdreams.us, and on the ballpark's giant video board. During the game, there will be promotional activities, like picking the best-dressed fan to receive free formal wear from a sponsor.
 All the attention is making 1800flowers.com happy. In return for providing Ms. Fisher and Mr. Kerpen $3,000 worth of red roses for the ceremony, 1800flowers.com will receive advertising exposure like having its logo displayed on the ballpark's scoreboard and the tossing of 25 bouquets of miniature red roses to fans and wedding guests during the game.
 ''We're not looking to sponsor weddings in general,'' said Steven Jarmon, a spokesman for 1800flowers.com. ''We just think this will be a buzz-worthy event.'' 
 AirTran Airways is so accustomed to solicitations from brides that last year it honored 4 out of 229 requests for sponsored weddings, said Tad Hutcheson, the vice president for marketing and sales. In 2000, AirTran received about 40 inquiries from brides and granted 2. With the increase, Mr. Hutcheson said, inquiries must have a creative hook that will prompt news media coverage. 
 Last year the airline chose a needy couple, two couples willing to travel newly opened routes and a fourth who had met while flying on AirTran. The airline tries to ensure the requested travel includes the honeymoon, which is the most likely sponsor gift to be mentioned in the news media.
 ''It basically generates awareness in the market that we're there,'' Mr. Hutcheson said. 
 Ms. Fisher and Mr. Kerpen, who are spending only $25,000 for their $100,000 wedding, added another twist to the event: donating to a favorite charity. They plan to give 10 percent of their cash gifts to the David Wright Foundation, a nonprofit organization started by the Mets third baseman, which focuses on multiple sclerosis and children's causes.
 BUT, alas, for some, the charitable giving doesn't override the garish affair. In addition to breaking every rule of etiquette, said David Popenoe, a director of the National Marriage Project at Rutgers, the sponsored wedding is alarming in other ways. His project researches and analyzes data about American marriages.
 ''To turn human intimate activities into market-oriented affairs is ultimately destructive,'' Mr. Popenoe said. ''You're expressing the desire for a lifelong bond. That has really nothing to do with the economic angle, one hopes.''
 Mimi Kerpen, 86, the ballfield bridegroom's grandmother, warmed quickly to his sponsored wedding. After all, in 2003, he was in ''Paradise Hotel, '' a short-lived dating reality show on Fox. ''We're kind of used to David being different,'' she said.
 Ms. van der Meer, the editor of Modern Bride, said company logos are commonplace now and, naturally, nuptials would follow. ''I think it's just in our culture,'' she said. ''This is an era of corporate sponsorship. Weddings very much reflect on what is going on around us culturally.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Randy Jones)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); MARRIAGE (78%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (71%); BASEBALL (69%); SINGLE PARENTS (68%); GRANDCHILDREN (68%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (65%); CONSULTING SERVICES (63%); JEWS & JUDAISM (50%) Weddings and Engagements; Advertising and Marketing; Finances

COMPANY: NATIONAL GRID PLC (54%)

TICKER: NGG (NYSE) (54%); NG (LSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (54%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (54%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (54%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (54%)

PERSON: Heather Fletcher

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2006



222 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 4; Society Desk; WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 250 words

HEADLINE: Clara Stringer, Alexei Auld

 BODY:
Dr. Clara Stringer, an internist, and Alexei Ormani Boston Auld, a lawyer, were married yesterday afternoon in Washington. The Rev. Nickolas Miles, a minister of the United Reformed Church and a cousin of the bridegroom, performed the ceremony at the Dunbarton Chapel at Howard University, of which the bridegroom is a graduate. 
 Dr. Auld, 34, finished a fellowship in geriatrics last June at New York University. She graduated from the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, and received her medical degree from its Worcester campus.
She is a daughter of Marta Velez Stringer and Hugh Stringer of Milton, Mass. Her father retired as a professor of economics at Roxbury Community College in Massachusetts. Her mother, also retired, was a laboratory technician at the Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research in Cambridge, Mass.
 Mr. Auld, also 34, is the director of legal services at Volunteer Lawyers for the Arts and an adjunct professor of clinical law at Brooklyn Law School. He received his law degree from Columbia.
 He is a son of Rose Powhatan and Michael Auld of Washington. His parents are artists, whose work has been shown at the Fondo del Sol Visual Arts Center in Washington, and his mother is part of a touring group show of American Indian artists sponsored by the State Department. They retired from Washington high schools. She taught visual arts and theater at Eastern Senior High School, and he taught sculpture, computer graphics and design at the Duke Ellington School of the Arts.


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Evan Silverman)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); VISUAL ARTS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (88%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (87%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (79%); LAWYERS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (77%); SCULPTURE (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (72%); GERIATRICS (71%); BIOMEDICINE (71%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (69%); NATIVE AMERICANS (67%); COMPUTER GRAPHICS (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WHITEHEAD INSTITUTE FOR BIOMEDICAL RESEARCH (70%)

ORGANIZATION: HOWARD UNIVERSITY (58%); UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (57%); VOLUNTEER LAWYERS FOR THE ARTS (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); WORCESTER, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2006



223 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Society Desk; WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 211 words

HEADLINE: Danielle Thomas, Malcolm King

 BODY:
Danielle Latice Thomas, a daughter of Deloris L. Thomas of Manhattan and James L. Thomas Jr. of the Bronx, was married yesterday to Malcolm Marcus King, the son of Cheryl King of Jamaica, Queens, and Christopher King of Brooklyn. The Rev. Mariah A. Britton, a nondenominational minister, officiated at Riverside Church in Manhattan. 
 Mrs. King, 29, works in Manhattan as an employment consultant at the animal health division of Pfizer, the pharmaceutical company. She is a member of the Riverside Ringers, an English hand bell choir. She graduated from Emory University.
 Her father is a program director in Long Island City, Queens, at Comunilife, a New York City-financed agency that helps those with mental illness, addictive disorders or H.I.V. infection find housing and social services. Her mother is the director of administrative services at the Medical Insurance and Community Services Administration, part of the city's Human Resources Administration. 
 Mr. King, 30, is a vice president for information technology at Citigroup in Manhattan. He graduated from Cooper Union in Manhattan. 
 His mother is a lawyer in Jamaica, Queens, at the State Housing and Community Renewal Division. His father teaches English at Edward R. Murrow High School in Brooklyn.


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Gina Frederick/Allen Reider Studio)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (73%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (71%); HUMAN RESOURCES (71%); RELIGION (71%); VETERINARY DRUGS (70%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (70%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (70%); HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); MENTAL ILLNESS (68%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (83%); CITIGROUP INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (57%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (83%); PFEB (BRU) (83%); PFE (NYSE) (83%); C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (83%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (83%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (83%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2006



224 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; NATIONAL PERSPECTIVES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1172 words

HEADLINE: A Neighborhood Rises From the Waterfront

BYLINE: By LINDA BAKER

DATELINE: Portland, Ore. 

 BODY:
LAST summer, Cynthia Moore, a 40-year-old mortgage banker, decided to move from her 1,900-square-foot home in the suburbs near here to a condominium in the South Waterfront District, a development springing up south of downtown on the Willamette River. 
 Ms. Moore, who described other inner-city neighborhoods around Portland as ''too hipster trendy,'' said she bought into South Waterfront because it offered ''a mature relaxed lifestyle.'' She said she also liked the developers' focus on environmentally friendly design, as well as a planned greenway along the water and proximity to a new Portland streetcar line, which will connect downtown to the new neighborhood.
 ''The whole concept is spectacular,'' Ms. Moore said. Her 839-square-foot unit will be in the John Ross building, an elliptical glass tower that is still under construction. 
 The South Waterfront District, which consists of 130 acres on abandoned industrial land, is the biggest redevelopment project in Portland history. Construction is under way in the first neighborhood, the $2 billion Central District, covering 31 acres. When the entire project is completed, South Waterfront will include 5,000 residents, along with restaurants and retail shops, and a new campus for the Oregon Health and Science University, which is about two miles above the site in Marquam Hill. 
 In 1993, city leaders decided to invest in the country's first modern streetcar line. The goal was to spur development in the Pearl District, a former warehouse neighborhood that has become a national model for urban revitalization. In 1996, after a California developer tried unsuccessfully to build a gated community on the languishing South Waterfront property, city planners rezoned the site for another high-density, mass-transit oriented neighborhood. 
 ''We were pretty clear about what we wanted to achieve in redevelopment,'' said Charlie Hales, a transportation consultant and former Portland city commissioner. ''The best European city in America.'' 
 South Waterfront hinged on the university's decision to invest in the new area. As part of the agreement, the university stipulated that the city approve and help to finance an aerial tram linking the Marquam Hill campus to South Waterfront. 
 Unlike other hospitals in the area, Oregon Health and Science University chose not to expand in the suburbs, said Mark Williams, the university's project manager for South Waterfront. ''We entered into a unique collaboration with the city and private investors in a burgeoning 21st-century neighborhood.'' 
 Homer Williams, South Waterfront's lead developer, said, ''The key to the project are the connections.'' Thousands of residents and employees at South Waterfront, Oregon Health and Science University and Portland State University, which is downtown, will eventually be connected by tram and streetcar, said Mr. Williams, who also spearheaded development in the Pearl District, which is north of the new district. The tram is scheduled to begin operating in December. 
 With its sculptured glass residential towers and active embrace of the natural landscape, South Waterfront embodies a new trend in high-density urban planning. 
 Modeled after the skyline in Vancouver, British Columbia, South Waterfront buildings are taller and thinner than the standard, said Phillip M. Beyl, executive architect of the project. A small footprint ''gives you greater opportunity to see in and around the buildings,'' he said. 
 Sustainable design features include acres of ''ecoroofs,'' natural roof systems designed to filter rainwater into vegetation and soil. A 1.2-mile river walk will include habitat meadows and tree canopy for migratory birds. 
 ''This is a landmark urban development that's actually going to improve the quality of the natural environment,'' said Bob Sallinger, urban conservation director for the Audubon Society of Portland. ''That's huge.'' 
 In April, the first wave of South Waterfront buyers moved into the twin tower Meriwether complex, which stretches 21 and 24 stories. ''They call us 'urban pioneers,' '' said Michelle Walsh, a retired school counselor who bought a 2,030-square-foot unit for $790,000. ''It's the developers' way of getting us through the construction.'' 
 Mrs. Walsh, a Portland native, said she had always wanted to live on the Willamette. ''You walk into the unit and are enveloped by the river,'' she said. ''It's all windows.'' 
 She said she would take advantage of the wellness center at the Oregon Health and Science University, which is to open next fall, and was pleased with her lifetime supply of ecologically friendly cleaning products provided by the homeowners' association. 
 Patrick Clark, an agent with Realty Trust, said many of the buyers in South Waterfront are moving in from the suburbs. ''They aren't totally ready to transition into a gritty downtown environment,'' he said. 
 The Discovery Center, a $2 million sales and event center, helps define that experience. ''If I had my life to live over again,'' read floor-to-ceiling banners, ''I would take more chances. Eat more ice cream.'' 
 Prices range from $169,000 for a 637-square-foot studio in the Meriwether to $4 million for a 5,000-square-foot penthouse on top of the John Ross, which is scheduled to open next March. 
 Not everyone is excited about the huge district rising on the Willamette. ''The development has obliterated my view of Mount Hood and the river,'' said Kathleen Root, a social worker whose 1893 Victorian is 20 feet below the tram route. Ms. Root, who is considering selling her home because of the project, lives in Lair Hill, one of several surrounding neighborhoods opposing much of the construction. 
 Cost overruns for the aerial tram, which ballooned to $57 million from $15 million since 2003, have fueled criticism of the city's urban renewal process, as well as concerns about financing for public amenities. 
 The city wants South Waterfront to reflect the demographics of the metropolitan area, said Dee Walsh, executive director of Reach Community Development, a developer of affordable housing. ''There has not been much progress to meeting that goal,'' she said. 
 To avoid traffic congestion in and around South Waterfront, city transportation studies show that at least 40 percent of all rush-hour trips must be made using alternative transportation. In addition to the streetcar and tram, a planned light-rail line will also stop near the district, but is not yet fully financed. 
 South Waterfront buyers said they would rise to the occasion. In July, Edward Thompson, dean of the Oregon Graduate Institute School of Science and Engineering, which is part of the Oregon Health and Science University, will move into an 1,830-square-foot unit in the Meriwether. 
 ''My wife and I have never been users of public transportation,'' said Mr. Thompson, 62, who currently lives in Forest Heights, a Portland subdivision. ''I'm hoping for the first time in our lives, we will hop on the streetcar to go to breakfast.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: BOOMING PORTLAND -- Travelers on a planned tram, linking South Waterfront and the Oregon Health and Science University, will have a great view of Willamette River, top. Michelle Walsh, top left, loves living on the river. Kathleen Root says the construction blocks her views. (Photographs by Julie Keefe for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); CITIES (89%); SUBURBS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); LIFESTYLE TRENDS (78%); ZONING (77%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (77%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (67%); RESTAURANTS (66%); RETAILERS (51%); HOSPITALS (50%) Housing; Area Planning and Renewal; Transit Systems

PERSON: Linda Baker

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (96%) OREGON, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) Portland (Ore); Willamette River

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2006



225 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 530 words

HEADLINE: Curing New York Hospitals

 BODY:
Next December, in the final month of Gov. George Pataki's administration, a commission made up mostly of his appointees is set to make its recommendation on how to address the financial crisis facing the state's health care facilities. Mr. Pataki won't be around to implement their recommendations, but we hope the next governor, and the state legislature, take them very seriously. 
 Among other recommendations, the commission is supposed to come up with a list of hospitals and nursing homes that are superfluous and should be closed -- something like the list of targeted military bases prepared for Congress.
 But it has already done important work in prodding troubled facilities to make changes on their own. Several hospitals that have reason to believe they might be endangered are preemptively taking the scalpel to their own budgets, or finding new purposes for underutilized wards. 
 The fact that facilities are making changes on their own rather than taking a chance on what the commission is euphemistically calling ''right-sizing'' is a useful beginning. The commission should get credit for helping them face reality, as well as for taking on a chore that has been anathema to politicians who feared repercussions from health care workers and community advocates.
 Closing hospitals and cutting services is unpleasant work. But it's impossible to duck the fact that New York's health care costs appear to be spinning out of control. Long term care is the most expensive in the nation, thanks to generous Medicaid coverage and fraud that has mostly gone uncurbed. Hospital costs are driven up by huge numbers of uninsured -- 1.3 million in the state in 2005, about a third of that number in the city. 
 These people, usually lacking even an ounce of preventive care, arrive needing pounds of cure. Treating uninsured patients in public hospitals costs hundreds of millions of dollars a year in New York City alone. Mayor Michael Bloomberg's new budget would reduce the looming deficit for city-owned hospitals, but clearly a more fundamental solution is called for.
 Some of the biggest problems, like the uninsured, won't be solved by closing down facilities. But the commission, headed by the former Port Authority chief Stephen Berger, believes that one of the main causes of financial difficulties is that there are too many hospital beds because many patients use walk-in clinics or require only brief hospital stays. The commission says there may be as many as 20,000 excess beds around the state. Opponents say that number is grossly overstated. It's important that the final report makes its case thoroughly.
 Any hospital closing is painful to the community involved, and particularly to the staff that works there, and it's far from certain that closings will do as much to curb costs as the commission hopes. But the issue needs to be addressed. It makes no sense at a time of budgetary contraints -- or at any time, for that matter -- to be saddled with an inefficient allocation of health care dollars. Moreover, the state, battered by charges about its inability to combat Medicaid fraud, does not have a lot of credibility on cost issues to being with.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (90%); HOSPITALS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CLOSINGS (77%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); MEDICAID (77%); NURSING HOMES (77%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); POLITICS (76%); PORT AUTHORITIES (73%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (72%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (72%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Medicine and Health; Shutdowns (Institutional); Editorials; Hospitals

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City; New York State

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2006



226 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL/2006 Hyundai Azera; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1132 words

HEADLINE: An Avalon Knockoff Comes Knocking

BYLINE: By MICHELLE KREBS

 BODY:
SOME 14 months ago, at the 2005 New York auto show, Hyundai summoned dealers, journalists and Wall Street analysts to a reception a couple of blocks from the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center. The main event was the unveiling of a new ''entry luxury'' car, the Azera. 
 The entertainment, appropriately, was by cast members of the Broadway musical ''Movin' Out.'' The Azera prototype impressed many skeptics in the crowd while demonstrating that Hyundai was serious about moving out, into new market segments, and up, into classier models.
The Azera seemed to hold great promise with its handsome, sweeping styling; its roomy cabin; its long list of safety features; its array of amenities; and its price, which Hyundai promised would undercut competitors like the Toyota Avalon. 
 The Azera finally went on sale this year as a 2006 model. Hopes were high, given that most recent Hyundais have handily exceeded expectations, and that the company had set big goals -- 30,000 to 40,000 annual sales in the United States -- for the car.
 Yet after my weeklong test drive, I concluded that while the Azera is a credible lower-price alternative to other cars in its class, it is not the slam-dunk performer I had come to expect. The big sedan falls short of the class leaders in several measures, including ride, handling and mileage.
 On the other hand, those who have bought the car seem thrilled. Owners scored the Azera as the single highest-ranking car -- in any class or category -- in the annual Vehicle Satisfaction Awards from AutoPacific, an industry consulting firm. And last week, when J. D. Power released the results of its 2006 Initial Quality Survey, Hyundai was the highest-ranked mass-market automaker on the list, taking third place (behind only the Porsche and Lexus luxury brands) and beating out the highly regarded Toyota and Honda lines.
 Like many of today's model names, Azera is a made-up word with no meaning. Hyundai executives say they gave their flagship sedan a new name because the car was so different from the XG series that it replaced. Probably, they also wanted to throw off the baggage of the XG, a large car introduced as a 2001 model. Despite engine upgrades (reflected in a 2002 name change from XG300 to XG350), the car was not a success. Its styling was generic to the point of being stodgy, and its driving dynamics fell hard on the fuddy-duddy side of the excitement scale.
 The Azera aims higher. It is not only directed squarely at the Avalon, it seems to copy the biggest Toyota car in several ways. Its exterior lines are soft and flowing. Its cabin looks stately, comfortable and tastefully luxurious.
 Built in Korea on a modified version of the chassis used for the midsize Sonata sedan, the Azera is longer and wider than the XG, though a bit shorter than its primary competitors. Still, the interior is capacious; Hyundai boasts that the Azera has a larger cabin than the costly BMW 7 Series or Mercedes-Benz S-Class. 
 The Azera beats the Avalon on trunk space, thanks partly to its high-set rear end, reminiscent of the 7 Series. If you like the look of BMW's controversial rumps, you'll probably think the Azera is handsome enough.
 Inside, my Azera Limited test car had faux-wood trim and real leather upholstery. While the quality of the materials was generally good, if not great, the interior looked better than it felt. Plastics were harder than the Avalon's soft-touch finishes. The foam in the seat cushion felt hard.
 Still, trim pieces fit together well and the hinged compartments are damped for smooth, Lexuslike operation. In another display of attention to detail, the Azera's trunk is nicely finished, using neatly covered gooseneck hinges like those on more expensive cars. The Azera comes only as a five-passenger model, with two individual seats in front. The Azera is front-wheel drive, though Hyundai officials say they are considering an all-wheel-drive version. 
 All Azeras have a 3.8-liter V-6, which at 263 horsepower is Hyundai's most powerful engine yet, paired with a five-speed automatic transmission that can be shifted in manual mode. The powertrain, a huge improvement over the XG's, takes the Azera from 0 to 60 m.p.h. pretty quickly -- in 6.1 seconds, according to Car and Driver magazine.
 The fuel economy of Korean cars tends to lag that of the Japanese and, often, the Americans. The Azera's estimated mileage -- 19 m.p.g. in town, 28 on the highway -- is identical to that of the Buick Lucerne V-6, though a bit lower than the Avalon's and Ford Five Hundred's. 
 The Azera's weakest aspect is its ride and handling. The light, vague steering conveys little road feel to the driver. The suspension is soft, more like a bygone Buick's than a modern-day sport sedan's, though it could be more resilient on bumps. Clearly, the Azera is tuned for a quiet ride more than for spirited driving.
 Where the Azera trumps its competitors is on its warranty -- its powertrain coverage of 10 years or 100,000 miles compares with three years/36,000 miles for the Ford and Toyota, and four years/50,000 miles for the Lucerne. The Hyundai also stands out for its standard safety features, including some that aren't even optional on the other cars. 
 For instance, the Azera has four-wheel antilock brakes, traction control, stability control and eight standard air bags (two in front, two on the side in front and two on the side for the back seat, plus two side-protection curtains). The Avalon makes you pay extra for a package of safety features; the Five Hundred sells side bags and traction control a la carte. (The Ford sedan doesn't even offer stability control.)
 Hyundai is adding an XM Satellite Radio option this year; a navigation system is a year or two away. 
 The entry-level SE is well equipped at $24,995. That model looks like a good deal not only against the Avalon (base prices from $27,205 to $34,395) and Maxima ($28,505 to $30,755), but also the high-end Toyota Camry XLE V-6, at $26,385.
 The Azera Limited has fancier wheels, electroluminescent gauges and heated leather seats. It starts at $27,495. My test car had the $80 sunroof wind deflector and the $2,500 ''ultimate'' package of luxury add-ons for a total of $29,415.
 It is possible to push the Azera's price over $30,000, previously unexplored territory for Hyundai, and at that price a buyer might seriously consider the more proven Avalon or the promising new Lucerne.
 For now, Hyundai's competitors can breathe a sigh of relief that the Azera isn't the world-beater that some of us expected it to be. But they'd better make it a brief sigh. The Azera's first buyers seem quite satisfed, and Hyundai's recent history suggests that it will fix the car's deficiencies in a hurry.

INSIDE TRACK: Hyundai scores, but not with a slam-dunk.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Interior looks plusher than it feels. (pg. 4)
 (pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW CAR MODELS (90%); SEDANS (89%); AUTOMOBILE RATINGS (78%); LUXURY GOODS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); TRADE SHOWS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); MUSIC (71%); RANKINGS (70%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (68%); MARKETING SURVEYS (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (63%); MUSICAL THEATER (56%) Automobiles; Reviews

COMPANY: HYUNDAI MOTOR CO (92%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (85%)

ORGANIZATION: Hyundai Motor Co

TICKER: HYUD (LSE) (92%); 005380 (KSE) (92%); TYT (LSE) (85%); TM (NYSE) (85%); 7203 (TSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); SIC3569 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%)

PERSON: Michelle Krebs

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (69%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2006



227 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 4; Automobiles; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 690 words

HEADLINE: Hyundai Hits a Speed Bump

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
IT is daunting enough to mount a direct challenge to the likes of Toyota and Honda, but Hyundai's quest to join the top ranks of global automakers has been complicated by the legal troubles of its chairman in Korea and by turbulence in the top ranks of its American operations.
 No longer a late-night punch line, the Hyundai-Kia Automotive Group now ranks No. 6 in worldwide sales, according to Automotive News, a trade publication. And Hyundai was already one of the world's fastest-growing major automakers when it opened an assembly plant -- its first American factory -- in Montgomery, Ala., in 2005. Cars from Hyundai and its Kia subsidiary, which not long ago were cellar dwellers in the quality and reliability ratings of J. D. Power & Associates and other survey firms, have shown steady improvement. Some have even achieved best-in-class status. 
Hyundai is nearing the end of a product blitz in which it is rolling out seven new vehicles in the United States over 24 months. By fall, when the redesigned Elantra compact sedan goes on sale, the oldest design in American showrooms will be the Tucson sport utility, introduced about a year ago. 
 Still, questions about whether Hyundai can sustain double-digit worldwide growth -- sales were up nearly 12 percent last year -- have intensified since the chairman of Hyundai Motor, Chung Mong Koo, was charged last month in South Korea with embezzling $136 million to create a political slush fund. His son and heir apparent, Chung Eui Sun, president of Kia Motors, is under investigation and could be indicted, along with other Hyundai executives in Korea.
 The turmoil has caused the company to delay important projects, including the development of hybrid vehicles and the construction of Kia's first American plant. Kia officials say the factory in West Point, Ga., will open as scheduled in 2009.
 Scott Fink, chairman of Hyundai's National Dealer Council and owner of a Hyundai dealership in New Port Richey, Fla., said the scandal had not hurt day-to-day business. But until Mr. Chung's legal problems are resolved, Mr. Fink acknowledged, ''I certainly have concern as a dealer about the overall direction of the company.'' 
 Hyundai says the turmoil has not affected American sales, up 4.5 percent this year, through May. The company's market share has also increased, to nearly 3 percent.
 But the arrests and investigations pose the potential for significant disruptions. The elder Mr. Chung is known as a micro-manager, ordering modifications to cars late in the design process and demanding immediate fixes for tiny problems. While he has conducted some company business from his jail cell, his prolonged absence might put Hyundai's future under a cloud.
 The Korean scandal came to light as Hyundai's American units work to steady themselves under new leaders. The chief executive of Hyundai Motor America, Robert F. Cosmai, was sent packing in January after falling short of sales targets; a Korean, Owen Koh, succeeded him.
 Likewise, the chief executive of Kia Motors America, Peter M. Butterfield, was fired last fall during a dinner at the national dealer meeting. The American unit is now being run by James Lee, the president and chief executive, and Len Hunt, the chief operating officer, who formerly headed Volkswagen of America.
 Despite the corporate chaos, Hyundai has shown impressive signs of progress. Mr. Fink said Hyundai's new models had succeeded in capturing buyers who previously drove American-brand vehicles, although he conceded that wresting market share from Toyota and Honda remained a challenge.
 Surveys show that customers are increasingly happy. Hyundai was the highest-ranked mass-market brand in the Initial Quality Study released last week by J. D. Power & Associates. More than half of owners trade in their Hyundais to buy another, the company says. 
 With sales of 190,000 through May, Hyundai could end up selling half a million vehicles in the United States this year. Hyundai hopes to reach one million annually by the end of the decade, achieving a goal set by Finbarr O'Neill, the chief executive of Hyundai Motor America until 2003.


GRAPHIC: Photos: HYUNDAI: Finbarr O'Neill (quit), Robert F. Cosmai (fired) and Owen Koh (on the job).
 KIA: Since Peter Butterfield, left, was ousted, James Lee and Len Hunt are in charge. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); RANKINGS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); SALES FIGURES (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (86%); AUTOMOBILE RATINGS (78%); SEDANS (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (76%); NEW CAR DEALERS (73%); HYBRID VEHICLES (72%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (72%); MARKET SHARE (70%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (69%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (69%); INDICTMENTS (69%); EMBEZZLEMENT (69%); NEW PRODUCTS (67%) Automobiles

COMPANY: HYUNDAI CORP (92%); HYUNDAI MOTOR CO (92%); HYUNDAI KIA AUTOMOTIVE GROUP (84%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Hyundai Motor Co; Toyota Motor Corp; Honda Motor Co; Kia Motor Co

TICKER: 011760 (KSE) (92%); HYUD (LSE) (92%); 005380 (KSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423830 INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (92%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (92%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC5051 METALS SERVICE CENTERS & OFFICES (92%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); SIC3569 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (92%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%)

PERSON: MONG-KOO CHUNG (79%) Nick Bunkley

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTGOMERY, AL, USA (79%) ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (91%) South Korea

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2006



228 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: Short Circuits

BYLINE: By Tim Mount. 
Tim Mount is a professor of applied economics and management at Cornell University.

DATELINE: Ithaca 

 BODY:
AS summer arrives with its peak electricity demands, the best of all possible worlds apparently prevails in our deregulated electricity market in New York State. A report released in early March by the Department of Public Service in Albany concludes that the wholesale electricity markets in New York ''are among the most advanced in the nation and that wholesale competition has led to significant efficiencies.'' The primary evidence is that the average prices paid by customers, adjusted for inflation, fell by roughly 16 percent from 1996 to 2004. This drop is indeed good news, and many have seized on it as evidence of the deregulated market's health. 
 Unfortunately, this conclusion is incorrect. Deregulated markets have failed to prompt the investments needed to ensure a reliable future supply, particularly in New York City, Long Island and the greater metropolitan area. Furthermore, New York State still has the highest average price of electricity in the continental United States. In spite of our major hydroelectric plants at Niagara and Messina, the average retail price in New York State in 2004 (12.5 cents per kilowatt hour) was 50 percent higher than the price in Pennsylvania (8 cents per kilowatt hour). 
People pay an even higher price in New York City (20 cents per kilowatt hour). The governor and state legislators must redirect our experiment with deregulation so that New Yorkers are no longer the victim of poorly functioning markets in which key decisions are made in an ad hoc and highly political way.
 In 2004, the New York Independent System Operator, the nonprofit organization formed in 1998 to oversee the state's deregulated electricity market and transmission system, expected that new electricity generating capacity would reliably meet demand in the state for another 10 years. Only one year later, the organization predicted that generating capacity would fall below that standard by 2008, only two years from now. 
 Why the change? One reason is that the price of natural gas is much higher now in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina and the uncertainty it created about future supplies. But another important reason is that more vigilant regulation after the California energy crisis in 2000-01 has reduced price spikes in the wholesale electricity market. Although this latter development sounds like a benefit for customers, the average annual price is now actually higher. 
 Moreover, by reducing price spikes, state regulators have also made it much less financially attractive for investors to build the new projects needed to meet high demand on hot summer days. 
 Did regulators in the state respond to this problem? Yes, they offered higher supplementary payments to generators in other markets in an effort to induce them to provide additional electricity for peak consumption periods. But this solution has not yielded sufficient investments in new capacity. In December, the New York Independent System Operator sent a letter to the chief executives of four downstate utilities ''soliciting market-based and regulatory backstop solutions to the reliability needs'' to be submitted by Feb. 15. Almost a month after that deadline, the same request had to be sent out again extending the submission date -- making it clear that investors had yet to show any significant response. A report issued last month shows the capacity shortfall for 2008 still exists. 
 Since ensuring that New York City has enough electricity is essential, a solution will be found, probably at the last minute when options will be limited. The lights will stay on. Nevertheless, regulators still have a lot to do, starting with figuring out how to bring prices down to the levels paid by customers in neighboring states. Instead of spending hundreds of millions of dollars on supplementary payments to existing suppliers via capacity markets, the state should contract directly with investors willing to build new power plants. 
 Although deregulation in New York has led to some valuable improvements in the day-to-day operations of the supply system, it has failed to initiate the projects needed to ensure reliable sources of electricity in the future. The first step is for New York State to stop the happy talk and recognize that its current approach is not working. Better energy planning is essential if New York is going to identify investment needs far enough in advance to meet its energy needs efficiently and dependably.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 18, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An Op-Ed last week, about electricity deregulation, misspelled the location of a major hydroelectric plant in New York. It is Massena, not Messina.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEREGULATION (93%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); UTILITY RESTRUCTURING (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); ELECTRICITY WHOLESALERS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (71%); EVIDENCE (71%); TROPICAL STORMS (68%); CITIES (68%); HURRICANE KATRINA (64%); EXECUTIVES (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); ALBANY, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2006



229 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; STREET LEVEL/St. George; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: Movie Glitz By the Beach. (No, Not That Beach.)

BYLINE: By SAKI KNAFO

 BODY:
ONLY four days after the Cannes Film Festival wrapped up on May 28, the real action got started, 3,981 miles from the sun-drenched beaches of southern France.
 On that rain-swept June 1, a red carpet was rolled out at the St. George Theater. The baroque picture palace is in St. George, a hilly Staten Island neighborhood dotted with a ragtag mix of old brick high-rises and Victorian homes. The plush carpet was self-consciously avoided by all but a few of the hundreds of people who poured into the building, suggesting that the inaugural Staten Island Film Festival had a way to go in proving its main claim: that a borough widely known for a landfill can be glamorous.
Among the mostly local crowd of 1,500 spectators, filmmakers and politicians was Lance Reha, at age 41 the eminence grise of Staten Island filmmaking. ''I started when I was 13 years old,'' said Mr. Reha, who has produced and directed no fewer than 19 micro-budget thrillers, including ''The Thing in the Hallway'' and ''Pages of Sin.'' 
 Bette Midler didn't make it, but a Staten Island-born Bette Midler impersonator was in attendance, as was James Redfield, the author of best sellers like ''The Celestine Prophecy.'' A movie version of that book, for which Mr. Redfield collaborated on the screenplay, had its premiere in the theater that evening. The film, one of 113 screened during the festival, was directed by a former Staten Islander, Armand Mastroianni. 
 At a Q. & A. session after the screening, Mr. Redfield, who lives in Florida, acknowledged that this was his first visit to the borough. ''Nice people,'' he observed from the stage, gazing down at a packed house. ''There's a kind of field of consciousness here that's a lot different from downtown.''
 St. George is no Downtown Manhattan. During the 1990's, the neighborhood fell on hard times. ''There was no night life,'' said Cesar Claro, the executive director of the Staten Island Economic Development Corporation, the business-improvement organization that organized the festival. 
 In 2001, the city financed a series of revitalization efforts, including the construction of a sleek minor-league baseball stadium on the waterfront and the $8 million refurbishment of the ferry terminal. 
 In 2004, a local dance teacher named Rosemary Cappozalo, along with two daughters, Doreen Cugno and Luanne Sorrentino, acquired and renovated the dilapidated St. George Theater, now home to several arts performances a week. But St. George is still best known as an entry point to an island of domesticity.
 Determined to add pizazz to the neighborhood's image, and emboldened by the success of the Tribeca Film Festival, the development corporation started planning for the film festival in 2004. The St. George Theater, now resplendent in gold leaf and red velvet, was a clear choice of venue. 
 The St. George was not the only site of the four-day extravaganza, which ended last Sunday. At the Staten Island Academy, a private school in the affluent neighborhood of Todt Hill, the directorial debut of Gregorio Smith, a sometime Staten Islander, was screened in the cozy auditorium. Mr. Smith's short, ''Staten Island Catapult,'' follows a disgruntled commuter as he schemes to build a catapult that would launch people from St. George to -- where else? -- Downtown Manhattan. 
 An Orson Welles-like narrator puts the character's inevitable failure into perspective: ''You can't fault a man for dreaming.''
 Nor can you fault a 31-year-old aspiring filmmaker, eager to party, for moving from Staten Island to Williamsburg, Brooklyn, as Mr. Smith did in 2004.
 From the back of the half-filled school auditorium, Mr. Smith watched the opening moments of his 36-minute video. Shots of subway trains and buses glided along to the music of Edvard Grieg. Then the music abruptly stopped and -- honk! -- there, in all its lovable clumsiness, appeared the lumbering orange Staten Island Ferry.
 After the screening, Mr. Smith seemed eager to get back to St. George, if only to hurry aboard the vessel that remains the neighborhood's foremost attraction. (Honk.) ''Not even when I lived here,'' he said, ''did I hang out on Staten Island on a Friday night.''


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Jin Lee/Staten Island Advance)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (91%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); BEACHES (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (74%); DANCE (72%); BUDGETS (72%); FERRIES (71%); WRITERS (70%); EXECUTIVES (67%); BESTSELLERS (65%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); BASEBALL (60%); LANDFILLS (54%) Motion Pictures; Staten Island Film Festival; St George Theater (Staten Island, NY)

PERSON: Saki Knafo

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); FRANCE (73%) Staten Island (NYC); New York City

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2006



230 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; HOME FRONT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: Nurturing Home Producers to Run Retail Shops 

BYLINE: By Joseph P. Fried. 
This column about the local economy appears every other week. E-mail address: homefront@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
ENTER 704 Fulton Street in the Fort Greene section of Brooklyn and you will find yourself in what appears to be a fashionable boutique with a variety of offerings.
 Handcrafted jewelry and handmade African-inspired dresses beckon. So do home decoration items, gifts for weddings and other occasions, diaries awaiting entries, and handmade soaps and other skin care products. But rather than being the single shop it seems, the operation is actually nine separate businesses -- laid out, though, to avoid the atmosphere of a mall and to emphasize the noncompetitive relationship among the occupants. There are no dividers or other obvious demarcations, for example, between adjacent businesses.
The place is the 4W Circle of Art and Enterprise, a 15-year-old incubator for retail shops that describes its mission as ''providing home-based African-American entrepreneurs, especially women, the opportunity to realize the dream of establishing their own retail stores.'' A space at 4W is not the realization of the dream, however, but a way station toward it. As with any business incubator, occupancy at 4W is intended to be relatively short term and to provide owners of new businesses with the experience and support they believe they need to survive or grow. 
 ''They come in here to get a foothold and grow to the point where they can move into their own space,'' said Selma Jackson, who operates 4W, which she and three other women established. (No, 4W was not meant to stand for four women, she said, but for the motto ''Women Working and Winning for the World.'') 
 One hundred to 125 business owners have operated at 4W since it opened in an increasingly gentrified neighborhood, Ms. Jackson said. Most have made the items they have sold, and about 20 of the total have been men. The average stay has been two to three years, she said, and current space and service fees average $450 a month for up to 50 square feet of space.
 ''When they come in, I try to get them to think about how long they want to be here and what they will do at the end,'' Ms. Jackson said recently. ''We have periodic discussions toward their goals.''
 She said she knew of eight business owners, out of the 100 to 125 former occupants, who went on to open their own stores, and of a ninth who switched to a wholesale business. Many of the rest, she said, went back to being home based or moved into existing stores to share space.
 ''It may look like a small number,'' she said of those who opened their own shops, ''but given what it takes to start a store, I think we're a success story.'' She said another contribution of 4W was that it has enabled owners of home-based businesses to ''find out at a nominal cost'' -- a reference to the fees -- if opening a store was really suitable for them.
 So far, Cae Byng, one of the nine current occupants, remains convinced that it is suitable for her. At her 15-square-foot space at 4W, Ms. Byng, 37, who owns J & L Handmade Soap, said she began making skin care products at her Brooklyn home four years ago and sells them from there. For the last year she has also sold her soap at 4W , which she learned about at a women's business center that the federal Small Business Administration helps to finance at the Local Development Corporation of East New York. 
 ''It may be a year until I'm ready and able to have my own space,'' Ms. Byng said.
 Besides general advice and encouragement, Ms. Jackson said 4W also provides information about vacant stores and possible sources of financing.
 Business incubators are usually associated with the technology and manufacturing sectors, and Tracy Kitts, vice president of the National Business Incubation Association, said he had heard of only a few retail shop incubators among more than 900 business incubators in the United States. Of at least two retail shop incubators that opened in New York City in the last five years, one recently closed.
 Ms. Jackson, 61, said she and her co-founders, who are no longer involved with 4W, started the venture because it was hard for owners of home-based businesses to obtain financing to open stores, something she saw in her previous work as a bank branch manager. 4W, she said, was started to provide an opportunity for such owners to improve their odds with lenders by ''building up a track record in a retail setting.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: INCUBATOR FOR BUSINESS -- Selma Jackson, left, manager of 4W Circle of Art and Enterprise in Brooklyn, with Cae Byng, whose company is J & L Handmade Soap. (Photo by Angela Jimenez for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (93%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); WOMEN (76%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (72%); SKIN CARE PRODUCTS (71%); WHOLESALERS (71%) Retail Stores and Trade; Blacks; Women; Minorities (US); Entrepreneurship

PERSON: Joseph P Fried

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2006



231 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 4; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: Short Circuits

BYLINE: By Tim Mount. 
Tim Mount is a professor of applied economics and management at Cornell University.

DATELINE: Ithaca 

 BODY:
AS summer arrives with its peak electricity demands, the best of all possible worlds apparently prevails in our deregulated electricity market in New York State. A report released in early March by the Department of Public Service in Albany concludes that the wholesale electricity markets in New York ''are among the most advanced in the nation and that wholesale competition has led to significant efficiencies.'' The primary evidence is that the average prices paid by customers, adjusted for inflation, fell by roughly 16 percent from 1996 to 2004. This drop is indeed good news, and many have seized on it as evidence of the deregulated market's health. 
 Unfortunately, this conclusion is incorrect. Deregulated markets have failed to prompt the investments needed to ensure a reliable future supply, particularly in New York City, Long Island and the greater metropolitan area. Furthermore, New York State still has the highest average price of electricity in the continental United States. In spite of our major hydroelectric plants at Niagara and Messina, the average retail price in New York State in 2004 (12.5 cents per kilowatt hour) was 50 percent higher than the price in Pennsylvania (8 cents per kilowatt hour). 
People pay an even higher price in New York City (20 cents per kilowatt hour). The governor and state legislators must redirect our experiment with deregulation so that New Yorkers are no longer the victim of poorly functioning markets in which key decisions are made in an ad hoc and highly political way.
 In 2004, the New York Independent System Operator, the nonprofit organization formed in 1998 to oversee the state's deregulated electricity market and transmission system, expected that new electricity generating capacity would reliably meet demand in the state for another 10 years. Only one year later, the organization predicted that generating capacity would fall below that standard by 2008, only two years from now. 
 Why the change? One reason is that the price of natural gas is much higher now in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina and the uncertainty it created about future supplies. But another important reason is that more vigilant regulation after the California energy crisis in 2000-01 has reduced price spikes in the wholesale electricity market. Although this latter development sounds like a benefit for customers, the average annual price is now actually higher. 
 Moreover, by reducing price spikes, state regulators have also made it much less financially attractive for investors to build the new projects needed to meet high demand on hot summer days. 
 Did regulators in the state respond to this problem? Yes, they offered higher supplementary payments to generators in other markets in an effort to induce them to provide additional electricity for peak consumption periods. But this solution has not yielded sufficient investments in new capacity. In December, the New York Independent System Operator sent a letter to the chief executives of four downstate utilities ''soliciting market-based and regulatory backstop solutions to the reliability needs'' to be submitted by Feb. 15. Almost a month after that deadline, the same request had to be sent out again extending the submission date -- making it clear that investors had yet to show any significant response. A report issued last month shows the capacity shortfall for 2008 still exists. 
 Since ensuring that New York City has enough electricity is essential, a solution will be found, probably at the last minute when options will be limited. The lights will stay on. Nevertheless, regulators still have a lot to do, starting with figuring out how to bring prices down to the levels paid by customers in neighboring states. Instead of spending hundreds of millions of dollars on supplementary payments to existing suppliers via capacity markets, the state should contract directly with investors willing to build new power plants. 
 Although deregulation in New York has led to some valuable improvements in the day-to-day operations of the supply system, it has failed to initiate the projects needed to ensure reliable sources of electricity in the future. The first step is for New York State to stop the happy talk and recognize that its current approach is not working. Better energy planning is essential if New York is going to identify investment needs far enough in advance to meet its energy needs efficiently and dependably. 

CORRECTION-DATE: June 18, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An Op-Ed last week, about electricity deregulation, misspelled the location of a major hydroelectric plant in New York. It is Massena, not Messina.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEREGULATION (93%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); UTILITY RESTRUCTURING (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); ELECTRICITY WHOLESALERS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (71%); EVIDENCE (71%); TROPICAL STORMS (68%); CITIES (68%); HURRICANE KATRINA (64%); EXECUTIVES (64%) 

PERSON: Tim (Prof) Mount; George E (Gov) Pataki

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2006



232 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE WORLD; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 461 words

HEADLINE: A Many-Headed Insurgency

BYLINE: By BILL MARSH

 BODY:
THE killing of Iraq's most wanted terrorist leader, Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, won't end the country's civil strife. There may be as many as 100 insurgent groups waging war against United States forces, and often, each other. 
 They are not fully understood, in part because their relationships seem to evolve from month to month. Already this year, several new groups have emerged.
The great majority of combatants are Iraqis; only in the most extreme groups are there many foreign fighters, who are known for their brutality.
 Here is how major Sunni insurgent groups divide into three general categories. Those lines are blurry; there are many overlapping interests and murky alliances. BILL MARSH

 the U.S., they seek a strongly religious government. The MAHDI ARMY, led by Moqtada al Sadr, and the BADR BRIGADE, which is tied to the government, are the main combatants, but there are many splinter groups.

Unknown numbers of fighters

The Vast Sunni Middle
 Accounts for a large portion of insurgent fighters and groups, which may be mixes of tribal leaders and officials of Saddam Hussein's regime. Opposed to U.S. occupation and Shiite domination of the country.

Islamic Army in Iraq
Major insurgent group; has taken hostages and staged executions.

CLAIMS TO HAVE 13 BRIGADES

AL-RASHIDEEN ARMY -- A major group; strong anti- American feelings. Has spawned a new group:

FAIR REVENGE ARMY -- Started going public with claims of attacks against Americans, and videos of them, earlier this year; now a mainstream group.

MUJAHEDEEN ARMY -- Claims successful attacks against British and Australian forces in southern Iraq. Has condemned sectariansim.

AL-FATIHIN ARMY -- New group; broke off from Islamic Army in Iraq in January.

JIHAD FACTIONS OF IRAQ -- Patchwork of groups that started making public statements within the last year. Other Important Groups

Unknown numbers of fighters

OVERLAP -- Some middle Sunni groups have found common cause with extremists against Shiites.

OVERLAP -- Some of these middle and nationalist groups have found common cause against Sunni-Shiite sectarian violence.

Nationalist Sunnis
Less sectarian; primarily focused on ousting the U.S. and would confine struggle to Iraq. Includes ex-Baathists and personnel from Hussein's army.

Islamic Resistance Front
Major group with a propaganda arm; stages frequent attacks against U.S. and distributes videos of them.

1920 Revolution Brigades
Named for Iraq's nationalist revolution. Aim their attacks against the U.S. and the Iraqi goverment; seem to stay out of most sectarian violence.

Unknown numbers of fighters

Nationalists generally oppose suicide bombings, use of foreign fighters and killing of Shiites.

(Sources by Evan Kohlmann, globalterroralert.com; International Crisis Group; Ed O'Connell, RAND Corporation)

GRAPHIC: ChartThe Most Extreme SunnisInspired by Osama bin Laden. Seek defeat of West, destruction of Iraqi state and establishment of a larger Middle Eastern Islamic state. Virulently anti-Shiite.Mujahedeen Shura Council (dominated by Al Qaeda in Iraq)Umbrella group with at least seven subgroups
Al Qaeda was led by Abu Musab al-Zarqawi (left) until his death last week. Extremely brutal
largely responsible for the most deadly suicide attacks. About half are foreign fighters.CLAIMS TO HAVE 15 BRIGADES2 SUICIDE BRIGADESAnsar al-Sunnah ArmyPredominantly Kurdish, with a small number of foreign fighters. Have staged some suicide attacks. Use extreme brutality.CLAIMS TO HAVE 16 BRIGADESSectarian violence has raged between radical Sunnis and Shiites.Radical Shiite MilitiasThey have conducted ferocious reprisals for sectarian attacts
 earlier this year U.S. officials said Shiites were killing more people than Sunni insurgents were. Fiercely opposed to

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (94%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (92%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (91%); RELIGION (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); TERRORISM (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (73%); HOSTAGE TAKING (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); MOVIE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (64%) Terrorism; United States Armament and Defense; Sunni Muslims

COMPANY: RAND CORP (60%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (59%); JAMA'AT AL-TAWHID WAL-JIHAD (AL-QAIDA IN IRAQ) (59%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (60%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (58%) Bill Marsh; Abu Musab Al- Zarqawi

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (96%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2006



233 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 176 words

HEADLINE: Can the Democrats Play to Win?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Daniel Galvin endorses the recipe for the growth of the Democratic Party proposed by Howard Dean, chairman of the Democratic National Committee, but doesn't factor in one ingredient essential for success. 
 No political organization can succeed without a coherent, broad-based program that allows people with differences, even on hot-button subjects like abortion and gay marriage, to keep their differences and vote the Democratic line on other social, economic and foreign policy issues.
The development of such a program is the prime responsibility of the party's chairman, and Mr. Dean has failed to do anything meaningful in this regard. 
 To be successful, any business needs a good product to sell. A political party is no different. It, too, needs a product -- a platform -- that draws its customers -- voters -- to the polls. 
 Mr. Dean's emphasis on organization over program is misguided and avoids meeting his responsibility to broadly articulate what the Democratic Party stands for. 

Bertram Perkel
Wellfleet, Mass., June 3, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (95%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (88%); POLITICS (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); MARRIAGE (55%); ABORTION (55%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (55%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (55%) 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (84%)

PERSON: Bertram Perkel; Howard Dean

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2006



234 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 546 words

HEADLINE: Kankakee Gets Its Groove Back

BYLINE: By Luis Alberto Urrea. 
Luis Alberto Urrea, the author of ''The Hummingbird's Daughter,'' is a professor of English at the University of Illinois at Chicago.

DATELINE: Naperville, Ill. 

 BODY:
IT seems the only time Chicagoans think of the small city of Kankakee 55 miles to the south is when the inevitable springtime storm warnings crawl across the bottom of our televisions. If a bad storm or tornado is coming, chances are pretty good that Kankakee is in its path. A few years ago, Kankakee was listed as one of the worst cities in America. David Letterman deepened the insult by shipping the city two prefabricated gazebos to elevate the livability factor.
 When a Kankakee library board member, Mary Jo Johnston, recently invited me there to do a reading, she warned me to watch for wild turkeys on the highway. I expected 25 retired women in a quaint brick building. It took me three drive-bys to realize that the corporate tower in the center of town was the library and that more than 325 citizens of Kankakee were waiting inside. 
This reception had little to do with me -- and everything to do with Kankakee, the commercial engine of a county still reeling from an economic downturn. Kankakee is pulling itself back from the brink. And it all started with the library.
 The one thing that the people of Kankakee know is that to rebuild a suffering city, you first have to reconstruct its culture, its community.
 Mayor Donald Green, 63, has lived in Kankakee his entire life. But as Mayor Green started his 13th year in office last month, he did so in a town where 60 percent to 70 percent of the homes sold now are being bought by newcomers. 
 You could see that reflected in the audience at the library. There were the expected bright Midwestern faces. But beside them were the faces of people who'd once lived in the Chicago projects and the towns of Guanajuato State in Mexico, who were now working in Kankakee's farms, nurseries and restaurants. 
 When Mayor Green realized that the overwhelming majority of Kankakee's Hispanic residents (who account for about 10 percent of its population) hailed from Guanajuato, he took a delegation of community representatives down there to forge an alliance. By creating a ''sister city'' relationship, Mayor Green wanted his newest citizens to understand they have a role in determining Kankakee's future.
 ''My philosophy is you can take this community, revitalize it, make it financially solvent,'' he said. ''You give it all back to the people of the community because they are the ones who have the power.''
 When Provena Health abandoned its headquarters in the seven-story Executive Center downtown in 2002, it was the community's idea to convert it into a library. Less than a year after the renovations started, the Kankakee Public Library moved from a dilapidated 105-year-old building into a sophisticated showplace that extended over three floors. 
 This new public library has become the cultural hub of the city, crucial to its downtown revitalization. A new bank and a satellite university campus have already been completed and a park with a water fountain is on its way. (Mr. Letterman's gazebos are still in use.) ''It all started with the library,'' Mayor Green said. ''I can't tell you how proud that makes our community.''
 Our cities are scrambling to find fresh paradigms for a new America. Maybe, just maybe, the Midwesterners, librarians and Mexicans of Kankakee, Illinois, have found theirs.


GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); WEATHER (90%); LIBRARIES (89%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (67%); TRENDS (67%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Libraries and Librarians; Area Planning and Renewal

PERSON: DAVID LETTERMAN (56%) Luis Alberto Urrea

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (93%) ILLINOIS, USA (93%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); MEXICO (79%) Kankakee (Ill)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2006



235 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 4; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: Short Circuits

BYLINE: By Tim Mount. 
Tim Mount is a professor of applied economics and management at Cornell University.

DATELINE: Ithaca 

 BODY:
AS summer arrives with its peak electricity demands, the best of all possible worlds apparently prevails in our deregulated electricity market in New York State. A report released in early March by the Department of Public Service in Albany concludes that the wholesale electricity markets in New York ''are among the most advanced in the nation and that wholesale competition has led to significant efficiencies.'' The primary evidence is that the average prices paid by customers, adjusted for inflation, fell by roughly 16 percent from 1996 to 2004. This drop is indeed good news, and many have seized on it as evidence of the deregulated market's health. 
 Unfortunately, this conclusion is incorrect. Deregulated markets have failed to prompt the investments needed to ensure a reliable future supply, particularly in New York City, Long Island and the greater metropolitan area. Furthermore, New York State still has the highest average price of electricity in the continental United States. In spite of our major hydroelectric plants at Niagara and Messina, the average retail price in New York State in 2004 (12.5 cents per kilowatt hour) was 50 percent higher than the price in Pennsylvania (8 cents per kilowatt hour). 
People pay an even higher price in New York City (20 cents per kilowatt hour). The governor and state legislators must redirect our experiment with deregulation so that New Yorkers are no longer the victim of poorly functioning markets in which key decisions are made in an ad hoc and highly political way.
 In 2004, the New York Independent System Operator, the nonprofit organization formed in 1998 to oversee the state's deregulated electricity market and transmission system, expected that new electricity generating capacity would reliably meet demand in the state for another 10 years. Only one year later, the organization predicted that generating capacity would fall below that standard by 2008, only two years from now. 
 Why the change? One reason is that the price of natural gas is much higher now in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina and the uncertainty it created about future supplies. But another important reason is that more vigilant regulation after the California energy crisis in 2000-01 has reduced price spikes in the wholesale electricity market. Although this latter development sounds like a benefit for customers, the average annual price is now actually higher. 
 Moreover, by reducing price spikes, state regulators have also made it much less financially attractive for investors to build the new projects needed to meet high demand on hot summer days. 
 Did regulators in the state respond to this problem? Yes, they offered higher supplementary payments to generators in other markets in an effort to induce them to provide additional electricity for peak consumption periods. But this solution has not yielded sufficient investments in new capacity. In December, the New York Independent System Operator sent a letter to the chief executives of four downstate utilities ''soliciting market-based and regulatory backstop solutions to the reliability needs'' to be submitted by Feb. 15. Almost a month after that deadline, the same request had to be sent out again extending the submission date -- making it clear that investors had yet to show any significant response. A report issued last month shows the capacity shortfall for 2008 still exists. 
 Since ensuring that New York City has enough electricity is essential, a solution will be found, probably at the last minute when options will be limited. The lights will stay on. Nevertheless, regulators still have a lot to do, starting with figuring out how to bring prices down to the levels paid by customers in neighboring states. Instead of spending hundreds of millions of dollars on supplementary payments to existing suppliers via capacity markets, the state should contract directly with investors willing to build new power plants. 
 Although deregulation in New York has led to some valuable improvements in the day-to-day operations of the supply system, it has failed to initiate the projects needed to ensure reliable sources of electricity in the future. The first step is for New York State to stop the happy talk and recognize that its current approach is not working. Better energy planning is essential if New York is going to identify investment needs far enough in advance to meet its energy needs efficiently and dependably. 

CORRECTION-DATE: June 18, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An Op-Ed last week, about electricity deregulation, misspelled the location of a major hydroelectric plant in New York. It is Massena, not Messina.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEREGULATION (94%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); UTILITY RESTRUCTURING (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); WHOLESALERS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (89%); ELECTRICITY WHOLESALERS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (71%); EVIDENCE (71%); TROPICAL STORMS (68%); CITIES (68%); HURRICANE KATRINA (64%); EXECUTIVES (64%) Electric Light and Power; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Regulation and Deregulation of Industry

PERSON: George E (Gov) Pataki; Tim (Prof) Mount

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); ALBANY, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2006



236 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; A CITIZEN'S CALENDAR; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 708 words

 BODY:
A selective listing of state, county and local government events across Connecticut this week. (All dates and times subject to confirmation.) Items should be submitted by mail at least three weeks in advance to the Connecticut Op-Ed Page, The New York Times, 229 West 43rd Street, New York, N.Y. 10036, or by e-mail to ctcivic@nytimes.com. 


STATE OF CONNECTICUT

HARTFORD -- Montville Commons Dam status conference. Thursday at 1 p.m. Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection Headquarters, 79 Elm Street. (860) 424-3037.

WILLIMANTIC -- Department of Transportation public information meeting, on a plan by the Providence and Worcester Railroad Company to extend freight revenue service on the Willimantic branch line. Tuesday at 7 p.m. Windham Town Hall, 979 Main Street. (860) 594-3060.

FAIRFIELD COUNTY

BRIDGEPORT -- Board of Education. Monday at 7 p.m. Bridgeport Regional Vocational Aquaculture School, 60 St. Stephens Road. (860) 576-7327.

DANBURY -- Commission on Persons with Disabilities. Tuesday at 6:30 p.m. Danbury City Hall, 155 Deer Hill Avenue. (203) 797-4500.

DANBURY -- Environmental Impact Commission. Wednesday at 7 p.m. Danbury City Hall, 155 Deer Hill Avenue. (203) 797-4500.

DANBURY -- Fair Rent Commission. Thursday at 7 p.m. Danbury City Hall, 155 Deer Hill Avenue. (203) 797-4500.

GREENWICH -- Planning and Zoning Commission. Tuesday at 7 p.m. Greenwich Town Hall, 101 Field Point Road. (203) 622-7700.

GREENWICH -- Board of Selectmen. Thursday at 10:30 a.m. Greenwich Town Hall, 101 Field Point Road. (203) 622-7700.

STAMFORD -- Planning Board. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. Stamford Government Center, 888 Washington Boulevard. (203) 977-4076.

STAMFORD -- Environmental Protection Board. Thursday at 7:30 p.m. Stamford Government Center, 888 Washington Boulevard. (203) 977-4076.

STAMFORD -- Pandemic influenza community forum. Wednesday at 7 p.m. University of Connecticut, Stamford, 1 University Place. (203) 977-4399.

HARTFORD COUNTY

HARTFORD -- Citizen's Ethics Advisory Board. Thursday at 1 p.m. Conference Room 2A, 18-20 Trinity Street. (860) 566-4472.

HARTFORD -- City Council. Monday at 7 p.m. Municipal Building, 550 Main Street.

LITCHFIELD COUNTY

BARKHAMSTED -- Board of Selectmen. Monday at 7 p.m. Barkhamsted Town Hall, 67 Ripley Hill Road. (860) 379-8285.

FALLS VILLAGE -- Board of Selectmen. Monday at 7:30 p.m. Canaan Town Hall, 108 Main Street. (860) 824-0707.

NEW HARTFORD -- Planning and Zoning Commission. Wednesday at 7 p.m. New Hartford Town Hall, 530 Main Street. (860) 379-3389.

NEW MILFORD -- Town Council. Monday at 7:30 p.m. New Milford Town Hall, 10 Main Street. (860) 355-6020.

NEW MILFORD -- Parks and Recreation. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. Richmond Center, 40 Main Street. (860) 355-6050.

NEW MILFORD -- Board of Education. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. Sarah Noble Intermediate School, 25 Sunny Valley Road. (860) 355-8406.

TORRINGTON -- Planning and Zoning Commission. Wednesday at 7 p.m. Torrington City Hall, 140 Main Street. (860) 489-2241.

TORRINGTON -- Economic Development Commission. Tuesday at 5:30 p.m. Torrington City Hall, 140 Main Street. (860) 489-2241.

MIDDLESEX COUNTY

MIDDLETOWN -- Board of Education. Monday at 7 p.m. Middletown Board of Education Building, 311 Huntington Hill Avenue. (860) 344-3459.

MIDDLETOWN -- Planning and Zoning Commission. Wednesday at 7 p.m. Middletown Municipal Building, 245 deKoven Drive. (860) 344-3425.

NEW HAVEN COUNTY

NEW HAVEN -- Board of Zoning Appeals. Tuesday at 6:30 p.m. Kennedy Mitchell Hall of Records, 200 Orange Street. (203) 946-8041.

NEW HAVEN -- Historic District Commission. Wednesday at 7 p.m. New Haven City Hall, 165 Church Street. (203) 946-8339.

NORTH BRANFORD -- Planning and Zoning Commission. Thursday at 7:30 p.m. North Branford Town Hall, 909 Foxon Road. (203) 484-6000.

TOLLAND COUNTY

HEBRON -- Planning and Zoning Commission. Tuesday at 7 p.m. Hebron Town Office Building, 15 Gilead Street. (860) 228-5971.

HEBRON -- Board of Selectmen. Thursday at 7:30 p.m. Hebron Town Office Building, 15 Gilead Street. (860) 228-5971.

TOLLAND -- Planning and Zoning Commission. Monday at 7:30 p.m. Hicks Memorial Municipal Building, 21 Tolland Green. (860) 871-3600.

TOLLAND -- City Council. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. Hicks Memorial Municipal Building, 21 Tolland Green. (860) 871-3600.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); ZONING (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (89%); CITIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (70%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); ETHICS (65%); INFLUENZA (61%); AQUACULTURE (53%); EPIDEMICS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: PROVIDENCE & WORCESTER RAILROAD CO (70%)

TICKER: PWX (NASDAQ) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (70%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (92%) CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2006



237 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 4104 words

HEADLINE: Pollution From Chinese Coal Casts Shadow Around Globe

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER and DAVID BARBOZA; Keith Bradsher reported from Hanjing and Guangzhou, China, for this article and David Barboza from Datong and Shanghai.

DATELINE: HANJING, China 

 BODY:
One of China's lesser-known exports is a dangerous brew of soot, toxic chemicals and climate-changing gases from the smokestacks of coal-burning power plants.
 In early April, a dense cloud of pollutants over Northern China sailed to nearby Seoul, sweeping along dust and desert sand before wafting across the Pacific. An American satellite spotted the cloud as it crossed the West Coast.
Researchers in California, Oregon and Washington noticed specks of sulfur compounds, carbon and other byproducts of coal combustion coating the silvery surfaces of their mountaintop detectors. These microscopic particles can work their way deep into the lungs, contributing to respiratory damage, heart disease and cancer. 
 Filters near Lake Tahoe in the mountains of eastern California ''are the darkest that we've seen'' outside smoggy urban areas, said Steven S. Cliff, an atmospheric scientist at the University of California at Davis. 
 Unless China finds a way to clean up its coal plants and the thousands of factories that burn coal, pollution will soar both at home and abroad. The increase in global-warming gases from China's coal use will probably exceed that for all industrialized countries combined over the next 25 years, surpassing by five times the reduction in such emissions that the Kyoto Protocol seeks. 
 The sulfur dioxide produced in coal combustion poses an immediate threat to the health of China's citizens, contributing to about 400,000 premature deaths a year. It also causes acid rain that poisons lakes, rivers, forests and crops.
 The sulfur pollution is so pervasive as to have an extraordinary side effect that is helping the rest of the world, but only temporarily: It actually slows global warming. The tiny, airborne particles deflect the sun's hot rays back into space. 
 But the cooling effect from sulfur is short-lived. By contrast, the carbon dioxide emanating from Chinese coal plants will last for decades, with a cumulative warming effect that will eventually overwhelm the cooling from sulfur and deliver another large kick to global warming, climate scientists say. A warmer climate could lead to rising sea levels, the spread of tropical diseases in previously temperate climes, crop failures in some regions and the extinction of many plant and animal species, especially those in polar or alpine areas.
 Coal is indeed China's double-edged sword -- the new economy's black gold and the fragile environment's dark cloud. 
 Already, China uses more coal than the United States, the European Union and Japan combined. And it has increased coal consumption 14 percent in each of the past two years in the broadest industrialization ever. Every week to 10 days, another coal-fired power plant opens somewhere in China that is big enough to serve all the households in Dallas or San Diego. 
 To make matters worse, India is right behind China in stepping up its construction of coal-fired power plants -- and has a population expected to outstrip China's by 2030.
 Aware of the country's growing reliance on coal and of the dangers from burning so much of it, China's leaders have vowed to improve the nation's energy efficiency. No one thinks that effort will be enough. To make a big improvement in emissions of global-warming gases and other pollutants, the country must install the most modern equipment -- equipment that for the time being must come from other nations. 
 Industrialized countries could help by providing loans or grants, as the Japanese government and the World Bank have done, or by sharing technology. But Chinese utilities have in the past preferred to buy cheap but often-antiquated equipment from well connected domestic suppliers instead of importing costlier gear from the West. 
 The Chinese government has been reluctant to approve the extra spending. Asking customers to shoulder the bill would set back the government's efforts to protect consumers from inflation and to create jobs and social stability. 
 But each year China defers buying advanced technology, older equipment goes into scores of new coal-fired plants with a lifespan of up to 75 years. 
 ''This is the great challenge they have to face,'' said David Moskovitz, an energy consultant who advises the Chinese government. ''How can they continue their rapid growth without plunging the environment into the abyss?''

Living Better With Coal
 Wu Yiebing and his wife, Cao Waiping, used to have very little effect on their environment. But they have tasted the rising standard of living from coal-generated electricity and they are hooked, even as they suffer the vivid effects of the damage their new lifestyle creates. 
 Years ago, the mountain village where they grew up had electricity for only several hours each evening, when water was let out of a nearby dam to turn a small turbine. They lived in a mud hut, farmed by hand from dawn to dusk on hillside terraces too small for tractors, and ate almost nothing but rice on an income of $25 a month.
 Today, they live here in Hanjing, a small town in central China where Mr. Wu earns nearly $200 a month. He operates a large electric drill 600 feet underground in a coal mine, digging out the fuel that has powered his own family's advancement. He and his wife have a stereo, a refrigerator, a television, an electric fan, a phone and light bulbs, paying just $2.50 a month for all the electricity they can burn from a nearby coal-fired power plant.
 They occupy a snug house with brick walls and floors and a cement foundation -- the bricks and cement are products of the smoking, energy-ravenous factories that dot the valley. Ms. Cao decorates the family's home with calendar pictures of Zhang Ziyi, the Chinese film star. She is occasionally dismissive about the farming village where she lived as a girl and now seldom visits except over Chinese New Year.
 ''We couldn't wear high heels then because the paths were so bad and we were always carrying heavy loads,'' said Ms. Cao, who was wearing makeup, a stylish yellow pullover, low-slung black pants and black pumps with slender three-inch heels on a recent Sunday morning.
 One-fifth of the world's population already lives in affluent countries with lots of air-conditioning, refrigerators and other appliances. This group consumes a tremendous amount of oil, natural gas, nuclear power, coal and alternative energy sources. 
 Now China is trying to bring its fifth of the world's population, people like Mr. Wu and Ms. Cao, up to the same standard. One goal is to build urban communities for 300 million people over the next two decades. 
 Already, China has more than tripled the number of air-conditioners in the past five years, to 84 per 100 urban households. And it has brought modern appliances to hundreds of millions of households in small towns and villages like Hanjing.
 The difference from most wealthy countries is that China depends overwhelmingly on coal. And using coal to produce electricity and run factories generates more global-warming gases and lung-damaging pollutants than relying on oil or gas.
 Indeed, the Wu family dislikes the light gray smog of sulfur particles and other pollutants that darkens the sky and dulls the dark green fields of young wheat and the white blossoms of peach orchards in the distance. But they tolerate the pollution.
 ''Everything else is better here,'' Mr. Wu said. ''Now we live better, we eat better.''

China's Dark Clouds
 Large areas of North-Central China have been devastated by the spectacular growth of the local coal industry. Severe pollution extends across Shaanxi Province, where the Wus live, and neighboring Shanxi Province, which produces even more coal.
 Not long ago, in the historic city of Datong, about 160 miles west of Beijing, throngs of children in colorful outfits formed a ceremonial line at the entrance to the city's 1,500-year-old complex of Buddhist cave grottoes to celebrate Datong's new designation as one of China's ''spiritually civilized cities.''
 The event was meant to bolster pride in a city desperately in need of good news. Two years ago, Datong, long the nation's coal capital, was branded one of the world's most-polluted cities. Since then, the air quality has only grown worse.
 Datong is so bad that last winter the city's air quality monitors went on red alert. Desert dust and particulate matter in the city had been known to force the pollution index into warning territory, above 300, which means people should stay indoors.
 On Dec. 28, the index hit 350. 
 ''The pollution is worst during the winter,'' said Ji Youping, a former coal miner who now works with a local environmental protection agency. ''Datong gets very black. Even during the daytime, people drive with their lights on.''
 Of China's 10 most polluted cities, four, including Datong, are in Shanxi Province. The coal-mining operations have damaged waterways and scarred the land. Because of intense underground mining, thousands of acres are prone to sinking, and hundreds of villages are blackened with coal waste. 
 There is a Dickensian feel to much of the region. Roads are covered in coal tar; houses are coated with soot; miners, their faces smeared almost entirely black, haul carts full of coal rocks; the air is thick with the smell of burning coal.
 There are growing concerns about the impact of this coal boom on the environment. The Asian Development Bank says it is financing pollution control programs in Shanxi because the number of people suffering from lung cancer and other respiratory diseases in the province has soared over the past 20 years. Yet even after years of government-mandated cleanup efforts the region's factories belch black smoke.
 The government has promised to close the foulest factories and to shutter thousands of illegal mines, where some of the worst safety and environmental hazards are concentrated. But no one is talking about shutting the region's coal-burning power plants, which account for more than half the pollution. In fact, Shanxi and Shaanxi are rapidly building new coal-fired plants to keep pace with soaring energy demand. 
 To meet that demand, which includes burning coal to supply power to Beijing, Shanxi Province alone is expected to produce almost as much coal as was mined last year in Germany, England and Russia combined. 
 Burning all that coal releases enormous quantities of sulfur.
 ''Sulfur dioxide is China's No. 1 pollution problem,'' said Barbara A. Finamore, a senior attorney at the Natural Resources Defense Council's China Clean Energy Program in Washington. ''This is the most serious acid rain problem in the world.''
 China released about 22.5 million tons of sulfur in 2004, more than twice the amount released in the United States, and a Chinese regulator publicly estimated last autumn that emissions would reach 26 million tons for 2005, although no official figures have been released yet. Acid rain now falls on 30 percent of China.
 Studies have found that the worst effects of acid rain and other pollution occur within several hundred miles of a power plant, where the extra acidity of rainfall can poison crops, trees and lakes alike. 
 But China is generating such enormous quantities of pollution that the effects are felt farther downwind than usual. Sulfur and ash that make breathing a hazard are being carried by the wind to South Korea, Japan and beyond. 
 Not enough of the Chinese emissions reach the United States to have an appreciable effect on acid rain yet. But, they are already having an effect in the mountains in West Coast states. These particles are dense enough that, at maximum levels during the spring, they account at higher altitudes for a fifth or more of the maximum levels of particles allowed by the latest federal air quality standards. Over the course of a year, Chinese pollution averages 10 to 15 percent of allowable levels of particles. The amounts are smaller for lower-lying cities, like Seattle, San Francisco and Los Angeles. 
 China is also the world's largest emitter of mercury, which has been linked to fetal and child development problems, said Dan Jaffe, an atmospheric scientist at the University of Washington. 
 Unless Chinese regulators become much more aggressive over the next few years, considerably more emissions could reach the United States. Chinese pollution is already starting to make it harder and more expensive for West Coast cities to meet stringent air quality standards, said Professor Cliff of the University of California, slowing four decades of progress toward cleaner air.

Nothing Beats It
 China knows it has to do something about its dependence on coal. 
 The government has set one of the world's most ambitious targets for energy conservation: to cut the average amount of energy needed to produce each good or service by 20 percent over the next five years. But with an economy growing 10 percent a year and with energy consumption climbing even faster, a conservation target amounting to 3.7 percent a year does not keep pace.
 All new cars, minivans and sport utility vehicles sold in China starting July 1 will have to meet fuel-economy standards stricter than those in the United States. New construction codes encourage the use of double-glazed windows to reduce air-conditioning and heating costs and high-tech light bulbs that produce more light with fewer watts.
 Meanwhile, other sources of energy have problems. Oil is at about $70 a barrel. Natural gas is in short supply in most of China, and prices for imports of liquefied natural gas have more than doubled in the last three years. Environmental objections are slowing the construction of hydroelectric dams on China's few untamed rivers. Long construction times for nuclear power plants make them a poor solution to addressing blackouts and other power shortages now. 
 For the past three years, China has also been trying harder to develop other alternatives. State-owned power companies have been building enormous wind turbines up and down the coast. Chinese companies are also trying to develop geothermal energy, tapping the heat of underground rocks, and are researching solar power and ways to turn coal into diesel fuel. But all of these measures fall well short. Coal remains the obvious choice to continue supplying almost two-thirds of China's energy needs.

Choices and Consequences
 China must make some difficult choices. So far, the nation has been making decisions that it hopes will lessen the health-damaging impact on its own country while sustaining economic growth as cheaply as possible. But those decisions will also add to the emissions that contribute to global warming. 
 The first big choice involves tackling sulfur dioxide. The government is now requiring that the smokestacks of all new coal-fired plants be fitted with devices long used in Western power plants to remove up to 95 percent of the sulfur. All existing coal-fired plants in China are supposed to have the devices installed by 2010.
 While acknowledging that they have missed deadlines, Chinese officials insist they have the capacity now to install sulfur filters on every power plant smokestack. ''I don't think there will be a problem reaching this target before 2010,'' said Liu Deyou, chief engineer at the Beijing SPC Environment Protection Tech Engineering Company, the sulfur-filter manufacturing arm of one of the five big, state-owned utilities.
 Japan may be 1,000 miles east of Shanxi Province, but the Japanese government is so concerned about acid rain from China that it has agreed to lend $125 million to Shanxi. The money will help pay for desulfurization equipment for large, coal-fired steel plants in the provincial capital, Taiyuan.
 The question is how much the state-owned power companies will actually use the pollution control equipment once it is installed. The equipment is costly to maintain and uses enormous amounts of electricity that could instead be sold to consumers. Moreover, regulated electricity tariffs offer little reward for them to run the equipment. 
 In 2002, the Chinese government vowed to cut sulfur emissions by 10 percent by 2005. Instead, they rose 27 percent. If Chinese officials act swiftly, sulfur emissions could be halved in the next couple of decades, power officials and academic experts say. But if China continues to do little, sulfur emissions could double, creating even more devastating health and environmental problems.
 Even so, halving sulfur emissions has its own consequences: it would make global warming noticeable sooner. 
 China contributes one-sixth of the world's sulfur pollution. Together with the emissions from various other countries, those from China seem to offset more than one-third of the warming effect from manmade carbon dioxide already in the atmosphere, according to several climate models.
 But the sulfur particles typically drift to the ground in a week and stop reflecting much sunlight. Recent research suggests that it takes up to 10 years before a new coal-fired power plant has poured enough long-lasting carbon dioxide into the air to offset the cooling effect of the plant's weekly sulfur emissions. 
 Climate experts say that, ideally, China would cut emissions of sulfur and carbon dioxide at the same time. But they understand China's imperative to clean up sulfur more quickly because it has a far more immediate effect on health. 
 ''It's sort of unethical to expect people not to clean up their air quality for the sake of the climate,'' said Tami Bond, an atmospheric scientist at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.

The Hunt for Efficiency
 The second big decision facing China lies in how efficiently the heat from burning coal is converted into electricity. The latest big power plants in Western countries are much more efficient. Their coal-heated steam at very high temperatures and pressures can generate 20 to 50 percent more kilowatts than older Chinese power plants, even as they eject the same carbon-dioxide emissions and potentially lower sulfur emissions.
 China has limited the construction of small power plants, which are inefficient, and has required the use of somewhat higher steam temperatures and pressures. But Chinese officials say few new plants use the highest temperatures and pressures, which require costly imported equipment.
 And Chinese power utilities are facing a squeeze. The government has kept electricity cheap, by international standards, to keep consumers happy. But this has made it hard for utilities to cover their costs, especially as world coal prices rise.
 The government has tried to help by limiting what mines can charge utilities for coal. Mines have responded by shipping the lowest-quality, dirtiest, most-contaminated coal to power plants, say power and coal executives. The utilities have also been reluctant to spend on foreign equipment, steering contracts to affiliates instead.
 ''When you have a 1 percent or less profit,'' said Harley Seyedin, chief executive of the First Washington Group, owner of oil-fired power plants in Southeastern China's Guangdong Province, ''you don't have the cash flow to invest or to expand in a reasonable way.''

A New Technology
 The third big choice involves whether to pulverize coal and then burn the powder, as is done now, or convert the coal into a gas and then burn the gas, in a process known as integrated gasification combined combustion, or I.G.C.C.
 One advantage of this approach is that coal contaminants like mercury and sulfur can be easily filtered from the gas and disposed. Another advantage is that carbon dioxide can be separated from the emissions and pumped underground, although this technology remains unproven. 
 Leading climate scientists like this approach to dealing with China's rising coal consumption. ''There's a whole range of things that can be done; we should try to deploy coal gasification,'' said Dr. Rajendra K. Pachauri, chairman of the United Nations-affiliated Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.
 The World Bank in 2003 offered a $15 million grant from the Global Environment Facility to help China build its first state-of-the-art power plant to convert coal into a gas before burning it. The plan called for pumping combustion byproducts from the plant underground.
 But the Chinese government put the plan on hold after bids to build the plant were higher than expected. Chinese officials have expressed an interest this spring in building five or six power plants with the new technology instead of just one. But they are in danger of losing the original grant if they do not take some action soon, said Zhao Jian-ping, the senior energy specialist in the Beijing office of the World Bank.
 Another stumbling block has been that China wants foreign manufacturers to transfer technological secrets to Chinese rivals, instead of simply filling orders to import equipment, said Anil Terway, director of the East Asia energy division at the Asian Development Bank.
 ''The fact that they are keen to have the technologies along with the equipment is slowing things down,'' he said.
 Andy Solem, vice president for China infrastructure at General Electric, a leading manufacturer of coal gasification equipment, said he believed that China would place orders in 2007 or 2008 for the construction of a series of these plants. But he said some technology transfer was unavoidable.
 Western companies could help Chinese businesses take steps to reduce carbon-dioxide emissions, like subsidizing the purchase of more efficient boilers. Some companies already have such programs in other countries, to offset the environmental consequences of their own carbon-dioxide emissions at home, and are looking at similar projects in China. But the scale of emissions in China to offset is enormous.
 For all the worries about pollution from China, international climate experts are loath to criticize the country without pointing out that the average American still consumes more energy and is responsible for the release of 10 times as much carbon dioxide as the average Chinese. While China now generates more electricity from coal than does the United States, America's consumption of gasoline dwarfs China's, and burning gasoline also releases carbon dioxide.

An Insatiable Demand?
 The Chinese are still far from achieving what has become the basic standard in the West. Urban elites who can afford condominiums are still a tiny fraction of China's population. But these urban elites are role models with a lifestyle sought by hundreds of millions of Chinese. Plush condos on sale in Shanghai are just a step toward an Americanized lifestyle that is becoming possible in the nation's showcase city.
 Far from the Wu family in rural Shaanxi, the Lu Bei family grew up in cramped, one-room apartments in Shanghai. Now the couple own a large three-bedroom apartment in the city's futuristic Pudong financial district. They have two television sets, four air-conditioners, a microwave, a dishwasher, a washing machine and three computers. They also have high-speed Internet access.
 ''This is my bedroom,'' said Lu Bei, a 35-year-old insurance agency worker entering a spacious room with a king-size bed. ''We moved here two years ago. We had a baby and wanted a decent place to live.''
 For millions of Chinese to live like the Lus with less damage to the environment, energy conservation is crucial. But curbing that usage would be impossible as long as China keeps energy prices low. Gasoline still costs $2 a gallon, for example, and electricity is similarly cheap for many users. 
 With Chinese leaders under constant pressure to create jobs for the millions of workers flooding from farms into cities each year, as well as the rapidly growing ranks of college graduates, there has been little enthusiasm for a change of strategy.
 Indeed, China is using subsidies to make its energy even cheaper, a strategy that is not unfamiliar to Americans, said Kenneth Lieberthal, a China specialist at the University of Michigan. ''They have done in many ways,'' he said, ''what we have done.'' 

The Energy Challenge
 Video on how China's use of coal is creating an environmental and health care crisis, along with previous articles and multimedia from The Energy Challenge series, are at nytimes.com/business.


2025
China: 5.89 billion tons
Rest of world: 5.71 billion tons
United States: 2.86 billion tons

Graph tracks world coal consumption (U.S., India, China, and rest of the world) since 1980.

(Dylan Loeb McClain/The New York Times)

(Sources by Energy Information Administration; International Energy Agency; World Resources Institute)(pg. 13)

GRAPHIC: Photos: Coal has given parts of China a Dickensian feel, with miners coated with black soot and air that is thick with pollution. (Photo by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
The Gu Dian steel factory, left, in Datong, in Shanxi Province, China. Datong is one of China's 10 most polluted cities, 4 of which are in that province. Coal-mining operations have damaged waterways and left hundreds of villages blackened with coal waste.
 Wu Yiebing, seated left, with his wife, Cao Waiping, right, their daughter, Wu Caoying, far left, and a family friend, center. Coal has given the family as much electricity as it needs, but a smog of sulfur particles hovers above their small town. (Photographs by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. 12)Chart/Map: ''Future Shock''More than half of the carbon dioxide -- the primary global warming gas -- produced from the burning of coal came from China and the United States in 2003. By 2025, if current trends continue, China would produce twice as much as the United States, or about 40 percent of the world's total.20031 million metric tons of carbon dioxide from coalChina: 2.73 billion tonsRest of world: 4.47 billion tonsUnited States: 2.10 billion tons

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COAL FIRED PLANTS (92%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); WATER POLLUTION (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (89%); COAL INDUSTRY (89%); PARTICULATE MATTER (78%); METEOROLOGY (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); AIR POLLUTION (78%); COASTAL AREAS (77%); ACID RAIN (77%); CANCER (76%); MOUNTAINS (74%); LAKES (74%); SCIENCE NEWS (73%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (73%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (73%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (73%); HEART DISEASE (69%); TROPICAL DISEASES (69%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); NEW ECONOMY (67%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (66%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (65%); ANIMALS (50%); EUROPEAN UNION (50%) Air Pollution; Weather; Global Warming; Coal; Electric Light and Power; Surveys and Series; Carbon Dioxide; Air Pollution

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%)

PERSON: Keith Bradsher; David Barboza

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); OREGON, USA (92%); WEST USA (92%); SHANXI, CHINA (88%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (88%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (51%) China; India

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2006



238 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 434 words

HEADLINE: Trade Deficit or Energy Costs Could Derail Growth, G-8 Says

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

DATELINE: ST. PETERSBURG, Russia, June 10 

 BODY:
The world economy is growing at a healthy pace but could be derailed by the United States' huge trade deficit or the ill effects of high energy prices, according to a statement issued Saturday by finance ministers from the Group of Eight wealthy industrial nations. 
 They met in St. Petersburg after a week of stock market sell-offs in which the Dow Jones industrial average plunged to its lowest point in a year amid fears of inflation and higher interest rates. It came as no surprise that the ministers tempered their upbeat assessment with language suggesting a wobbly foundation.
 ''Downside risks from high and volatile energy prices and widening global imbalances remain,'' the ministers said in the joint statement, which did not vary much from a similar document released in February. 
 The statement called for greater investment in oil field development as a long-term solution to high energy prices. More investment would bring more oil onto the market and eventually lower prices at the gas pump, the statement suggested. 
 The departing United States treasury secretary, John W. Snow, gathered with colleagues from Canada, Japan, Britain, France, Germany, Italy and Russia in Mikhailovsky Palace, a recently restored landmark. 
 In a month, St. Petersburg will be the setting for a summit meeting of the Group of Eight leaders including President Bush. 
 Russia, which will be the host of a G-8 summit conference for the first time, chose energy security as its theme. Ministers in Vladimir V. Putin's government have said it is committed to ensuring stable oil prices for big consuming countries like the United States, making a promise of price relief through greater supply -- but with a catch. 
 Russia wants the large consuming countries to open their energy retail and distribution markets to Russian companies in exchange for allowing foreign investment here. 
 This quid pro quo idea is expected to be a sticking point as the summit meeting approaches, with Great Britain and other European nations resisting efforts by Russia's state-owned Gazprom monopoly to buy other energy companies in Europe.
 Mr. Putin recently compared Russia's potential to increase energy production to a piece of candy the whole world wants. But he said it would be held in Russia's ''sweaty fist,'' unless other countries were willing to offer investment opportunities in return. 
 The Kremlin is reluctant to open its energy sector to foreign investments. A new law would ban foreign ownership of big oil fields and Parliament is considering enshrining Gazprom's monopoly on natural gas pipelines in law. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (89%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (88%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); TRENDS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); INTEREST RATES (70%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (68%); LEGISLATION (63%); LEGAL MONOPOLIZATION (61%); NATURAL GAS PIPELINES (50%) Economic Conditions and Trends; International Trade and World Market; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: OAO GAZPROM (64%)

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (94%) Group of Eight

TICKER: OGZD (LSE) (64%); GAZP (RTS) (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (64%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (64%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (64%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (64%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (64%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (64%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (51%) Andrew E Kramer

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); CANADA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (79%) Russia

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2006



239 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Commencement Speeches; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 3436 words

HEADLINE: Graduates Get an Earful, From Left, Right and Center

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

 BODY:
It's all been said before, at one university or another. 
 And so, in trying to come up with something new, many commencement speakers do considerable research on what to say -- and what it is permissible to say -- before they address graduating students. This year, Judith Resnik, a legal scholar, could win the exhaustive-preparation prize. For her speech at Bryn Mawr, Dr. Resnik reviewed over 100 years of commencement addresses.
''I found that these talks gave me utter license to talk about whatever I wanted, from chemistry to health care, from wars to Social Security and beyond, to ballooning,'' she told the graduates at the ceremony. Dr. Resnik used that license to speak out against torture (the text of her speech contained 54 footnotes). 
 Dr. Resnik was one of many commencement speakers who spoke out against what they consider a growing belligerence in American foreign policy. Others condemned war, racism and poverty. 
 At Marlboro College in Vermont, Nan Aron, the president of Alliance for Justice, a liberal group, denounced the Bush administration for its eavesdropping program and for holding prisoners at Guantanamo Bay without charging them with crimes.
 ''It makes you think of what Jay Leno said when this administration's forces in the Iraq war were drafting a constitution,'' Ms. Aron said. ''He said, 'Give them ours. It was written by a lot of smart guys, worked well for 200 years -- and we're not using it any more.' ''
 White House officials defended the Bush administration's initiatives in various commencement speeches. To the graduates at the United States Naval Academy, Vice President Dick Cheney defended the administration's domestic surveillance program by saying, ''The terrorist surveillance program is fully consistent with the constitutional responsibilities and the legal authorities of the president,'' a line that brought sustained applause from the midshipmen. 
 Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld, speaking at the Virginia Military Institute, defended his conduct of the Iraq war by reminding cadets that the D-Day invasion of World War II was fraught with blunders.
 Several commencement addresses, including Senator John McCain's at the New School University in New York and Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice's at Boston College, turned tumultuous, as some graduates heckled them. Two prominent Democrats lamented the degradation of civil discourse. One of them, Mayor Antonio R. Villaraigosa of Los Angeles, told University of Southern California graduates it was ''poisoning our politics.''
 And Mark Warner, the former Virginia governor, in an address at Wake Forest University, criticized the ''personal and partisan attacks'' and ''complex issues reduced to easy-to-digest sound bites.''
 ''No one -- no one -- in politics has a monopoly on virtue, on patriotism, or most importantly, on the truth,'' Mr. Warner said. ''And that goes for everyone, from conservative to liberal.''
 Speakers this year included the usual politicians, including Attorney General Eliot Spitzer of New York, who spoke at several state commencements, and a string of governors speaking at less well-known state colleges; human rights advocates like Sister Helen Prejean, who opposes the death penalty; foreign dignitaries, including Juan Guzman Tapia, the Chilean judge who indicted Gen. Augusto Pinochet, the Chilean dictator; actors like Viggo Mortensen; and athletes like Lance Armstrong.
 Several speakers, including the former CNN anchor Aaron Brown and the singer Billy Joel, acknowledged the incongruity of delivering college commencement addresses despite having never graduated themselves.
 And of course there was plenty of advice, some of it controversial, including that given by the former C.I.A. director Porter J. Goss the day after his dismissal last month.
 The Toledo Blade reported that Mr. Goss told graduates at Tiffin University in Ohio: ''If this were a graduating class of C.I.A. case officers, my advice would be short and to the point: Admit nothing, deny everything and make counteraccusations.''

Bill Bradley
Former senator
Ithaca College
 President Williams, members of the faculty, members of the class of 2006, friends and family of the class of 2006. I want to continue my acknowledgments. I'm very sensitive, I want to make sure that I acknowledge every element of this community. And so let me borrow from Garry Trudeau and continue my acknowledgments: and so I recognize Chairman Bill Haines and members of the board of trustees, bored members of the trustees, those who watch ''The Sopranos,'' those who watch ''American Idol,'' those who still watch the reruns of ''Frasier,'' those who don't like TV. Denizens of Ithaca, denizens of the night, knights of Tompkins County, people of class, classy people, people of height, the vertically constrained, people of hair, the indifferently coiffed, the optically challenged, the temporarily sighted, the insightful, the out of sight, the out-of-towners, the Afrocentrics, the Eurocentrics, the Eurocentrics with Eurail passes, the eccentrically inclined. The sexually disinclined, people of sex, sexy people, earthy people, animal companions, friends of the earth, friends of the boss, the temporarily employed, the differently employed, the differently optioned, people with options, people with stock options, Knick fans, Celtic fans, those who don't have the wisdom to be either Knick or Celtic fans, the divestiturists, the deconstructionists, the home constructionists, the homeless, the temporarily housed at home, and, God save us parents, the permanently housed at home. Good morning!

Antonio O. Garza Jr.
Ambassador to Mexico
University of Texas
 Life will test you in ways you cannot imagine. And one of the ways it will test you -- over and over -- is how you treat others who don't look like you, talk like you or earn like you. My grandparents came to America from Mexico looking for a better life. Their leap of faith made it possible for my dad to raise his family running a filling station in South Texas. His hard work and sacrifice allowed me to do what I am doing today. 
 One generation removed from Mexico, and the grandson of four Mexican immigrants is now the face of America for millions of people in Mexico and around the world. 
 We have come far as a society. We are no longer the Jim Crow nation that buried the hopes of so many long before we buried their bodies. But you and I know that our work is not done until the invisible are invisible no more. 

Jodie Foster
Actor, director and producer
University of Pennsylvania
 You pick up bits and pieces of treasure and trash, pain and pleasure, passions and disappointments, and you start throwing them in your bag, your big bag of experience. You do some dumb things that don't work out at all. You stumble excitedly on little gems that you never saw coming. And you stuff them all in your bag. You pursue the things you love and believe in. You cast off the images of yourself that don't fit. And suddenly you look behind you and a pattern emerges. 
 You look in front of you and the path makes sense. There is nothing more beautiful than finding your course as you believe you bob aimlessly in the current. Wouldn't you know that your path was there all along, waiting for you to knock, waiting for you to become. This path does not belong to your parents, your teachers, your leaders, your lovers. Your path is your character defining itself more and more every day, like a photograph coming into focus.

Melissa Etheridge
Rock Musician
Berklee College of Music
 I went to Los Angeles; I played in bars here and there. I discovered myself; I discovered my sexuality. I remember, it's not so easy being a musician, and I do remember dating a young gal -- you do know I'm gay? I was dating, and this girl was kind of coming out and she decided it was time to call her parents and tell them she was gay. 
 And she called and said, ''Mom, Dad, I'm gay, and I'm dating a musician, and this is what I am.'' 
 And there was a long silence and kind of a grumble. And she said, ''Well, gee, I didn't think you would have such a hard time with me being gay.'' And they said: ''Oh no, it's not that. But really, honey, a musician?'' All the rest they can take but, oh, dating a musician!

Anthony M. Kennedy
Associate justice of the Supreme Court
New York University
 Think of the people around the world, and particularly in Africa, who have no clean water. Women in Africa -- and the job falls to women -- must spend six, eight hours a day just in trying to bring clean water to their children. 
 Eight billion hours a year of human effort are spent just in bringing water. And when I heard that statistic, sitting like you are in an audience, I thought, ''Well, he must have said eight million.'' Then I thought, ''Maybe it's 80 million.'' It's eight billion hours a year of wasted effort because the water is often contaminated when it gets there. This isn't rocket science. You can fix this.

Judith Resnik
Law professor
Bryn Mawr College
 I do not think that either the world or my own country has been torture-free since the Renaissance. But I was hopeful enough, patriotic enough, to believe that my government would never justify harming a person just short of when his or her organs were failing. 
 I believed that my American government would never claim that law itself (national and international) did not apply when it was acting ''offshore,'' or to the president whenever he is acting. 
 It simply had never occurred to me that my government would claim that any zone was one in which the United States could act completely unbounded based on a theory that the Constitution gives the president a blank check -- not to be checked.

Donald H. Rumsfeld
Secretary of defense
Virginia Military Institute
 The American people are seeing things they never saw before about the realities of conflict and of postwar violence. They will need the help of those of you who have studied military strategy to better understand what it is they're seeing every day, and to become more aware that war requires continuous adjustments and calibrations, just as the enemy, an enemy with a brain, is constantly adjusting its tactics.
 Today, for example, we remember the D-Day invasion in World War II as a great American victory. That's how it's taught. But many historians also remember it for a series of strategic and tactical errors and decisions based on imperfect intelligence, difficulties that cost lives and delayed the Allied advance. Actually, it was undoubtedly both of those things, which of course is often the nature of warfare. 
 You might also want to remind folks that for every story of failure we know, there are hundreds more of courage and self-sacrifice.

David McCullough
Historian
Bates College
 However little television you watch, watch less. Read. Read for pleasure. Read for happiness.

Wynton Marsalis
Musician
The Juilliard School
 Realize that integrity is real, and so is starvation. Never let pay and the talk of pay occupy more time and space than the talk of your art. If you find that it is, go into banking or start a hedge fund or something. 
 Also, about pay, understand where you are. When I was 19, I was on a tour with Herbie Hancock and I started complaining to him before we walked onstage about what I was being paid. I said, ''When am I being paid?'' 
 He said: ''Come here, man. Look out into the audience.'' He said, ''Now, do you see those people?'' 
 I said, ''Yes sir.'' 
 He said: ''They paid for these tickets. If you don't walk out of here, how many of them are going to leave? Now, if I don't walk out, how many will leave? That's why you're being paid what you're being paid.'' 

Wendy Kopp
President and founder of Teach for America
University of North Carolina
 During my senior fall, I helped organize a conference about education reform, where one of the topics was the shortage of qualified teachers in urban and rural communities. It was at that conference that I thought of an idea: why doesn't our country have a national teacher corps that recruits us to teach in low-income communities the same way we're being recruited to work on Wall Street? From that moment, I was possessed by this idea. I thought it would make a huge difference in kids' lives and that ultimately it could change the very consciousness of our country, by influencing the thinking and career paths of a generation of leaders. So I did the obvious thing. I wrote a very long and very passionate letter to the president of the United States suggesting he start this corps. That didn't get very far -- I received a job rejection letter in response. So in my undergraduate senior thesis, I declared that I would try to create such a corps myself, as a nonprofit organization. When my thesis adviser looked at my budget, which showed that to recruit 500 new teachers into this corps during the first year would cost $2.5 million, he asked me if I knew how hard it was to raise $2,500, let alone $2.5 million. 
 Aided by my inexperience, I was unfazed by his question. When school district officials and potential funders laughed at the notion that the Me Generation would jump at the chance to teach in urban and rural communities, their concerns, too, went unheard. That year, 2,500 graduating seniors competed to enter Teach For America in response to a grass-roots recruitment campaign -- fliers under doors, since there was no e-mail back then. 
 And one year after I graduated, with $2.5 million in hand from the corporate and foundation community, I was looking out on an auditorium full of 489 recent college graduates who had joined Teach for America's first corps. My very greatest asset in reaching this point was that I simply did not understand what was impossible.

John Hope Franklin
Emeritus professor of history
Duke University
 Something has brought about the recrudescence of racism in this country. What triggered this bizarre demonstration of a trait that has too long been a part of American life? Perhaps it was the competition for the limited employment opportunities between recent immigrants and longtime citizens, such as African-Americans who have been mistakenly regarded as immigrants. Perhaps it was the view held by some that the civil rights movement had ended, thus no longer holding all of us accountable for this incipient racism. 
 Perhaps it was the mistaken view that the best way to preserve American values is for each American to take the law into her or his own hands. 
 Perhaps there were other forces at work: the sense of insecurity in the workplace on the part of some, the palpable resegregation of the public schools in many of our cities, the resistance to racial equality that has been ever present at all levels of American life and in every period of American history, and the mistaken belief by some that African-Americans should be made to understand that their rightful place in American society is one of subordination.
 What better way for you to take on your role as responsible, mature citizens than to insist that the American ideal of equality of race, sex, religion and ethnic groups be adhered to because that ideal was bought and paid for by all Americans, regardless of race.

Cokie Roberts
Broadcast journalist
Wheaton College
 It would be especially useful for you to consider, now that you have this wonderful education, a life of public service, particularly public service in elective office. I know that that is not a popular thought or that these are not popular people. And some of it's their own fault. Right now they're misbehaving badly. 
 Some of it is their fault because they tend to run against the institutions they serve in, rather than admire them and respect them. Some of it is your fault -- our fault as citizens -- because to be good leaders, you have to be good citizens and allow people to take leadership, not punish them the minute that they do something that you think is not in your immediate self-interest. Some of it is certainly our fault in the press for always jumping on public servants and politicians and denigrating them as ''professional politicians,'' as if that is some epithet of disgrace. But I would like to argue the other case because I think to denigrate the professional is to denigrate the profession. 

Jeffrey R. Immelt
Chairman and C.E.O. of General Electric
Northeastern University
 There's a lot of volatility out there, especially when you look 10 and 20 years down the road. Will China or India eclipse the United States as the dominant economic power in the world? Will global warming lead to more ecological turmoil? Will the cost of caring for aging populations around the world bankrupt national treasuries? These are only questions. We don't have the answers yet. The future hasn't been written yet. That's up to you.

Elias A. Zerhouni
Director of the National Institutes of Health
Johns Hopkins University
 There is no question that our world is more connected through the wonders of information technology and the relative ease of global travel. We can get on a plane to California, London or Brazil, to Shanghai, Mumbai or Dubai, then walk out of the gate and find a Starbucks and a wireless connection in the airport. But I have come to believe that this world view is incomplete and misleading. I believe that there is not one but two divergent globalizations going on at the same time on our planet. 
 One globalization is that of an increasingly connected world, as aptly described by Tom Friedman. But the other globalization is that of an increasingly disconnected world where knowledge may actually be decreasing and where poverty and disease are on a steady climb. This dawned on me as I traveled to Africa and Asia for N.I.H. Malaria, which was almost eliminated in the 1970's, has roared back, and tuberculosis and H.I.V./AIDS have exploded. 

Francine du Plessix Gray
Author
Barnard College
 You have to give hell to entrenched power when it violates our notions of human justice. So my final message to you is this: Whether it be on the issue of racial integration or gay rights or sexual equality or the pathetic state of health care in this country or one of the dumbest military excursions ever waged by an American government -- the Iraq War -- your motto should be ''Give 'em hell, give 'em hell, give 'em hell!'' There are never enough troublemakers fighting for justice, so go out there and give 'em hell to create a better world for you and your children to grow into.

Margaret Spellings
Secretary of education
Texas Tech University
 When I first got to the White House, I felt completely out of my element, surrounded by Ivy Leaguers. But I got my guns up. I stood and delivered. I did my best. And before long I was meeting with senators, flying on Air Force One and helping the president perfect his pronunciations. We're still working on ''nucular.'' It just goes to show you: the only boundaries to what you can achieve are the ones you set for yourself.

Lance Armstrong
Tour de France champion
Tufts University
 In 1998, when I decided to come back, there really were no guarantees. I was a year and a half off the bike. I got back into the sport, and as I mentioned, you have to have a team. Well, I barely found a team, and I started to train and I figured that since I was so sick before -- I had just done the Olympic Games in '96 -- I figured if I ridded my body of all the cancer, I would come back on the bike and I would win immediately. I had abdomen, lung and brain metastases, and I thought, let's get rid of all that stuff, I'll win everything. 
 I trained that way and I raced that way, at least I started to race that way. The sad news is that I didn't win. I didn't win at all. I was completely disillusioned. I fell out of love with the sport. I fell out of love with the bike. I didn't like my job. I didn't like Europe. I quit and I came home in the spring of '98. That's a story that nobody tells. I was done with cycling forever. 
 I proceeded to hang out with my friends, drink a few beers, play golf. I certainly was not living the life of a professional athlete, until, one day, a group of friends sat me down and said: ''You can't go out like this. You've got to get back on the bike, at least finish the year. You made a commitment to your team and to a whole population of cancer survivors that you'll try this. You have to at least finish the year.'' So I did that, and I went and found a remote training camp in Boone, N.C., with a coach and a friend. For eight days in the pouring rain, 40 degrees, I fell back in love with the bike. That was the start of the comeback.


CORRECTION-DATE: June 15, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sunday about commencement speeches around the country referred imprecisely to audience reaction to a speech by Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice at Boston College. While some people turned their backs on her and a protest banner was unfurled during her appearance, the scene inside Alumni Stadium where she spoke did not turn tumultuous, nor was she heckled while speaking.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Supreme Court Justice Anthony M. Kennedy urged New York University graduates to solve the potable-water shortage. (Photo by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)
(Photo by Jessica Rinaldi/Reuters)
(Photo by Chitose Suzuki/Associated Press)
 (Photo by Chris Keane for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (78%); LIBERALISM (75%); IRAQ WAR (75%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); WORLD WAR II (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); NAVIES (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (66%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (63%); TERRORISM (62%) Colleges and Universities; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

ORGANIZATION: ALLIANCE FOR JUSTICE (55%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (54%); JOHN MCCAIN (52%); MARK WARNER (52%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (52%); ANTHONY KENNEDY (51%); JAY LENO (50%) Sam Dillon; Bill Bradley; Jodie Foster; Donald H (Sec) Rumsfeld; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) VIRGINIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (92%); CUBA (55%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2006



240 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1279 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Conservatives Push Prewar 'Virtues' in Schools

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI

DATELINE: TOKYO, June 10 

 BODY:
At a new center to train public school teachers here, an instructor warned 22 young Japanese against egotism and selfishness on a recent Sunday morning.
 He exhorted them to be considerate of others, summing up what at times sounded like a sermon by saying that ''this is the most important thing to teach children.''
Later, the principal explained that the center's guiding philosophy was to recapture the ''virtues'' of prewar Japan -- ''what may have been lost during the 60 years of Japan's postwar education.''
 ''Japan has become considerably self-centered, meritocratic and egotistic,'' said the principal, Kenji Tamiya, 72, a former Sony executive. ''That's not to say that education alone is to blame. Our social system has many bad aspects. But education is part and parcel of that trend, and I think there's considerable soul-searching now all over Japan.'' 
 Indeed, the Japanese government is now moving toward revising the Fundamental Law of Education, which was drafted in 1947 during the American occupation to prevent a revival of prewar nationalism. The revision proposed by the governing Liberal Democratic Party would emphasize patriotism, tradition and morality, and hand greater control over schools to politicians.
 The occupation-era law replaced the prewar Imperial Rescript on Education, which had instructed children to sacrifice themselves for the state and the emperor. Japanese conservatives have long argued that the 1947 law overemphasizes individual rights over the public good, and that it has contributed to everything from the erosion of communities to the rise in juvenile crime.
 The focus on morality and patriotism is a reaction against educational policies that, since the early 1990's, encouraged creativity and individualism as part of an effort to make Japan more competitive in a global economy that rewards those qualities. Many politicians and parents now blame the focus on individualism, as well as the elimination of Saturday classes, for declining standards, test scores and discipline.
 The trend is also in keeping with a larger conservative movement that has tried to reclaim prewar symbols and encourage the use of textbooks that play down Japan's militarist past. More broadly, a revision of the education law is regarded as a precursor to the more delicate task of changing the other legal document of the American occupation, the Peace Constitution, which was meant to keep Japan from repeating its past.
 Japan's public schools have long been battlegrounds for bitter culture wars between liberal teachers and conservative politicians and bureaucrats. But in the past decade, the ascendancy of conservatives, coupled with the collapse of the left, has given conservative politicians greater power in reshaping education.
 The strong hand of conservative politicians has been felt the most in Tokyo, where the rightist governor, Shintaro Ishihara, and other like-minded politicians have curbed the influence of liberal teachers. Education experts say the proposed revision of the 1947 law would spread the type of changes that have started here to the rest of the nation.
 In Tokyo, in the past three years, the school board has punished teachers in 350 cases for being unpatriotic at school events. The teachers refused to sing the national anthem and stand before the national flag, both of which, to many here and abroad, are linked to Japan's former militarism.
 In the city's high schools, the principal and teachers used to make school-related decisions together. But the board downgraded teachers to advisers in 1998, effectively leaving all decisions to the principals; two months ago, the board prohibited teachers from raising their hands in meetings to voice their opinions.
 Yokichi Yokoyama, Tokyo's vice governor, said the notice was issued because some schools had resisted following the 1998 policy. ''Through the postwar era, including the teachers' union movement, the authority of the principal had in fact been reduced to a shell,'' he said.
 But critics say that the policy was intended to suppress the opinions of teachers, especially union members.
 ''What they're issuing is not just a ban on raising hands or taking votes, but a ban on discussion,'' said Mikiko Ikeda, a music teacher who has been reprimanded for refusing to play the national anthem at a school ceremony. ''There are very few people who express their opinions now.''
 Critics say the changes have also effectively concentrated power in the hands of Mr. Ishihara and politicians who agree with him, like Hiroshi Yamada, the mayor of Suginami, a middle-class ward in Tokyo.
 In his two terms as mayor, Mr. Yamada has succeeded in pushing schools to adopt conservative textbooks and has developed the new center to train teachers. He read a kamikaze pilot's will at an event for young adults, called World War II the ''Greater East Asian War,'' a favorite term of the right, and, like Mr. Ishihara, called China ''Shina,'' a derogatory term used during Japan's past occupation of the country.
 Mr. Yamada declined to be interviewed for this article.
 The ward's school board controls educational policies. But unlike American school boards, whose members are elected, board members in Japan are appointed by the municipal leader.
 ''The board of education is independent, officially,'' said Yunosuke Okura, 75, one of five board members in Suginami. ''In reality, it's not like that.''
 ''Implicitly and explicitly,'' Mr. Okura added, ''the administration's intentions are carried out.'' 
 With new appointees sharing the mayor's vision, the board voted 3 to 2 last year to adopt a history textbook written by the nationalist Japanese Society for History Textbook Reform, which argues that postwar education has overemphasized Japan's past misdeeds and that today's youth need more patriotic education. Mr. Okura said the board considered it the best textbook, although mainstream historians say it glosses over Japan's militarist past and few boards nationwide have adopted it.
 A group of citizens led by an opposition assemblywoman, Takeo Okuyama, have sued the ward, claiming that two teachers were pressured by their superiors into changing negative reviews of the textbook, and that one teacher's report was rewritten by the principal. 
 One of the teachers, Masashi Katayama, 57, said he believed that ''the principal was feeling unspoken pressure'' from the board and the mayor. The principal declined to be interviewed. 
 Schools in the ward began using the textbook in April. At the same time, the new teacher training center opened, guaranteeing its future graduates teaching jobs in the ward. 
 Takayasu Ide, the board superintendent, said the ward started the center to ''nurture teachers by ourselves.'' But critics accuse the mayor and his allies of aiming to replace teachers like Mr. Katayama with the center's graduates. (Mr. Katayama was transferred to a school in another ward after telling the news media he had been pressured to change his textbook assessment.)
 Critics of the proposed change in the education law say that if it is approved, politicians nationwide will be able to influence local education as Suginami's mayor does.
 Those who support the revision say it will help restore a sense of public duty and tradition without promoting the kind of nationalist fervor that gripped prewar Japan.
 But Hidenori Fujita, a professor of education at International Christian University here, said the revision still went too far by giving politicians nationwide the green light to assert control over educational policies. ''If that happens,'' he said, ''teachers and schoolchildren will be in trouble.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Graduates of the training center are guaranteed jobs as teachers.
 An instructor at a teacher training center in Suginami, a ward in Tokyo. The center favors conservative values. (Photographs by Ko Sasaki for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); CHILDREN (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); TEXTBOOKS (78%); EDUCATION LAW (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); LEGISLATION (72%); GLOBALIZATION (64%); JUVENILE CRIME (50%) Education and Schools; Law and Legislation; Education and Schools

PERSON: Onishi Norimitsu

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%) JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (92%) Japan

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2006



241 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Political Memo; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 1250 words

HEADLINE: The Upstate Economy, the Problem That Still Plagues Politicians and Their Promises

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
New York Democrats at their party's state convention last month repeatedly invoked the same theme: the need to reinvigorate the economy upstate, where ailing cities like Buffalo and now Rochester contrast starkly with New York City and its shimmering prosperity. 
 But the Democrats -- convened, not coincidentally, in Buffalo -- face a daunting challenge. Decades of campaign promises from both parties to make upstate more competitive, and their mixed records on redeeming those promises, have left some New Yorkers skeptical that either party has the will or the ability to fix the foundering economy.
 ''They all had ideas, but none of the ideas worked,'' said Denis M. Hughes, president of the New York State A.F.L.-C.I.O. 
 Upstate New York has been buffeted by military base closings and the impact of free-trade agreements on manufacturing. In the 1990's, according to a study by the Brookings Institution, the population of the 52 upstate counties grew by only 1.1 percent, a growth rate slower than that in every state but West Virginia and North Dakota. Prisoners accounted for nearly 3 in every 10 new residents. 
 ''The economy of upstate New York, by nearly all major measures, worsened in the 1990's,'' the study concluded, lagging behind ''both the nation and its own performance in the 1980's.'' 
 When Attorney General Eliot Spitzer, a Democrat, likened upstate New York to Appalachia earlier this year, some Republicans accused him of city-centric elitism. But it was business leaders who complained, in a Public Policy Institute report two years ago, about high taxes and asked, during the third term of Gov. George E. Pataki, a Republican: ''Is upstate New York going the way of Appalachia?'' 
 The institute, which is affiliated with the state's Business Council, concluded that upstate ''has few of the advantages that New York City gets from its international role. It has to compete with regular places like Ohio and Virginia. In that competition, costs do matter.''
 The institute added, ''What is relevant is if property taxes and energy and workers' comp and health insurance cost more in Elmira than in Virginia.''
 Another report by the institute praised early efforts by Mr. Pataki to improve the business climate but said the recession that struck in 2001 ''took the wind out of those sails.'' 
 David F. Shaffer, the institute's president, said, ''When the 1990 recession came along, upstate simply never fully recovered -- and has lagged behind ever since.''
 The institute largely blamed ''the dominance exercised by the downstate political culture,'' which is generally synonymous with Democrats, even though the downstate suburbs have, until recently, traditionally voted Republican and the city itself has elected a Republican mayor four times in a row. 
 Historically, the biggest benefit to the upstate economy was probably the Erie Canal, completed in 1825. It was championed by a New York City mayor, DeWitt Clinton, a Jeffersonian Republican (a precursor to today's Democrats, although both modern parties claim a connection) who was later elected governor. 
 In the 20th century, two Republican governors, Thomas E. Dewey and Nelson A. Rockefeller, expanded the state Thruway and the state university system upstate. A Democrat, Hugh L. Carey, was known for tax cutting that helped the upstate economy rebound. 
 Another Democrat, Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, helped convince New Yorkers that the city and suburbs should send more money to Albany than they receive, an insight that helped his two downstate Democratic successors in the Senate, Charles E. Schumer and Hillary Rodham Clinton, make further inroads upstate.
 In 2004, Mr. Schumer was re-elected with 59 percent of the upstate vote after touting his work helping the economy by, for instance, encouraging more air service to upstate cities. 
 ''It starts to seep in that Democrats can be good fiscal managers, that New York City is not your enemy,'' said William T. Cunningham, an adviser to Democratic and Republican officeholders. ''It makes it easier for a Democrat to campaign upstate and poach on the Republicans.''
 Senator Clinton, virtually unchallenged this year within her own party, is hoping to run even better than last time upstate, which traditionally votes Republican, to show Democrats across the country that she has bipartisan appeal. 
 To that end, she has, among other things, assiduously courted Corning Inc., one of the largest and oldest employers upstate, and pressed for several policies that benefit the company. 
 ''I think there is a general perception that both Senator Clinton and Senator Schumer have been more attentive to upstate needs than has traditionally been the case for U.S. senators from New York,'' said Mr. Shaffer of the Public Policy Institute. But he said the solution lies in Albany. 
 ''New York State government caused the problem and New York State government can fix it,'' he said. ''All four candidates for governor seem to me to be genuinely aware of, and concerned about, the problem; when they talk about upstate they're not just pandering to the remnant citizenry of some hopelessly beleaguered region. Whether one or more of them has the program, the will and the firepower to do something about it, time will tell.''
 In Buffalo, both Mr. Spitzer, who overwhelmingly won the party's support for governor, and Thomas R. Suozzi, his challenger and the Nassau County executive, conspicuously pledged to fix the moribund upstate economy. 
 Governor Pataki has been credited with helping the Albany-area economy by encouraging the nanotechnology industry, which has had a spillover effect in creating other high-technology jobs. But overall, private sector job losses upstate have continued, except in categories like health and social services that depend on government.
 Regardless of Mr. Pataki's record, after 12 years of a Republican governor Democrats are in a position to capitalize on calls for a change in how upstate is handled. 
 Outside New York City, the state has nearly as many registered Democrats as Republicans.
 In addition, upstaters are disproportionately old, a constituency that Mr. Cunningham, who has worked for Mr. Carey, Mr. Moynihan and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, said was ''concerned about Social Security and health care, and these are issues that the Democrats have dominated.''
 Charles A. Gargano, the chairman of the Empire State Development Corporation and a Pataki appointee, said upstate benefits when taxes fall, reducing the cost of doing business. 
 But, he said, ''The Legislature is more concerned with spending than cutting taxes.'' It has often thwarted Mr. Pataki's economic development strategies, he said, which might suggest it does not much matter to upstate whether a Democrat or a Republican is elected governor. 
 Richard P. Nathan, co-director of the Rockefeller Institute of Government and a professor at the State University of New York at Albany, was born in Schenectady and recalls how much upstate has changed. 
 ''When we recruit faculty,'' he said, ''we say there's good living in upstate New York, you can get a nice house for modest prices, good schools, you can commute easily. There are nodes in Saratoga, Albany, the Finger Lakes, where you can build on the ambiance. New strategies might be ripe for these times: not smokestack-chasing, not big factories, but communities that can attract people.
 ''And yet,'' Professor Nathan added, ''it's not easy to be optimistic.''


CORRECTION-DATE: June 15, 2006

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a Political Memo article on Sunday, about failed political efforts to improve upstate New York's economy, referred incorrectly to an accomplishment by a Democrat, the late Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, that helped his two Democratic successors make inroads with upstate voters, including Republicans. He was able to convince them that New York City and its suburbs were already sending more money to Albany than they received, not that the city and its suburbs should start doing so.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kodak announced 10,000 job cuts in July 2005, while its billboard praised Rochester as a technical center. (Photo by Kevin Rivoli/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (72%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); CLOSINGS (68%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (64%); PROPERTY TAX (63%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (60%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (60%); MILITARY BASES (54%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%) 

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (83%); AFL-CIO (56%) Brookings Institution

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (59%) Sam Roberts

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York State; Buffalo (NY)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2006



242 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: Who Wants to Become A Working-Class Designer?

BYLINE: By JANNY SCOTT

 BODY:
In an effort to bring better design to working-class housing, the Bloomberg administration and an architects' group are to announce today a competition to pick an architect and a developer to build an apartment complex on vacant city-owned land in the South Bronx.
 Sponsored by the city's Department of Housing Preservation and Development and the New York chapter of the American Institute of Architects, the competition is said to be the first of its kind in the city. It is intended to produce a building that is innovative in its design, environmentally friendly, financially viable and replicable by others. 
The criteria to be used by the jury of architects, developers and city officials that will select the winning plan will put a premium on design quality, affordability and factors like energy efficiency and the use of renewable resources. Then the city will give the winning team the site, a 40,000-square-foot former railyard, for about a dollar a lot for the two lots involved. 
 ''We want to create an exemplary model that could not just put in place the best standards of design being used elsewhere but could actually create new standards for design going forward,'' said Shaun Donovan, commissioner of the New York City Department of Housing Preservation and Development, who was himself trained as an architect.
 The city condemned the site, at Brook Avenue and East 156th Street, in an urban renewal program in 1972. It is among the last remaining large tracts of vacant city-owned land.
 An abandoned rail line runs through it; the soil and groundwater may be contaminated. It is northeast of the Hub, the third largest shopping district in the Bronx and a neighborhood that is reviving after decades in decline.
 The building is to include as many as 150 apartments on the upper floors with commercial and community facilities at ground level. The aim is to produce apartments for people with a range of incomes, from low-income units to those at market rate. The architect-developer teams are encouraged to propose a mix of public subsidy programs and private financing.
 Karen Kubey, another architect and co-chairwoman of the steering committee of New Housing New York, the group that organized the competition, said, ''We're saying that good design shouldn't be just for rich people but for everyone. What can we do to make design affordable and sustainable?''
 Architects said proposals could include design elements like open staircases that encourage residents to climb rather than ride elevators; ''green'' features like photovoltaic electrical generation and bamboo floors instead of hardwood, and the use of paints and carpeting that do not contribute to indoor air pollution.
 As for the price, Mr. Donovan said good design ''doesn't necessarily mean higher costs.''
 Mark Ginsberg, an architect on the steering committee, said that even if a building ended up costing a little more than it would have otherwise, its ''lifetime energy cost'' -- the cost to operate the building -- might be less.
 Juried design competitions are not uncommon for museums and other cultural institutions; and architects like Le Corbusier informed early visions of public housing. But the practice of hiring visionary designers for low-income housing, architects say, fell out of favor in the United States as public housing projects came to be seen as a failure.
 In 2004, the New York City Council, the local American Institute of Architects chapter and the City University of New York sponsored a competition to elicit ideas for quality low- and moderate-income housing. That competition produced ideas but no buildings. The new competition is intended to produce a building that might serve as a prototype.
 The initiative comes at a time when the city is facing a shortage of low- and moderate-income housing. The population is growing, land is scarce and real estate values remain high. As a result, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has vowed to create or preserve 165,000 low- and moderate-income units by 2013.
 ''A design competition is often a question of picking the best and the brightest, not just the low bidder,'' said Fredric Bell, executive director of the New York chapter of the American Institute of Architects and a former official in the city's Department of Design and Construction. ''The mechanisms by which architects are selected by competition can generate some very exciting ideas.''
 The competition will include two parts. First, teams of architects, developers and contractors will submit their qualifications. Then the 10-member jury will chose half a dozen teams, each of which will receive a stipend to help cover the cost of preparing a full proposal. The jury is to select the winner this fall.


CORRECTION-DATE: June 12, 2006

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article yesterday about a competition to design a working-class apartment development in the South Bronx incorrectly stated the date the competition would be announced. It is today, not yesterday.

GRAPHIC: Map of Bronx, N.Y. highlighting Melrose: Apartments are to be built on a site that was condemned in 1972.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); GREEN BUILDING (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); CITIES (77%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); POWER PLANTS (73%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); INDOOR AIR QUALITY (70%); WATER POLLUTION (69%); SOLAR ENERGY (68%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); AIR POLLUTION (63%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (61%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%) Housing; Architecture; Contests and Prizes

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS (83%) American Institute of Architects; Housing Preservation and Development Department (NYC)

PERSON: Janny Scott

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2006



243 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 2; Society Desk; WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 199 words

HEADLINE: Laura Spong, Mark Scherban

 BODY:
Laura Kristen Spong, the daughter of Janet Spong of Cedar Grove, N.J., and John Spong of Roselle, N.J., was married yesterday afternoon to Mark David Scherban, a son of Laraine and Jack Scherban of Clinton, Conn. The Rev. Sandra Murphy officiated at St. Andrew's United Methodist Church in Spring Lake, N.J. The Rev. Dr. Charles Jenkins, a minister of the United Church of Christ, participated in the ceremony. 
 Mrs. Scherban, 35, is the director of recruitment at Brown Brothers Harriman & Company, the private bank in New York. She graduated from Rutgers, where she also received a master's degree in human resource management.
Her father, who is retired, repaired mainframe computers at Unisys. Her mother, who is also retired, taught home economics at the Richard Butler School in Butler, N.J.
 Mr. Scherban, 32, is an account executive at Trade Settlement, a New York company, which operates an automated system for trading loans between banks and financial service companies. He graduated from the University of Connecticut.
 His mother teaches history at the Jared Eliot Middle School in Clinton. His father is a manager of consumer loans at the Farmington, Conn., branch of Bank of America.


GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (87%); RELIGION (76%); HUMAN RESOURCES (70%); BANK BRANCHES (69%); CONSUMER LENDING (69%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BROWN BROTHERS HARRIMAN & CO (71%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (55%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (71%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2006



244 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 2; Magazine; CHAPTER 1: THE NATION; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 2991 words

HEADLINE: Reasons To Worry

BYLINE: By Niall Ferguson. 
Niall Ferguson is Laurence A. Tisch professor of history at Harvard University and the author of ''Colossus: The Rise and Fall of the American Empire.'' His new book, ''The War of the World,'' will be published in September.

 BODY:
Think of the economy of the United States as a dinosaur -- one of those huge herbivores whose bulk shook the ground. A brachiosaur. A brontosaur. A diplodocus. Like them, the U.S. economy is mind-bogglingly enormous -- two and a half times as big as the next largest economy in the world and almost as large as that of the six other members of the Group of Seven combined. The catch is that it has to consume almost incessantly to sustain its great heft.
Contrary to what we used to believe, leviathans like the diplodocus were not exactly sloths. It is now thought that they had the strength to stand on their hind legs in order to reach food at the top of trees. They may even have been able to run rather than merely plod. But it seems reasonable to assume that their reaction times were slow; it was a very long way from the diplodocus's tail to its brain. If a predator sank its fangs into that tail, it might have taken the diplodocus a few moments to feel the pain. 
 The big question about the dinosaurs is, of course, What caused their extinction? Why were so many species unable to evolve in response to environmental changes? The most common explanation is that a very sudden event, like a meteor's impact, gave the dinosaurs too little time to evolve and provided smaller and more dynamic life forms with an opportunity to take over.
 An analogous question for economists is whether the United States is capable of evolving out of its present excessive indebtedness. Or could the global economic environment change so drastically as to threaten, if not extinction, then at least decline relative to smaller, more dynamic economies?
 When the National Debt clock in Times Square was turned on in 1989, the federal debt amounted to around $2.7 trillion. Eleven years later, on Sept. 7, 2000, the clock read: ''Our national debt: $5,676,989,904,887. Your family share: $73,733.'' That's when the clock was turned off, because, in those innocent days, it seemed as if the $5.6 trillion debt was set to decline, perhaps to disappear altogether. On that same date, CNN reported, ''Vice President and Democratic presidential nominee Al Gore . . . outlined a plan that he says would eliminate the debt by 2012.'' The proposal was uncontroversial. Economic advisers to the Republican candidate, George W. Bush, were said to have ''agreed with the principle of paying down the debt,'' but their candidate had ''not committed to a specific date for eliminating it.''
 That should have set the alarm bells ringing. (And, in fact, the National Debt Clock started running again in 2002.)
 Since becoming president, George Bush has presided over one of the steepest peacetime rises ever in the federal debt. The gross federal debt now exceeds $8.3 trillion. There are three reasons for the post-2000 increase: reduced revenue during the 2001 recession, generous tax cuts for higher income groups and increased expenditures not only on warfare abroad but also on welfare at home. And if projections from the Congressional Budget Office turn out to be correct, we are just a decade away from a $12.8 trillion debt -- more than double what it was when Bush took office.
 Big public debts are not always bad, to be sure. It could be argued that in his first term Bush wisely used fiscal policy to boost aggregate demand and counter the impact of the dot-com bust. Public borrowing also allows ''tax smoothing'' by spreading out over time the cost of big one-off expenses like wars, three of which the United States has fought since 1999.
 On the other hand, by requiring larger interest payments, big public debts devour revenue that could be spent on other programs. They may crowd out private investment by pushing up long-term interest rates. They may also have a regressive distributional impact, transferring economic resources from taxpayers to bondholders or from future generations to the present generation.
 It all depends how you measure the debt. If you exclude bonds and bills in the possession of government agencies and programs, like the Social Security trust fund, the debt actually held by private investors is less than $5 trillion. Economists commonly calculate the debt burden as a percentage of gross domestic product. Counting only the debt held by the public, that works out to around 38 percent of G.D.P., a major increase relative to 1981 but still modest compared with the years after World War II. What's more, the C.B.O. forecasts (albeit with the rosy assumption of annual growth close to 5 percent) that the debt-to-G.D.P. ratio will actually decline in the decade ahead, to perhaps as little as 34.5 percent -- even if today's lax budgetary plans are adhered to.
 The trouble is that the officially stated borrowings of the federal government are only one part of the U.S. debt problem. For it is not only the government's debt that has grown large of late. Ordinary American households have also gone on prodigious borrowing sprees.
 In the past five years alone, the value of U.S. home-mortgage debt has increased by nearly $3 trillion. Not all of that borrowing went to pay for real estate, the traditional function of mortgages. In 2004, net mortgage borrowing not used for the purchase of new homes amounted to nearly $600 billion. The International Monetary Fund estimates that this kind of equity extraction has risen from less than 2 percent of household disposable income in the year 2000 to more than 9 percent in the third quarter of last year.
 And let's not forget those other debts that families did not formerly run up. Consumer credit in the 1960's and 1970's averaged less than 13 percent of G.D.P. In the past 10 years it has climbed to around 18 percent.
 Not only do Americans borrow as never before; they also save remarkably little. The impressive resilience of American consumer spending in the past 15 years has been based partly on a collapse in the personal savings rate from around 7.5 percent of income to below zero. The aggregate national savings rate, which includes the public sector and corporations, averaged 13 percent in the 1960's. Last year it was just 0.8 percent.
 The trouble is that, for demographic reasons, Americans need to save more than this. According to the 2006 Retirement Confidence Survey, 6 in 10 American workers say they are saving for retirement, and just 4 in 10 say they have actually calculated how much they should be saving -- many of them figure that they will simply work longer. According to survey data, the average worker plans to work until age 65. But it turns out that he or she actually ends up retiring at 62; indeed, about 4 in 10 workers end up leaving the work force earlier than planned.
 This has grave implications for the federal budget. Already, Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid consume nearly half of federal tax revenues. And that proportion is bound to rise, not only because the number of retirees is going up but also because benefits programs are out of control. Over the past four years, Medicare benefits per recipient grew 16 times as fast as the real wages of the workers paying for them through taxation.
 In short, the federal government seems to have much larger unfinanced liabilities than official data imply. If you compare the present value of all projected future government expenditures, including debt-service payments, with the present value of all projected future government receipts, the gap is about $66 trillion, according to calculations by the economists Jagadeesh Gokhale and Kent Smetters. That's almost eight times the size of the official gross federal debt.
 American consumption has been the principal engine of economic growth in the world over the past decade. But the readiness of American households and politicians to borrow has an inevitable corollary: the United States has become the world's biggest debtor.
 In almost every year since 1992, the gap between the amount of goods and services the United States exports and the amount it imports has grown wider. This year the current account deficit, which is largely a trade deficit, could rise as high as 7 percent of G.D.P., nearly double its peak in the mid-1980's. What results is a remarkable accumulation of foreign debt. Estimates of the net international investment position of the United States -- the difference between the overseas assets owned by Americans and the American assets owned by foreigners -- have declined from a modest positive balance of around 5 percent of G.D.P. in the mid-80's to a huge net debt of minus 20 percent today.
 What this means is that foreigners are accumulating large claims on the future output of the United States. However the borrowed money is used, whether productively or not, a proportion of the future returns on U.S. investments will end up flowing abroad as dividends or interest payments.
 Asian central banks in particular have been buying large quantities of dollars and dollar-denominated securities. Chinese purchases of U.S. bonds in 2005, for example, are estimated to have risen as high as 2 percent of our G.D.P., a very significant proportion of America's foreign borrowing. At first sight, the channeling of Chinese savings into American bonds seems bizarre. The average American has an income of about $40,000 a year and has, as we have seen, a personal savings rate of zero. The average Chinese earns around $1,500 per year but has personal savings of 23 percent of his income -- and is lending a large chunk of these savings, via the People's Bank of China, to the average American. The conventional explanation for this strange transaction is that the Chinese authorities need to buy dollar-denominated bonds to prevent their own currency from appreciating relative to ours. The logic is that China needs a weak exchange rate to ensure that its exports continue to flow into the American market.
 Of course, it is not only the Chinese who have been engaging in the accumulation of dollars and dollar-denominated securities. The Japanese have been nearly as active, as have other Asian economies. Middle Eastern oil producers have also been running large trade surpluses, thanks to high oil prices, and investing at least some of the proceeds in the United States.
 As a result, there has been an immense rise in foreign ownership of American securities of all kinds, but especially government bonds. Foreign ownership of the U.S. federal debt passed the halfway mark in June 2004. About a third of corporate bonds are now in foreign hands, as is more than 13 percent of the U.S. stock market. One analyst has half-seriously calculated that at the current rate of foreign accumulation, the last U.S. Treasury held by an American will be purchased by the People's Bank of China on Feb. 9, 2012.
 To those familiar with the Latin American debt crises of the 80's and 90's, there's a case to be made that the United States is on the road to becoming a Latin American country. While it is certainly true that our net external debt is now as large in relative terms as some Latin American debts have been in past crises, there's a difference. Latin American countries have generally had to borrow in the currency used by their creditors. A decline in the borrowing country's currency, say the peso, threatens to send its dollar-denominated debt skyrocketing in peso terms.
 But the happy position of the United States is more like that of Britain in the aftermath of World War II, when a substantial part of its war debt was owed in sterling to current or former colonies. Because Britain borrowed in its own currency, it had control over the unit of account. As the pound slid from $4 to below $2 from the 40's to the 70's, its sterling liabilities were reduced by half in terms of the key postwar currency.
 Could the dollar follow a similar downward path? It has happened before. Between March 1985 and April 1988, the dollar depreciated by more than 40 percent against the currencies of America's trading partners. As a fiscal strategy, dollar depreciation has much to recommend it. At a stroke, American exports would regain their competitiveness overseas and Asian imports would become more expensive, leading to at least some contraction -- though not an elimination -- of the trade deficit. Foreign creditors would take the hit, finding their dollar assets suddenly worth much less in terms of their own currencies.
 So what's the catch? A sudden increase in the dollar price of American imports could stoke inflation in the United States. There is already some patchy evidence of an upturn in inflation. Whichever measure you use, prices are certainly rising at a faster rate now than they were two years ago, as are hourly earnings. As measured by the spread between conventional bonds and inflation-proof bonds, inflation expectations are also up slightly.
 But is that really a catch? Not necessarily. Because higher inflation means that the real value of your debt ends up being reduced (in terms of the purchasing power of the amount that you owe) -- provided, that is, that your debt is not adjustable-rate or index-linked.
 Alas, those are two really serious caveats.
 It's a pretty safe bet that if a dollar decline shows signs of boosting inflation, the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates. The credibility of the new Fed chairman would be on the line. Even a federal-funds rate above 5 percent might seem too low. Bear in mind that the federal-funds rate (the overnight rate at which the Fed lends to the banking system) has been going up for two years, from its nadir of below 1 percent in June 2004. Now ask yourself, Who has been most affected by this monetary tightening?
 Two important categories of debtor spring to mind. First, there are the households with adjustable-rate mortgages. More Americans have variable-rate mortgages than ever before, even if most existing mortgage rates remain fixed. Since March 2004, there has been a 59 percent increase in one-year adjustable-rate mortgages. But that just means that they have become more expensive for new borrowers. The key question is, When do existing A.R.M.'s reset? The answer: Soon.
 According to calculations published by Barron's in February, over the next two years the monthly payments on about $600 billion of mortgages taken out by borrowers in the so-called subprime market (those with checkered or nonexistent credit histories) will increase by as much as 50 percent. This is because many A.R.M.'s have two-year teaser periods to entice borrowers. After that, the meaning of ''adjustable'' suddenly becomes (in this case, painfully) apparent.
 To which you might respond by saying, Caveat emptor. If borrowers fail to read the small print or to anticipate higher rates, then more fool they. And no doubt in the subprime market there are many people who made one or both of those mistakes and will pay dearly for doing so.
 Yet the surprising thing is that the second category of debtor vulnerable to higher short-term rates can scarcely plead ignorance or naivete. For it is none other than the federal government itself.
 The protracted decline of long-term interest rates since the 80's has been a boon for an indebted government. Since 1990, the cost of servicing the federal debt has actually declined from 3.2 percent of G.D.P. in 1990 to 1.5 percent in 2005, even as the absolute size of the debt has soared. But that decline has been achieved partly thanks to the term structure of the debt -- that is, to the relatively short duration of the bonds issued by the Treasury, which has allowed the government to take maximum advantage of falling rates. At the end of fiscal year 2005, for example, fully a third of the federal debt had a maturity of less than one year, and the average maturity of the entire debt was just 57 months (down from 74 months at the end of 2000).
 This was wonderful so long as interest rates were falling. But now that they have started going up, it creates a potential fiscal nightmare: big slices of the federal debt that have to be refinanced at higher market rates. And that creates a new source of budgetary red ink: rising interest payments. It turns out that George Bush has the biggest A.R.M. in the world.
 The most important lesson to be drawn from the history of debt is this: It's not the absolute size of your borrowings that matters. It's not even the relative size in relation to your income. The crux is whether the interest payments you have to make are more or less than you can afford to pay. And that, in turn, is a function of whether or not the rate can move, whether or not your income can change and whether or not inflation can help you or hurt you. On this basis, both subprime American mortgage-holders and a distinctly subprime administration may find the months ahead more painful than they anticipated.
 The dinosaurs, we conjecture, succumbed to global climate change. The American beast -- call it debtlodocus -- faces a comparable economic challenge. The global economic climate seems to be changing. We hear no more talk of deflation; we hear a lot about rising rates.
 For America's giant, dinosaurlike economy -- with its small, wealthy head; its big, fat middle; and its long low-income tail -- there is a tried-and-tested response to a change in the weather. Dollar depreciation and inflation have saved the debtlodocus before. The assumption seems to be that they will do the trick again.
 Yet this time may be different. For sinking like a velociraptor's fangs into the tail of the debtlodocus are interest-rate hikes that may outpace and check any increase in inflation. And no one knows when and how violently the leviathan may react to this slowly discernible pain.
 It is too soon to speak of extinction, of course. But one obvious inference to be drawn from the British experience of an indebted empire and a sliding currency, as well as from the history of the diplodocus, is that eternal life is not on offer.


GRAPHIC: Drawings (Drawing by Jillian Tamaki)
 MARK TWAIN: POOR: The author of ''Huckleberry Finn'' (1885) declares bankruptcy in 1894 when his investments in a publishing house and a typesetting machine go bad. SOLVENT: World lecture tour begun in 1895 allows Twain to pay off creditors by 1898. (Drawing by James Taylor)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (84%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MAMMALS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (64%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (64%) Credit; Budgets and Budgeting; International Trade and World Market; Finances; National Debt (US)

PERSON: AL GORE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%) Niall Ferguson

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2006



245 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: Immigration Beefs Up Nebraska

BYLINE: By Richard Dooling. 
Richard Dooling is a screenwriter and the author, most recently, of ''Bet Your Life.''

DATELINE: Omaha 

 BODY:
ROUNDLY castigated recently for being a ''cow town'' in the middle of nowhere when it comes to anti-terrorism money, ''sleepy'' Omaha played host to President Bush last Wednesday, perhaps to help the president prove that immigration is an issue in the middle of everywhere.
 The president visited South Omaha's Juan Diego Center, operated by Catholic Charities to help new immigrants adjust to life in the United States, and then spoke at a nearby community college. I attended his speech, accompanied by Amy Peck, a Nebraska lawyer with a once thriving, now frantic, immigration practice here in Omaha, more than 1,000 miles from the Mexican border. 
No fan of President Bush or his foreign policy, Ms. Peck is surprised to find herself applauding his immigration proposals: Like Senator Chuck Hagel of Nebraska, she says, President Bush speaks about immigration issues in a practical, sensible and compassionate way. 
 Immigration is a hot economic topic here, because Nebraska has become a destination for migrant workers. Since Ms. Peck began her immigration practice in 1987, the number of undocumented workers and their families living in Nebraska and Iowa has increased by more than 1,500 percent, to as many as 140,000. So says The Omaha World-Herald, which these days has a full-time immigration reporter and steady coverage of immigration issues and their impact on the Nebraska-Iowa economies. 
 Immigrants want jobs, and Nebraska's unemployment rate is usually half to two-thirds the national unemployment rate: in 2005, the unemployment rate was 3.81 percent for Nebraska, versus 5.1 percent nationally. The $2 billion Omaha building boom, the declining population in Nebraska's outlying counties and the corporate consolidation of farms have all conspired to create relatively well-paying jobs in construction, hospitality, meat packing and agriculture. 
 The president used the words ''assimilate'' and ''assimilation'' throughout his speech and emphasized the impact of migrant entrepreneurs on Nebraska's economy, citing the case of Salvador Pina, a ''new American citizen,'' who received a $10,000 loan from the Juan Diego Center, started an auto-repair business in Omaha and now employs three people. In a state perpetually worried about losing one of its Congressional seats because of the dwindling population in outlying counties, the sheer numbers of immigrants have a big impact and can often revitalize dying towns.
 Ernie Goss, an economist at Creighton University here, has looked closely at this effect. For instance, the slow ascent evident in a graph of Nebraska's population (cresting at just over 1.7 million) conceals social and economic dislocations, which become apparent when Mr. Goss separates domestic (state-to-state) migration from international migration. From 1990 to 2005, 21 states, including Nebraska and New York, lost more people to state-to-state migration than they gained. Of those 21 ''loser'' states, only six (Nebraska, California, Maryland, New Jersey, South Dakota and Wyoming) were able to attract enough immigrants to show net population gains. (Note to New Yorkers: Nebraska's census figures do not include cows.) 
 Mr. Goss also demonstrates how immigrants often have a double-barreled effect on local economies, because they stimulate increased trade with their native countries. For instance, from 1999 to 2005, Mexico was Nebraska's second fastest growing export market, expanding by $276 million, or 110 percent.
 This growth rate was approximately three times the United States' growth in trade with Mexico for the same period. The food industry represented 67 percent of Nebraska's increase in exports to Mexico; food processing and meat packing have the highest shares of immigrant labor. 
 Of course, the flip side of the president's ''assimilation'' is stringent enforcement of existing immigration laws, an approach that many conservative Nebraskans favor. After spending a few days researching the impact of immigrants on the economy in the state, I, for one, believe that yes, we could strengthen immigration enforcement and expel any worker with iffy documentation from our meat packing and food processing plants. But that could cause a calamity for the rest of the country: No more steaks.

HOME ECONOMICS
Unemployment's down, inflation's up and consumer confidence blows with the wind. Just how are Americans actually doing? Last fall, the Op-Ed page asked writers to provide snapshots of their local economies over the course of the year. Here is their third round of dispatches.


GRAPHIC: Photos (Photographs by Mike Slack)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (95%); MIGRANT WORKERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CHARITIES (78%); REFUGEES (77%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (77%); POPULATION DECLINE (76%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (76%); RELIGION (76%); TERRORISM (73%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (66%); TRENDS (66%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Immigration and Refugees; Labor; Migrant Labor

COMPANY: OMAHA WORLD-HERALD CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Catholic Charities

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%)

PERSON: CHUCK HAGEL (58%) Richard Dooling; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: OMAHA, NE, USA (94%) NEBRASKA, USA (97%); IOWA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%); MEXICO (79%) Omaha (Neb)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2006



246 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1560 words

HEADLINE: How Hispanics Became the New Gays

BYLINE: By Frank Rich

 BODY:
HE never promised them the Rose Garden. But that's where America's self-appointed defenders of family values had expected President Bush to take his latest stand against same-sex marriage last week. In the end, without explanation, the event was shunted off to a nondescript auditorium in the Executive Office Building, where the president spoke for a scant 10 minutes at the non-prime-time hour of 1:45 p.m. The subtext was clear: he was embarrassed to be there, a constitutional amendment ''protecting'' marriage was a loser, and he feared being branded a bigot. ''As this debate goes forward, every American deserves to be treated with tolerance and respect and dignity,'' Mr. Bush said.
 That debate died on the floor of the Senate less than 48 hours later, when the amendment went down to an even worse defeat than expected. Washington instantly codified the moral: a desperate president at rock bottom in the polls went through the motions of a cynical and transparent charade to rally his base in an election year. Nothing was gained -- even the president of the Family Policy Network branded Mr. Bush's pandering a ruse -- and no harm was done. 
Except to gay people. That's why the president went out of his way to talk about ''tolerance'' at this rally, bizarrely held on the widely marked 25th anniversary of the first mention of an AIDS diagnosis in a federal report. Mr. Bush knew very well that his participation in this tired political stunt, while certain to have no effect on the Constitution, could harm innocent Americans. 
 When young people hear repeatedly that gay couples aspiring to marital commitment are ''undermining the moral fabric of the country, that stuff doesn't wash off,'' says Matt Foreman of the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force. Most concretely, the Washington ruckus trickles down into sweeping assaults on gay partners' employee benefits and parental rights at the state level, as exemplified by a broadly worded referendum on the Virginia ballot this fall outlawing any kind of civil union. Had Mr. Bush really believed that his words had no consequences, he would have spoken in broad daylight at the White House and without any defensive touchy-feely bromides about ''tolerance.''
 Mr. Bush prides himself on being tolerant -- and has hundreds of photos of himself posing with black schoolkids to prove it. But his latest marriage maneuver is yet another example of how his presidency has been an enabler of bigots, and not just those of the ''pro-family'' breed. 
 The stars are in alignment for a new national orgy of rancor because Americans are angry. The government has failed to alleviate gas prices, the economic anxieties of globalization or turmoil in Iraq. Two-thirds of Americans believe their country is on the wrong track. The historical response to that plight is a witch hunt for scapegoats on whom we can project our rage and impotence. Gay people, though traditionally handy for that role, aren't the surefire scapegoats they once were; support for a constitutional marriage amendment, ABC News found, fell to 42 percent just before the Senate vote. Hence the rise of a juicier target: Hispanics. They are the new gays, the foremost political pinata in the election year of 2006.
 As has not been the case with gay civil rights, Mr. Bush has taken a humane view of immigration reform throughout his political career. Some of this is self-interest; he wants to cater to his business backers' hunger for cheap labor and Karl Rove's hunger for Hispanic voters. But Mr. Bush has always celebrated and promoted immigrants and never demonized them -- at least in Texas. In the White House, he sidelined immigration after 9/11, then backed away from a ''guest worker'' proposal when his party balked in 2004. After bragging about his political capital upon re-election, he squandered it on Iraq and a quixotic campaign to privatize Social Security. Now Congress has acted without him, turning immigration reform into a deadlocked culture war not unlike the marriage amendment. A draconian federal law is unlikely, but the damage has been done: the ugly debate has in itself generated a backlash against a vulnerable minority. 
 Most Americans who are in favor of stricter border enforcement are not bigots. Far from it. But some politicians and other public figures see an opportunity to foment hate and hysteria for their own profit. They are embracing a nativism and xenophobia that recall the 1920's, when a State Department warning about an influx of ''filthy'' and ''unassimilable'' Jews from Eastern Europe led to the first immigration quotas, or the 1950's heyday of Operation Wetback, when illegal Mexican workers were hunted down and deported. 
 ''What a repellent spectacle,'' the Fox News anchor Brit Hume said when surveying masses of immigrant demonstrators, some of them waving Mexican flags, in April. Hearing of a Spanish version of ''The Star-Spangled Banner,'' Lamar Alexander, a Republican from Tennessee, introduced a Senate resolution calling for the national anthem to be sung only in English. There was no more point to that gratuitous bit of grandstanding than there was to the D.O.A. marriage amendment. Or more accurately, both had the same point: stirring up animosity against a group that can be branded an enemy of civilization as we know it.
 The most pernicious demagogues on immigration often invoke national security as their rationale, but no terrorist has been known to enter the United States from Mexico. Even the arguments about immigrants' economic impact are sometimes a smokescreen for a baser animus. As John B. Judis of The New Republic documented in his account of Arizona's combustible immigration politics, the dominant fear in that border state has less to do with immigrants stealing jobs (which are going begging in construction and agriculture) than with their contaminating the culture through ''Mexicanization.'' It's the same complaint that's been leveled against every immigrant group when the country's in this foul a mood. 
 That mood was ratcheted up last week by the success of Brian Bilbray's strategy in winning the suburban San Diego House seat vacated by the jailed Duke Cunningham. Mr. Bilbray, a card-carrying lobbyist, was thought to be potentially vulnerable even in a normally safe Republican district. But by his own account, his campaign took off once he started hitting the single issue of immigration, taking a hard line far to the right of the president who endorsed him. Mr. Bilbray goes so far as to call for the refusal of automatic citizenship to the children of illegal immigrants -- a repudiation of the 14th Amendment, enacted after the Civil War to ensure citizenship to everyone born in the United States. 
 His victorious campaign set a tone likely to be embraced by other Republicans fearful of a rout in 2006. The election year is still young, and we haven't seen the half of this vitriol yet. Some politicians, like Senator James Inhofe of Oklahoma, are equal-opportunity bigots: when he isn't calling for the Senate to declare English the national language and demanding that immigrants be quizzed on the Federalist Papers (could he pass?), he is defending marriage by proclaiming that in his family's ''recorded history'' there has never been ''any kind of homosexual relationship.'' (Any bets on how long before someone unearths the Inhofes' unrecorded history?) Vernon Robinson, a Republican Congressional candidate challenging the Democratic incumbent Brad Miller in North Carolina, has run an ad warning that ''if Miller had his way, America would be nothing but one big fiesta for illegal aliens and homosexuals.''
 The practitioners of such scare politics know what they're up to. That's why they so often share the strange psychological tic of framing their arguments in civil-rights speak. The Minuteman Project, the vigilante brigade stoking fears of an immigration Armageddon, quotes Gandhi on its Web site; its founder, Jim Gilchrist, has referred to his group as ''predominantly white Martin Luther Kings.'' On a Focus on the Family radio show, James Dobson and the White House press secretary, Tony Snow, positioned the campaign to deny gay civil rights as the moral equivalent of L.B.J.'s campaign to extend civil rights. James Sensenbrenner, the leading House Republican voice on immigration policy, likened those who employ illegal immigrants to ''the 19th-century slave masters'' that ''we had to fight a civil war to get rid of.'' For that historical analogy to add up, you'd have to believe that Africans voluntarily sought to immigrate to America to be slaves. Whether Mr. Sensenbrenner is out to insult African-Americans or is merely a fool is a distinction without a difference in this volatile political climate. 
 Mr. Bush is a lame duck, but he still has a bully pulpit. Here is a cause he has professed to believe in since he first ran for office in Texas, and it's threatening to boil over in an election year. Imagine if he exercised leadership and called out those who trash immigrants rather than merely mouthing homilies about tolerance and dignity.
 Tolerance and dignity are already on life-support in this debate. If the president doesn't lead, he will have helped relegate Hispanics to the same second-class status he has encouraged for gay Americans. Compassionate conservatism, R.I.P.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Barry Blitt)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (91%); MARRIAGE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); COHABITATION (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (79%); IMMIGRATION (79%); REFUGEES (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GAY PARENTING (78%); REFERENDUMS (75%); FAMILY LAW (73%); AIDS & HIV (73%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (70%); PARENTAL DUTIES & RIGHTS (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); EMPLOYMENT (66%); ANNIVERSARIES (64%); GLOBALIZATION (61%); OIL & GAS PRICES (50%) Immigration and Refugees; Homosexuality; Hispanic-Americans; Immigration and Refugees

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); FRANK RICH (50%) Frank Rich; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2006



247 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Our Towns; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: Running Against a Party More Than Against a Person

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

DATELINE: STAMFORD, Conn. 

 BODY:
DIANE FARRELL and Christopher Shays have a lot in common: enormous energy, a gift for the one-on-one transactions of retail politics, an ability to speak for a long time in complete sentences that seem to make sense.
 So the repeat of their 2004 race in Connecticut's Fourth Congressional District, which Mr. Shays, a Republican, won with 52 percent of the vote, is that oddity in House races, a truly competitive race between truly capable people with different ideas and philosophies. 
Still, when Ms. Farrell held a news conference here on Thursday with eight veterans critical of Mr. Shays's support of the war in Iraq and his role in its oversight, there was an inescapable question in the air. How much should this be a choice between two candidates and how much should it be a choice between two parties? How people answer that could tell the tale in perhaps the most competitive state in the fall's Congressional elections. 
 Yes, it might seem a little early to be worrying about the fall Congressional elections and, yes, Connecticut is usually not exactly ground zero in American politics. 
 But, as last week's high-stakes special election in Southern California showed, it's not too early this year, with Democrats hoping the sagging fortunes of President Bush and his party will allow them to take back the House and maybe the Senate, though that's less likely. 
 And come fall, no state will be more interesting than Connecticut, where three of the five House seats are very much up for grabs. Two are considered among the 10 or 15 most competitive seats in the country: the Fourth District, in the suburban towns nearest to New York, and the Second District, in the eastern part of the state, where Rob Simmons represents the most Democratic district in the country with a Republican representative. He faces Joe Courtney, whom he defeated in 2002. Not quite as competitive, but still seen as very much in play, is the race between Nancy L. Johnson, a 12-term incumbent, and Christopher S. Murphy, a 32-year-old state senator, in the Fifth District.
 Given the rigged game of Congressional gerrymandering, having three of a state's five seats so competitive is almost like politics in a different country. And with Democrats needing a net gain of 15 seats, with about 53 in play, the outcome of the races in Connecticut and perhaps about a dozen with a similar dynamic in the Northeast could easily determine who controls the House -- and the committee leaderships and subpoena power that come with control.
 Which is why Ms. Farrell, after questioning Mr. Shays's support for the war and for President Bush, was quick to add that kicking out Mr. Shays was about more than kicking out Mr. Shays.
 ''There's no presidential race, so the only possibility for checks and balances is if you change the leadership of either the House or the Senate,'' said Ms. Farrell, the first selectwoman from Westport. ''And obviously the Senate has less of a probability for change than the House, so if people want change, this is where it's likely to come.''
 Mr. Shays, oddly, agrees. Sort of. 
 ''That's her only argument, and it's a valid argument, that you would want Democrats to look at Republicans and Republicans to look at Democrats,'' he said. ''But my point is that if she beat me she would probably still be in the minority, and then the question is what kind of Republican did you defeat? I'm a moderate representing a moderate district. She's about as partisan as she can be.''
 For Democrats, the holy grail is a reversal of 1994, when Republicans defeated 34 Democratic incumbents by doing two things: demonizing the Democrats on social issues and corruption, and creating a positive message for change in Newt Gingrich's Contract With America. The result was a jolt that short-circuited the normal tendency to go with the name-brand incumbent.
 Democrats would be thrilled to unseat half that many Republicans in the fall, and maybe the war, the economy, high gas prices, Katrina, the deficit and the sour national mood will be enough to do it.
 But you wonder if something similar to the white-hot cultural rage that the Republicans stoked in 1994 will move the relatively temperate voters of Connecticut. Or maybe what matters more are Mr. Simmons's likeable geekiness and his argument that the submarine base at Groton was saved on his watch; Ms. Johnson's huge war chest and relatively moderate image; Mr. Shays's longtime bond with his district and image as a Republican maverick. 
 Even if there were not a popular Republican, Gov. M. Jodi Rell, at the top of the ticket, it's not easy to knock off incumbents, but if you want to understand the Democrats' chances next fall, all you need to do is follow Connecticut. Win these three, the earth moved. Win zero, they're toast.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Diane Farrell, who is challenging Christopher Shays for his Congressional seat, greeted potential voters on Friday in Ridgefield, Conn. (Photo by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)
 Christopher Shays, in Congress since 1987, sees himself as a moderate in a moderate district. (Photo by Janet Durrans for The New York Times)(pg. 42)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICS (90%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (86%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); IRAQ WAR (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (76%); SUBPOENAS (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (55%); SUBURBS (50%) Election Issues; Elections

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives (US)

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER SHAYS (93%); CHRISTOPHER S MURPHY (79%); JOE COURTNEY (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%) Peter Applebome; Christopher (Repr) Shays; Diane Farrell

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (79%) Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2006



248 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1195 words

HEADLINE: Clearly, Greenspanese Isn't His Language

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
HE did not coin a catch phrase like ''irrational exuberance'' or use a code word like ''measured'' or ''patient'' to telegraph his next move on interest rates.
 But Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, showed last Monday that he knew how to send a message. In a speech that came as a lightning bolt to investors, Mr. Bernanke flatly declared that recent inflation trends were ''unwelcome'' and were at or above his measure of acceptable price increases.
Stock investors, hoping that the Fed was finally about to stop raising interest rates, ran for cover. Suddenly it seemed that Mr. Bernanke, far from being indecisive, might be willing to risk a sharp economic slowdown just to stamp out inflationary expectations. 
 For the week, the Dow Jones industrial average fell 3.2 percent, to 10,891.92 -- its first weekly close below 11,000 since March. 
 But if Mr. Bernanke's speech came as a jolt, it may have been partly because his approach to communicating policy is quite different from that of his predecessor Alan Greenspan.
 Mr. Greenspan had developed a well-understood code for signaling the Fed's next rate decision. Mr. Bernanke, a champion of setting explicit inflation targets, would prefer to be more explicit about the Fed's goal for inflation and its methodology for getting there. 
 The two approaches highlight very different ideas about transparency and openness at the Fed. Despite the complexity of Mr. Greenspan's syntax, his code words in recent years gave investors clear tips about the Fed's short-term intentions. Mr. Bernanke's approach, if he perfects it, would make it easier for investors to anticipate policy by looking at the data itself.
 To be sure, Mr. Bernanke used verbal cues to jolt markets last week. Having taken over the Fed just four months ago, the new chairman seemed determined to crush rumblings among pundits and investors that he was soft on inflation.
 Casting aside the practice of meticulously hedging all comments about the economy, Mr. Bernanke paid scant attention to data showing that there had been an abrupt plunge in job creation in May. Instead of saying he was worried about the risks of a slowdown, he insisted that low inflation was a prerequisite for strong and ''sustainable'' growth. And, as in previous appearances, he avoided any mention of a possible pause in raising rates, an idea he had broached in late April. 
 Mr. Bernanke's need to assert his toughness on inflation stemmed from confusion over his message on April 27, when he delivered what he evidently thought was a carefully phrased statement to the Joint Economic Committee of Congress.
 At the time, many analysts had expected Mr. Bernanke to offer no new clues about coming decisions because the Fed was near an important tipping point on policy after having raised interest rates for almost two years. Given the uncertainty about when to stop raising rates, Mr. Greenspan's style would have been to say as little as possible.
 The new chairman explicitly broached the possibility of pausing. He cautioned that a pause was not the same as a full stop and that the Fed might continue to raise rates once it assessed the economy's direction. He added that the central bank might pause even if ''the risks to its objectives are not entirely balanced.'' 
 In ordinary language, Mr. Bernanke seemed to be saying that the Fed might pause even if it still saw red flags on inflation. On top of that, he said the outlook for inflation was ''reasonably favorable'' and that little had changed since the Fed's rate increase at the end of March.
 Investors and some pundits reacted by describing Mr. Bernanke as dovish about inflation. More ominously, bond markets grew jittery. The gap between the yields of two-year Treasury securities and inflation-protected Treasuries, an indicator of near-term inflation expectations, widened to 3.05 percent on May 1 from 2.97 percent on April 25. In fairness, bond markets were much rougher on Alan Greenspan. In his first three months in 1987, long-term rates shot up to roughly 10 percent from 8 percent. In Mr. Bernanke's short tenure, 10-year Treasury yields have risen to 4.97 percent from 4.55 percent.
 ''Here is the head of the biggest central bank in the world, in an initial outing, at a time when the data were saying that inflation risks had become greater, and he's saying that nothing has changed,'' said Allen Sinai, chief global economist at Decision Economics. ''The question arose: Is this new Fed chairman, given the history, soft on inflation?''
 But Mr. Bernanke may have had a different goal: to knock down an idea circulating on Wall Street that the Fed would raise interest rates only one more time -- the ''one and done'' theory, as some analysts called it.
 ''The message was clear,'' said Alan S. Blinder, a professor of economics at Princeton and a former vice chairman of the Fed. ''Many traders just didn't want to believe that Bernanke speaks English -- but he does. I think we're in that awkward stage where markets get used to the fact that Bernanke is plain-spoken, whereas Greenspan was not.''
 Mickey D. Levy, chief economist at Bank of America, said Mr. Bernanke's mistake in April was in trying to continue Mr. Greenspan's practice of signaling the Fed's next move rather than focus on basic goals. ''Everybody at the Fed wants to be transparent, but there are different definitions of transparency,'' Mr. Levy said. ''My feeling is that transparency should involve telling markets straightforwardly what their objective for inflation is and their detailed analysis of what it takes to get to that objective -- not nuanced talk about pauses.''
 THAT is almost certainly Mr. Bernanke's preferred approach. As a professor at Princeton and as a Fed governor, he has been an outspoken champion of ''inflation targeting'' -- setting an explicit and public goal for inflation, and making public assessments about the outlook for inflation. 
 In his speech last Monday, Mr. Bernanke made a clear allusion to inflation targeting when he noted that his preferred measure for consumer prices had risen at an annual rate of 3 percent over the previous three months. That pace, he added, was ''at or above the upper end of the range that many economists, including myself, would consider consistent with price stability.''
 Mr. Bernanke has previously said that his own definition of price stability is an inflation rate, excluding prices of energy and food, of 1 to 2 percent.
 Besides offering the explicit reference to his own target for inflation, Mr. Bernanke's speech on Monday was striking in its omission of any specific hint about the Fed's next rate decision.
 ''He feels it's realistic for the market to understand that there is more uncertainty,'' said Diane C. Swonk, chief economist at Mesirow Financial, an investment management firm in Chicago. The next stage, Ms. Swonk suggested, would come when Mr. Bernanke made the Fed's goals and statistical analysis so explicit that his words become less important.
 ''If Bernanke gets what he wants,'' she said, ''he would be eliminating the jobs of all the people like me who try to interpret what he says.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''The Bernanke Factor''The differences between rates on regular Treasury securities and Treasury inflation-protected securities, or TIPS, are a closely watched indicator of inflation expectations. Those spreads continued to increase in Ben S. Bernanke's first days as Federal Reserve chairman.Graph tracks yield spread between regular Treasury securities and TIPS, for 2- and 10-year bonds. (Graph aslo marks the time at which Mr. Bernanke took offce.)(Source by Macroeconomic Advisers)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); TRENDS (76%); STOCK INDEXES (70%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); JOB CREATION (69%) United States Economy; English Language

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (93%); ALAN GREENSPAN (89%) Edmund L Andrews; Alan Greenspan; Ben S (Chmn) Bernanke

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2006



249 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; EVERYBODY'S BUSINESS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1297 words

HEADLINE: It Wasn't a Business, But He Left Me Plenty 

BYLINE: By BEN STEIN. 
Ben Stein is a lawyer, writer, actor and economist. E-mail: ebiz@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
NOW for a few words about Ben S. Bernanke, inflation, the stock market, economics and fathers.
 I've been amazed at how the stock markets of the world have reacted to Mr. Bernanke's comments about how he would be ''vigilant'' about fighting inflation. Frankly, I would have thought that the markets would be overjoyed at how resolute Mr. Bernanke, the new chairman of the Federal Reserve, is about taking on rising prices. Those prices, and the ever higher interest rates needed to bring them in check, are a mortal danger to stock markets. And those rising rates drastically hack away at the net present value of future flows of earnings and dividends from stocks, and thus lower stock values.
If Mr. Bernanke is determined to nip inflation in the bud so we don't get seriously higher long-term rates for a good while, the markets should be applauding. His determination is clearly good news for the long-term, inflation-averse investor. I would have thought there would be enthusiasm and buying on the news. 
 But typically, the personalities that run the trading desks can think only a few weeks ahead. If interest rates are not falling by then, they hit the ''sell'' key. Too bad for the short run, but good news -- and a buying opportunity -- in the long run. If earnings flows are having an 6-percent-off sale, it looks to me like a decent time to buy -- for the very long term.
 But I can tell you a major mistake that Mr. Bernanke has made. (Maybe two: the first one is that beard of his.) He has apparently canceled the annual Fourth of July fireworks-watching party that his illustrious predecessors, Arthur F. Burns and Alan Greenspan, used to have on the Fed's top-floor terrace for fellow economists, legislators, journalists and friends of the family. 
 Entirely because my parents were pals with Mr. Burns and his wife, Helen, and with Mr. Greenspan and his wife, Andrea Mitchell, I used to be invited to those parties. They were swell, with wild sights and sounds of the explosions near the Washington Monument, earth-shaking ground fireworks and fascinating chatter with the likes of Lawrence B. Lindsey, the former economics adviser to President Bush, and Lawrence H. Summers, the Treasury secretary under President Bill Clinton. 
 I hope that Mr. Bernanke will reconsider. Making friends with important people in the capital is not a trivial consideration at any time. Having casual conversation about economics with the best and the brightest in the field is not to be sneezed at.
 And, speaking of economics, I just read one of the best books about economics I have ever read: ''Everyman,'' by Philip Roth. It is a slender novel. Even a dope like me can read it in a couple of hours, tops. I call it a book about economics because economics, as the immortal professor C. Lowell Harriss taught us on Day 1 of ''Money and Banking'' at Columbia, is about the allocation of scarce goods. Mr. Roth would have made a fine practitioner of the dismal science, because this book is about the scarcest of human resources, and the proper allocation and sad misallocation of that resource.
 That resource, of course, is the love of those we care about and who care about us. Mr. Roth's main character makes every sort of mistake in this allocation, but at the end realizes his mistakes and has one good day, perhaps, where he gets his economics right and appreciates fully the love that made his life possible, the love for him that was in the bones of his parents.
 I've been especially haunted by one part of the book. In it, Mr. Roth's protagonist -- who has no name -- talks about his dad opening a jewelry store in Elizabeth, N.J., called Everyman's Jewelry Store, specializing in jewelry for working people. He opened it in the depths of the Great Depression -- in 1933, the only year on record when the combined profits of all American business were negative. (Some economists also include 1934.) When asked why he took such a risk, he said, ''So I would have something to leave my boys.'' This was a man who understood the allocation of scarce goods.
 My father did not start a jewelry store. He never had any kind of business at all. After he left the Navy in 1945, he never once applied for a job. He was supersmart, and he was sought out to work for the rest of his life, starting at the Committee for Economic Development, a businessmen's group studying economic problems, to serving on the Council of Economic Advisers as a member and, later, chairman under Presidents Richard M. Nixon and Gerald R. Ford. My father always told me that he regretted not having had a business, so that he and I would be partners, and he could leave me a place to work where I would not be beholden to a boss. 
 He was seriously mistaken, of course. He had plenty to leave me. Father's Day is next week, and for all of my Pop's life, I gave him dinky little presents on that Sunday. Douwe Egberts pipe tobacco. Neckties from Brooks Brothers and Hermes. Sweaters, always from Brooks Brothers. Near the end of his life, I gave him a tallis, a Jewish prayer shawl (which he loathed -- he was never big on ceremony).
 But what I got from him was far beyond a name on a pebbled glass door saying ''Stein & Son.'' I got from him a lifetime of teaching by example -- that you get the things you want by hard work, not by whining. The inheritance of a name synonymous with integrity on public policy issues, regardless of party line. A name known nationwide for wit and insight. 
 Even now, when I stroll around Washington, where I visit a few weeks a year, I meet people who tell me how much they enjoyed working with my father. Lawrence Kudlow, the economist and television host, still calls me ''Herb'' when I appear on his program (like my Pop, pleading for a fairer tax system and better treatment of those who wear the uniform and carry the weapon to keep us all safe -- and, like my father, mocked by many in my party for it). 
 People whom I have never met trust me because they trusted my father. (That, by itself, makes Pop and me partners.) It's the way the customers of Everyman's Jewelers trusted Philip Roth's father character to give them a fair shake on their tiny engagement rings. 
 Here is what my father gave me: every time I had a childhood chore to do and complained about it -- raking leaves, cleaning the carpets, waxing the floors -- my Pop would say, ''We'll do it together and it'll take half the time.'' That's a gift. So was the sight of him sitting out on the deck overlooking Sligo Creek Park behind our house in Silver Spring, Md., smoking, drinking a Pabst Blue Ribbon, listening to the Senators play ball and realizing that a man was entitled to rest after a day's hard work. There was also his endless gift of gratitude for waking up every morning in America. And the astounding lifetime gift of telling me that no matter what Mr. Nixon or his chief of staff, H. R. Haldeman, wanted him to do, he would make it plain that helping out ''his one and only son'' always came first. 
 ECONOMICS is about the allocation of scarce resources. Life is about the allocation of scarce resources. The love of a father is as precious and scarce as it gets. There is never enough of it. If you are richer than Henry M. Paulson Jr., richer than Warren E. Buffett -- and you are if you still have living parents -- be thankful today that you can still learn your father's business and grow in it.
 ''I grew up in a house my father built,'' Mr. Nixon wrote to begin his autobiography. I am still living in thehouse of hard work, gratitude, and study that my father built -- and working in it, too. It's a great business and, again, we're partners. In a way, if you play your cards right and have enough appreciation of that scarce good, it's Everyman's Business, and yours.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Philip Anderson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); FAMILY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); DIVIDENDS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); INTEREST RATES (75%); BONDS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (68%); WRITERS (66%); US PRESIDENTS (64%); LITERATURE (61%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (61%) United States Economy; Stocks and Bonds; Books and Literature; Families and Family Life; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Biographical Information

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (94%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); BILL CLINTON (51%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (50%) Ben Stein; Ben S (Chmn) Bernanke; Philip Roth

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2006



250 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION/Connecticut; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1049 words

HEADLINE: Donald Trump Wants to Be the Biggest

BYLINE: By LISA PREVOST

DATELINE: STAMFORD 

 BODY:
PROLIFERATING condominium developments routinely jam the agendas of Stamford's planning and zoning boards, but few attract as much attention as the Trump Parc tower, now approaching the end of the approval process. 
 By the weight of its name alone, this proposed tower has generated both intense enthusiasm and sour skepticism about its effect on the city's downtown core. Even more consequential than Donald J. Trump's emergence on the Stamford skyline, however, is the project's proposed height.
The developers -- Thomas Rich of Stamford and Louis Cappelli, of White Plains -- want to amend Stamford's downtown zoning regulations to allow this residential tower to be built 70 feet taller than the city's current limit of 330 feet. A slender high-rise designed by Costas Kondylis, the architect for Trump World Tower near the United Nations in Manhattan, Trump Parc would sit on a half-acre of now-vacant land next to a Target store at the corner of Washington Boulevard and Broad Street. 
 Currently, Stamford's tallest structure is Landmark Tower, a commercial building measuring 270 feet. At 400 feet above the sidewalk, Trump Parc would be within the range of two major Trump developments over the New York border in Westchester County: the 350-foot Trump Tower in White Plains and the 435-foot Trump Plaza under construction in downtown New Rochelle. 
 Yet in downtown Stamford, less ambitious high-rise residential projects have proved notoriously risky. The Classic and the Biltmore apartment buildings were financial flops when they first opened in the late 1980's, noted Richard Redniss, a longtime Stamford land-use consultant and an adviser on the Trump Parc project. Both have been converted to condominiums. 
 More recently, soaring construction costs have contributed to delays in development of the 18-story Highgrove condominium project on Forest Street. Progress on City Place, a 100-unit building on Washington Boulevard, has also been slow.
 Trump Parc's backers are banking on the combination of local expertise with a powerful brand name to enable the project to flourish. The F. D. Rich Company has developed much of downtown Stamford over the last three decades, while Cappelli Enterprises is a partner with Mr. Trump on the White Plains and New Rochelle towers.
 The Trump organization will aid in design and marketing. ''I don't think it would work without my name,'' Mr. Trump said. ''My name has become so synonymous with great buildings that I sell with people not even seeing what they're buying.'' 
 Marketing potential aside, however, city planning officials say they are less impressed with the Trump name than with the building's design. ''We're very excited about the architecture of the building,'' said Robin Stein, chief of the city's land use bureau. ''We think it's superb.'' 
 Though the Planning Board, downtown merchants and economic development groups have also been effusive, the Zoning Board has been proved more of a hurdle for the project. Members are mulling not whether Stamford is ready for a higher high-rise, but whether the developers have chosen the right spot. 
 ''I'm not against high-rise development,'' said one member, Harry Parson Jr., who has lived in Stamford for 33 years. ''But we have to pick and choose where it's going to be. If it's in the right place, great.'' 
 The half-acre Trump Parc site is part of a 2.7-acre parcel that the Rich company owns jointly with Target. The property is landscaped with grass, ornamental trees and park benches, but Mr. Rich said his intent was always to develop the site. Plans call for 185 units, most with one or two bedrooms, averaging about 1,500 square feet. 
 Bernard Simpkin, a 20-year resident of Stamford who moved from the Upper West Side of Manhattan, said the proposed tower ''would look ridiculous'' looming over Target and, across the street, the smaller building housing a satellite campus of the University of Connecticut. Mr. Simpkin is among a handful of residents who have complained about the project in letters to the local newspaper, The Advocate. The newspaper's editorial page has urged the Zoning Board to ensure that the project fits the city, ''not the other way around.'' 
 Mr. Rich says such comments fail to appreciate the project's potential positive contribution to the city. Seven additional stories is a minor tradeoff for the litany of benefits, he said. Aside from a $3.5 million contribution to the city's affordable housing fund and $1 million a year in additional property tax revenue, Trump Parc will bring badly needed housing to a growing downtown, he said. 
 Building housing downtown will help to relieve the congestion on Connecticut highways by putting commuters within walking distance of the train station, Mr. Rich said. 
 Growth in the city's financial services industries is also fueling demand for high-quality housing downtown. GE Capital and UBS will soon be joined by the Royal Bank of Scotland, which is expected to bring some 3,000 jobs to Stamford when it completes its North American headquarters on Washington Boulevard.
 ''The only solution for our desire to nurture and grow and stabilize our commercial base is to provide housing downtown,'' Mr. Rich said. 
 Compared with a number of other high-end condominium projects on the drawing boards for downtown, Trump Parc will have a broader market reach, Mr. Rich asserts, because many of its units will be comparatively smaller. Though the average price at Trump Parc is expected to be just under $1 million, some units will be priced as low as $550,000. In contrast, the average price of a home or condo in Stamford exceeds $700,000. 
 ''I don't understand how anybody could be opposed to this,'' he said.
 Still, Mr. Stein, the land use chief, hears the ''so-called buzz'' on the streets. ''Some people think it's a gorgeous building in the wrong place,'' he said. ''Some don't like Trump; some don't want tall buildings period.'' 
 Without the extra floors at Trump Parc, the project becomes marginal, Mr. Rich said, because profits from higher-priced units at the top help cover costs. 
 As for the Zoning Board, members are readying for some long meetings. ''There will be some knock-down, drag-out discussions about whether to go ahead with this project,'' Mr. Parson said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: BEYOND THE CITY'S HEIGHT LIMITS -- Although the design of the 400-foot-high Trump Parc has been praised, some critics think it would be too tall for the lot next to the Target store. (Photos by Douglas Healey for The New York Times, above
 Costas Kondylis & Partners, below)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ZONING (91%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); CITIES (89%); APPROVALS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (71%); CITY LIFE (71%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (66%) Housing; Condominiums; Zoning; Trump Parc (Stamford, Conn); Housing

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (93%) Lisa Prevost

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (79%) Stamford (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2006



251 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 269 words

HEADLINE: Hard to Say Goodbye

 BODY:
It comes as little surprise to anyone nowadays that the deep bonds between company and company town are only as strong as the former's share price, measured by fiscal quarters rather than generations. Still, there is something sad about the spurned affection of a community for its company, the way residents of Newton, Iowa, feel about Maytag. 
 As Monica Davey reported in The Times last week, Newton must bid farewell to the appliance maker that has defined it since Maytag was founded there in 1893. To a big-city native, it may sound quaint that Newton crowned a Maytag Queen or has washing machines in its history museum, but that neglects the relationship formed over time when children follow parents into a factory, when executives' and line workers' sons play on the same football team. It ignores how much pride people derive from their jobs, even unglamorous ones.
Maytag was bought by its rival Whirlpool in March, and 4,500 Maytag jobs will be lost as operations are merged, both at the headquarters and in factories in Newton and other towns. The cuts will be offset by 1,500 new positions for those willing to move to Whirlpool locations, especially in Michigan where the company is based. But Maytag the company is now gutted and replaced by the hollow marketing concept of Maytag the brand.
 Shoppers probably won't notice, but Newton and the laid-off Maytag workers everywhere will feel a void. The economy is growing fast, but American workers are downbeat, and Maytag helps explain why. Jobs can be replaced, but the sense of safety and security cannot. The brand lives on, but the identity is gone.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); MAJOR APPLIANCE MFG (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); CHILDREN (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (69%) Washing Machines; Editorials; Shutdowns (Institutional); Factories and Industrial Plants; Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions

COMPANY: WHIRLPOOL CORP (91%)

ORGANIZATION: Maytag Corp

TICKER: WHR (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335228 OTHER MAJOR HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS335224 HOUSEHOLD LAUNDRY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Newton (Iowa)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2006



252 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: Think Outside the Border

BYLINE: By Stephen Handelman. 
Stephen Handelman covered Canada and domestic security issues for Time Canada from 1998 to 2006.

 BODY:
FEW things infuriate Canadians more than to be told (by Americans) that their quiet, tolerant nation treats potential terrorists with kid gloves, putting their neighbors in mortal danger. Some of the wind has gone out of that argument since the arrests this month of 17 men in the Toronto area who were allegedly planning to attack Parliament buildings in Ottawa and behead the prime minister. Some of the wind, that is, but not all. 
 Representative Peter King, a New York Republican, warned last week that ''very liberal'' Canadian immigration and asylum laws encouraged a large Qaeda presence north of the border. Senator Carl Levin, a Michigan Democrat, noted darkly that trucks carrying Canadian garbage to America receive little or no scrutiny. 
The 49th Parallel is indeed riddled with security gaps. But the most high-profile solution on the table would complicate the lives of millions of Canadians and Americans, and perhaps seriously damage their closely linked economies. That solution comes out of laws passed by Congress in response to 9/11 mandating that next year Americans and Canadians crossing the border by airplane will need passports or other federal government-approved identification to get through United States customs. In 2008 similar requirements will be imposed at the 140 land-border crossings between the United States and Canada. 
 The Canadian government and a coalition of business groups in both countries have been lobbying for a postponement, and they have a point. There are about 300,000 crossings daily between America and Canada, and most involve Americans and Canadians in border towns for whom the trip is less a foreign excursion than a few hours' shopping or a commute to work. Until now the only proof of identity required has been a driver's license or birth certificate. The sheer volume of travelers means that customs guards at land crossings sometimes don't even bother to check ID's.
 Many of these day-trippers don't have a passport, and a survey commissioned by businesses found that more than 70 percent would not go through the bother and cost of obtaining one. Business owners in both countries say the added security provided by the jumped-up ID requirements won't compensate for the loss of tourism and consumer revenue. 
 Homeland Security officials have been considering a simpler alternative to passports: the wallet-sized People Access Security and Service card. The idea hasn't gained much traction. Others have proposed enhancing driver's licenses with electronically coded information -- the so-called Real ID -- but several states have balked at the expense. 
 There are smarter options. Europeans have created a passport-free zone of 13 member states of the European Union along with Norway and Iceland, called the Schengen system. They agreed in 1985 to draw a ''virtual'' border around countries that had agreed to harmonize visa rules. The Schengen frontier is policed by the customs authorities of each participating country, but everyone plugs into a shared intelligence database that stays alert to outside threats and tracks suspected felons, drug smugglers and terrorists inside the zone.
 A variation of the Schengen approach in North America deserves a serious look. Establishing a security perimeter around Canada, the United States and possibly Mexico could be accomplished with agreements that further strengthen the systems of intelligence-sharing and cooperation on law enforcement and customs that have been in place since 9/11. In fact, the success of the six-month Toronto terrorism investigation depended in part upon the teamwork of American and Canadian authorities.
 An agreement to harmonize visa rules would be tougher to achieve, since all three countries are determined to preserve their autonomy. And there are real privacy concerns about swapping sensitive data. Yet all three national leaders are already committed to a ''common approach to security'' under the North American Security and Prosperity Partnership.
 A North American version of Schengen might not provide fail-safe protection against homegrown terrorists bent on, say, booby-trapping Canadian garbage. But neither will forcing every cross-border mall shopper to carry a passport. What North America needs is border security that makes good neighbors, not enemies.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Grady White)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BORDER CONTROL (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REAL ID ACT OF 2005 (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); WEATHER (77%); LOBBYING (76%); IMMIGRATION (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); LIBERALISM (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); EUROPEAN UNION (71%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (64%); DRIVERS LICENSES (63%); LICENSES & PERMITS (63%) Terrorism; Passports; Security and Warning Systems; Airlines and Airplanes; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%); US CUSTOMS & BORDER PROTECTION (55%) European Union

PERSON: PETER T KING (55%); CARL LEVIN (55%) Stephen Handelman

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (90%) ONTARIO, CANADA (90%) CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ICELAND (79%); NORWAY (79%) Canada; Europe

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2006



253 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: Some Of All Fears

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Back in 1971, Russell Baker, the legendary Times columnist, devoted one of his Op-Ed columns to an interview with Those Who -- as in ''Those Who snivel and sneer whenever something good is said about America.'' Back then, Those Who played a major role in politicians' speeches.
 Times are different now, of course. There are those who say that Iraq is another Vietnam. But Iraq is a desert, not a jungle, so there. And we rarely hear about Those Who these days. But the Republic faces an even more insidious threat: the Some. 
The Some take anti-American positions on a variety of issues. For example, they want to hurt the economy: ''Some say, well, maybe the recession should have been deeper,'' said President Bush in 2003. ''That bothers me when people say that.''
 Mainly, however, the Some are weak on national security. ''There's Some in America who say, 'Well, this can't be true there are still people willing to attack,' '' said Mr. Bush during a visit to the National Security Agency.
 The Some appear to be an important faction within the Democratic Party -- a faction that has come out in force since the killing of Abu Musab al-Zarqawi. Last week the online edition of The Washington Times claimed that ''Some Democrats'' were calling Zarqawi's killing a ''stunt.''
 Even some Democrats (not to be confused with Some Democrats) warn about the influence of the Some. ''Some Democrats are allergic to the use of force. They still have a powerful influence on the party,'' said Michael O'Hanlon of the Brookings Institution after the 2004 election.
 Joe Klein, the Time magazine columnist, went further, declaring that the Democratic Party's ''left wing'' has a ''hate America tendency.''
 And when Senator Barack Obama told The New Yorker that Americans ''don't believe that the main lesson of the past five years is that America is an evil hegemon,'' he seemed to be implying that influential members of his party believe just that.
 But here's the strange thing: it's hard to figure out who those Some Democrats are.
 For example, none of the Democrats quoted by The Washington Times actually called the killing of Zarqawi a stunt, or said anything to that effect. Mr. Klein's examples of people with a ''hate America tendency'' were ''Michael Moore and many writers at The Nation.'' That's a grossly unfair characterization, but in any case, since when do a filmmaker who supported Ralph Nader and a magazine's opinion writers constitute a wing of the Democratic Party?
 And which Democrats are ''allergic to the use of force''? Some prominent Democrats opposed the Iraq war, but few if any of these figures oppose all military action. Howard Dean supported both the first gulf war and the invasion of Afghanistan. So did Al Gore. To all appearances, both men opposed the Iraq war only because they thought this particular use of force was ill advised and was being sold on false pretenses.
 On the other hand, maybe appearances are deceiving. Shortly before the invasion of Iraq, The New Republic accused those who opposed the war -- in particular, the editorial page of The New York Times -- of hiding behind a ''mask of nuanced criticism'' when their real position was one of ''abject pacifism.'' 
 But Peter Beinart, who was The New Republic's editor at the time, now seems to concede that the war's opponents were right. ''Worst-case logic became a filter,'' he writes in his new book, ''which prevented war supporters like myself from seeing the evidence mounting around us.''
 So what's going on here? Some might suggest that the alleged influence of the Some is no more real than the problem of flag-burning, that right-wing propagandists are attacking straw men to divert attention from the Bush administration's failures. And they wonder why people like Mr. Obama are helping these propagandists in their work.
 Some might also suggest that Democrats who accuse other Democrats of closet pacifism are motivated in part by careerism -- that they're trying to sustain the peculiar rule, which still prevails in Washington, that you have to have been wrong about Iraq to be considered credible on national security. And they're doing this by misrepresenting the views and motives of those who had the good sense and courage to oppose this war.
 But that's just what Some Democrats might say. And everyone knows that Some Democrats hate America.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); WRITERS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); POLITICS (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (75%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (67%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (67%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (66%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (65%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (55%)

PERSON: RALPH NADER (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (66%); PAUL KRUGMAN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (53%) Paul Krugman

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2006



254 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1163 words

HEADLINE: Russia Bargains For Bigger Stake In West's Energy 

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 11 

 BODY:
Russian, American, European and Japanese officials are negotiating over whether Russia should be allowed greater latitude to invest in utilities, pipelines, natural gas facilities and other infrastructure in the United States and Europe. 
 In a draft declaration for endorsement at a Group of 8 summit meeting next month in St. Petersburg, Russia, broadened Russian access is paired with something the West wants: endorsement of market principles and greater access for foreign investment in the energy industry of Russia, one of the biggest oil and natural gas producers in the world.
Russian investment in Western energy facilities has been relatively modest, like Lukoil's investment in a chain of 2,000 filling stations in the United States. But earlier this year, when Gazprom, the giant Russian natural gas monopoly, expressed an interest in buying Britain's largest distributor of natural gas, it raised a furor in Britain similar to reactions in the United States to a Chinese bid for Unocal and a Dubai company's arrangement to control operations at several American ports. 
 The political maneuvering keeps a channel for progress open at a time of fierce tensions between Russia and the West over access to energy supplies. In January, Russia cut off natural gas shipments to Ukraine during a price dispute, which shut down deliveries in Europe. The move prompted denunciations from the United States and Europe, and was seen as an effort to punish Ukraine, long dominated by Russia, for its political independence. 
 More recently, Vice President Dick Cheney and other American officials have rebuked Russia for its increased state control of the energy sector, its crackdown on dissent and what they say is an effort to muscle out Western investments in oil and gas pipelines in the Caspian Sea, where the United States has been trying to secure energy supplies in ways that would bypass Russia.
 The goal of the energy negotiations, which are being held at the highest levels, is to smooth over the most pointed differences between Russia and the West with some mutually acceptable language. ''The U.S., Russia and Europe are trying to find their way to common ground on the road to the summit,'' said Daniel Yergin, president of Cambridge Energy Research Associates, who talked with Russian and European officials in Europe last week.
 The negotiator for the United States is Faryar Shirzad, a deputy national security adviser for economic affairs. For France, it is President Jacques Chirac's diplomatic adviser, Maurice Gourdault-Montagne. For Russia, it is Igor Shuvalov, President Vladimir V. Putin's chief aide in planning the meeting.
 Mr. Shuvalov said Russia was determined to get the Group of 8 summit meeting to endorse the principle that for Russia, ''energy security'' meant greater access to investment in the West and to the means of delivery of oil and natural gas. Mr. Putin has said that energy security will be a main theme of the meeting. 
 Mr. Shuvalov said Russia was prepared to use its leverage to get that access, and had held up a decision on foreign bids for exploring a potentially huge natural gas reserve off the Russian coast in the Barents Sea until it was clear that the West would be receptive to offering similar bids by Russia for ownership in American and European energy facilities. 
 Russian investment has in fact already begun, and it has begun to stoke controversy. Rebuffing pressure from many in Britain, Prime Minister Tony Blair said he would not try to stop the Russian effort.
 Gazprom and Lukoil are not the only Russian entities looking abroad. Now the Russians appear interested in investing in pipelines and liquefied natural gas conversion facilities on the East Coast, which some experts fear could reignite the passions that swirled around Unocal and the Dubai port deals, both of which fell through. Critics of those deals successfully argued that they would have surrendered vital strategic economic assets to foreign control. 
 ''Gazprom has not been specific on what it wants in North America,'' said Thane Gustafson, professor of politics at Georgetown University. ''But what they want to do is replicate what they've done in Germany and in varying degrees throughout Eastern Europe, '' he said, referring to investments by Russian companies in European energy production and transmission. 
 Mr. Putin aims to use the St. Petersburg summit meeting to demand respect for Russia as a major energy producer. Russia wants to rebut the argument, heard after the Ukraine natural gas cutoff, that it is not a reliable producer, and to bury suggestions from some critics in the United States that it should be expelled from the Group of 8 nations.
 ''The summit should recognize that Russia plays a key role in providing energy security, and that Russia is ready to open its energy reserves to foreign investment,'' said Mr. Shuvalov in a telephone interview. ''We think that after this summit, no one will again question the membership of Russia in the G-8.''
 The United States is looking to the meeting to endorse Mr. Bush's vision of ''energy security,'' particularly reduced dependence on Middle East oil, greater variety of oil resources and more nuclear power. One other important part of the American vision is that, especially after the Ukraine cutoff, there should be more efforts to bypass Russia for natural gas exports, especially to Europe. 
 Not surprisingly, the Russians have a different definition for ''energy security,'' interpreting the term to mean greater guarantees of access of Russian energy to Europe, not less. Ownership of European and American pipelines would support that goal, Russians say.
 One area of Russian-American competition that could come up at the summit meeting is the activity in the Caspian Sea, where at least since the 1990's, after the collapse of the Soviet Union, the United States has sought to encourage oil and gas pipelines that would not go through Russia. Earlier this year, for example, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice urged Turkey and Greece not to engage Gazprom as a partner in bringing natural gas to southern Europe. Gazprom is viewed in the West as a shadowy creature of the Russian state that has enriched the people around Mr. Putin.
 Comments like those of Ms. Rice and Mr. Cheney challenging Russian energy dominance in the region have hurt the atmosphere for the summit meeting, Mr. Shuvalov said. But American officials say it is in Russia's interest to encourage diversity of supply.
 ''Despite what they think, it's not that we want to shut Russia out,'' said another senior administration official involved in planning the summit meeting, who requested anonymity because he did not want to speak publicly about issues still under negotiation. ''That's ridiculous. Russia will always be a major energy exporter and transit route. What we're trying to do is make sure there is no monopoly on energy, to avoid someone manipulating the markets.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (93%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (89%); NATURAL GAS PIPELINES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (78%); OIL & GAS PIPELINES (78%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (78%); GAS STATIONS (78%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (73%); DIVESTITURES (73%); ENERGY RESEARCH (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (64%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (50%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; International Trade and World Market; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Group of Eight; Foreign Investments ; Pipelines; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Gas (Fuel)

COMPANY: OAO GAZPROM (70%); IHS INC (63%); OAO LUKOIL (57%)

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (84%)

TICKER: OGZD (LSE) (70%); GAZP (RTS) (70%); IHS (NYSE) (63%); LKOH (RTS) (57%); LKOD (LSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (70%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (70%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (70%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (70%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (70%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (70%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (63%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (63%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (77%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (59%); JACQUES CHIRAC (50%) Steven R Weisman; Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%) CASPIAN SEA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); EUROPE (94%); UKRAINE (92%); JAPAN (92%); FRANCE (79%) Russia; Japan; Europe; Caspian Sea

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2006



255 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1299 words

HEADLINE: Adviser Has President's Ear As She Keeps Eyes on Iraq

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 11 

 BODY:
At the end of each day, President Bush gets a three-to-four-page memo from the National Security Council staff about developments over the previous 24 hours in Iraq. The document, said to be written in the crisp, compelling style that the president prefers, can cover a range of issues -- the killing of Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, new nominees for cabinet posts or the progress, or lack of it, in ending the three-year insurgency.
 The person responsible for the memo is someone who is largely unknown outside the administration, but who colleagues say is instrumental in shaping Mr. Bush's views: Meghan L. O'Sullivan, the 36-year-old deputy national security adviser for Iraq and Afghanistan, and the most senior official working on those nations full time at the White House.
With Stephen J. Hadley, the national security adviser, Ms. O'Sullivan briefs the president in person on Iraq up to several times a week. Over the weekend she helped to prepare the agenda for Mr. Bush's war cabinet meetings on Monday and Tuesday at Camp David and will be on hand throughout the sessions. 
 Ms. O'Sullivan, who spent more than a year in Baghdad as an aide to L. Paul Bremer III, then the top American civilian administrator in Iraq, also helps to prepare the agenda for the president's weekly National Security Council meetings on Iraq. 
 She coordinates the political, security and reconstruction efforts for Iraq throughout the agencies of the government. Not least, she briefs the president before all of his phone calls and meetings with Iraqi leaders. 
 Although Ms. O'Sullivan does not make major decisions -- the administration's policy is run by Zalmay Khalilzad, the American ambassador to Iraq, and Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice -- she is important because of her closeness to the president and her role in helping to form his thinking.
 ''She's able to go to the president and say, 'Look, here's what's happening,' and distill a complex mass of developments into something more penetrable,'' said Larry Diamond, a former senior adviser to Mr. Bremer.
 Ms. O'Sullivan, who was crisp and wary in a recent interview in her office in the Eisenhower Executive Office Building, would say little more about her conversations with Mr. Bush. But people who have seen her brief the president say she has been succinct, unpretentious, full of facts and cheerful -- exactly what Mr. Bush likes. 
 Colleagues say that Ms. O'Sullivan holds to the view, reflected in the president's public statements, that rebuilding Iraq's civic institutions and persuading Iraqis to accommodate one another politically is a way out of the sectarian violence. She is more optimistic about the political process than others in the administration. 
 In Baghdad, Ms. O'Sullivan is remembered as a pragmatic centrist who had a guarded but tenacious confidence that the United States would eventually prevail. ''That doesn't mean that I don't see all the difficulties there on a daily basis,'' she said.
 The question that even her supporters raise is whether she is too close to see the landscape of problems. ''I do think she is so into this that she sees it from the inside out,'' Mr. Diamond said. 
 He added, ''And I'm not sure she adequately grasps all the mistakes we have made.''
 In Baghdad, American Embassy officials sometimes use the phrase, ''Let's not Meghan-ize the problem,'' meaning, let's not try to impose order on the chaos of Iraq with one of her five-point presentations. Her supporters counter that she is more aware of the reality on the ground than many others in the administration.
 Ms. O'Sullivan's point of view comes from her intense months in Baghdad, where she had one major harrowing moment. In October 2003, when she was immersed in the negotiations over Iraq's first post-invasion constitution, a rocket hit her hotel in Baghdad. The blast jammed Ms. O'Sullivan's door shut, and she escaped by inching along a narrow ledge outside her 10th-floor window.
 She eventually made her way to the Baghdad streets and then her office at Saddam Hussein's former palace on the banks of the Tigris. The explosion killed an American colonel and wounded 16 others.
 ''It was a dangerous place to live, and I was constantly reminded of that because I had Iraqi friends who were killed,'' Ms. O'Sullivan said matter-of-factly. ''But it's amazing how you can function, and also how much more there is going on in Iraq besides the violence.''
 For much of her time in Baghdad, Ms. O'Sullivan spent days and nights shuttling between Shiites, Sunnis and Kurds to help forge the deal on the interim government of June 2004.
 ''There's nobody in the administration today who knows Iraq as well as she does, who knows the personalities, who knows the terrain,'' said Robert D. Blackwill, the former Iraq director on the National Security Council and Ms. O'Sullivan's onetime superior.
 One of Ms. O'Sullivan's chief responsibilities in Baghdad was keeping abreast of developments within the Supreme Council of the Islamic Revolution in Iraq, or Sciri, one of the main Shiite parties. She covered herself from head to toe for meetings with Abdul Aziz Hakim, the party leader, and earned his trust.
 Ms. O'Sullivan also forged such a crucial relationship with the party's candidate for prime minister, Adel Abdul Mahdi, now vice president, that Mr. Bremer used her as a frequent go-between. At one critical moment, Mr. Bremer recalled in a recent interview, he sent Ms. O'Sullivan to see Mr. Mahdi when he could not figure out why Mr. Mahdi was upset about the November 2003 agreement that set forth the American transfer of power to Iraq.
 ''She came back and very accurately conveyed to me what his problem was, and offered a way to get out of it,'' Mr. Bremer said. ''I called Adel in and worked on everything she had told me.''
 Ms. O'Sullivan's background shows an early curiosity about the world. Growing up in Lexington, Mass., she chose to write a second-grade report about Palestinians.
 Ms. O'Sullivan went on to Georgetown University, where she majored in economics and government and modeled at local department stores for pocket money. She became a foreign policy research assistant for Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, a New York Democrat, and received her master's and doctoral degrees from Oxford.
 Ms. O'Sullivan moved back to Washington, where she became a fellow at the Brookings Institution, edited a book on economic sanctions, ''Honey and Vinegar,'' with Richard N. Haass, then went to work for Mr. Haass when he became director of policy planning at the State Department in Mr. Bush's first term. Her second book, ''Shrewd Sanctions: Statecraft and State Sponsors of Terrorism,'' was published in 2003.
 Early in 2003, Colin L. Powell, then the secretary of state, lent Ms. O'Sullivan to the Pentagon to be part of an early administrative team to go into postwar Iraq. She went there in March 2003 with Jay M. Garner, a retired lieutenant general who was Mr. Bremer's predecessor, left in June 2004, and by July was working for Mr. Blackwill on the National Security Council staff. When Mr. Blackwill left in November 2004, Ms. O'Sullivan assumed many of his duties. 
 She lives not far from the White House, is single and tries not to work seven days a week. Her future is tied to Iraq: her colleagues say she could be national security adviser someday -- or something much less. 
 ''The reality is that if Iraq implodes, she'll probably go nowhere,'' Mr. Diamond said. ''Because she will have been associated in an integral way with one of the biggest failures in the history of American foreign policy.''
 Ms. O'Sullivan is undaunted. ''I'm able to focus on the fact that we're building a relationship with Iraq,'' she said, ''that will have benefits to Iraq and America over the long term.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Meghan L. O'Sullivan, a deputy national security adviser, helps to brief President Bush and to prepare his daily memo on developments in Iraq. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL SECURITY (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%) Biographical Information; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%) Elisabeth Bumiller; Meghan L O'Sullivan; L Paul III Bremer; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2006



256 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: Iran Seeks Talks But Rejects Nuclear Freeze

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO; Nazila Fathi contributed reporting from Tehran for this article, and Abeer Allam from Cairo.

DATELINE: PARIS, June 11 

 BODY:
Iran has begun a public campaign that appears to be aimed at nudging the six nations that have offered a package of incentives into negotiations over its nuclear program without first freezing its efforts to make nuclear fuel.
 Iran's potential negotiating partners -- the United States, China, Russia, Britain, France and Germany -- have demanded that it suspend its uranium-enrichment and reprocessing activities before they meet formally to discuss a package of economic and political incentives. But on a hastily planned trip to Cairo, apparently to drum up international support for Iran's stand, Tehran's chief nuclear negotiator rejected any preconditions for opening negotiations over the fate of its nuclear program.
 In the clearest response from Iranian officials to the incentives package, Ali Larijani, the chief negotiator, told reporters on Sunday, ''We have already said that we would not accept any preconditions and that we are supporting negotiations without prior conditions.'' He said he ''made that point clear'' when Javier Solana, the European Union's foreign policy chief, formally presented the package in Tehran last Tuesday. 
 In a sense, Mr. Larijani and other Iranian officials who have spoken publicly about the still-secret incentives package, have started negotiating on their own, and seem to be daring the other side to respond.
 The six powers have resisted, except to urge Iran's leaders to accept what they describe as a generous offer that includes the lure of light-water nuclear reactors and airplanes and badly needed spare parts, as well as direct talks with the United States if Iran freezes certain nuclear activities.
 ''We are following the public comments but will not respond until an official response to the package comes directly from Iran's leadership,'' said Cristina Gallach, Mr. Solana's spokeswoman, via telephone from Brussels.
 On the day he received the package from Mr. Solana, Mr. Larijani spoke of unspecified ''ambiguities'' in it that ''should be removed.'' Then one of Iran's most strident clerics, Ayatollah Ahmad Jannati, declared on Friday that Iran would never freeze its nuclear activities.
 On Saturday, Iran's foreign minister, Manouchehr Mottaki, said Iran would give the six nations its own amendments or counterproposal.
 At his regular Sunday news conference in Tehran, Hamidreza Assefi, the Foreign Ministry spokesman, said that the package included ''points that are ambiguous, points that are acceptable, points that should be strengthened and points that perhaps should not be there,'' the INSA news agency reported.
 This week, Iran's president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, will be in China, where he is expected to present Iran's position to Chinese officials and perhaps speak publicly about it.
 The 35-country board of the International Atomic Energy Agency is to meet this week in Vienna. Though no major initiative on Iran is planned, Iran's nuclear program is certain to be discussed.
 But Mr. Larijani is the official responsible for nuclear matters, and his statements carry considerable weight. In his remarks on Sunday, which were made in Persian and translated into Arabic and then into English, he reiterated that the package contained ''strong points,'' but also ''weak and ambiguous points.''
 Mr. Larijani also disclosed other details about the package and Iran's reaction to them. He confirmed that the package included an offer to provide Iran with nuclear reactors, but no specific reference of sanctions if Iran refused to suspend enrichment.
 ''There were no sanctions whatsoever in the offer we received,'' he said. ''If there had been mention of the word 'sanctions' or 'punishment,' we would not have accepted it because if they chose the direction of punishment, that would block the way to negotiations.''
 Senior officials in the delegation to Iran, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak publicly about the negotiations, confirmed that no sanctions were threatened and that the package only referred to possible disincentives.
 Calling Iran ''an honorable, respectable regional power,'' Mr. Larijani also said Iran was willing to discuss ''security arrangements'' with the six nations to contribute to regional stability. But the United States has already rejected the inclusion of government-to-government talks about security guarantees for Iran or regional security issues in the incentives package.
 Mr. Larijani also said there was a ''misconception'' that Iran had been given a deadline to respond to the package. ''This is not correct,'' he said. ''There is no such thing as a deadline or time frame.''
 Mr. Solana did not give the Iranians a deadline, except to ask for it ''in weeks.''
 ''It was not conveyed as a deadline,'' said one official directly involved in the talks in Tehran. ''The message was that they should reflect and not answer hastily.'' 
 The two sides agreed that Iran would give a response -- but not necessarily a final acceptance or rejection -- before June 29, European and Iranian officials said. That is when the foreign ministers from the Group of 8 industrialized nations meet in Moscow.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ali Larijani, left, Iran's chief nuclear negotiator, and Amr Mussa, right, leader of the Arab League, after Mr. Larijani arrived in Cairo yesterday. (Photo by Khaled Desouki/Agence France-Press -- Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); NUCLEAR FUEL MFG (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%) Atomic Weapons; Foreign Aid; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

PERSON: ALI LARIJANI (90%); JAVIER SOLANA (77%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (59%) Elaine Sciolino

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (89%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); CAIRO, EGYPT (72%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (55%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (97%); CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (92%); GERMANY (90%); IRAN (89%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EGYPT (72%); BELGIUM (70%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (58%) Iran; Russia; China; Great Britain; France; Germany; Iran

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2006



257 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 98 words

HEADLINE: Myth, Reality and the Estate Tax

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Paul Krugman admires the fiscal principles of those ''Americans from an earlier era'' who instituted the modern estate tax.
Although my admiration is less, I'm willing to keep the estate tax if we return to the original personal-income tax policies of those ''progressive'' leaders in 1913: a tax-rate structure whose lowest rate was 1 percent and whose maximum rate of 7 percent kicked in only when annual incomes reached $7.7 million (in 2006 dollars).

Donald J. Boudreaux
Fairfax, Va., June 9, 2006

The writer is chairman of the economics department at George Mason University. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ESTATE TAX (93%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); ESTATE GIFT & TRUST LAW (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (87%); WRITERS (86%); WILLS (85%); INCOME TAX (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) Taxation; Wills and Estates; Inheritance and Estate Taxes; Law and Legislation

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (73%) Donald J Boudreaux

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2006



258 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 191 words

HEADLINE: Myth, Reality and the Estate Tax

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''G.O.P. Fails in Attempt to Repeal Estate Tax'' (Business Day, June 9): 
 The Senate is to be congratulated for seeing through the ideological smokescreen of eliminating the estate tax. Behind the smokescreen is another in a parade of measures to shift the tax burden from the haves to the have-nots.
 Senators saw, correctly, that the rhetoric calling the estate tax unfair was pure nonsense, appealing to the rich and to the weak-minded. 
 All income is taxed many times as it streams through the economy and in and out of families.
 Supporters of estate tax repeal tried to take one snapshot of this income stream, a tax on income; and then another snapshot, a tax on this income stream as it returns as an estate to the economy. Then with ''family values'' and ''fairness'' bannered above them, they tried to push through another giveaway of our country's tax base.
 The Senate saw through the mythmakers' stories. Democrats, and especially Republicans who saw the story as too outrageous to stand by their party, stood tall.

Robert Hogner
Miami, June 9, 2006

The writer is a business professor at Florida International University.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Marcellus Hall)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ESTATE TAX (94%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); TAX LAW (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); FAMILY (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); INCOME TAX (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%) Taxation; Inheritance and Estate Taxes; Law and Legislation

ORGANIZATION: FLORIDA INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: Robert (Prof) Hogner

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (65%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2006



259 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 215 words

HEADLINE: Spanish Bank in Talks With Texas Lender

 BODY:
Banco Bilbao Vizcay Argentaria, a large Spanish bank, is considering buying Texas Regional Bancshares, in its latest bid for a small regional bank. 
 The two sides are in preliminary talks, according to a person close to the deal, but it remains possible that the negotiations could break down.
For Banco Bilbao, the acquisition of the $2 billion bank would be a significant step in their plans to penetrate the North American market, after recent acquisitions gave it toeholds in fast-growing areas of Southern California and Texas. Furthermore, its Bancomer unit is now Mexico's largest bank. 
 With 73 branches in South Texas, it would also give the company a sizable retail presence to complement its heavy emphasis on remittance services, whereby immigrants in the United States can send money back to their home country.
 Texas Regional, a banking franchise based in McAllen, Tex., is the parent company of Texas State Bank. It has $6.6 billion in assets and has access to a large Spanish-speaking population. 
 It does not have a big remittance business and, like many regional banks, must contend with a difficult operating environment from interest-rate pressure on profit margins and the end of the housing-market boom.
 Spokesmen for the companies could not be reached for comment 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (79%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (74%); HOLDING COMPANIES (74%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (73%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (73%); INTEREST RATES (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BANCO BILBAO VIZCAYA ARGENTARIA SA (92%)

TICKER: BVA (LSE) (92%); BBVA (NYSE) (92%); BBVA (MCE) (92%); BBVA (BMV) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MCALLEN, TX, USA (73%) TEXAS, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2006



260 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 310 words

 BODY:

TRACKING INFLATION -- The release of the May Producer Price Index on Tuesday and the May Consumer Price Index on Wednesday will give Wall Street and Washington a better picture of whether inflation is on the rise. 


AN ASIAN VACATION -- Markets in Australia, the Philippines and Thailand are closed today for local holidays.

THE FUTURE OF BANKING -- Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, is scheduled to be the keynote speaker today at the American Bankers Association Stonier Graduate School of Banking at Georgetown University.

ALL EYES ON IRAN? -- The 35-nation International Atomic Energy Agency's board of governors gathers at the agency's headquarters in Vienna today.

RATE DECISION IN JAPAN -- The Japanese central bank is scheduled to hold a two-day meeting on monetary policy on Wednesday and Thursday.

TAKING WALL STREET'S PULSE -- Some of the big financial services companies begin to report their second-quarter earnings this week. Lehman Brothers is scheduled to go first today. Goldman Sachs is due to make its announcement on Tuesday, and Bear Stearns on Thursday.

THINNER WALLETS -- Advance retail sales for May, pressured by weak auto sales, are expected to slip by 0.5 percent, according to Bloomberg News.

SOMEONE'S SHOPPING -- The Best Buy Company is expected to report on Tuesday that it had net income of 37 cents a share in the three-month period that ended May 31, up from 35 cents a share a year earlier. KB Home is expected to announce that its quarterly profit was $2.50 a share, up from $2.02 a share a year earlier.

OTHER ECONOMIC INDICATORS -- Business inventories for April (Tuesday); Fed beige book economic survey (Wednesday); industrial production and capacity utilization for May (Thursday); current account deficit for the first quarter and the preliminary University of Michigan consumer sentiment index for June (Friday).

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); INFLATION (91%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); INVENTORIES (72%); RETAIL SALES (71%); MONETARY POLICY (71%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (67%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (66%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (55%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); BEST BUY CO INC (67%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (55%); BLOOMBERG LP (55%); KB HOME CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (57%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (57%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (57%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); BBY (NYSE) (67%); KBH (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (67%); SIC5735 RECORD & PRERECORDED TAPE STORES (67%); SIC5734 COMPUTER & COMPUTER SOFTWARE STORES (67%); SIC5731 RADIO, TV & CONSUMER ELECTRONICS STORES (67%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS236117 NEW HOUSING OPERATIVE BUILDERS (54%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (54%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); AUSTRALIA (91%); THAILAND (90%); PHILIPPINES (88%); JAPAN (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (76%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2006



261 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1055 words

HEADLINE: U. A. W. Facing Tough Choices, Leader Warns 

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS, June 11 

 BODY:
The president of the United Automobile Workers union told his members in a strikingly blunt report released Sunday that they cannot ride out the automobile industry crisis and should be prepared to make tradition-breaking decisions to help rescue the industry.
 In the report, to be given to members at the union's convention, which opens here on Monday, the union president, Ron Gettelfinger, pointed to many causes of the industry's grave malaise, including ''bad management'' and declining auto sales. 
But Mr. Gettelfinger acknowledged that the union's health care benefits helped create a ballooning health cost crisis that had become ''unsustainable'' in the face of the auto companies' declining sales. This, he said, was a reason why the U.A.W. agreed to substantial health care concessions last year.
 ''This isn't a cyclical downturn,'' Mr. Gettelfinger said in the report. ''The kind of challenges we face aren't the kind that can be ridden out. They're structural challenges and they require new and farsighted solutions.''
 Mr. Gettelfinger declined to say what specific moves he would ask union members to make and said he believed things could improve for the union, which he argued is gaining political and social momentum. But seasoned labor experts said the report and a speech Mr. Gettelfinger is scheduled to give on Monday on the state of the U.A.W., are meant to prepare union members to expect more concessions in critical contract talks that begin next year. 
 ''Usually you rally them for the fight that's ahead; he's rallying them for the hard times that are ahead,'' said Gary N. Chaison, a professor of labor relations at Clark University in Worcester, Mass.
 The U.A.W., long the envy of the labor movement for its contracts with high wages and extensive benefits, is now experiencing the same demands for givebacks that have swept workers in the steel, railroad and airline industries, and it is losing jobs rapidly. The union's membership, which peaked in 1979 at 1.5 million fell below 600,000 last year, its lowest point since 1942, a separate union report released Sunday showed.
 And more members are likely to disappear in coming months. Workers at General Motors, and its former parts supplier, Delphi, must decide by June 23 whether to accept buyouts and other retirement incentives to leave their jobs. 
 Those still working are finding that their lives have changed. In the past year, the U.A.W. reached landmark agreements that will require workers to pay more for health care coverage at G.M. and Ford -- an action that Mr. Gettelfinger told Time magazine was ''probably the most difficult backward step to take in the history of our union.''
 Despite that, Mr. Gettelfinger, 61, who joined the union in 1964 as a repairman at the Ford plant in Louisville, Ky., is expected to win a second four-year term this week. He also will name new vice presidents in charge of bargaining with G.M., Ford and Chrysler in next year's contract negotiations. 
 Hanging over the convention, however, is the crisis affecting Detroit automakers, whose market share fell to just under 53 percent last month, the second-lowest level in history. Asian auto companies, meanwhile, took 40 percent of the market, their highest ever.
 Moreover, G.M. and Ford, which are losing millions of dollars on their automotive operations, collectively plan to cut 60,000 jobs over the next six years, when they plan to close all or parts of two dozen plants.
 The situation facing the companies is ''unlike any we have faced in the past,'' Mr. Gettelfinger said in the report, including the near-bankruptcy at Chrysler that required a Congressional bailout, the industry downturn of the 1980's and G.M.'s deep financial problems in 1992 that triggered the ouster of its chief executive.
 As he has before, Mr. Gettelfinger criticized industry leaders for failing to act in the face of foreign competition. Auto industry leaders, he said, were guilty of ''missed market opportunities'' and ''bland designs'' while money that could have been invested in new products and updating plants was ''squandered in ill-conceived international ventures.''
 But Mr. Gettelfinger, long a proponent of national health care coverage, said the extensive health care benefits, coupled with Detroit's declining fortunes, had created a situation that was ''unsustainable'' -- a reason the U.A.W. agreed to the benefit concessions.
 ''That reality was painful, but it was the reality,'' Mr. Gettelfinger said in the report.
 Further, he argued, ''We can be proud that our union doesn't shy away from making tough calls and even prouder of our members' willingness to make sacrifices for those who preceded them and those who will follow.''
 Mr. Gettelfinger's pragmatism in the auto crisis contrasts sharply with the previous determination of other past U.A.W. leaders to fight concessions, Professor Chaison said. 
 ''There's a word that kept coming up several times, and that's the word reality,'' he said. ''What he's really saying is that we live in extraordinary times, and we have to do what reality demands we do, not what we'd like to do.''
 On Friday, the U.A.W. reached agreement with G.M. and Delphi to offer buyouts and other retirement incentives to all 23,000 U.A.W. members at Delphi, which is operating under bankruptcy-court protection. 
 Initially, the deals were offered to only 13,000 Delphi workers, along with 113,000 workers at G.M. Workers face a June 23 deadline for deciding whether to take the deals, which G.M. will finance.
 Delphi, which was part of G.M. until a 1999 spinoff, has asked a federal judge for permission to impose deep wage and benefit cuts on Delphi workers. 
 But Friday, the judge put off hearings on the request until August.
 The three parties must now consider critical questions.
 Unless those discussions end in a stalemate, analysts see an increased likelihood that the union will grant concessions to Delphi, opening the door for cuts at the major auto companies next year.
 So while the U.A.W. convention will have its usual round of parties, dinners and cocktail receptions here, they are taking place against a somber backdrop. 
 Professor Chaison said: ''This is probably going to be the gloomiest convention that you've ever seen. Everyone is just waiting for the other shoe to fall.''


CORRECTION-DATE: June 16, 2006

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a front-page article yesterday about an appraisal of the automobile industry by Ron Gettelfinger, president of the United Automobile Workers union, referred incorrectly in some copies to his comments on the economic state of the industry. It was workers' health care benefits that he said had become ''unsustainable'' -- not that the domestic automobile industry had become economically unsustainable because of generous health care benefits. The article also referred incorrectly in some copies to the year that the union's membership peaked at 1.5 million. It was 1979, not 1970.
An article in Business Day on Saturday about an agreement between Delphi Corporation, the auto parts supplier, and the United Auto Workers to extend a buyout program referred imprecisely to the role of General Motors. (The error was repeated in a front-page article on Monday.) While G.M. will pay the full cost of the first 13,000 buyouts that were offered, it will split the cost with Delphi for an additional 10,000 buyouts.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ron Gettelfinger told auto workers to expect more hard times. (Photo by Carlos Osorio/Associated Press)(pg. A15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (93%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (75%); HEALTH INSURANCE (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%) Automobiles; Organized Labor; Wages and Salaries; Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Fringe Benefits; Givebacks (Collective Bargaining); Health Insurance and Managed Care; Automobiles; Automobiles

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (93%) United Automobile Workers

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: Micheline Maynard; Ron Gettelfinger

GEOGRAPHIC: WORCESTER, MA, USA (53%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2006



262 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:

INVESTORS SHUN RISK -- The terms differ slightly -- a nervous sell-off, a correction, the beginnings of a bear market. But as markets from India to Brazil to the United States skidded last week, there was little doubt that investors were dumping risk from their portfolios. The question is whether investors feel comfortable with the risk they have left. [C1.] 


BIG DOUBLE BILL -- The Nasdaq Tower, left, and the Reuters sign in Times Square are two of the most valuable advertising spaces in the world. Now, with a deal to be announced today, advertisers can rent both spaces at once -- and create a virtual roadblock on the south side of the square. It is a partnership that the two companies hope will leverage both ad spaces to stand out in a sea of advertising. [C10.]

BEATING PEOPLE TO THE PUNCH -- After People magazine won the very expensive rights to the first photographs of Shiloh Nouvel Jolie-Pitt and before they were published, they appeared on gossip blogs and other Web sites. [C1.]

FOX'S MOVIE STRATEGY -- For the year to date, Fox is No. 1 in move theater market share. At the same time, it has fostered a corporate culture that its parent company, the News Corporation, seeks in all its television, news and mobile entertainment divisions: eyes fixed on the bottom line while remaining fearless about creative risks. [C1.]

BOOKS AND PRODUCT PLACEMENT -- Procter & Gamble has made a deal to help market a novel for teenagers called ''Cathy's Book.'' [C1.]

SUPPORT FOR LAW FIRM -- The embattled securities class-action law firm Milberg Weiss Bershad & Schulman is receiving some political backing with the release of a statement signed by four Democrats from the House of Representatives condemning last month's indictment of the law firm on criminal charges. [C10.]

IRE OVER E-MAIL TAX -- A French member of the European Parliament, Alain Lamassoure, recently uttered the dreaded T-word -- taxes -- in connection with e-mail and mobile-phone text messages, and in so doing earned the wrath of the Internet generation. [C9.]

NOT CHOCOLATE, BUT CAMERAS -- With the installation of new souped-up automated kiosks in three shopping malls this week, Sony hopes to make the purchase of many of its electronics products as easy as buying a piece of chocolate. [C9.]

INTERNET AND OLDER SHOPPERS -- Older consumers, who generally sat out the Internet's first big commercial push, are helping to feed the surging Web economy. And because this group has far more disposable cash than any other, executives who have not already begun tweaking their strategies to reach them will probably do so soon, online analysts and executives say. Philip Charles-Pierre, above, a Travelocity executive, said a program aimed at AARP Passport members has helped the company tap into an increasingly affluent market. [C8.]

DIGITAL REGRETS -- So many years into the digital revolution, even those with presumably the highest levels of computer expertise seem to get caught up and embarrassed by their ''digital trail'' -- that wide wake we tend to leave as we transact an electronically mediated life. Tom Zeller Jr.: Link by Link. [C5.]

ONLINE

WIRELESS LIVING -- Communities around the country getting into the telecommunications business, wireless gambling, simple fixes for Wi-Fi woes, Internet calling without a laptop and more. A special report is at nytimes.com/technology.

THE CLASSICS -- Previous columns from Gretchen Morgenson, Joe Nocera and Floyd Norris can be found at select.nytimes.com/pages/timesselect.

YOUR MONEY -- Look ahead at the news that will affect your finances with ''Your Money,'' a free weekly newsletter. It can be found at nytimes.com/yourmoney.

THE WALK-THROUGH BLOG -- Writers for The New York Times look at residential real estate news, trends and tidbits at nytimes.com/walkthrough.

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); INTERNET & WWW (87%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); MATURE MARKET (78%); CORPORATE CULTURE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (76%); PRODUCT PLACEMENT (75%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (75%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (75%); INTERNET RETAILING (72%); GENERATION Z (72%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (72%); MOBILE MEDIA (71%); TEXT MESSAGING (70%); MARKET SHARE (70%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (67%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (65%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (65%); YOUNG ADULT LITERATURE (64%); RETAILERS (64%); CLASS ACTIONS (63%); EUROPEAN UNION (63%); INDICTMENTS (62%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (62%); ELECTRONIC KIOSKS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MILBERG LLP (82%); NEWS CORP (82%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (54%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (82%); NWS (ASX) (82%); PGP (PAR) (54%); PG (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (82%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (82%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (82%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (82%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (54%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (54%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (92%); INDIA (90%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2006



263 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 919 words

HEADLINE: With Global Markets Jittery, Investors Decide to Rein in Risk

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
The terms differ slightly -- a nervous sell-off, a correction, the beginnings of a bear market. But as stock markets from India to Brazil to the United States skidded last week, there was little doubt that investors were dumping risk from their portfolios.
 The question for the coming week is whether investors feel comfortable with the risk they have left. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 355.95 points last week, or 3.2 percent. The S.& P. 500-stock index, a broader gauge of the market's performance, lost 35.92 points, or 2.8 percent. It was the worst week for both indexes since April last year.
 As investors across the globe watched stocks in the United States tumble and were suddenly faced with higher interest rates from their own central banks, a worldwide market contraction took hold. Major stock indexes in Hong Kong, Bombay, Mexico City, Seoul and London all ended the week lower.
 ''It's a market with no clear conviction at all except for that it's afraid,'' said William E. Rhodes, chief investment strategist with Rhodes Analytics. ''There are economic fears and uncertainties. That alone pulls the market down because on a very fundamental basis you're not sure where to price the stock. And if you're the buyer, you don't want to pay what's asked.''
 Investors are facing a number of new developments that are making risky investments, particularly those in emerging overseas markets, look like a bad idea, economists say. First, the United States economy by most accounts is beginning to downshift to a less rapid period of growth. Second, higher interest rates are making consumers think twice about how to spend their money.
 ''This has been a very powerful liquidity-driven market that has drawn a lot of support from low interest rates,'' said Stephen S. Roach, chief economist at Morgan Stanley. ''And investors are coming to the realization that the Fed is taking the candy away. They have to come down to earth.''
 Adding to the market anxiety is the widespread belief that the Federal Reserve, which has said inflation is rising at an uncomfortable rate, will raise interest rates yet again when it meets later this month. 
 ''Market participants have been forced to think about, 'Will the Fed overdo it?' '' said Jack Caffrey, an equity strategist with J. P. Morgan Private Bank. ''Investors are responding as they do. They're pulling in.''
 Investors are also adjusting to the ideology of a new Fed chairman. Since Ben S. Bernanke took the reins of the central bank in February, investors have struggled to discern how tough Mr. Bernanke will be in fighting inflation. On the one hand, raising interest rates too much could squelch economic growth. But at the same time, Mr. Bernanke has said that inflation is a top concern of the Federal Reserve.
 A major question facing investors is what will Mr. Bernanke think is a bigger risk to the economy: rising inflation or slowing growth.
 ''I'd say you're left with a touch of the Abbott and Costello routine 'Who's on First.' Is it inflation? Is it growth?'' Mr. Caffrey said.
 This week, the government is set to release several reports measuring economic activity, including retail sales and the federal budget deficit. But the most closely watched will be the Consumer Price Index, the government's major barometer of inflation. If the numbers show too much of an acceleration, that could make already-jumpy investors nervous that the expected June interest rate increase could go as high as a half-point.
 Most would agree that the global economy is not in any immediate danger of faltering and that the stock market so far shows no signs that it is headed toward a protracted slump. ''The fundamentals of the world economy are still O.K.,'' Mr. Roach, of Morgan Stanley, said. ''They're not terrific, but still O.K.''
 Mark Cliffe, global head of financial markets research at ING Group in London, said: ''So far, the fact that the U.S. market has fallen by 5 or 6 percent from the peak is hardly catastrophic. But if it starts to fall another 5 percent, it could have some meaningful impact, for example, on consumer spending. Joe Six-Pack could start to cut back his stock portfolio.''
 Both the Dow and the S.& P. are still up for the year, as are major indexes in Europe and Asia. Even in the emerging markets, which have had big surges and fallbacks, the fundamentals remain largely intact. 
 Moreover, experts say that if investors were truly worried about the American economy slowing too rapidly, they would be pushing bond prices higher, seeking a safer investment. That has not yet happened on a broad scale.
 Questions about the strength of the global economy were on the minds of the Group of 8's leaders this weekend, who offered an assurance that growth is healthy but the world's economies remain vulnerable to erratic market forces like oil prices. ''Global growth remains strong and is gradually becoming more broadly based,'' finance ministers from the eight nations, including Russia, the United States and Germany, said in a statement. ''However, downside risks from high and volatile energy prices and widening global imbalances remain.''
 Although the statement did not differ much from one the Group of 8 released in February, it took on an added significance given the worldwide market slumps last week.
 James Paulsen, chief investment strategist at Wells Capital Management, cautioned about overreacting to the current market dip. ''Every time it swoons doesn't mean we have a recession coming.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); MORGAN STANLEY (52%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%); MS (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (92%); INDIA (90%); MEXICO (79%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2006



264 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Public Editor's Journal)

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2006

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: Iran's 'Right' to Enrich Uranium

BYLINE: BYRON CALAME


HIGHLIGHT: A reader recently posed a question about the paper's coverage of the Iran nuclear crisis. 

 BODY:
A reader recently posed a question about the paper's coverage of the Iran nuclear crisis. He wrote:
"The Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty allows non-nuclear weapons states the right the entire nuclear fuel cycle for civilian purposes. The use of qualified phrasing [in The Times] like 'Iran claims'or 'Iran maintains the right' leaves the impression with the general reader that Iran is doing something wrong by pursuing uranium enrichment or that assertions of its right to do so are on shaky legal ground. This is not the case." 
But because Iran has not complied with all of the obligations of the treaty, the issue is not that clear. The reader's message was sent to Susan Chira, the foreign editor, who wrote to us:
Of course, we try in articles, and should keep trying, to make the point that Iran does have the right under the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty; the question in dispute is whether those rights were forfeited by its previous actions, which are undisputed.
The message was also sent to David Sanger, a White House correspondent, who offered a more detailed assessment of the issue. His letter appears below.

--
Susan,
I've talked to a number of experts on this over the past year, and the answer, as you might expect, is murky. Here's why. 
Yes, any signatory to the NPT has a right to produce fissile material, at reactor grade, under IAEA supervision. The treaty also lays out a series of obligations, including the obligation to disclose certain types of nuclear work, mostly involving enrichment or reprocessing, so that those activities can be monitored by international inspectors to make sure material is not being diverted to a weapons program.
The problem here, as I understand it, is that the treaty does not specify what happens when a nation's rights collide with its failure to meet its obligations. In Iran's case, it hid its nuclear activities for 18 years, including enrichment experiments, the importation of centrifuges and designs from A.Q. Khan's network, and the building of hidden nuclear installations. Once those activities were discovered or revealed, Iran admitted to them -- and said it had to violate the treaty because of economic sanctions imposed by the United States. And, of course, it has left other questions about its activities unanswered, including the discovery of traces of radioactive material on machinery that was at military sites; the discovery of the "hemispheres'' document, which suggests (but does not prove) work on a weapon design; and the disclosure by its president that it is conducting research on a more advanced centrifuge.
The crux of the problem is that the IAEA has no enforcement powers of its own; its only sanction is to report a nation's actions to the Security Council. In Iran's case, of course, it did that earlier this year. So it is a question of interpretation whether past actions to deceive -- and current suspicions -- temporarily or permanently disqualify a nation from further exercise of its rights under the treaty. President Bush and Condoleezza Rice, not surprisingly, argue that when Iran abrogated the treaty, it gave up whatever rights the treaty conveys. The British, French and the Germans (sometimes) agree. Others do not agree, and the Iranians, of course, want to focus on that part of the treaty that gives them the right to produce fuel, rather than that part of the treaty that obligates them to reveal their activities. 
In the end, this is going to be an issue for the Security Council to judge, and they will probably fudge the issue. There is no case law here; the only other country that ran into this situation was North Korea, and they exited the treaty. (Others have cheated -- Libya, South Africa -- but they then turned over all their weapons-related infrastructure.) 
My conclusion? It makes sense to put "rights'' into quotation marks. To put create an American-centric analogy here -- which obviously may too parochial for a question of international law -- citizens have a "right'' to vote, but when convicted of a felony, they lose that right. We have a right to free speech, but when it collides with other rights it may be curtailed. In this case, as in those, it is unclear that the right is an absolute one. That's what this whole confrontation is all about. Until that issue is resolved, I think we have to treat any discussion of rights as a point of dispute, just as we would if writing about whether protestors have a right to parade in front of the White House without a permit.
Hope this helps.
David

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); CENTRIFUGES (76%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2012



265 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1425 words

HEADLINE: Police Struggles In New Orleans Raise Old Fears

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER DREW

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, June 9 

 BODY:
Within the Police Department here, the SWAT team is known as The Final Option. Before Hurricane Katrina, it was assigned to the city's worst crimes, and as residents return, it is once again kicking in the doors at the worst drug dens and engaging in shootouts with violent offenders.
 But the team is also running dangerously low on firepower. Flooding ruined 300 of its guns, its bullet-resistant shields and the bulk of its ammunition, none of which have been replaced more than nine months after the hurricane. The 40-man team has had to borrow body armor from suburban forces, and the Police Department is lining up corporate sponsors to contribute more.
''I tell you what: we're hurting,'' said the team's commander, Capt. Jeffrey Winn. 
 The SWAT unit's difficulties reflect how far from normal many police operations remain here, as residents return and another hurricane season begins. Like the rest of the city, the police force is still struggling to recover from the calamity of Hurricane Katrina, which knocked out its headquarters, overwhelmed its ability to maintain control and prompted desertions that tarnished the force's reputation.
 Now, as the department tries to fight its way back, sharp budget cuts -- and a recent spike in drug-related killings in the city -- are adding to fears that years of overhauls and modernization may be undone, and that New Orleans could return to its former notoriety as one of the nation's murder capitals.
 There is also concern that the department's own notoriety could resurface. For some residents, the sense that the city is on edge and the department's future uncertain has brought echoes of the days when the local police were considered among the least competent and most racist and brutal in the nation.
 ''Given where they are mentally and emotionally, we've gotten more citizen complaints about the way the police are treating people than we have in a long time,'' said Oliver M. Thomas Jr., the City Council president. ''Over the last two years, they'd been getting better and more professional. But I've been hearing lots of complaints about verbal abuse.''
 The blunt-talking new police superintendent, Warren J. Riley, insists he will not let the drug dealers and ''gutter punks'' take over again. Mr. Riley says many officers have not gotten the credit they deserve for ''standing tall'' during the storm, and he is determined to restore discipline and a sense of professionalism among the others. He has also formed an intelligence unit to track the most ruthless crime suspects and built strong ties with federal authorities to help catch them. But in other areas, problems abound.
 More than 200 officers deserted during the storm and were fired or suspended. Many veteran officers retired, and some of the youngest officers quit and left town. As a result, the size of the force has dropped to about 1,400 officers on the street now, from nearly 1,700 before the hurricane. Recruiting replacements is difficult, partly because it is hard for candidates to find affordable housing, Mr. Riley said. 
 Because of the deterioration of the city's finances, he said, the department's budget has been slashed by 19 percent, from $124 million in 2005 to $100 million this year. It has received federal or state aid to replace many of the 300 patrol cars lost to flooding, buy new uniforms and restore its communications system. But it is awaiting federal assistance to replace other gear, like the SWAT team's weapons. 
 With the police headquarters still shuttered, Mr. Riley and his top commanders are working out of trailers. And while forensic experts are making progress in restoring many of the items from the flooded police evidence room, newly gathered evidence is being stored in rental trucks parked at what was once a motor-vehicle inspection station.
 The storm has also left a lingering emotional toll. More than 80 percent of the officers lost their homes, and some have had to double up with other officers or move to distant suburbs to find housing they can afford on their salaries of $35,000 to $50,000. Many who were heroes in the storm, plucking victims out of the floodwaters, are also resentful that their actions were overshadowed by those who abandoned their posts.
 And with many residents here under stress, the police say they are also receiving more back talk from people stopped for even minor violations. ''Since the storm, you have a lot of displaced anger among many people, and it seems that police officers always get the brunt of that displaced anger,'' said Capt. Kevin B. Anderson, the police commander in the French Quarter.
 But in the end, nearly everyone here realizes that what defines the Police Department is how well it handles crime, particularly in terms of the murder rate. Before the storm, the city averaged 250 to 300 murders a year, always placing it at, or near, the top spot in the nation on a per-capita basis. So far this year, there have been 45 murders -- most of them in the last two months -- compared with 114 at this time in 2005, when the city's population was at least twice what it is now.
 Superintendent Riley -- who was promoted from the department's No. 2 job after his more flamboyant predecessor, Edwin P. Compass III, resigned after criticism over the police response to the hurricane -- appeared on radio talk shows recently to outline his crime-fighting plans. They include repeated raids in the poorer neighborhoods that have been resettled, where he said drug dealers who had lived in different parts of the city were converging and killing one another over turf.
 The superintendent also urged residents to band together to demand a toughening of the city's criminal justice system, where jury trials resumed only recently. Drug dealers who evacuated to Houston are returning home because it is much easier here to avoid jail, Mr. Riley said, through the ''revolving door'' of the New Orleans court system.
 The courts have long been criticized as relying on plea bargains and setting lenient bail. And since the hurricane, the public defender system has been so short of money and staffing that one judge, Arthur L. Hunter Jr., recently moved to let some people already in custody back onto the streets.
 Mr. Riley said, for instance, that police officers were in a shootout last month with one man who had been roaming a deserted neighborhood while wearing an ankle bracelet. He was supposed to be under house arrest while awaiting trial on a burglary charge, but the authorities had apparently not responded to the bracelet monitoring system.
 ''Obviously, the murder risk factors are coming back,'' said Peter Scharf, a criminologist at the University of New Orleans, ''and this creates incredible challenges.'' Whether a growing nervousness about the murder rate gives way again to a feeling of being under siege could end up determining if many people return home and tourists start coming back.
 Captain Anderson, the French Quarter commander, said there had been only two murders there this year, along with several stabbings among construction workers carousing on Bourbon Street. He also said the SWAT team had been called in for undercover patrols after groups of youths had accosted people.
 James F. Scott, the deputy police superintendent, said the department's intelligence bureau had focused on 112 drug dealers and murder suspects, and 30 had since been captured. Mr. Scott said some drug dealers who evacuated to Houston were killed in turf wars with gangs there, while others were now moving back and forth between the two cities, almost like commuters.
 He added that federal prosecutors here were now bringing charges in smaller drug-sale and gun-possession cases to help get criminals off the street. ''Since the storm, that is one of the most positive things that has happened to the Police Department,'' Mr. Scott said.
 The department has also worked with the Louisiana National Guard to avoid a repeat of last year's disastrous storm response. Superintendent Riley said 3,000 troops could be in the city ahead of a storm, with high-water trucks and satellite communications gear positioned to assist each police district. There will also be more boats on hand for search-and-rescue operations. 
 Barring another disaster, Mr. Riley said, ''Katrina has given us an opportunity to refocus our educational system, our economic system and our law-enforcement efforts, and change the culture of this city.''
 ''If we're able to change it,'' he said, ''that would give us a silver lining.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The New Orleans police superintendent, Warren J. Riley, top, has been working out of a trailer. Hurricane Katrina damaged many essentials, including ammunition and bullet-resistant shields. (Photographs by Erik S. Lesser for The New York Times)(pg. A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (92%); POLICE FORCES (91%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); WEATHER (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MURDER (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); VIOLENT CRIME (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); SHOOTINGS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); SPONSORSHIP (73%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (72%); BUDGET CUTS (51%) Police; Protective Clothing; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Police

PERSON: Christopher Drew

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (95%) LOUISIANA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2006



266 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1113 words

HEADLINE: Dogs and Discriminating Noses Are Following New Career Paths

BYLINE: By JENNIFER 8. LEE

 BODY:
A year ago, Jada, a frisky black mutt, was living in a Florida pound, her days numbered. Today she commands hundreds of dollars an hour at some of Manhattan's most exclusive hotels and apartment buildings. Her fate turned on her newly gained ability to sniff out something reviled in New York these days: bedbugs.
 Last month, the Motion Picture Association of America started using two dogs, Lucky and Flo, to sniff out DVD's in the cargo area of Heathrow Airport in London, a major transit point for pirated DVD's. ''First we had Lassie, then Rin Tin Tin and now Lucky and Flo,'' said Dan Glickman, the president of the association.
Dogs have long been partners in law enforcement's searches for narcotics, explosives and people (both dead and alive). But now their keen noses are being put to use in a wider variety of areas, like medicine, environmental protection and anti-piracy efforts. The number of dogs with the new, specialized skills remains but a fraction of the number trained for more traditional law enforcement uses. 
 Still, dogs are entering new career paths, learning to sniff out mercury in Minnesota schools, invasive weeds in Montana, cancer in people -- even cows in heat. 
 ''The dogs do better than bulls,'' said Lawrence J. Myers, a professor of veterinary science at Auburn University who wanted to increase the success rate of impregnation attempts, a pressing demand in the dairy industry. Dr. Myers, a leading expert on dogs' sense of smell, added that because dogs ''have no innate interest in cows in heat,'' it takes repetitive training to teach them how to know when the cows are ready. (The bulls do not benefit from the dogs' work. Dairy cows are usually artificially inseminated.)
 Dogs' sniffing prowess, well known for ages, lends itself to any number of needs. ''Cocaine or peanut butter: whatever you want to find, we can train a dog to find it,'' said Bill Whitstine, Jada's original trainer and the founder of the Florida Canine Academy in Safety Harbor, Fla. 
 Engineers are still years away from creating instruments as sensitive or as flexible as a dog's nose. Until then, Mother Nature remains the master engineer. ''You can train a dog for anything that has a unique or mostly unique odor,'' Dr. Myers said. In the case of DVD's, the smell that Lucky and Flo have been trained to detect is polycarbonate plastic. In the case of cancer, scientists believe that dogs may be picking up biological compounds, like alkanes and benzene derivatives, that are not found in healthy tissue. 
 The cancer detection research is in a preliminary stage, but some early tests with a variety of cancers like lung and bladder show a success rate better than conventional tests'. 
 Because dogs have 20 to 40 times the number of nasal receptor cells that humans do, they can detect the tiniest levels of odors, even a few parts per billion, Dr. Myers said. In addition, the dogs' nasal anatomy is very effective at sampling air, so much so that researchers are studying whether they can adapt it for a mechanical detector. 
 To be sure, dogs are but one animal with an extremely acute sense of smell (think European pigs and truffles), but being man's best friend helps with employment opportunities.
 ''I don't think you could ever get a police officer to get a pig around a car for a narcotics search,'' said David Latimer, a dog trainer in Birmingham, Ala., who has taught a dog to sniff out cellphones, part of an effort to thwart terrorists who plan to use them to detonate bombs. The dog has not been put to use in the field, however.
 The training process is similar for almost all odors. For months, the dogs are given multiple items in succession to smell. When they come to the target odor -- bedbugs or mold, for example -- they get a reward. Eventually they associate the odor with the reward. 
 ''All animals strive for food, sex and praise,'' Mr. Whitstine said. ''We can't give them the middle one, but we can give them the food and praise.'' The more odors a dog is being asked to pick out, the longer the training. Mold dogs, for example, are taught to detect about 18 toxic molds, some of which cause allergies. 
 The training has to continue even after the dogs start working, so they remain sharp. Every day, Jada gets a refresher course from her owner, Carl Massicott, who runs Advanced K9 Detectives in Milford, Conn. To conduct the retraining, he built a contraption out of aluminum bars, a lazy susan and plastic containers. He spins the wheel and says, ''Jada! Seek! Seek!'' 
 Jada sniffed around the containers -- one containing bedbug carcasses and the others containing decoy materials like carpet and plaster. When she got to the one with the dead bedbugs, she stopped. Then she tapped the container with her paw. ''Good girl!'' Mr. Massicott said, giving her a snack out of his waist pack. 
 He also uses live bedbugs for the retraining, which troubles his wife. Once, one escaped. ''We weren't going to bed until we found it,'' Mr. Massicott said. Jada tracked the wayward bedbug down.
 Jada needs only two minutes to check a room that can take a human up to half an hour to inspect. She has rooted out clusters of bedbugs in $500-a-night hotel rooms, elegant Park Avenue co-op buildings and Queens low-rise rentals. She has found bedbugs behind radiators and in cracks in the wall.
 Many dogs who end up as career sniffers are rescued from shelters or pounds, just as Jada was, because the most important trait for them is not pedigree but personality. Trainers look for dogs that are eager and enjoy games. A common test is to see if they react enthusiastically to a tennis ball.
 ''Some dogs are too smart,'' said Alice Whitelaw, who works for a nonprofit conservation group in Montana and uses dogs to track wild animal excrement for biological surveying. ''They're like, 'I don't need this. I could be lying down all day.' '' 
 There are other limitations, since dogs are not machines. Jada can look for bedbugs only six hours a day before her accuracy declines. Dogs get tired. They are temperamental. They make mistakes in trying to please their handlers. In fact, overly high expectations helped fuel a boom and bust in termite-sniffing dogs in the 1980's. ''We realize their fallibility,'' said Mr. Latimer, the trainer from Birmingham who is also training bedbug dogs. ''I think that has caused them to gain in popularity and, quite frankly, in credibility.''
 Also, using sniffing dogs makes economic sense only when there is sufficient demand, like the recent surge in bedbugs in New York City. 
 As for sensing cows in heat, Dr. Myers sighed. ''There is economic interest, but not enough to sustain it.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Jada, with her owner, Carl Massicott, seeking out bedbugs for pay. (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOGS (90%); MAMMALS (89%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (76%); CANCER SCREENING & DETECTION (71%); FILM (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); SCIENCE NEWS (65%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (65%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (64%); BENZENE (60%); BED BUGS (56%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (56%); AGRICULTURE (50%); COCAINE (50%) Dogs; Smell; Odors; Dogs

ORGANIZATION: MOTION PICTURE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (57%); AUBURN UNIVERSITY (54%) Flordia Canine Academy

PERSON: Jennifer 8 Lee; Bill Whitstine; Lawrence J (Dr) Myers

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2006



267 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: Welcome To the Bazaar

BYLINE: By Warren Christopher. 
Warren Christopher, secretary of state from 1993 to 1997, is the co-chairman of the Pacific Council on International Policy.

DATELINE: Los Angeles 

 BODY:
THE welcome recent announcement that the United States is willing to join face-to-face talks with Iran rekindled memories of my own experiences, 25 years ago, as chief negotiator in the Iranian hostage crisis. The subject of that negotiation was the 52 American diplomats who were taken hostage in Tehran on Nov. 4, 1979. The result was their release, 444 days later, on the day of Ronald Reagan's inauguration in 1981. Since that day we have had no diplomatic relations and virtually no direct dialogue with Iran.
 There are obvious differences between the situation in 1979-81 and now. Then it was the United States that wanted face-to-face negotiations. Today it is Iran that wants direct talks -- talks that will help make up for what its leaders view as decades of humiliation and abuse by America. While the negotiations 25 years ago involved the future and well-being of 52 individuals, the 2006 negotiations, if they occur, will deal with a problem that potentially threatens the lives of millions. 
Nevertheless, there are lessons from our 1979-81 negotiations with Iran that can inform our efforts in 2006. First, we must be sure we are talking with the right people. One of the most frustrating dead ends we encountered in the hostage negotiations was learning that despite prolonged efforts to forge a settlement with President Abolhassan Bani-Sadr, he did not even have the power to move the hostages from one location to another, much less cause their release. If our 2006 negotiators study the vectors of power in Iran, they may be able to avoid such frustrations.
 At the moment, Iran's president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, is riding high. But he may not be as powerful as he seems and, in any event, power may shift over time. Ultimate authority remains with Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, and we have not heard from Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, former two-term president and now chairman of the Expediency Council. In short, we should look for seams, even small ones, in the cloak of power.
 Second, our negotiators should prepare themselves for what might be called ''bazaar behavior.'' For all my difficult dealings with interlocutors like China's foreign minister, Qian Qichen, I always knew what he really wanted and that if an agreement was reached, its terms would be carried out. But with the Iranians, the negotiating style is likely to resemble that of a Middle Eastern marketplace, with outlandish demands, feints at abandoning the process and haggling over minor details up to the very last moment. 
 Even after the agreement was signed on Jan. 19, 1981, the Iranians disavowed a vital technical annex. To bring them back in line, I directed the pilot of my plane, on a telephone line that I knew was tapped, to warm up the engines. The Iranians quickly dropped their claim, and a day later the hostages were released. 
 If the Iranians ultimately come to the table, our negotiators will need to be patient, almost superhumanly so. The subtext for everything the Iranians do and say will be their historic sense of grievance against the United States, stretching back at least to the C.I.A.-engineered overthrow of the government and restoration of the shah to his throne in 1953. 
 The hostage crisis probably dragged on because the Iranians wanted to maximize their exposure on the world stage and to humiliate the Great Satan (and its president) for as long as possible. One long and bewildering delay occurred when the Iranians refused to sign any direct agreement with the United States. We finally suggested that the agreement take the form of mutually dependent promises to Algeria, and that was acceptable for reasons that still remain obscure.
 Third, if the new package of incentives offered by Britain, China, France, Germany, Russia and the United States does not persuade the Iranians to suspend their enrichment program, which was Washington's condition for joining the talks, I believe sanctions can play a valuable role. The hostage crisis shows that we must assemble the broadest possible spectrum of participants, including the Russians, in any sanctions regime. Although enforcement of the sanctions we achieved through the United Nations began to fray toward the end of the 444-day ordeal, they plainly had an impact on the Iranian population. When the Iranian leadership had to assess the potential benefits of keeping the hostages against the costs of doing so, sanctions must have weighed heavily in the balance. 
 As in the hostage crisis, a military solution is unwise and probably infeasible. Though possible use of our military should not be taken off the table, we must stay on the diplomatic and, if necessary, the punitive economic track. Our negotiators must be firm and resolute not just with their counterparts, but with those in the press, the administration and the public who will inevitably pressure them to declare prematurely that the talking is over. 
 Shortly before Christmas in 1980, in the gloom of a defeated administration, we received a message from the Iranians tripling their monetary demand to $24 billion for the release of our hostages. I was tempted to pull the plug and leave the matter for resolution by the incoming Reagan administration, but I concluded we had come too far to give up. Ultimately, those demands were dropped and the negotiations concluded on terms similar to what we had previously offered. When those who represent America in any coming negotiations face similar moments -- and they inevitably will -- I hope they will recognize that persevering is indispensable to our national interest.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Luba Lukova)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); HOSTAGE TAKING (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (59%) Hostages; United States Foreign Service; United States International Relations; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Atomic Weapons; Foreign Aid

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); ALI KHAMENEI (79%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (78%); HASHEMI RAFSANJANI (58%) Warren M Christopher; Mahmoud (Pres) Ahmadinejad; Ali (Ayatollah) Khamenei

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (88%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); IRAN (88%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) Iran; Iran

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2006



268 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: General Mills to Let Agencies Call the Shots

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott

 BODY:
ONE of the nation's largest marketers, General Mills, is seeking to transform the way it works with its agencies -- and vice versa -- in a shift that underlines the changes that are remaking the advertising industry.
 The moves by General Mills, which sells products under brand names like Betty Crocker, Big G cereals, Green Giant, Nature Valley, Pillsbury and Yoplait, give new authority to the agencies and revamp compensation. They are taking effect with the company's 2007 fiscal year, which began June 1.
General Mills, which is based in Minneapolis, spent $529.9 million to advertise in major media last year, according to TNS Media Intelligence, a unit of Taylor Nelson Sofres that tracks ad spending, compared with $576.9 million in 2004. 
 The changes show how marketers are confronting challenges like increased competition, the fragmentation of the mass market and the rise of new media. 
 The shifts are intended to ''completely overhaul the way we work with our agencies,'' said Mark Addicks, chief marketing officer at General Mills.
 They are part of ''a really strong push for growth'' in revenue and profit at the company, he added, and a desire ''to be the growth leader'' in the packaged-foods categories in which General Mills competes.
 One change is meant to help General Mills adapt to the new-media landscape as it tries to reach consumers using nontraditional approaches like the Internet, e-mail marketing and branded entertainment.
 ''The old media are alive and well, but the new media are in a very steep growth curve,'' said Jeffrey Merrihue, chief executive at Accenture Marketing Sciences in London, a unit of Accenture.
 ''You need to plan to take advantage of the opportunities and prepare for a future when the new media are more and more important,'' Mr. Merrihue said.
 General Mills will let its two principal agencies, Campbell Mithun and Saatchi & Saatchi, determine the media in which ads run and which agencies will create them, in a bottom-up approach. Previously, the approach was top-down as brand managers at General Mills coordinated those efforts, working not only with the principal agencies but also with agencies that produced online, retail and minority campaigns.
 The goal is ''to make sure a campaign, from the get-go, is media neutral, going to the best place for that brand,'' Mr. Addicks said. Media neutral means that ads run where they belong most, rather than in outlets predetermined by tradition or the size of a commission.
 Campbell Mithun, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, and Saatchi & Saatchi, part of the Publicis Groupe, will become what Mr. Addicks and Doug Moore, vice president for advertising and branding, are calling ''brand navigators.'' That is, they gain the authority to decide how to produce all types of campaigns that are integrated across all forms of media outlets.
 According to an annual survey by Nancy L. Salz Consulting in New York, only about a quarter of advertisers allow agencies to be the primary coordinators for accounts. Executives at General Mills said the agencies requested the shift.
 Peter Hubbell, executive vice president and general manager for the General Mills account at Saatchi & Saatchi in New York, said he believed the rewards would outweigh the risks. ''Trepidation comes into play only when we're given responsibility for an outcome but not authority,'' he said. ''Call it what you want, holistic marketing, integrated communications; everyone is talking about the right way to do it,'' Mr. Hubbell said. ''General Mills saying to us, 'You guys decide who you want at the table' -- that's pretty powerful.''
 Mr. Hubbell's counterpart at Campbell Mithun in Minneapolis, Mike Nelson, said he liked to think of the new method as ''upstream planning.''
 ''This is a key difference from the past, when the client said, 'This is what we want to do; come back to us with something,' '' said Mr. Nelson, who is executive vice president and worldwide account director at Campbell Mithun. ''This involves us earlier and gives us the ability to steward teams and lead.''
 General Mills is also changing how it will pay its agencies. The company is adopting what is called pay for performance or performance-based compensation -- that is, payments based on results in the marketplace for the brands being advertised. 
 Previously, General Mills had paid its agencies using a mix of methods, which included commissions based on the amount of money spent on ads regardless of their effectiveness, performance incentives and the results of annual evaluations.
 ''There's a lot of skepticism at agencies when you try to introduce performance-based compensation that you're trying to take money off the table,'' Mr. Moore said. ''This is absolutely not the case.''
 Rather, Mr. Moore said, ''when we beat plan, the agencies will make more money; when we make plan, the agencies will make a certain amount of money; and when we miss plan, the agencies will make less money.''
 The benchmark for measurement will be what General Mills refers to as reported net sales, which subtracts the effects of retailer incentives, coupons and other discounts on prices of products. 
 There is a floor below which compensation cannot fall, Mr. Moore said, and a ceiling that he described as ''a generous incentive to try to hit.''
 About half of all advertisers have adopted some form of pay for performance, according to the annual Salz surveys, which date back to 1986.
 ''It's a big opportunity for the agencies,'' said Nancy L. Salz, president of the consultancy. ''They can lose big, but they can also win big.''
 ''Advertisers using performance-based compensation report many positives and almost no negatives,'' Ms. Salz said. ''Agencies are pretty much happy with it, although many report a negative effect on compensation.''
 Mr. Hubbell of Saatchi & Saatchi summarized all the changes this way: ''It's a more intelligent way of having us work and a more intelligent way of paying us for that work.''
 Saatchi & Saatchi's work for General Mills dates to the 1920's, through a predecessor agency, Dancer Fitzgerald Sample. The brands the agency handles now include Cheerios, Green Giant, Pillsbury and Yoplait.
 Among the agencies being overseen by Saatchi & Saatchi are Bromley Communications, for Hispanic campaigns; Burrell Communications, African-American ads; Publicis Dialog, interactive; and Zenith Media, media planning and buying.
 Campbell Mithun has worked for General Mills since the 1970's. The brands it handles include Betty Crocker, Cinnamon Toast Crunch, Hamburger Helper and Nature Valley. Campbell Mithun is a partner of another Interpublic agency, the McCann Worldgroup, which handles General Mills brands in overseas markets.
 Among the agencies that Campbell Mithun will oversee are Casanova Pendrill Publicidad, for Hispanic campaigns; Marketing Drive, retail ads; MRM, interactive; and Carol H. Williams Advertising, African-American campaigns.


GRAPHIC: Photo: General Mills is letting its two main agencies, Campbell Mithun and Saatchi & Saatchi, which handles the Cheerios cereal brand, determine the media in which ads run. (Photo by Mark Lennihan/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); FOOD INDUSTRY (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); BRANDING (89%); EXECUTIVES (87%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); PACKAGED GOODS (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (77%); EMAIL MARKETING (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); INTERNET & WWW (69%); MEDIA CONVERGENCE (68%); INTERNET RETAILING (64%) Food; Advertising and Marketing; Food

COMPANY: GENERAL MILLS INC (90%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (84%); PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (84%); TAYLOR NELSON SOFRES PLC (56%); ACCENTURE PLC (53%); SAATCHI & SAATCHI WORLDWIDE (52%)

ORGANIZATION: General Mills Inc; Campbell Mithun Esty; Saatchi & Saatchi Plc

TICKER: GIS (NYSE) (90%); IPG (NYSE) (84%); PUB (PAR) (84%); ACN (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS311824 DRY PASTA, DOUGH & FLOUR MIXES MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED FLOUR (90%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (90%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (90%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (90%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (90%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: Stuart Elliott

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (53%) MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2006



269 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1074 words

HEADLINE: Somber Tone And Protest As U.A.W. Convenes 

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD; Nick Bunkley contributed reporting from Pontiac, Mich., for this article.

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS, June 12 

 BODY:
The United Automobile Workers' convention opened here Monday with leaders and members in a familiar fighting mood, but with a new battle plan aimed at protecting what they have rather than gaining new ground.
 The change reflected the falling fortunes of Detroit's automakers, a new reality that the union's president, Ron Gettelfinger, laid out for members both in his speech and in a written report that the U.A.W. issued on Sunday.
''This isn't a cyclical downturn,'' Mr. Gettelfinger told the convention. ''The kind of challenges we face aren't the kind that can be ridden out. They're structural challenges, and they require new and farsighted solutions.''
 That statement, part of an hourlong speech, drew silence from the audience. 
 What brought the delegates to their feet was Mr. Gettelfinger's dismissal of comments by pundits who try to argue that the U.A.W. has lost its influence.
 ''They think we've run out of gas intellectually and emotionally, that we've lost our will, our creativity and our nerve,'' said Mr. Gettelfinger, who is expected to win re-election to a second four-year term later this week.
 ''We've got news for them,'' he went on, pounding the lectern. ''We're not going to surrender. We're not going to lower our sights, give up our dreams or give up our fight for a better world for our children and grandchildren.''
 In the short term, though, many union members at the convention said the most urgent fight was to protect the current lot of the members, to draw a line in the sand. 
 A Ford worker, Gary Walkowicz, said he could not support any further concessions by the U.A.W., despite Ford's financial problems.
 ''If we start giving concessions, the companies will only want more,'' said Mr. Walkowicz, who works at Ford's truck plant in Dearborn, Mich.
 He was among a small group of workers who passed out bright yellow leaflets to convention delegates Monday, urging them to fight further concessions.
 The leaflets, titled ''Draw the Line at Delphi,'' asked union officials to allow open debate at the convention over resisting givebacks. ''These are life and death issues for our union,'' said the leaflet, which was signed by more than 30 local union officials and other delegates.
 Delphi, a former G.M. division that is now a stand-alone parts supplier, is operating under bankruptcy protection and seeking steep concessions from workers to lower its operating costs. 
 Mr. Gettelfinger has shown a willingness to negotiate when the circumstances demand it. In his speech, he gravely took responsibility for a landmark agreement, reached last year with General Motors and Ford, that required workers to pay more for health care coverage. 
 The deal, meant to alleviate an enormous burden that the automakers face in providing retiree health care, was ''the most painful decision'' he had made as union president.
 Further, Mr. Gettelfinger told delegates, broader economic pressures had forced all labor groups to reset their expectations.
 ''In the not-too-distant past,'' he said, ''when the U.S. economy grew and productivity increased, we could expect wages to rise as well. That's no longer true.''
 Mr. Gettelfinger vowed to fight for changes in bankruptcy laws, aiming his criticism at Delphi and other bankrupt parts suppliers that have demanded steep concessions from workers.
 ''These reforms are needed to stop unscrupulous employers and their battery of bankruptcy vultures,'' he said.
 His voice barely audible over the delegates' cheers, Mr. Gettelfinger added, ''We need to stop dead in their tracks those who would seek to void contracts with their workers while lining their pockets with everything of value and uncaringly destroying lives, hopes, dreams and communities in the process.''
 The mood of defiance extended to several workers interviewed near Detroit.
 Tom Dean, a forklift driver with 29 years' experience at G.M.'s truck assembly plant in Pontiac, Mich., said Monday that he did not intend to accept a buyout under the programs that had been offered to workers at G.M. and Delphi.
 He said he hoped his job would remain secure until he was ready to leave in a few years. As for concessions, Mr. Dean said, ''We want the company to prosper, but we don't want to be taken advantage of.''
 Some 113,000 workers at G.M. and 23,000 at Delphi have until June 23 to decide whether to stay or go and a week more in which to change their minds.
 Barbara Farrell Brown, a convention delegate who has spent 22 years at G.M.'s plant at Lake Orion, Mich., said she had already rejected a $140,000 buyout that would have allowed her to keep her pension but required that she give up retirement health care coverage.
 ''I'm not taking a buyout. I would not cut my ties,'' said Ms. Brown, who was accompanied to Las Vegas by her daughter, Stephanie, 21, a U.A.W. member at a G.M. parts supplier.
 Ms. Brown said she was concerned that a number of her factory's younger workers were planning to accept the deals and leave. She said she hoped to persuade them to stay and help carry on the U.A.W.'s fight.
 ''A lot of our young seniority workers need to be taught how to stick together,'' Ms. Brown added.
 The call for creative new solutions to revive the union's fortunes in a struggling industry was made by others at the convention, as well. 
 ''We can help the auto industry win again,'' Senator Barack Obama, Democrat of Illinois, told the delegates via satellite. ''We need to start thinking big again. 
 ''I need for all of you to fight for the future,'' Senator Obama continued. ''I need all of you to be open to creative ways of doing business. None of us can afford to watch the American auto industry fail. If we've got the courage to succeed, labor will rise again.''
 Labor experts viewed the sobering notes of the convention as a sign that the U.A.W. was facing the reality that has resulted in a drop in its membership to the lowest level since 1942. Mr. Gettelfinger noted Monday that the U.A.W. had lost more than 78,000 members in the four years since its last convention, although it managed to add 66,000 new members through organizing drives and affiliations with other unions.
 For all its troubles, the union remains a force with significant power to affect the future of the auto industry, said Harry Katz, director of the Institute of Collective Bargaining at Cornell University's School of Industrial and Labor Relations.
 ''They're still the U.A.W.,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The autoworkers' president, Ron Gettelfinger, addressing members of the union in Las Vegas yesterday. (Photo by Jared McMillen for The New York Times)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); GRANDCHILDREN (64%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (85%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (93%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%); GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2006



270 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 508 words

HEADLINE: China Posted Trade Surplus Of $13 Billion Last Month

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

DATELINE: SHANGHAI, June 12 

 BODY:
China said Monday that its trade surplus reached a record $13 billion in May, raising the prospect of renewed trade frictions with the United States and Europe.
 The huge trade gains are just the latest evidence of China's remarkable economic boom, and the figures could create new pressures on Beijing to allow its currency to appreciate against other world currencies as a way of balancing global trade. 
After posting a record $100 billion trade surplus in 2005, much of it with the United States and Europe, China said Monday that its total surplus had already reached nearly $47 billion in the first five months of this year, a period that is traditionally slower for exports than the second half of the year.
 The government said that in May, exports rose 25 percent, to $73 billion, while imports rose 22 percent, to $60 billion. 
 The record trade figures come at a time when economists are growing increasingly worried that China's economy is beginning to show signs of inflationary pressure and overheating.
 Two years before Beijing is expected to be host of the Olympic Games, investment activity is climbing, bank loan growth is soaring and the nation's biggest cities are in the midst of an unprecedented building boom.
 China's leaders are now trying to rein in a blistering hot economy, which grew by more than 10 percent in the first quarter of the year.
 Hoping to cool things down a little, Beijing has, in recent months, raised interest rates, introduced new measures to crack down on speculation in the real estate market and tried to restrain ''excessive'' investment in certain commodities and industries, which could be helping bolster cheap exports.
 Last year, when exports were up $29.9 billion in the first five months, there were calls from American and European officials for China to restrain its trade growth and raise the value of its currency.
 China allowed its currency to appreciate 2.1 percent last summer, and the Chinese currency, the yuan, has climbed slightly more so far this year, to about 8 yuan to the dollar.
 But now, China's early-year trade surplus is once again taking off. And plans to encourage domestic consumption and bolster imports as a way of better balancing trade have not been able to keep pace with export growth.
 ''The economy is cooking along,'' says Jonathan Anderson, an economist in Hong Kong at UBS. ''Still, they have excess capacity, so that's slowing down imports.''
 Last month's $13 billion trade surplus eclipsed the record $12 billion surplus China recorded last October.
 There are also some signs of inflationary pressure, economists say. While inflation grew at a mild 1.4 percent in May, several economists said that inflationary pressure could be building and might show up more clearly in 2007 or 2008, after a lag period. They are also worried about the enormous rise in bank loans.
 ''Data like this triggers worries of real overheating or rather, overstimulation of the economy,'' Stephen Green, a senior economist at Standard Chartered Bank said in a report Monday.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Shoppers in a Shanghai store. Another trade surplus record fueled fears of an overheating economy in China. (Photo by Qilai Shen/Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); TRENDS (73%); OLYMPICS (72%); CONSUMPTION (72%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); INTEREST RATES (50%) Automobiles; Working Hours; Wages and Salaries; Labor; Working Hours; Finances; International Trade and World Market; Economic Conditions and Trends; Currency

ORGANIZATION: Volkswagen Ag

PERSON: Carter Dougherty; David Barboza

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (89%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); EAST CHINA (90%) CHINA (97%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); HONG KONG (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2006



271 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 984 words

HEADLINE: Broad Economic Worries Drive a Global Sell-Off 

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ and JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
Fears about higher interest rates, rising inflation and a slowing economy sent stocks sharply and broadly lower yesterday, with emerging markets taking the biggest hit.
 In the United States, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 1.3 percent, erasing all of its gains for the year and closing at its lowest level since November. The Nasdaq fell more than 2 percent and the Dow Jones industrial average fell almost 1 percent.
 But the damage was far worse in some other parts of the world. Trading at the Colombian stock exchange was briefly halted after its benchmark index fell more than 10 percent. Mexico's benchmark stock index fell 4.3 percent, its biggest one-day decline in more than three years. Markets in India, Brazil and Hungary also tumbled. 
 Emerging markets had enjoyed a strong surge in recent years because low interest-rate policies around the world pumped cheap money into the global economy, analysts said.
 ''Global liquidity has helped drive a lot of these risky assets,'' said Larry Adam, chief investment strategist at Deutsche Bank Alex.Brown. ''And now you are seeing this flight to quality,'' including cash and investments in developed countries, he said.
 At first glance, stocks in the United States and Western Europe do not appear to have benefited from the emerging-market retreat, but money coming out of emerging markets may be helping to cushion the blow, Mr. Adam said. 
 Yesterday's sell-off started early and gathered pace throughout the day. Some analysts suggested that a major catalyst was a speech by the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, Sandra Pianalto, in which she said that inflation was higher than her ''comfort level.''
 Ms. Pianalto was the latest Fed official to express concerns about inflation in the last several days, a drumbeat that many investors think is a not-so-subtle message that the central bank will raise short-term interest rates, now at 5 percent, at its next meeting on June 29. Earlier, the Fed had indicated that it might pause in its two-year campaign of raising rates.
 The Fed is ''adding to a little of this hysteria that is building,'' said James W. Paulsen, chief investment strategist at Wells Capital Management.
 To be sure, Ms. Pianalto, who is one of the 11 officials who vote on Fed's interest rate policies, said that inflation, though worrisome, was not an ominous threat to the economy.
 ''Measures of long-term inflation expectations have been mixed lately, but, on the whole, I regard them as remaining contained,'' she said to a gathering of the Broadcast Cable Financial Management Association in Florida. The challenge of Fed policy makers, she said, ''is to make sure that they stay contained.''
 The government will issue reports on wholesale and consumer inflation today and Wednesday. Excluding energy and food prices, economists expect both the producer price and consumer price indexes to have risen 0.2 percent in May, a rate considered to be modest by most experts.
 The biggest loser yesterday, as in the last few weeks, was the technology industry. Many large technology companies, struggling to match past growth as they mature, have been lowering their profit projections.
 For the second quarter, the technology area's profits are expected to fall 2 percent from the same period last year while the overall increase in the S.& P. 500 is expected be 10 percent, noted Howard Silverblatt, senior index analyst at Standard & Poor's. ''This is supposed to be a growth industry,'' he said.
 The Nasdaq was led downward by Qualcomm, the maker of wireless technology, which fell 5 percent yesterday after it filed a complaint against its rival Nokia as part of a lengthy patent fight. 
 Shares of Apple fell almost 4 percent, apparently reflecting investors' concerns about efforts by some European countries to force the company to open up its music software to devices other than the iPod.
 One of the few exception to yesterday's broad sell-off was General Motors, which rose 43 cents, or 1.7 percent, to $25.78. It was the Dow's biggest gainer. The shares moved higher as the president of the United Automobile Workers, the company's biggest union, told members that the union would have to rethink its traditional positions to ensure the domestic automobile industry's survival. 
 The stock also appeared to be reflecting investors reaction to news of an agreement late Friday that could avert a costly strike at G.M.'s largest supplier, Delphi.
 Many market experts remain convinced that the recent correction in stock prices will prove temporary and will be contained to a few areas. They note that inflation, though rising, remains low by historical standards.
 But the market's volatility has intensified and will probably remain high, analysts say.
 ''It is a retrenchment,'' Mr. Silverblatt said. But ''companies are still in good shape.''
 The Dow fell 99.34 points, to close at 10,792.58, its lowest level since Feb. 7. The S.& P. 500 declined 15.90 points, to 1,236.40. The Nasdaq fell 43.74 points, to 2,091.32. The Russell 2000 stock indexof smaller-capitalization companies, fell 18.2 points, or 2.6 percent, to 683.19. Declining issues led advancing stocks by 3 1/2 to 1 on the New York Stock Exchange.
 Treasuries fell slightly. The price of the benchmark 10-year note fell 1/32, to 1014/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, rose to 4.98 percent, from 4.97 on Friday.
 Here are the results of yesterday's auction of three- and six-month Treasury bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)


	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	98.786	97.510	High Rate	4.800	4.925	Investment Rate	4.926	5.121	Low Rate	4.760	4.880	Median Rate	4.780	4.905	Total applied for	$39,754,505	$34,750,526	Accepted	$22,838,196	$20,264,834	Noncompetitive	$2,150,786	$1,697,043	

Both issues are dated June 15, 2006. The three-month bills mature on Sept. 14, 2006 and the six-month bills mature on Dec. 14, 2006.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C10)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C10)Graph tracks the Nasdaq Composite Index since Jan. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C1)Graph ''3-Month Treasury Bills'' tracks Treasury Bills, high rate at weekly auction, since March. (Source by The Bond Buyer)(pg. C10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INFLATION (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (67%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CLEVELAND (66%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (55%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (55%); DBK (FRA) (55%); DBK (BIT) (55%); DBETN (JSE) (55%); DBA (ASX) (55%); DB (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (66%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (66%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); BRAZIL (79%); HUNGARY (79%); INDIA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (75%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2006



272 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 555 words

PERSON: Moe Drabowsky

HEADLINE: Moe Drabowsky, 70, Pitcher and Accomplished Prankster 

BYLINE: By RICHARD GOLDSTEIN

 BODY:
Moe Drabowsky, who set a World Series strikeout record for a relief pitcher but was equally renowned as one of baseball's most accomplished pranksters, died Saturday in Little Rock, Ark. He was 70.
 His death was announced by Liz Caldwell, a spokeswoman for the University of Arkansas Medical Center, where he had been treated for multiple myeloma, a form of cancer.
Drabowsky, a strapping right-hander who pitched for eight teams from 1956 to 1972, was remembered for his feat with the Baltimore Orioles in Game 1 of the 1966 World Series. Relieving Dave McNally in the third inning, Drabowsky struck out 11 Los Angeles Dodgers in six and two-thirds shutout innings, yielding one hit. Mixing fastballs and sliders, he surpassed Jess Barnes's record of 10 strikeouts in relief for the New York Giants in 1921. He tied a Series record for most consecutive strikeouts -- six -- set by Cincinnati Reds starting pitcher Hod Eller in 1919. 
 Drabowsky's years in the bullpen gave him time to plot practical jokes. He tormented his teammates with snakes, once placing a boa constrictor inside the uniform of Orioles catcher Charlie Lau while it was hanging in the clubhouse. During a game at Kansas City in 1966, he phoned the Athletics' bullpen -- he knew the number because he pitched for them the year before -- and ordered Lew Krausse, his former teammate, to warm up. Krausse did so, presumably figuring that the voice was that of Manager Al Dark. That puzzled the A's starter, Jim Nash, who was pitching a shutout.
 Drabowsky victimized Commissioner Bowie Kuhn with a hot foot in the Orioles' clubhouse during the 1970 World Series, when he pitched against Cincinnati in his second stint with Baltimore.
 ''I struck a book of matches under his foot and then got a can of lighter fluid, ran a trail all the way back through the room about 40 feet away, all the way into the training room,'' Drabowsky told Bob Cairns in ''Pen Men,'' a book of interviews with relief pitchers. ''So I lit it up from back there and all of a sudden you see the flame snake out to where the book was, and it exploded and it lit Bowie up real good.''
 Myron Walter Drabowsky was born in Ozanna, Poland, came to the United States as a child and received an economics degree from Trinity College in Hartford. He made his major league debut with the Chicago Cubs as a hard-throwing starter, but an arm injury confined him to a relief role much of the time after that. He had a career record of 88-105 in 17 seasons and was later a pitching instructor in the Orioles' organization.
 Drabowsky, who lived in Sarasota, Fla., is survived by his wife, Rita; his daughters Myra Beth Morris and Laura Anne Nevell; his stepsons Bob and David DeJonge; a stepdaughter, Lisa Kelley; a sister, Marion Freidhoff; his mother, Frances Drabowsky; and stepgrandchildren, The Baltimore Sun said.
 Drabowsky never lost his penchant for pranks. Two decades after his last game, he slipped a boa constrictor onto the shoulder of his former Orioles teammate Paul Blair at a fantasy camp. 
 ''He screamed and did a fantastic lateral move about 50 feet,'' Drabowsky recalled in ''Pen Men.'' ''And after I did it, I found out that he'd just had arthroscopic surgery on his knee. So I'll tell you, I was really impressed by that doctor's work. That was unbelievable the way he moved.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Moe Drabowsky in 1966. (Photo by Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); BASEBALL (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); DEATHS (90%); ATHLETES (90%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); SPORTS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION (76%); BLOOD DISORDERS (71%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information; Baseball; World Series; Records and Achievements

ORGANIZATION: BALTIMORE ORIOLES (83%); UNIVERSITY OF ARKANSAS (58%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (57%); CINCINNATI REDS (56%); NEW YORK GIANTS (56%)

Richard Goldstein

GEOGRAPHIC: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (88%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (74%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (70%); SARASOTA, FL, USA (69%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%) ARKANSAS, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (74%); FLORIDA, USA (71%); OHIO, USA (70%); ILLINOIS, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (91%)

CATEGORY: Sports

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2006



273 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MUSIC REVIEW; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: Mahler Symphony Brackets A Turmoil-Spotted Tenure

BYLINE: By JAMES R. OESTREICH

DATELINE: BALTIMORE, June 11 

 BODY:
The rites of passage in Yuri Temirkanov's tenure as music director of the Baltimore Symphony Orchestra were anything but conventional. Mr. Temirkanov was, to begin with, an unexpected choice. Here was a top-flight traditional maestro whose career had been based mainly in his native Russia. And he was to direct what many considered a second-rank orchestra, which -- for 13 years, under David Zinman -- had been cultivating a more or less hip and distinctively American identity.
 Mr. Temirkanov took up his duties not at the beginning of a season but midway through, in January 2000, with an excellent performance of Mahler's ''Resurrection'' Symphony. The delay resulted from his previous commitments to the St. Petersburg Philharmonic, which he has directed since 1988. He also missed the opening of a Baltimore season in 2003 in favor of St. Petersburg. 
 On Sunday afternoon he conducted his last concert as music director here: again, a stirring performance of the ''Resurrection'' Symphony. Yet he will be back in September to open the new season as conductor emeritus with a long-planned two-week festival celebrating the centenary of Shostakovich, with whom he worked closely. Only then will the way be clear for his successor, Marin Alsop, who is to conduct six weeks of concerts next season and take over as music director in September 2007.
 Mr. Temirkanov seems to have steered a steady musical course over the years despite the worsening managerial turmoil around him. The players' revolt that greeted the announcement of Ms. Alsop's appointment last July was merely the latest in series of fracases.
 The latest, that is, until James Glicker, the orchestra's president, who had been on the job for only 18 controversy-filled months, resigned in January. Ms. Alsop, at least, has reportedly won over the players.
 Mr. Temirkanov's repeat performance of the ''Resurrection'' Symphony was meant to replicate the one he arrived with, at least in personnel. But the same casting was not entirely possible: again, that turmoil.
 The Baltimore Symphony Chorus, the amateur group that sang in 2000, was dissolved in 2002 as an economy measure amid considerable acrimony. Still, 47 former members joined singers from the Baltimore Choral Arts Society and the Morgan State University Choir: 184 in all.
 A further crimp in plans arose at the last minute, when Nancy Maultsby, the mezzo-soprano soloist in 2000 and in the revival on Thursday and Friday, became ill on Saturday. She was said to have struggled gamely through a performance in Strathmore, Md., that night, but Marietta Simpson replaced her on Sunday.
 What may safely be said on the basis of this performance in relation to the memory of the one in 2000 is that Mr. Temirkanov leaves an orchestra as fine as the one he found, quite possibly better. The brasses, which played brilliantly in the finale, could now rival those of almost any top-rank orchestra, and the percussion and low strings were equally strong.
 This performance had more weight and substance than the earlier one, though it might have had a little less of Mr. Temirkanov's trademark gift for the long line. That quality, difficult to define, is basically a function of canny pacing, not only in tempo but also in dynamics and in the relative force of climaxes, one carrying logically and proportionately to the next.
 What came through most memorably here, unusually for Mr. Temirkanov, were moments and details rather than the cumulative sweep of the whole. Those moments were glorious: the incisive outbursts in the opening movement, now clipped, now surging forward; the massed pizzicatos in the second, sounding like the guitar accompaniment to an intimate serenade; the wispy, barely audible extensions of the offstage horn and trumpet calls in the finale.
 But then, the beatific emergence of the soprano soloist from the chorus in the finale, one of the great moments in all of music, could have been handled more smoothly and subtly. (Janice Chandler-Eteme, returning in the soprano role, was otherwise effective; Ms. Simpson did well with the mezzo part under the circumstances.) 
 In the end it seems almost unfair to hold Mr. Temirkanov to his own loftiest standards, especially on an occasion so fraught with emotion. This was in any case a powerful statement, a suitable capstone to his distinguished service in Baltimore.
 The clamorous ovation acknowledged as much. At the end of a triumphant European tour this year in Vienna, Mr. Temirkanov, stealing a line from Boris Godunov, jokingly reminded the players that he was still the czar. On Sunday afternoon a patron down front held up a sign during the ovation, saying, in Russian and in English, ''You're still the czar.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Yuri Temirkanov after conducting his farewell concert. (Photo by Brendan Smialowski for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (91%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); FESTIVALS (73%) Music; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: Baltimore Symphony Orchestra

PERSON: James R Oestreich; Yuri Temirkanov

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (90%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%) MARYLAND, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2006



274 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; How Much Is That Washer-Dryer?; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 980 words

HEADLINE: Old and Young, 'Black, White and Brown,' Fans Line Up for Chance to 'Come On Down' 

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
The daytime television schedule may be littered with gabby talk shows, sunny news programs and adjudications of who, precisely, put his foot through the window of the neighbor's El Camino.
 But nearly 35 years since Bob Barker first beckoned Americans to come on down, his game show, ''The Price Is Right,'' continues to corner a certain market.
Thousands of fans -- from 19-year-old Midwestern college students to octogenarians who have had crushes on Mr. Barker since he and they were middle-aged -- continue to line up along Fairfax Avenue here at 3 a.m., four days a week, most of the year, hoping for one of the 325 spots in the studio audience.
 They come in intergenerational groups or solo. They schedule vacations around tapings of the show, and spend months organizing friends and family members to meet them here, wearing T-shirts that identify them by their town or family name. (One man was recently spotted refusing to don his group's shirt at breakfast. Things did not go well for him.) 
 They stay by the dozens at the Farmer's Daughter hotel across the street from the CBS studio where ''The Price Is Right'' is taped, and get a nightly tutorial from a desk clerk on how to become members of the studio audience. 
 For every American who dreams that a singing voice, dance skills or back-stabbing boardroom tactics will earn him a piece of prime-time fame, thousands more have dreamed smaller, longing only to guess the price of a sectional couch or a pint of heavy cream. They don't want a record contract; they want an all-expenses-paid trip to Asia, or maybe a banjo.
 ''I have been watching this show all my life,'' said Gregory Bourgard, 26, who comes several times a year from Odenton, Md., to line up for a spot in the audience, even though he can never be a contestant again because he was once a showcase winner. 
 ''I'm not trying to relive the moment,'' he said on a recent Sunday night at the Farmer's Daughter, where he was gearing up for visit No. 30. ''I just want to be in the audience again.''
 Game shows may come and go, but ''The Price Is Right'' is a cultural touchstone for generations of Americans. 
 Who under 50 -- except for those raised by parents who banned television and put rice cakes rather than Ring Dings in their lunchboxes -- did not spend dozens of childhood mornings zoned out on the couch, playing along with the Dice Game or screaming at the fool from San Diego about to overbid on a bag of corn chips? 
 ''We're here for our parents, our grandparents and people in our lives who have since passed on who watched the show,'' said Cindy Kilkenny, 57. 
 It is the democracy of the audience, and the show's theme -- how to gauge inflation, essentially -- that has sustained its appeal, said Mr. Barker, the show's 82-year-old host (and its executive producer). 
 ''Everyone in the United States can identify with our show,'' he said. ''On most game shows today you will see contestants between 20 and 45 who are physically attractive. We have people on 'The Price Is Right' who are between 20 and 45 who are physically attractive too.'' 
 ''But we have people who, when they became 18, the first thing they did was come to 'The Price Is Right,' '' he continued, ''and I had a big winner on a recent show who was 95. We deliberately select contestants that are black, white and brown. We deliberately pick contestants from all over the United States. We have fat people, thin, short, tall, you name it.''
 How much stuff costs, he added, is what people think about every day, anyway. ''The premise is so overpowering,'' he said. ''Everyone identifies with prices. Whether you're a television executive or a newspaper reporter or a policeman or unemployed.''
 And while television may worship 22-year-olds and body parts created in the operating theater, Mr. Barker is also part of the show's grand appeal, and he has the X-rays to prove it. One overzealous fan bear-hugged Mr. Barker and broke a rib; several have crushed his toes; and one raced onto the stage and head-butted him in the solar plexus. 
 ''It is a dangerous job,'' said Mr. Barker, who holds special affection for a fan who raced to her contestant's seat with such enthusiasm that her tube top fell down. She failed to adjust it for several live minutes. 
 The audience is largely filled by groups on buses who are guaranteed seats. The rest are fans who line up, often beginning at midnight, for the extra spots, which are doled out on a first-come-first-served basis. Some days there are two, others 200.
 For these fans Ted Ott, a clerk at the Farmer's Daughter, gives free workshops each night before tapings (two on Mondays and one Tuesday through Thursday).
 Mr. Ott, who lines up on his day off, uses a broken section of a backgammon board to represent the ''Price Is Right'' studio, and lectures for roughly 40 minutes, in between checking in guests.
 He gives the following advice: Do not wear costumes. (''The show's producers have a horror of waking up and finding out they are on 'Let's Make a Deal,' '' he said.) Show up on time to get your four-digit line-spot number, and guard it with your life. 
 If you get a spot in the audience -- and are thus granted a 20-second interview with the producer to see if you might be called down -- be clever. Don't go to the restroom when people are being called down. If you are thinking of bringing in a cheat sheet on prices, think again, because that is a felony.
 But to that quintessential American question: is it worth it? For Sean Steiner, 22, who came from Akron, Ohio, to be the first in line for the show, it was the fulfillment of a childhood dream. ''It was a once-in-a-lifetime experience,'' he said. ''I was feet from Bob. He was cracking jokes, telling stories about the ducks who live in his swimming pool during the commercial break. The best part was, I got to come home and watch myself on TV.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Top left, Ted Ott (pointing) leads a workshop at the Farmer's Daughter hotel for ''The Price Is Right'' hopefuls
some line up, beginning at midnight (middle), and are later issued a number (right)
above, Bob Barker, the show's host, with a lucky contestant. (Top photographs by, J. Emilio Flores for The New York Times
 above, Robert Voets/CBS)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); DAYTIME TELEVISION (89%); FAMILY (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%) Television; Television

PERSON: Jennifer Steinhauer; Bob Barker

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); MARYLAND, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (53%) Los Angeles (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2006



275 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: Wallowing in the Lifestyles Of the Young and Spoiled

BYLINE: By MICHIKO KAKUTANI

 BODY:

Academy X
By Andrew Trees
246 pages. Bloomsbury. $22.95.

Glamorous Disasters
By Eliot Schrefer
328 pages. Simon & Schuster. $23.95.
 Once upon a time, the world of Manhattan's rich and privileged spawned stories by the likes of Edith Wharton, F. Scott Fitzgerald and Truman Capote.
Today the Upper East Side of Manhattan has spawned novels like -- well, like ''The Nanny Diaries,'' ''Bergdorf Blondes,'' ''The Right Address'' and ''The Ivy Chronicles.''
 Part chick lit, part chic lit, these sorts of books pretend to serve up old-fashioned comedies of manners, enlivened with Tom Wolfe-ian status details. But more often than not, they simply wallow in the opulent lifestyles of their characters, substituting sneers for satire; envy, voyeurism or smug entitlement for genuine observation. Distinguished by their penchant for dropping names, labels and price tags with willful abandon, they bear more of a resemblance to Town & Country, Architectural Digest and Vogue than to ''Breakfast at Tiffany's'' or even ''La Cote Basque.'' 
 It was probably inevitable that the Manhattan 10021 genre would expand from the sybaritic adventures of PAPs (Park Avenue Princesses) and MITs (Moguls in Training) to the self-indulgent travails of the younger set: the Trust Fund Teens who attend Manhattan's priciest private schools.
 These are the spoiled adolescents featured in the cringe-making ''Gossip Girl'' series, written by Cecily von Ziegesar for teenage girls. They are the older siblings of the toddlers in Karen Quinn's ''Ivy Chronicles,'' the more grown-up incarnations of the children in Nancy Lieberman's ''Admissions.'' And they are the featured players in two dispiriting new novels.
 In ''Academy X,'' Andrew Trees, a teacher at a private high school in New York City, gives us a glimpse of these teenagers and their odious parents through the eyes of one of their teachers. In ''Glamorous Disasters,'' Eliot Schrefer, a 2001 Harvard graduate, who once worked as an SAT tutor, looks at these same children through the eyes of an SAT tutor who has been hired to help get them into good colleges.
 Though ''Academy X'' is a somewhat more ambitious undertaking, both novels suffer from similar flaws: an obsession with the perks of money and influence that blinds the authors to any genuine distinctions of class, taste and ideology that actually exist in the private-school universe; and a paint-by-numbers, Marxist-lite outlook that mechanically equates wealth with stupidity, false values and moral corruption, and poverty (or modest means) with virtue and brains. Not only are the East Siders in these books out-and-out caricatures, but they are also such uniformly vile and shallow caricatures that they make Lovey and Thurston Howell III on ''Gilligan's Island'' seem like ruminative, conscience-stricken populists. 
 In both novels rich parents try to coerce or blackmail the economically challenged teacher/tutor into dishonestly helping their wayward children get ahead or get out of trouble. In both novels the bratty rich kids move on, unscathed by the traumatic events recounted. And in both novels the authors give us only the most cliched -- and generic -- of takes on the worlds their characters inhabit and the most simplistic of generalizations. As the narrator, John Spencer, bluntly tells us on the first page of ''Academy X'': ''My world is a place through the looking glass, an ethical wonderland in which up is down, and right is wrong,'' where ''it is not who you are but who you know, not what you do but what you have,'' a world ''where things have gone awry.'' 
 The idiocy of the rich kids in ''Glamorous Disasters'' is not to be believed. Dylan Thayer, the teenage son of a pediatrician and a Wall Street mover and shaker, is a club-hopping moron who uses words like ''rememberation,'' while his 15-year-old sister, Tuscany, doesn't know the difference between Native Americans and African-Americans. 
 Their mother must be the one doctor in New York City who spends all her time wafting about her apartment in outfits that are either evening gowns or nightgowns. Their father rarely puts in an appearance at all. This is supposed to be a class trait: the novel's hero, Noah, observes that ''fathers are absent in most of the families he tutors -- only the rare millionaire is also a family man.''
 As for Caitlyn Brie, the pampered princess in ''Academy X,'' she's decidedly smarter than the Thayer kids, but she's also depicted as a Machiavellian slut, who comes to class wearing outfits that ''fell somewhere in between skimpy and obscene'' and boasts a ''$600 haircut and $300 highlights from Sally Hershberger's salon'' that give her ''a glamorous, tousled look.'' She too has a father who seems to think he can buy whatever he wants.
 Academy X is supposed to be an elite school known for getting half its senior class into Ivy League colleges, and to the author's credit, he actually depicts a couple of students who aren't complete bubbleheads. But most of the students at Academy X would have trouble passing a high school equivalency test. Class discussions of Jane Austen devolve into talk about spray-on tans and Brazilian bikini waxes, and an art class assignment produces a three-foot-high phallus.
 The head of the school refers to students as ''customers'' and seems intent on increasing ''customer satisfaction.'' The school's cafeteria is a food court that includes sushi and a pizza oven; the school's deans cheerfully accept a host of excuses for plagiarism and cheating. ''Leniency,'' John observes, ''was in keeping with the philosophy of the school -- let no revenue stream be interrupted.''
 In the early pages of this novel Mr. Trees demonstrates inklings of a Kingsley Amis-like ability to extract humor from the travails of his hapless hero, but any hopes that the book might become a ''Lucky Jim''-ish romp are soon squashed by his preposterous plot and John's tedious class rage at Caitlyn's parents and their ilk. 
 No doubt both ''Academy X'' and ''Glamorous Disasters'' are meant to be cautionary tales about the moral perils lurking beneath the lifestyles of the rich and almost famous. In the end both novels are so cliched, so reductive, so clearly designed to cash in on the ''Nanny Diaries'' phenomenon that the reader can only hope that the 10021 genre has finally crashed and burned for good.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Andrew Trees (Photo by Heesun Choi)
 Eliot Schrefer (Photo by Chris Johnson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); LITERATURE (90%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (89%); CHILDREN (86%); ADOLESCENTS (86%); HIGH SCHOOLS (79%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); WRITERS (77%); LITERATURE GENRES (76%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (69%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (69%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (61%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: Michiko Kakutani; Andrew Trees; Eliot Schrefer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2006



276 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Health&Fitness; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1285 words

HEADLINE: A Philosopher's Take on the Rhythm Method is Rattling Opponents of Abortion 

BYLINE: By AMANDA SCHAFFER

 BODY:
A philosopher in Britain has ruffled feathers on both sides of the Atlantic by suggesting that the rhythm method of contraception may increase the risk of early embryonic death.
 Luc Bovens, a philosopher at the London School of Economics, argues in the Journal of Medical Ethics that couples who try to prevent pregnancy by avoiding sex during the woman's most fertile time of month may be more likely to produce embryos that do not develop or implant in the womb.
If this is correct, he writes, then ''millions of rhythm method cycles per year globally depend for their success on massive embryonic death.'' 
 Those who worry about early embryonic death should be as concerned about the rhythm method as they are about other forms of contraception, like Plan B, and about embryonic stem cell research, he asserts. 
 Dr. Bovens's article has drawn swift response from abortion opponents in the United States and the United Kingdom, many of whom are proponents of natural family planning, an outgrowth of what was once called the rhythm method. 
 These critics have taken aim at Dr. Bovens's analogy between early embryonic deaths that may occur because of the timing of intercourse and losses that may result from the use of contraception. They have also questioned the assumption that embryos conceived on the fringe of a woman's fertile window are less likely to be viable. 
 Fertility experts say that there is little evidence to support this assumption but that there are some indications it may be valid.
 Dr. Bovens uses the term rhythm method to refer to any approach that allows couples to predict the woman's most fertile time of month, so that they can abstain from sex during that time. Traditionally, the term referred more narrowly to a strategy of counting calendar days from the woman's menstrual period, to estimate ovulation. 
 Natural family planning is the more widely used, contemporary term for the broad range of techniques aimed at helping women to predict fertile days so they can avoid having sex then. These techniques may rely on cues like the presence of cervical mucus or small changes in body temperature, which occur around the time of ovulation. Dr. Bovens notes that some couples choose this approach because they worry that other forms of contraception, like birth control pills, may act in part by preventing an early embryo from implanting in the womb. 
 However, if a fertilized egg produced on the fringe of the fertile window is less likely to develop and implant, he writes, ''the same logic that turned pro-lifers away from morning after pills, I.U.D.'s and pill usage should make them nervous about the rhythm method.'' 
 Dr. Bovens also contends that opponents of abortion ought to favor barrier methods, like condoms, because these are likely to cause fewer embryonic deaths. ''Even a policy of practicing condom usage and having an abortion in case of failure would cause less embryonic deaths than the rhythm method,'' he writes.
 Joseph B. Stanford, an associate professor at the University of Utah School of Medicine who is against abortion, said Dr. Bovens's reasoning was flawed.
 There is a difference, he argued, between forming an embryo that is not viable -- which may occur for couples using any form of family planning, including natural family planning -- and taking an action, like using emergency contraception or birth control pills, that could prevent a viable embryo from developing. ''For me, it's sort of like the difference between a miscarriage and an induced abortion,'' he said.
 Dr. Stanford and other critics also question Dr. Bovens's central assumption, that embryos formed outside of a woman's most fertile period are less likely to be viable. Fertility experts, too, say there is little direct evidence to support this assumption, though some believe it is possible.
 Roger G. Gosden, professor of reproductive medicine in obstetrics and gynecology at the Weill Medical College of Cornell University, said there were no ''really solid studies demonstrating that the time of conception is related to the probability of conceiving a healthy conceptus.'' 
 But, he added, ''there are numerous indications that this is the case.'' 
 A woman is most likely to become pregnant if she has sex close to the time of ovulation, and especially during the two to three days before the egg is released from the ovary. The egg is viable for only about 24 hours after ovulation. And if it is fertilized toward the end of that period, it is less likely to develop, possibly because of chromosomal errors, Dr. Gosden said.
 More specifically, he added, there is evidence that when an egg lingers in the reproductive tract, the cell's spindle apparatus, which holds the chromosomes, may weaken, causing the chromosomes to fall off. This may increase the likelihood of an abnormal chromosome number, should fertilization occur.
 In addition, there is an optimal window for implantation, roughly seven days after ovulation, Dr. Gosden said. Outside of this window, implantation is unlikely to occur, probably because of changes in the receptivity of the lining of the uterus.
 ''Life is very tentative in its early, tender stages. It takes on a whole different significance and security'' later on, he said.
 Fertility experts also cite work by Allen J. Wilcox of the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences as evidence that when conception occurs at the later end of the woman's fertile period there may be an increased risk of embryonic loss.
 In a 1998 article published in Human Reproduction, Dr. Wilcox found that the loss of early embryos increased as the eggs got older.
 In an e-mail message, Dr. Wilcox said, ''While our result is preliminary, the risk of pregnancy loss does seem to be highest on the last fertile day of the cycle.''
 He added, ''And it stands to reason that, if couples abstaining through their fertile days make a mistake, they are more likely to have intercourse on that last fertile day than on earlier days.''
 The effectiveness of natural family planning techniques is said to range from greater than 90 percent for perfect practice to roughly 75 percent for typical practice. If implantation occurs, the users of natural family planning do not appear to be at higher risk of spontaneous abortion (or miscarriage).
 Ronald H. Gray of the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health called the evidence on this point ''a mixed bag.''
 In a 1995 study in the American Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Dr. Gray found that women with a history of miscarriage and who had had ''a conception distant from the day of ovulation'' were more likely to have a pregnancy loss. But, the same did not seem to be true for women with no history of miscarriage. 
 John Harris, editor of the Journal of Medical Ethics, said it was not clear whether Dr. Bovens's empirical assumptions were correct. But he said he hoped the article would foster debate. Our ''whole attitude to the embryo is inconsistent and needs to be rethought,'' he said.
 Roughly 50 percent of naturally occurring conceptions do not result in implantation or a viable pregnancy, experts say. In many cases, the loss occurs so early that a woman has her period on schedule and does not even know that she has conceived.
 But Judie Brown, president of the American Life League, said that these issues were beside the point. 
 Pregnancy, she said, is ''a very natural process and so is the natural selective process that our body goes through to eliminate, for whatever reason, an embryo during the first few days of life.''
 ''There is nothing bad about that,'' she said. ''There is nothing even to be debated about that. That is the way nature works.''


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Life Science Center/RBM Online, via Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONTRACEPTION (95%); ETHICS (90%); MEDICAL ETHICS (90%); ABORTION (90%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (89%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (78%); REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY (77%); BIOETHICS (77%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (74%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (54%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (54%) Birth Control and Family Planning; Ethics; Plan B (Contraceptive); Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Birth Control and Family Planning

ORGANIZATION: London School of Economics; Journal of Medical Ethics

PERSON: Amanda Schaffer

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED KINGDOM (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2006



277 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: Debt Collection Agencies Under Scrutiny at Hearing

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
Joan Baron was certain that her husband, a surgeon who suffered a debilitating stroke in February 2004, never ordered a telephone-directory advertisement from Verizon. When she received a bill for such a service, she disputed it.
 ''Verizon ignored my letters and continued billing,'' Ms. Baron wrote in a recent letter to the city.
According to Mrs. Baron, who is 75 and lives on the Upper West Side, Verizon hired a succession of four debt-collection agencies. All of them sent her dunning letters, from September 2004 to April 2006, even though she responded each time with letters insisting that the debt was not legitimate. Finally, the city agreed to intercede on her behalf. 
 Complaints to the city about such practices have risen 70 percent over the past two years, and yesterday the city's Department of Consumer Affairs, which licenses and oversees debt collection agencies, detailed the extent of the growing problem during a public hearing.
 Increasingly, the officials said, collection agencies are resorting to illegal practices like making frequent and harassing phone calls, disregarding letters from consumers disputing the validity of debts, and passing on difficult cases to new collection agencies without first trying to resolve the disputes.
 The problems have been aggravated by identity fraud; paperless transactions, which make debts and payments harder to document; and easy access to credit, which has helped fuel borrowing and discourage saving.
 ''People ought to pay their debts,'' Jonathan B. Mintz, the city commissioner of consumer affairs, said during a break in the five-hour hearing. ''But when debt-collection companies cross the line, which unfortunately they appear to be doing in an increasing way, then something has to change.''
 American consumers have protections under the federal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act of 1977, which the Federal Trade Commission enforces, but states and cities may adopt stronger protections for their residents. In New York State, the attorney general's office oversees the industry, and companies seeking to collect debts from New York City residents must obtain a license from the Department of Consumer Affairs. There are 878 such companies with city licenses. 
 Yesterday, Mr. Mintz and two of his aides, Andrew Eiler and Marla Tepper, heard from city residents and consumer advocates, and then industry representatives who had been subpoenaed to testify at the hearing at Borough of Manhattan Community College. Although the hearing was only to gather information, Mr. Mintz said the department would consider proposing tighter regulations if necessary.
 Karen Gross, a professor at New York Law School and the president of the Coalition for Consumer Bankruptcy Debtor Education, which promotes financial literacy, said many consumers were often asked to pay debts and related credit-card fees for expenses they did not incur, because of identity theft or shoddy information. 
 The frequent buying and selling of debt, she said, means that the collecting agency is often far removed from the original creditor. 
 Karuna B. Patel, a lawyer at MFY Legal Services, a nonprofit group that helps elderly Manhattan residents among others, said a mentally disabled client's bank account was frozen in September because of a judgment obtained by a debt collector, even though his income -- $666 a month from Supplemental Security Income -- was protected by law from seizure for debt repayment. She said that $435 was taken from his account, which left him struggling to pay for food.
 Mark E. Davitt, president of ACA International, a trade group for collection agencies, said the debt-collection industry recovered $39 billion last year and returned it to the United States economy, saving the typical household $351. He said his members not only obeyed all government regulations, but also followed a code of ethics adopted by the association.
 David G. Peltan, director of compliance at Creditors Interchange, a collection agency in Buffalo, said that new employees are trained about the legal constraints on what they can say to persuade debtors to pay. Nonetheless, he said, some bad employees move from agency to agency. ''You're still ignorant of whatever their compliance history might have been with the prior agencies they came from,'' he said.
 As for Mrs. Baron, she said she hoped that the April dunning letter was the last one she will receive. A Verizon spokeswoman, Heather Wilner, said, ''We regret that Mrs. Baron does not feel this billing issue has been resolved satisfactorily and we would be happy to look into it further.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLECTION AGENCIES (93%); CREDIT COLLECTIONS (92%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); CITY LIFE (76%); CONSUMER LENDING (76%); CITIES (76%); CREDIT REGULATION (76%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); SUBPOENAS (72%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (72%); CREDIT CARDS (71%); IDENTITY THEFT (70%); LAWYERS (69%); LICENSES & PERMITS (68%); TESTIMONY (67%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (67%); LAW SCHOOLS (66%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (60%) Credit; Consumer Credit; Consumer Protection; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Consumer Affairs Department (NYC)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (92%); VZ (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%)

PERSON: Sewell Chan; Jonathan (Comr) Mintz

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2006



278 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1524 words

HEADLINE: Flight of Young Adults Is Causing Alarm Upstate

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS; Michelle York contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
Upstate New York is staggering from an accelerating exodus of young adults, new census results show. The migration is turning many communities grayer, threatening the long-term viability of ailing cities and raising concerns about the state's future tax base.
 From 1990 to 2004, the number of 25-to-34-year-old residents in the 52 counties north of Rockland and Putnam declined by more than 25 percent. In 13 counties that include cities like Buffalo, Syracuse and Binghamton, the population of young adults fell by more than 30 percent. In Tioga County, part of Appalachia in New York's Southern Tier, 42 percent fewer young adults were counted in 2004 than in 1990.
''Make no mistake: this is not business as usual,'' Robert G. Wilmers, the chairman of M & T Bank in Buffalo, told his shareholders this spring. ''The magnitude and duration of population loss among the young is unprecedented in our history. There has never been a previous 10-year period in the history of the upstate region when there has been any decline in this most vital portion of our population.'' 
 In New York City and the five suburban counties in New York State, the number of people ages 18 to 44 increased by 1.5 percent in the 1990's. Upstate, it declined by 10 percent.
 Over all, the upstate population grew by 1.1 percent in the 1990's -- slower than the rate for any state except West Virginia and North Dakota.
 Population growth upstate might have lagged even more but for the influx of 21,000 prison inmates, who accounted for 30 percent of new residents. During the first half of the current decade, the pace of depopulation actually increased in many places.
 David Shaffer, president of the Public Policy Institute, which is affiliated with the Business Council of New York State, described the hemorrhaging of young adults as ''the worst kind of loss.''
 ''You don't just magically make it up with new births,'' he said. ''These are the people who are starting careers, starting families, buying homes.''
 In almost every place upstate, emigration rates were highest among college graduates, producing a brain drain, according to separate analyses of census results for The New York Times by two demographers, William Frey of the Brookings Institution and Andrew A. Beveridge of Queens College of the City University of New York. Among the nation's large metropolitan areas, Professor Frey said, Buffalo and Rochester had the highest rates of what he called ''bright flight.''
 Irwin L. Davis, president of the Metropolitan Development Association in Syracuse, which promotes economic growth in central New York, said, ''We're educating them and they're leaving.''
 And Gary D. Keith, vice president and regional economist for M & T Bank, said, ''Sluggish job growth is the biggest driver of out-migration among young upstate adults.''
 The decline in the 1990's in the population ages 18 to 44 of the 52-county upstate region was ''chilling,'' he said.
 ''When the jobs don't grow, the people go,'' Mr. Keith said. 
 Matthew O'Brien, a graduate of Siena College in Loudonville, N.Y., was 26 when he left his home in Troy, just northeast of Albany, a decade ago for a better job offer down South.
 He first moved to South Carolina, and now lives with his wife, Melissa, a Rochester expatriate, and their two children in Tampa, Fla., where he handles manufacturing operations for the company that makes Bubble Wrap packaging. 
 ''I guess if I look back and think of the people I went to high school with, they all kind of went away to college, and that might have been a steppingstone to building a career,'' Mr. O'Brien said. ''Not a lot did come back.'' 
 Some of the decline in the number of young adults may also have reflected children who left in the 1970's or 1980's with their parents. 
 Mr. O'Brien's parents still live in Troy, which was known in the 19th century for the manufacture of detachable collars and also led the nation at one point in iron and steel production. All but two of his eight siblings moved away, though. 
 While the chronic economic woes upstate have been of growing concern for a decade or more, the accelerating departure of young people is considered particularly alarming.
 It has already been injected into this year's campaign for governor, with both major candidates, Eliot Spitzer and John Faso, highlighting population stagnation there and the need to help spur business activity.
 Last month, after graduating with a master's degree in engineering from Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland, Andrew Allen, 23, returned to his parents' home in Greece, a Rochester suburb. He is weighing job possibilities and may pursue a doctoral degree.
 But staying in Rochester, where his father works at Kodak, the city's second-largest employer, is probably not one of his options. 
 ''Rochester is on the list, but do I think I'll work here? Probably not,'' he said. ''When you think Rochester, you think Kodak. But you also think layoffs.'' 
 Of eight close friends of Mr. Allen's from high school, one is finishing graduate school in Rochester and one has decided to start a career there, he said. The others have left. 
 As more young people depart, the population is aging. In Broome County, which includes Binghamton in the Southern Tier, the median age rose to 38.2 in 2004 from 33.3 in 1990. 
 ''The number of upstate residents 45 or older increased by 15.3 percent, even as the number of young people, on whom they rely to hold jobs and pay taxes, went down sharply,'' Mr. Wilmers of M & T Bank said. 
 The number of young adults was expected to decline naturally as baby boomers, some of whom were younger than 35 in 1990, grew older. Only two counties in the state -- Manhattan and Queens -- actually gained young adults from 1990 to 2000. 
 From 1990 to 2004, all but one of the state's 62 counties recorded a decline in 25-to-34-year-olds, ranging from 1 percent in Manhattan to 42 percent in Tioga.
 The sole gainer was neighboring Tompkins County in the Finger Lakes, where Cornell University, Ithaca College and tourism have boosted the job market. 
 The numerical decline during that period in Erie County, around Buffalo, was second only to the decline in Nassau County, where high home prices have also driven away many young adults. 
 In Syracuse, total population losses may have been stanched since 2000 as children have returned to take care of aging parents, jobs have become available in more diverse fields and housing prices have become more affordable. ''It's given us some hope that we're going to arrest the continuing decline of young people,'' said Mr. Davis, of the Metropolitan Development Association there. 
 In the Rochester area, Andrew Allen's older sister, Laura Jeanne Hammond, 26, returned to her hometown after graduating in 2001 from the University of Missouri with a journalism degree. She was hired as managing editor of Next Step Magazine, which is distributed in school guidance offices, and also founded a social group, Rochester-Area 20-Somethings. ''My friends escaped to New York City for a life of poverty and I bought a house and started a family,'' she said.
 Since people in a specific age group in 1990 are not the same people counted in 2004, it would be imprecise to say that the population declines in the 25-to-34 age group represented people who necessarily moved out. 
 In 1999, upstate residents were asked in a poll for M & T Bank if they intended to move to another state in the next five years. Fully 40 percent of 18-to-30-year-olds replied yes. Most people said they wouldhead to the South or the West. But among young adults, a high percentage said they were uncertain where they would wind up. 
 Among all people who left Erie County, according to an analysis by M & T Bank of data from 2003 tax returns, about half moved elsewhere in the state. About as many moved to Los Angeles County as moved to either Manhattan or Brooklyn.
 Rolf Pendall, a Cornell University professor who studied population losses for the Brookings Institution, said: ''Upstate New York and the great bulk of the territory of Pennsylvania are unusual in the United States in that this is an urbanized region, with 15 million residents in a couple dozen census-defined metropolitan areas. The Upper Great Plains, Lower Mississippi Delta and Appalachia are also regions that have lost population -- and have in fact bled people for decades -- but they are rural. They share, of course, issues of serious and long-term economic transition and transformation.'' 
 Catherine Richter, 23, a public relations executive, was raised in the Hudson Valley, attended the State University of New York at Geneseo and went to work in Rochester, but after becoming a victim of several minor crimes, she asked for a transfer to Albany. There, she joined a group similar to the one Laura Hammond founded in Rochester.
 ''The other option for a lot of people my age is to move down South, but I don't think that's for me,'' Ms. Richter said. ''One of the main missions of the group is to stop the brain drain. And we're trying to do that by increasing the arts scene and lots of networking.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Matthew and Melissa O'Brien, both natives of upstate New York, at home in Tampa, Fla., with their children, Alexandra, 8, and Evan, 5. (Photo by Phillippe Diederich for The New York Times)
 Newell Nussbaumer, publisher of Buffalo Rising Magazine, hopes to promote the city and to reverse the exodus of recent college graduates. (Photo by Mike Groll for The New York Times)(pg. B4)Chart/Map: ''Moving Out''From 1990 to 2004, the population ages 25 to 34 declined in counties across the state. Tioga County's decline was the greatest, at 42 percent, and Tompkins was the only county in the state with an increase.Map of New York highlighting each counties percent decline in population ages 25 to 34.(Source by U.S. Census Bureau)(pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTIES (90%); POPULATION DECLINE (89%); CENSUS (89%); POPULATION GROWTH (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); CITIES (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); SUBURBS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%)

PERSON: ROBERT G WILMERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SYRACUSE, NY, USA (92%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (79%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2006



279 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1057 words

PERSON: Kenneth R. Thomson

HEADLINE: Kenneth Thomson, Who Made Data Giant From a Newspaper Company, Dies at 82 

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN

DATELINE: OTTAWA, June 12 

 BODY:
Kenneth R. Thomson, a shy art collector who built Canada's largest fortune by transforming his father's trans-Atlantic newspaper business into one of the world's leading providers of electronic data and information, died on Monday. He was 82.
 Mr. Thomson died unexpectedly in his Toronto office, said Jason Stewart, a spokesman for the Thomson Corporation, the information company controlled by the family. The Globe and Mail, the Toronto newspaper of which Mr. Thomson was chairman, reported the cause as a heart attack. 
Unlike his father, Roy, a sometimes bombastic man who was known for taking risks and managing even the smallest details of operations, Mr. Thomson maintained a low profile and often relied on professional managers to steadily evolve the family business after his father died in 1976.
 Under Roy Thomson, the company's operations had become heavily weighted toward Britain and included The Times, The Sunday Times and a leading travel agency.
 His son, however, moved to shift the focus back toward North America early in his tenure.
 That was partly the result of a bitter labor lockout at The Times and The Sunday Times in 1978 that suspended publication of the newspapers for almost a year.
 In 1981, Thomson sold the two newspapers to Rupert Murdoch for $:14 million. The price was widely regarded as unusually low given that the lockout alone had cost Thomson about $:70 million.
 After shifting Thomson's headquarters to Toronto from London in 1978, Mr. Thomson bought Wadsworth, a textbook publisher, in what was the first in a series of steps that would take it away from newspapers and toward the sale of specialized information to students and professionals.
 While Mr. Thomson was willing to part with The Times, one of his father's prized possessions, he did not immediately move out of newspapers.
 In 1980, he won control of a Canadian newspaper chain that included The Globe and Mail in a heated bidding war with several other investors, including Conrad M. Black.
 With FP Publications, Thomson became the largest newspaper group in Canada. A move that soon followed, however, brought the company unwanted attention.
 Soon after acquiring FP in 1980, Thomson closed its newspaper in Ottawa while Southam, the second-largest publisher in Canada at the time, shut down in Winnipeg simultaneously. The result was that each of the companies had control over the newspaper market in a large city. That touched off a government inquiry, which produced a report that was highly critical of Mr. Thomson. Legislative proposals to curb newspaper ownership emerged from that study, but did not become law. The two companies and some of their executives were acquitted on charges of criminal conspiracy.
 From that point, Thomson stopped buying major newspapers in Canada. It largely sought out small but often highly profitable papers in the United States. Mr. Thomson also directed his personal fortune into other areas. At one time, he owned the Hudson's Bay Company, the former fur trader founded in 1670 that became Canada's largest department store chain.
 Earnings from newspapers, as well as a highly successful 1971 investment in North Sea oil that Mr. Thomson helped his father engineer, financed the company's shift into the business of selling specialized, often expensive, information to lawyers, physicians, educators and students through the Internet.
 By the end of the 1990's, Thomson was out of the newspaper business. The company, which had a value of about $500 million when he succeeded his father in 1976, is now worth about $29.3 billion. Mr. Thomson held about 70 percent of its shares. At Thomson's annual meeting just more than a year ago, the company's chief executive, Richard J. Harrington, described the company as being ''Google for the high-end professional user.'' 
 Mr. Thomson stayed involved with newspapers through his family's private holding company, Woodbridge. It holds 40 percent of Bell Globemedia, which owns The Globe and Mail as well as CTV, Canada's largest private television network.
 Throughout his life, Mr. Thomson rarely appeared in his newspapers or any other publications to discuss business or his personal life. Journalists occasionally had more success, however, coaxing him to talk about art collecting. While Mr. Thomson had an extensive collection, he particularly favored works by Cornelius Krieghoff, a Dutch painter who depicted life in early Canada.
 While one of his paintings has appeared on the front page of The Globe and Mail each Christmas in recent years and a Hudson's Bay store in Toronto had a small gallery, most of Mr. Thomson's work has not been seen by the public. But in 2002, Mr. Thomson announced that he was donating about 2,000 pieces to the Art Gallery of Ontario in Toronto. He also gave 50 million Canadian dollars toward a museum expansion that was designed by Frank Gehry, who was raised in Toronto, as well as an endowment of 20 million Canadian dollars.
 At the time of his death, Forbes magazine ranked Mr. Thomson as the ninth-richest person in the world, with an estimated net worth of $19.6 billion. For someone with such great wealth, however, Mr. Thomson lived comparatively modestly. He was often sighted in Toronto grocery stores doing his own shopping, and while he owned a Rolls-Royce, he did not have a driver for many years and during business hours he parked the car in a Hudson's Bay store's public garage. Mr. Thomson usually flew economy class, and his suits did not appear to be expensive.
 While he inherited the British title Lord Thomson of Fleet from his father, Mr. Thomson never used it outside of Britain, nor did he ever take his seat in the House of Lords.
 That modesty and those economies may have been a reflection of the long period in his youth when his father's early business ventures brought the family financial uncertainty rather than wealth.
 ''The early part of my life was extremely simple,'' he told Saturday Night, a Canadian magazine that is now defunct, in 1980. ''And, you know, it makes me wonder a bit about my own children. They have only known affluence. But my father went through quite a few years of learning.''
 Mr. Thomson is survived by his wife, Marilyn; three sons, David, who succeeded him as chairman of Thomson in 2002, Peter and Taylor; and a sister, Audrey Campbell.


CORRECTION-DATE: June 15, 2006

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an obituary on Tuesday about Kenneth R. Thomson, the Canadian publishing magnate, referred incorrectly to one of his surviving children. Taylor is his daughter, not a son.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kenneth R. Thomson last month. (Photo by Norm Betts/Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); PUBLISHING (89%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (89%); FAMILY COMPANIES (78%); CONSPIRACY (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); LOCKOUTS (66%); TEXTBOOK PUBLISHING (66%); TEXTBOOKS (64%); LEGISLATION (60%); TRAVEL AGENTS (53%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

COMPANY: HUDSON'S BAY CO (84%); THOMSON REUTERS CORP (72%)

ORGANIZATION: Thomson Corp

TICKER: HBC (TSX) (84%); TRI (TSX) (72%); TRI (NYSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (84%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (84%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (84%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (84%); NAICS519190 ALL OTHER INFORMATION SERVICES (72%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (72%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (72%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (72%)

KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (55%) Ian Austen

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (91%); LONDON, ENGLAND (76%) ONTARIO, CANADA (91%); MANITOBA, CANADA (78%) CANADA (95%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2006



280 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Dining, Dining Out/Cultural Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1044 words

HEADLINE: Look Who's Behind the Counter Now

BYLINE: By FLORENCE FABRICANT

 BODY:
THE lunch counter, a familiar, workaday part of the American scene since the 1920's, has a hip new cousin. At restaurants in New York and a few other cities, the counter is where innovative dishes are served, top-tier prices are charged and in-the-know diners willingly sit elbow-to-elbow-to-elbow. In fact, in a few new sliver-slim restaurants, the counter is the only place to sit. 
 If you go, expect a limited menu, often of small plates, and expect to watch your meal prepared just a couple of feet away.
At Degustation in the East Village, waiters in jackets and ties serve squid stuffed with oxtail to diners at 16 seats at a U-shaped counter. A five-course tasting menu is $50. Noodle Bar, serving stir-fried and soup noodles with toppings of duck, clams and such on Carmine Street, has just 18 seats at one counter. 
 Momofuku Noodle Bar seats 30 at two counters and regularly has would-be diners hungry for braised Berkshire pork belly waiting on the sidewalk. Bin 71, the size of a large kiosk on Columbus Avenue, has room for 20 or so wine lovers nibbling on tapas and cheese plates at a counter and a ledge. The long, narrow space at Room 4 Dessert can accommodate 22 for dessert, and now breakfast, too. 
 Even in restaurants like Giorgione 508 in SoHo, which supplement their counters with a few tables, the counter is clearly the place to be. By 9 p.m. one recent night, every stool was taken at the two parallel counters.
 ''I'm more comfortable here,'' said Sharon Slowik, an aromatherapist, who was sitting at the counter with her friend Ulrika Appelberg, a fabric designer. ''It's sort of like eating at a bar, but it's not a bar scene. Nothing about it is intimidating.'' 
 Indeed, there is not an inkling of lunch-counter solitude at these spots. ''Convivial'' is how Joseph Bastianich, an owner of Bar Jamon at Irving Place, described the scene at its high counterlike tables.
 For Americans, who want excellent food but increasingly insist on eating it in a setting with more flair than formality, the answer is a counter. ''The success of the sushi bar is proof that people want that kind of dining,'' said Barry Wine, a restaurant consultant. ''It's an antidote to the elaborateness. You can have all the quality but dispense with the accoutrements.''
 Of course, when a famous French chef plugs into the idea, it jump-starts a trend.
 ''I thought if Robuchon could do it, so could I,'' said Giorgio DeLuca, the owner of Giorgione 508. He was referring to Joel Robuchon, the Michelin three-star chef who opened L'Atelier de Joel Robuchon in Paris in 2003, with seating at counters with paper placemats. It was revolutionary for Paris, where a zinc bar might be fine for a drink or a sandwich, but not for a meal of langoustines, foie gras and lamb chops. 
 Mr. Robuchon took the Atelier format to the MGM Grand hotel and casino in Las Vegas, and in September he is to open another Atelier, with some tables, in the Four Seasons Hotel in New York.
 Jack Lamb, an owner of Degustation, and David Chang, a partner in Momofuku, also said that Mr. Robuchon had inspired their restaurants. ''It's one of my favorite things to do, sit at a bar and watch the action and eat,'' Mr. Lamb said.
 The trend is showing up also in Washington, where reservations for the six seats at Minibar inside Jose Andres's Cafe Atlantico are snapped up as soon as they become available, one month in advance.
 A dining counter is starting to become an essential part of restaurant design. There is one in the restaurant at the Setai in Miami. And in Paris, the bright counter at Delicabar in the Bon Marche store is more of a magnet than the tables for fashionistas grazing on savory and sweet specialties. 
 The James Beard Foundation is planning a dinner by counter-only restaurants at its Greenwich Village town house in the fall. 
 Some restaurateurs, fighting New York's high-priced real estate market, have looked to counters as a way to make the most of a small space. ''I couldn't lay the space out any other way and still have room for a kitchen,'' said Quentin Dante, the owner of Noodle Bar.
 Will Goldfarb and his partners in Room 4 Dessert on Cleveland Place have one long, narrow counter, which they inherited from its previous occupant, Bar Tonno. Chris Cannon, who was a partner in Bar Tonno, said that a counter-only restaurant has obvious economies.
 ''You can get a young, talented chef and keep it simple'' with a limited menu, he said. The concept can also be the answer to the shortage of waiters and to high labor costs, he added. ''You can have 24 seats and turn them over several times a night, with only four or five employees, compared with a staff of 70 and a $1.5 million payroll in a traditional format.''
 Yet there are disadvantages, too. Service can actually be more complicated than in a larger restaurant as waiters slither around diners sitting in narrow spaces.
 ''Counter service limits your clientele,'' said Rebecca Charles, whose Pearl Oyster Bar in the West Village had only a counter and one table when it opened. ''Some older people do not want to sit on a stool, and it was a huge problem for the handicapped.''
 Her restaurant now has table seating in an adjacent room. But Ms. Charles said there are still people who prefer the counter. ''It's where the real foodies want to eat,'' she said. ''It's like a club.''
 While ideal for singles and fine for a twosome, counters pose problems for bigger groups. With four, you are best at a corner, if there is one. A larger party had better go elsewhere. And like the familiar luncheonette, most counter restaurants do not take reservations. 
 ''It's horribly uncomfortable,'' said David Liederman, a restaurateur who stood in line for 20 minutes before securing seats for himself and his wife at Momofuku one evening last winter. ''We had to sit on our coats and every time the door opened we were blasted by the wind. It's a good example of the agony New Yorkers will put up with for good food.''
 And as for the interaction between the cooks and the customers, it may not always be the best thing. ''If there's a problem it's for the whole world, sitting right there, to see,'' said Mr. Chang of Momofuku. Sometimes, he said, ''it makes things public that I wish weren't.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: WATCHING THE CHEF'S EVERY MOVE -- At Room 4 Dessert, above, diners have a full view of cotton candy being made. Below, counter dining at Noodle Bar makes checking out others' meals easy. Right, a chef prepares plates at Degustation in the East Village. (Photo by Joe Fornabaio for The New York Times)
SO CHIC -- Joel Robuchon introduced Parisians to counter dining at L'Atelier in 2003. (Photo by Owen Franken for The New York Times)
 (Photos by above and bottom left, Alex di Suvero for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); MENU PRICES (78%); WINE (73%); DRINKING PLACES (73%); PORK (72%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (60%) Restaurants; Urban Areas; Consumer Behavior

PERSON: Florence Fabricant

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (65%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (65%) Paris (France)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2006



281 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Dining, Dining Out/Cultural Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: Paris Landmark Has Much Experience in Carrying On 

BYLINE: By FRANK J. PRIAL

 BODY:
WHEN La Tour d'Argent, the Paris restaurant, lost one of its three Michelin stars in 1996, the owner, Claude Terrail, shrugged off the occasion, saying he was no longer interested in the guide's approval.
 ''We don't need it,'' he said loftily.
 And as if to prove him right, business suffered not at all. This year, two months before Mr. Terrail died on June 1 at age 88, La Tour, as the Parisians call it, lost a second star. It was to the dismay of the chef, no doubt, but with little or no impact on bookings, from all reports. 
 Thus, almost imperceptibly, does a famous landmark pass from legendary restaurant to monument historique, as the French call it. No one goes to such places because they are hungry. Another famous Parisian restaurant, Maxim's, for example, surrendered its stars long ago.
 The loss of the stars and, indeed, of Mr. Terrail, might be mortal blows to some lesser restaurants, but the Tour d'Argent is nearly 400 years old. It has survived many owners and not a few guides in its long and distinguished life. Mr. Terrail's son, Andre, continues the tradition.
 The Terrail family bought La Tour in 1912 from Frederic Delair, who had owned it since the 1890's and whose grumpy face still appears on the postcard guests take home as a souvenir of the visit and of the famous ducks that they almost certainly had for dinner. Each duck is numbered, and a record is kept of who ate it and when. The gimmick was Mr. Delair's idea, certainly qualifying him as an early marketing genius. The 500,000th duck was consumed in 1976, the millionth in 2003. 
 In 1937, inspired by a visit to Rockefeller Center in New York, Andre Terrail, Claude's father, built an open-air dining area atop the Tour's six-story building. He closed it a few years later when he realized that sunny days and starlit nights were more common to Manhattan than to Paris's Left Bank. Andre Terrail also rented out a few rooms. In ''A Moveable Feast,'' Ernest Hemingway noted that ''people who live there get a discount in the restaurant.'' He reported, too, that the room waiter collected any books the renters left behind and sold them to a lady who ran a bookstall not far along the quai. ''You could buy them from the proprietress for a very few francs,'' he wrote. 
 The site of the Tour, on the Quai de la Tournelle near the juncture of the boulevards St.-Germain and Henri IV in the Fifth Arrondissement, was more or less where the city ended at the end of the 12th century, in the days of Philip II. Old maps and drawings show a military fortification with a stone tower at about the same location. Its roof, according to records kept by the restaurant, was made of stones embedded with mica, which glittered in the sun. Hence the name: the silver tower, La Tour d'Argent. 
 There was an inn close by, records show, where in the late 16th century Henry IV ate heron pate and learned to use a newfangled gadget called a fourchette. We call it a fork. Inns, the forerunners of hotels, were around long before there were restaurants; primitive restaurants were created because the food served at the inns was so bad.
 The first modern restaurant bearing the name Tour d'Argent opened on about the same site on the Quai de la Tournelle around 1780. Nine years later, on July 14, 1789, it was burned down by the revolutionaries who had just torched the Bastille on the other side of the Seine. According to one story, the Tour had its own flag, and the angry mob mistook it for the flag of a nobleman. In the modern epoch, Andre Terrail revived the Tour d'Argent colors, flying them from the restaurant's roof whenever he was in town.
 The Tour was closed for several years during World War I because Andre Terrail was conscripted into the army. He was wounded and taken prisoner but escaped and reopened the restaurant in 1916. It remained open during World War II but with most of its wine hidden behind a brick wall, out of site of the heavily German clientele.
 One custom the restaurant has maintained through the years is high prices. These days, with the weak dollar, $350 to $400 a person would not be out of line for dinner with a decent wine. Undeterred, the dinner crowd is typically 40 percent to 50 percent American, with a higher percentage in the tourist season. Paris guides note that locals generally go at lunchtime, when prices are relatively lower.
 More economical still is the Rotisserie du Beaujolais, virtually next door at 19 Quai de la Tournelle (La Tour is at 17). The restaurant, another Terrail operation, is a classic brasserie serving sausages, pigs' feet, good cheeses and fresh Beaujolais, at one-third the prices of the Tour. 
 Parisians do go to the Tour d'Argent, but invariably with out-of-town guests, much as they would visit the Louvre or the Eiffel Tower. The Tour may no longer be the gastronomic treasure it was, but with its view of Notre Dame and the River Seine and its ornate dining room, over-the-top formal service and opportunities for celebrity watching, it is still heaven for tourists.


GRAPHIC: Photo: SO SORRY, DUCK -- Claude Terrail at La Tour d'Argent in Paris in January 2003. (Photo by Jacques Torregano/Corbis)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (71%) Restaurants; Michelin Guide; Historic Buildings and Sites; Ratings and Rating Systems

ORGANIZATION: La Tour D'Argent (Restaurant)

PERSON: Frank J Prial; Claude Terrail

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) FRANCE (91%); UNITED STATES (79%) France; Paris (France)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2006



282 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: Core Producer Prices Rise a Little More Than Forecast

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
Higher prices at the manufacturing level helped push overall prices of wholesale goods higher in May, the Labor Department reported yesterday. At the same time, the government said that retail sales were essentially flat in the latest set of economic data to suggest that inflation is creeping higher and the economy is slowing down.
 While wholesale prices declined in certain categories like produce, alcoholic beverages and automobiles, they rose elsewhere, resulting in a net price gain for the month. Producers charged more in May for consumer goods like jewelry, drugs and detergents. And the price of many products used in the manufacturing process, like softwood lumber, wiring and processed steel, rose considerably. 
Over all, the Producer Price Index rose 0.2 percent in May after posting sharper increases in April and March. But the so-called core rate, which excludes food and energy prices, rose 0.3 percent, compared with 0.1 percent increases the previous two months. That surprised economists, who were expecting a rise of 0.2 percent. 
 Separately, the Commerce Department reported that retail sales ticked up 0.1 percent in May, compared with a 0.8 percent increase in April. 
 ''Economic activity is doing exactly what the Fed expected,'' said Kenneth J. McCarthy, chief economist at vFinance Investments. ''It's slowing down. It's being influenced by higher energy prices, interest rates and a slowing housing market.''
 Economic indicators like the Producer Price Index and the retail sales report have taken on added significance ahead of the Federal Reserve meeting at the end of this month. The Fed's policy makers will decide whether to raise short-term interest rates for the 17th time since June 2004, and several Fed governors have said lately that they are concerned about accelerating inflation.
 But with many economists of the belief that another rate increase is a foregone conclusion and with overall inflation still relatively low, the slight bump in the price data raised few eyebrows yesterday. 
 ''No alarm bells were set off by today's report,'' Kenneth Beauchemin, an economist with Global Insight, said. ''The increase of the core inflation rate is a slight concern. However, any one month's change has to be discounted somewhat because monthly changes in producer prices are relatively noisy.''
 On Wall Street, stocks closed lower yesterday, but the losses were more moderate than on Monday. These followed steep losses in Asian markets. The price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note was slightly higher. 
 Anxiety over another rate increase has helped push stocks down sharply worldwide as investors fear that the higher rates will dampen stock market activity.
 Yesterday's report on the Producer Price Index was the first of two major reports on inflation this week. This morning, the Labor Department will report the Consumer Price Index for May, which measures inflation at the retail level and is considered to be a better indicator of the direction of prices.
 Most economists will be looking to those figures to see whether inflation is accelerating at a troubling pace. 
 ''On the margin, you've got slightly higher numbers on the core than expected,'' said James O'Sullivan, an economist with UBS. ''But it really wasn't that big of a deal. There's really a lot more focus on the consumer number.''
 The price report also showed that increases for energy eased last month. Wholesale gasoline prices rose 2.2 percent, after a 12.3 percent jump in April and a 9.1 percent jump in March. The price of heating oil also rose at a much slower rate. 
 But the numbers suggest that price pressure at the consumer level could accelerate in the coming months. As the price of goods on the production chain rise, those costs are passed along to wholesalers and eventually consumers.
 Last month's jump in the prices of goods used in manufacturing like lumber and processed steel ''suggests growing inflationary pressures in the production pipeline that could ultimately make their way into prices for final goods,'' Stuart G. Hoffman and Richard F. Moody, economists at PNC Financial, said in a research note to clients.
 Although the price of automobiles fell 0.4 percent in May, that hardly helped sales. Overall retail sales rose 0.1 percent in May, but excluding autos, the increase was 0.5 percent. Auto sales fell 1.6 percent compared with April.
 Retail sales by grocery stores in May were up, as were sales at gasoline stations, which rose 1.9 percent for the month and 21.9 percent for the preceding 12 months, reflecting the higher cost of fuel.

 May: +0.1%
April: +0.8
March: +0.7

(Source by Commerce Department)


GRAPHIC: Photo: A shopper considering a digital camera at a Best Buy store in Richfield, Minn., on Monday. The Commerce Department reported that retail sales in May were up 0.1 percent after a steeper increase the month before. (Photo by Jim Mone/Associated Press)Chart: ''Producer Prices''Index of finished goods prices, 1982=100, seasonally adjusted.May: +0.2%April: +0.9March: +0.5(Source by Labor Department)Chart: ''Retail Sales''Total retail and food services sales, seasonally adjusted.:

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRODUCER PRICES (93%); PRICE INCREASES (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); LUMBER & PLYWOOD MARKETS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); INFLATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (79%); SALES FIGURES (79%); WHOLESALE PRICES (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); RETAILERS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (64%) United States Economy; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Producer Price Index; Retail Stores and Trade; Sales

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%) Labor Department (US); Commerce Department

PERSON: Jeremy W Peters

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2006



283 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 334 words

HEADLINE: Best Buy Profit Rises 38% on Big Purchases and Cost-Cutting 

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: MINNEAPOLIS, June 13 

 BODY:
The Best Buy Company, the nation's largest consumer electronics retailer, said Tuesday that cost-cutting and sales of big-ticket items powered a profit increase of nearly 38 percent in the fiscal first quarter. 
 Best Buy earned $234 million, or 47 cents a share, in the three months that ended May 27, up from $170 million, or 34 cents a share, during the same period last year. Analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial were expecting 36 cents a share.
Revenue jumped almost 14 percent, to $6.96 billion, from $6.12 billion.
 Sales at stores open 14 months -- a closely watched retail measure -- grew 4.9 percent. 
 Best Buy said the gain was driven by an increase in the average size of each transaction, as customers spent more on flat-panel televisions, music players and laptop computers. Sales of older televisions, music, desktop computers and printers all declined.
 The company also said that consumers bought more at its Web site, with online revenue growing more than 30 percent.
 The growth came despite economic headwinds like rising interest rates and gas prices. Retailers have been nervously watching to see whether customers would spend less. Best Buy's comparable-store sales gain was down from 7.3 percent in the fourth quarter because of those factors, said Darren R. Jackson, the company's chief financial officer.
 Best Buy was helped by comparable-store sales increases of 22 percent at its stand-alone Magnolia high-end home theater stores, and 7 percent at its Canadian stores.
 After criticism earlier this year for its run-up in spending on advertising, headquarters and corporate expenses, Best Buy has said it wants to reduce the growth of such spending by $300 million to $350 million over the next two years.
 In April it laid off 300 people at its headquarters in Richfield, Minn.
 The company reiterated its earnings guidance of $2.65 to $2.80 a share for the full year. Analysts are looking for $2.72 a share for the year.
 Best Buy shares rose $2.66, or 5.4 percent, to $51.69.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (91%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (91%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); SAME STORE SALES (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); LAYOFFS (78%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (68%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (68%); EXECUTIVES (65%); INTEREST RATES (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BEST BUY CO INC (96%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (72%)

TICKER: BBY (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (96%); SIC5735 RECORD & PRERECORDED TAPE STORES (96%); SIC5734 COMPUTER & COMPUTER SOFTWARE STORES (96%); SIC5731 RADIO, TV & CONSUMER ELECTRONICS STORES (96%)

PERSON: DARREN R JACKSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (71%) MINNESOTA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2006



284 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 957 words

HEADLINE: Selling Wave Circles Globe With Losses 

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ and MARTIN FACKLER

 BODY:
Waves of selling, described by some analysts as panicked, sent stocks and commodities tumbling around the world yesterday.
 In the United States, stocks drifted in and out of positive territory early in the day but closed down for the third consecutive trading day. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 1 percent, the Dow Jones industrial average wiped out its gains for the year and the Nasdaq composite index edged down 0.9 percent.
A report that inflation at the wholesale level was slightly higher than expected hardened investors' conviction that the Federal Reserve would push harder on the brakes of an already slowing American economy by raising interest rates. Another report that showed only modest increases in retail sales also spooked investors. 
 In Asia, a Fed official's remarks on Monday about inflation took their first toll on stocks, and Tokyo, the largest stock market on the continent, suffered its biggest one-day loss in two years on Tuesday. The price of gold, which until a month ago was on a historic upsurge, had its biggest one-day drop in more than 15 years. Crude oil fell 2.6 percent, to $68.56 a barrel. 
 Markets in Europe fell about 2 percent. The dollar fell against the euro, the British pound and the Japanese yen.
 But the worst declines were in Asia, where Tokyo's Nikkei 225 index dropped 4.1 percent, to 14,218.60. The sell-off took on the appearance of a general rout, with some of the nation's most profitable companies, like Toyota Motor, Canon and Sharp, losing ground on fears that exports to the United States would fall. 
 India's Sensex index posted Asia's biggest decline, falling 4.4 percent on Tuesday. Australia's S.& P./ASX 200 fell 2.6 percent and the Hang Seng index in Hong Kong fell 2.5 percent.
 Analysts said the volatility partly reflected a sudden shifting of money by hedge funds and day traders, who appeared to be dumping stocks to get out of what some fear could be a stubborn bear market.
 ''To be honest, I'm surprised by the recent volatility,'' said Chisato Haganuma, a strategist at Nomura Securities in Tokyo. ''Short-term investors are cutting their losses and getting out.''
 An American analyst, Scott Black, echoed those sentiments, noting that shares of Goldman Sachs fell almost 4 percent, to $139.25, after the company reported that its profit more than doubled, and Lehman Brothers, which reported a record profit on Monday, fell 4 percent yesterday, to $59.42, after dropping 5 percent on Monday.
 ''It's one thing if you make mistakes and the stock goes down,'' said Mr. Black, president of Delphi Investments, ''but when you are shooting the lights out and the stock is getting drilled every day, that is a bear market.''
 More than a fear of inflation, though, the pessimism appears to be grounded in growing uncertainty about growth in the United States, the most important engine pulling the global economy. America, for instance, is still the biggest destination for Asian exports, despite China's rapid rise. 
 After strong growth of 5.3 percent in the first quarter, the American economy is expected to slow noticeably because of slower home sales and the 16 quarter-point Fed rate increases in the last two years. In the last two months, job creation has also slowed abruptly.
 ''We don't think the world is coming to an end because of inflation,'' said Kingman D. Penniman, president and chief executive of KDP, an investment firm based in Montpelier, Vt., that specializes in bonds. ''We think there is a risk here that the Fed will overkill'' by raising rates too much.
 That is perhaps why bonds have not moved as they traditionally do during periods of high inflation, when investors drive up the yield. The yield on United States Treasuries has been falling in recent weeks and dropped again yesterday, with the 10-year Treasury dropping to 4.96 percent from 4.98 percent the previous day. The price, which moves in the opposite direction from the yield, rose 4/32, to 101 8/32.
 Gold, the traditional hedge against inflation, fell 7 percent, or $42.20, to $562.05 an ounce.
 In Asia, fears that American consumers would buy fewer cars and televisions led to large drops in share prices of top exporters. Toyota, the world's most profitable carmaker, fell 4.2 percent. Sharp, the world's largest maker of liquid-crystal display TV's, tumbled 7.1 percent. Canon, the world's largest maker of digital cameras, fell 3.8 percent. 
 Elsewhere in Asia, LG.Philips LCD dropped 13 percent and the Lenovo Group, the personal computer maker based in China, fell 5.3 percent.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 12.71 points, to 1,223.69, with the biggest losers coming from the energy and financial services industries, reflecting concern that slower economic growth would sap demand for oil and that a sustained bear market would hurt trading profit at investment firms.
 The Dow Jones industrial average closed down 86.44 points, at 10,706.14; and the Nasdaq composite index closed down 18.85 points, at 2,072.47. Declining issues exceeded advancing stocks by more than three to one on the New York Stock Exchange.

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
Price: 99.638
High Rate: 4.645
Coupon Yield: 4.727
Low Rate: 4.620
Median Rate: 4.630
Total applied for: $31,302,049
Accepted: $13,043,399
Noncompetitive: $384,155
The four-week bills mature July 13, 2006.


 Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.

Graph tracks the the Dow Jones industrial average from 10 a.m. through 4 p.m. yesterday.

(Sources by Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C10)

Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch.
 (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C10)


GRAPHIC: Photo: In Tokyo yesterday, shares had their biggest one-day loss in two years, with companies like Toyota Motor, Canon and Sharp losing ground. (Photo by Andy Rain/Bloomberg News)(pg. C10)Chart: ''The Dow minute-by-minute''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); CURRENCIES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); WHOLESALE PRICES (77%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (77%); US DOLLAR (75%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); EURO (69%); INTEREST RATES (54%); RETAIL SALES (54%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (54%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (51%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); TYT (LSE) (54%); TM (NYSE) (54%); 7203 (TSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%) UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (93%); JAPAN (90%); INDIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2006



285 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1065 words

HEADLINE: The Price Of Day Care Can Be High

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
email: leonhardt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
THERE is one place in North America where parents of young children don't have to worry about child care. In Quebec, full-time day care costs just $7 a day -- Canadian dollars, at that -- thanks to a government program aimed at one of the thorniest problems that workers in their 20's, 30's and 40's face.
 Starting in 1997, the Quebec Family Policy subsidized day care for 4-year-olds at government-approved centers around the province. By 2000, the program had expanded to cover any child not old enough for kindergarten, all the way down to infants. This is universal day care, an audacious idea that recognizes the revolution in women's work over the last 30 years.
 Judging by the response of parents, the program has been a hit. Centers from downtown Montreal to Hudson Bay were flooded with applications, and the number of children in day care rose almost 50 percent. Mothers who suddenly had an affordable way to return to work did so in droves and gave the economy a lift. Canada's Liberal Party holds up Quebec's program as a model for the rest of the country. 
 Almost a decade after the family policy started, however, there was still a big mystery about it. Nobody had done the work to find out how it had affected children. The province was spending $1.4 billion a year on a grand social experiment, yet no one had bothered to look at the results. 
 So three economists took up the challenge a few years ago, realizing that the program offered an excellent way to examine a much-debated topic. The three -- Michael Baker and Kevin Milligan, who are Canadian, and Jonathan Gruber, an American -- collected data, looked at various measures of well-being since the program started and compared Quebec with the rest of Canada over the same period. 
 When they finished last year, the answer seemed clear. ''Across almost everything we looked at,'' said Mr. Gruber, an M.I.T., professor, ''the policy led to much worse outcomes for kids.''
 Young children in Quebec are more anxious and aggressive than they were a decade ago, even though children elsewhere in Canada did not show big changes. Quebec children also learn to use a toilet, climb stairs and count to three at later ages, on average, than they once did. The effects weren't so great for parents, either. More of them reported being depressed, and they were less satisfied with their marriages -- which also didn't happen in other provinces. 
 Before you dismiss the researchers as just three more men starting a new assault in the mommy wars, listen to Jane Waldfogel, a leading child-policy researcher and the author of the book, ''What Children Need'' (Harvard University Press). ''This is a very high-quality paper by high-quality guys,'' she said. ''They're very careful. This is a paper that's going to stand.''
 AT its root, the Quebec policy is an admirable effort to deal with an enormous economic shift that has taken place across the Western world and that American companies and politicians have pretty much ignored. Today, almost two-thirds of children younger than 6 in the United States don't have a parent at home with them during the day, up from a third just 35 years ago.
 Yet laws and workplace policies have changed only marginally. (The right of workers at large companies to take unpaid family leave, as a much-celebrated 1993 law guarantees, is nice but hardly revolutionary.) Instead, many women, and the occasional man, have been left with the burden of doing two full-time jobs at once.
 Their efforts are often heroic, but many end up feeling guilty that they are neglecting their careers, their families or both.
 Meanwhile, the polite thing to say about work and family is that children are resilient little creatures who will end up doing just as well in one situation as another. And obviously a lot of children are thriving in full-time day care, as their parents can attest. 
 But there is now overwhelming evidence that -- at least in the first year of life -- most young children are not well served by spending long hours away from their parents. They will have more behavior problems on average and won't learn as quickly, according to various studies done over the last decade. 
 As Ms. Waldfogel, a Columbia professor who has been a working mother, said, ''I didn't set out to find effects on the kids of parents who are working in the first year.'' In fact, she said she had ''tried really hard to kill off the effects'' by looking for other variables that could have been the real culprits. ''But the effects are there,'' she said. 
 The picture is murkier for toddlers and preschoolers. The stimulation they get at day care tends to make them better prepared for school than children who are home with a parent full time. Yet those who spend too many hours in day care or attend poor-quality programs also seem to be at greater risk of obesity and behavior problems.
 This probably explains Quebec, where teacher-child ratios were on the high side and an audit found the programs' educational content to be mediocre. The policy has also discouraged parents who want to put their children in day care only part time by giving preference to families looking for eight hours of care a day. 
 The big lesson from Quebec is that parents really do need more support, but they need the kind of support that allows them to choose what is best for their family. Mothers and fathers should get paid time off after a baby is born, and the money should come from a government insurance program, as it does in Canada, England and other countries. Companies need to be given incentives to create more part-time jobs that don't derail careers -- and then find some up-and-coming men who want those jobs. High-quality preschool programs should be available for every low-income child and perhaps universally. 
 Yes, this would cost money, and not a little bit. Some taxes would have to be increased, and other spending would have to be cut. (My first candidate: raise the age for Social Security retirement eligibility. Two-year-olds need more help than 66-year-olds do. But that's a column for another day.)
 Fortunately, research shows that these investments can produce a nice return. They create a better-educated, healthier work force to compete with other countries over the next century.
 But I prefer a much more basic argument. Why don't we just decide that our children are worth it?


GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); CHILD CARE (90%); FAMILY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); WRITERS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (79%) QUEBEC, CANADA (90%); ARCTIC OCEAN (56%) CANADA (98%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2006



286 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: The Mark of the Bust

BYLINE: By Martin Mayer. 
Martin Mayer, a guest scholar at the Brookings Institution, is the author of ''The Fate of the Dollar.''

 BODY:
WHAT may be the most important number in the American panoply of economic statistics appears every Thursday night as an appendix to the weekly statement of the condition of the Federal Reserve System. This generally ignored number -- few, if any, newspapers cover its release -- has the unusual virtue of accuracy, for it is a simple financial statement derived from an adding machine, not from a computer or a formula.
 What the number announces is the quantity of government and agency securities held ''for foreign official and international accounts'' -- that is, for foreign central banks and finance ministries -- by the federal reserve banks. It is important because over time it measures the demand for American assets by private enterprise in the world's creditor nations. It is important also because it is very large -- last week, about $1.63 trillion. Three years ago, just before the invasion of Iraq, it was about $900 billion. The week George W. Bush took office, it was $693 billion. 
Our appetite for imported goods throws some $600 billion to $700 billion a year into the hands of foreign suppliers. The businesses that receive these dollars have two fundamental choices about what to do with them: spend or invest them in the United States, or convert them into their own local currency. 
 Exporters to America who keep the dollars and use them for American purchases and investments create what economists call an autonomous flow of funds back to the United States, financing the American trade deficit with an American investment surplus. 
 This produces the argument most closely associated with the new Federal Reserve chairman, Ben Bernanke (though Alan Greenspan believed it, too), that our trade deficit is caused by a surplus of savings that can't be profitably invested in the home countries of our trading partners. Financing for our trade deficit comes before -- and actually causes -- the deficit itself. 
 If instead of investing their dollars in the United States, foreign exporters want to take the proceeds of their sales in their own currency, their central banks will in effect sell them that currency for their dollars. Back in the late 1960's, when Great Society deficits and the Vietnam War prompted the first serious sell-off of dollars (and forced the United States to abandon the gold standard because too many holders of dollars, led by President Charles de Gaulle of France, wanted gold), those central banks lent those dollars into the new Eurodollar market, where they traded somewhat separately from domestic dollars. 
 This created a nightmarish prospect of the United States losing control of its own currency, and in 1971 the Fed chairman, Arthur Burns, negotiated a deal with the European and Japanese central banks. The deal was that they would return to America the dollars they acquired in their own economies, and the Fed would invest the money on their behalf, in absolutely safe government securities, without charge and at the best rates. 
 Today, the Fed continues as custodian of the ''foreign official holdings'' of such government obligations. During the Clinton administration, the Fed agreed to invest in federally guaranteed housing securities for those foreign central banks that wanted a better yield on their dollar reserves than they would get from government bonds, and now more than half a trillion dollars of the total official holdings are invested in agency paper. Foreign official holdings of government paper is a miner's canary number. It tells you if there is big trouble ahead. The most common worry is that the number will shrink suddenly, with foreign governments dumping their dollar holdings, driving down the dollar's value and driving up American interest rates, but that's not a real danger. If the price of our government securities dived, the foreign central banks would have to bear the loss. This would be a budget item for their governments, whose leaders would not like it at all. 
 What we have to watch out for is a sudden and drastic increase in foreign official holdings. Rapid growth in this number in the late 1960's and 1970's forecast the recessions of the early 1970's and 1980's, and it could happen again. 
 Recent large increases in foreign official holdings indicate that foreign private investors see fewer attractive places to put their money in the American economy. They could presage a significant fall in the price of American assets, stocks (witness the recent drops in American stock markets) and bonds and real estate and all, and a hard landing for a world economy still floating on the crest of cheap credit.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); CURRENCIES (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); IRAQ WAR (72%); VIETNAM WAR (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (84%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); BEN BERNANKE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2006



287 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1128 words

HEADLINE: G.M. -- Again

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN; Maureen Dowd is on vacation.

 BODY:
On May 31 I wrote a column accusing General Motors of acting irresponsibly by offering unlimited gasoline at $1.99 a gallon for one year to anyone who buys certain of its midsize sedans, big S.U.V.'s or gas-guzzling Hummers in California or Florida. At a time when we are at war in the Middle East, with an enemy who is indirectly financed by our energy purchases, it seems to me that every American, and every American company, has an obligation to reduce oil consumption. No one should be making a huge gas-guzzling Hummer, and no one should be driving one, and no one -- certainly not G.M. -- should be subsidizing people to drive them.
 After the May 31 column appeared, G.M.'s vice president for global communications, Steven J. Harris, and his colleagues denounced my argument in a formal statement and on G.M.'s corporate blog. This is an important issue, so let me respond to their response. 
To begin with, I would much prefer to see G.M. thriving and growing American jobs -- not selling itself off, limb by limb. But as long as G.M. is giving away $1.99 gasoline for its gas guzzlers, I will be a harsh critic. Pardon me if -- at a time when China is imposing higher mileage standards than America -- I don't want to join the many congressmen and senators in drinking G.M.'s Kool-Aid and not demanding that it become the most fuel-efficient automaker in the world. If more people in Washington insisted that G.M. focus on building cars that could compete in a world of $3.99 gasoline, rather than creating an artificial universe of $1.99 gasoline, G.M. would not be worrying about bankruptcy today. 
 G.M. says that the cars chosen for its $1.99 gas giveaway were chosen because of ''their outstanding fuel economy and great consumer appeal.'' It also says that G.M. makes more cars that get an E.P.A.-estimated 30 miles per gallon on the highway than any other company. 
 Fact: G.M. also sells more cars that get 9 to 11 m.p.g. -- the Hummer -- than any other company. And even though G.M. justified the $1.99 program as giving consumers a chance to drive some of its most fuel-efficient cars, it did not include its best-selling, most fuel-efficient model, the Chevy Aveo (35 m.p.g. highway), in the program, but did include seven gas-guzzling trucks. G.M. still does not have a family-friendly hybrid on the market (one is due this summer) -- nine years after Toyota introduced the 45-m.p.g. Prius hybrid, which G.M. scoffed at at the time.
 Stephanie Salter, a columnist writing in the Terre Haute Tribune-Star, did a spoof about G.M.'s $1.99 gas giveaway by imagining what other less-than-healthy consumer companies might now do: ''Today R.J. Reynolds Corp. announced a new 'smoke more/pay less' instant rebate program for most of its cigarette brands. Time-dated coupons will be included in every pack of RJR cigarettes. Tobacco consumers who collect 10 same-brand coupons in five days can redeem them for a pack costing $1. The only brands not covered by the coupon program are the company's cigarettes with very low tar and nicotine content.''
 Next, G.M.'s Harris asked: ''How is offering a gas card that may be worth $1,000 any different or more sinister than the $2,000 cash rebate that Toyota's offering right now nationwide on its full-size S.U.V., the Sequoia?''
 Fact: Reading that question you'd think that G.M. was giving away cheap gas instead of big S.U.V. rebates. The truth: We called G.M. dealers in California who said that under the new program they were authorized to offer $5,000 discounts on the 2006 Suburban and Tahoe S.U.V.'s -- which are like the Sequoia -- in addition to G.M.'s unlimited $1.99 gas for a year. I guess Mr. Harris just forgot that. 
 Yes, Toyota makes trucks and S.U.V.'s, just like G.M. I am not against either. Some people need them, others enjoy them. But I don't think we should be subsidizing gasoline so people who don't need them will buy them or buy the most gas-guzzling versions. G.M. says its full-size S.U.V.'s get better mileage than Toyota's. All I know is that Consumer Reports rates all size S.U.V.'s for fuel efficiency, reliability and performance. Toyota and Honda S.U.V.'s are its top picks in every size category. 
 Ah, says Mr. Harris, but we offer nine vehicles that can run on E85 ethanol-gas blends, and have made 1.9 million such cars and trucks. Toyota makes none. The truth: The Big Three U.S. automakers started making flex-fuel cars in the mid-1990's after they were given a shameful federal loophole.
 As the Des Moines Register explained in an article on May 26: ''The loophole works this way: A dual-fuel vehicle that can run on either gasoline or 85 percent ethanol, or E85, is credited with a much higher mileage rating than it really gets. That keeps the overall mileage of the cars and trucks that a company like Ford or General Motors makes in any given year within the government's mileage limits.''
 By agreeing to build flex-fuel vehicles credited with phony mileage, Detroit gets to make many more bigger, heavier gas guzzlers, the paper explained, ''without having to pay fines for exceeding the federal mileage standards.'' For instance, the 2006 G.M.C. two-wheel-drive Yukon 1500 actually gets 15 m.p.g. city and 20 m.p.g. highway. But under this loophole it is rated as getting 33 miles per gallon for purposes of meeting the government's fleet fuel economy standards. ''The Union of Concerned Scientists calculates that the loophole increased U.S. oil consumption by 80,000 barrels per day in 2005 alone,'' the paper said. 
 If G.M., Ford and Chrysler really care about saving oil and the environment, why exploit this loophole? And by the way, even though G.M. has made 1.9 million flex-fuel vehicles, it and the other automakers for a long time did little to inform customers that their cars could run on ethanol -- because their real interest was the mileage loophole to make more big cars. Most people didn't know they were driving a flex-fuel car. ''Until recently, the only way to tell was by checking the vehicle identification number,'' the paper noted. Recently, General Motors has put yellow gas caps on its dual-fuel vehicles to alert customers.
 I'm not a car expert, so let me leave the last word to Automotive News, the industry's top trade magazine. Its June 5 editorial said: ''General Motors' promotion that reimburses some buyers for gasoline purchases is ill-advised for an automaker that is trying to burnish its green image. The program should be dropped, not expanded. It's simply a subsidy for vehicles that burn a lot of gasoline. And it's one more example of G.M.'s tone deafness on environmental issues. Yes, G.M. can make vehicles that are as fuel efficient as anybody else's. But it acts as though its future depends on gas guzzlers.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); SEDANS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (86%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (77%); CONSUMPTION (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (73%); FAMILY (66%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2006



288 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 199 words

HEADLINE: The Right Books, for Boys and Girls

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 David Brooks blames an alleged feminist takeover of the high school curriculum in the 1970's for boys' difficulty in school. But boys have performed poorly relative to girls for as long as educational data have been collected. 
 The 1870 United States Census shows that boys had greater access to schooling than girls but lower literacy rates; by 1924, boys were 11 percent less likely to enroll in high school and 24 percent less likely to graduate.
In 1957, presumably before ''new wave'' novels about ''introspectively morose young women'' replaced Huck Finn on reading lists, the typical girl was at the 60th percentile of her high school class, whereas the typical boy was at the 40th percentile. 
 Such statistics received less attention in the past, when academically disinclined young men could still count on a healthy supply of well-paying manufacturing jobs. In today's economy, however, boys' difficulty in acquiring basic skills is a major social problem; blaming feminism only distracts us from identifying and addressing its root causes.

Ilyana Kuziemko
Cambridge, Mass., June 13, 2006

The writer is a graduate student in the department of economics, Harvard University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOLS (91%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (90%); CURRICULA (90%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); CLASS RANKING (78%); WRITERS (78%); WOMEN (78%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (77%); LITERACY RATES (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (75%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CENSUS (72%) Education and Schools; Women; Men 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: Ilyana Kuziemko; David Brooks

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2006



289 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 460 words

HEADLINE: Hockey Team Owner Indicted In Inquiry Into Trash Hauling 

BYLINE: By STACEY STOWE

DATELINE: HARTFORD, June 13 

 BODY:
James Galante named his hockey team the Danbury Trashers to reflect his empire, one built on garbage collection. But federal agents say Mr. Galante committed fraud by putting some players as well as some players' wives and others on the payrolls of his companies. 
 Mr. Galante also padded his players' salaries, in violation of league regulations, and submitted false reports to hide those violations, according to an indictment that accuses him of running the team as a corrupt enterprise.
 Mr. Galante and 28 other people were indicted on Friday as part of a federal investigation into Connecticut's trash-hauling industry. 
 On Monday, the United Hockey League, which regulates the Trashers and 13 other teams, announced that the Trashers would not play when the season resumes in October.
 Although the team, which finished second in the league this year, has also been indicted and its owner is in prison awaiting trial, the team's decision to suspend play was economic, said Phil Giubileo, its director of communications.
 The Danbury team's geographically closest rival, the Adirondack Frostbite in Glens Falls, N.Y., suspended play after it was unable to lease a rink, and the next-closest opponent is the Jackals, in Elmira, N.Y. Mr. Giubileo said it would be too expensive for the Trashers to continue playing the remaining 12 teams in the league. 
 Mr. Galante, 57, of New Fairfield, Conn., was charged with 72 counts, including racketeering, extortion and witness tampering, in what prosecutors described as a scheme to control competition in the trash-hauling industry using financial and physical threats. 
 Others charged in the indictment include Joseph Santopietro, the former mayor of Waterbury, who is identified as Mr. Galante's consultant and representative, and Matthew Ianniello, described by federal officials as a high-ranking member of the Genovese crime family. The indictment also alleges that Mr. Galante spent about $750,000 on the team during the 2004-5 season, including paying three hockey players about $100,000 each -- and the wives of some players -- despite the league-imposed salary cap of $275,000 for the active roster of 21 players. 
 The Trashers' coach, J. Todd Stirling, son of the former New York Islanders coach Steve Stirling, was charged with wire fraud. The indictment says he faxed financial reports to the United Hockey League that understated the amounts players were being paid, to give the appearance of complying with the salary cap.
 Drew Omicioli, a forward with the Trashers from West Warwick, R.I., described Mr. Galante as an enthusiastic owner who loved the game and was beloved by the team.
 ''It was a passion for him,'' Mr. Omicioli said. ''The big reason everyone wanted to win was to win for him.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (90%); INDICTMENTS (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); ICE HOCKEY (78%); EXTORTION (78%); ORGANIZED CRIME (78%); ETHICS (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); WITNESSES (70%); RANKINGS (66%) Hockey, Ice; Ethics; Frauds and Swindling; Waste Materials and Disposal; Wages and Salaries

ORGANIZATION: Danbury Trashers

PERSON: Stacey Stowe; James Galante

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (57%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) Danbury (Conn); Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2006



290 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2006
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 1518 words

HEADLINE: Reader Responses

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
The following are excerpts of reader responses to David Leonhardts June 14 column on child care:
 I have a friend who lives in Quebec partly to take advantage of the incredibly affordable day care (and cheaper housing). And although Im jealous of that, living in the U.S., Im more jealous of the year of paid leave she was able to take advantage of. The government allows parents (mother or father or a combination) to take off a year after the birth of a child with the equivalent of unemployment pay. Their positions are held for them while they stay home with their new baby so they have a job to come back to, too. I believe this program not only shows that the government understands that women are important to the workplace, but that families are important to the country itself. 
Being a supporter of high-quality child care, I was stung at first to read that these children may not be doing as well as they would have if theyd stayed home. But it seems as though those issues could potentially be resolved by staying home for the first full year (I wish I couldve done that!) and by ensuring that the day care they attend is high quality. I know my Canadian friend had to wait a long time to get a slot in a government-funded center, and I wonder if quality has been compromised because of the high demand for spots. For her daughters sake (and the sake of her coming child), I hope thats not the case!

Heather Hare

Wow, you write that public day care has poor outcomes for children - yet conclude "we" (meaning government officials) should figure out how to do more of it. Then you propose all kinds of policies to try to manipulate behavior and company policies. Your tax this person and give these business tax credits to try to shape businesses and employee behavior in what you believe to be desirable public policy. This is exactly the type of government growth that is putting burdens on families and businesses.
 How about a win-win simple solution? Reduce taxes. It wont take two incomes to maintain a family, and one parent can actually stay home with the children. 
 But no. I'm sure you'll figure government knows better than families and will continue to advocate for failed policies.

Frayda Levin

I didn't really need a study to confirm for me that children do better at home, with a parent, than in an institutional setting. Especially when they are less than a year old. (Currently I am a full-time mother.)
 Your article seems to suggest, however, that by putting enough money towards quality day care and paid leave, we can offset the effects of institutional care. I prefer a different approach. Rather than try to replicate home life through vast expenditures of money, why not put our resources into making full-time parenthood more satisfying, less isolating, and more socially acceptable?
 I do not struggle with the "work-family" dilemma because my work is my family. But most educated people would see this as a lesser choice, and I often feel as if I'm swimming against the social norm. 
 Let's try to normalize full-time parenthood, put our efforts into supporting it, and let go of the dream that all adults can enjoy "satisfying" careers by having the state pour tons of money into child care schemes.
 Is this retro? Hopelessly idealistic? To me, it seems the only really practical solution. I'm betting that it's too conservative or traditional for most so-called progressive parents, however. As you wrote, children really aren't that resilient while we adults do what makes us happiest.

Joni Stimpson

We have a lot to gain, in our smaller communities and in the nation, if we start promoting real family-friendly policies--longer, paid maternity leave; spouse (or partner) leave; flexible work hours; and guaranteed time and space for pumping for breastfeeding moms who return to work. Daycare alone is not the answer. My sense is that few families would voluntarily opt to leave young children in the care of others for long stretches of time, had they financially viable alternatives. The irony is that we would all benefit from parents spending more time with their children--yet the public health benefit of that gets very little press.
 I have been thinking about these issues a lot lately, and I keep coming back to two sticking points: one, our dependence on employer-provided (or not!) health insurance and its ties to "full time" work locks parents into a destructive system. Two, as a breastfeeding mom, I'm outraged that while the AAP recommends six months exclusive breastfeeding, our federally mandated maternity leave is a pathetic twelve unpaid weeks. In other words, we deprive low income women (especially those without enough income support from their partners) of the opportunity to provide their children with the best nutritional start in life. They lose, the babies lose, and we all pay!

Jennifer Robinson

I have been one of the leading opponents of extending the program across Canada, largely for the reasons you outline in your column. I am a big believer in childcare, having used it full time myself, but the top-down, government driven, one-size-fits-all 'human capital' variety proposed for our country is not the right kind. Parent driven, parent chosen care is. That is why tax relief and a demand side policy are the only way to go.

Kate Tennier

You did not make it clear what the comparison group was. Children in Quebec were compared to children in other parts of Canada but were these comparisons broken down by the type of childcare those other kids experienced? You say that the study shows that kids do better with a parent at home but is that what the kids in Quebec were compared to? Or were they compared to kids with a nanny or family daycare? In any case, the data do not support the conclusion that "mother at home" is best, only that institutional care is worse than other childcare arrangements, including mother at home.

Pamela Nadash

The Quebec study looked at overall child outcomes in the province, before the policy went into effect and after, as well as comparing children in Quebec to children in other parts of Canada. It did not specifically compare Quebec children now in day care with those who are not in day care. But the other research described in the article does make these comparisons, and it finds differences between children who had a stay-at-home parent in the first year of life and those who did not. David Leonhardt
 Your column made some very good points about the needs of children, but you unfortunately put financial needs in the perspective of taking from one group - elders - in order to support another children. Why?
 What's wrong with a restructured tax system that gets a return from corporations that is equal to their wealth, instead of simply taking from the majority of working people. That structure has been turned around over the past 50 or so years, so that the corporate tax "burden" has decreased, while that on ordinary citizens has increased.
 Our children need more consideration than they now get, but so do the people who have those children. And they are not corporations, which are still treated as rich, privileged indivduals. Sadly, your otherwise thoughtful piece accepted things as they are, even while you seemed to propose change

Frank Scott

As a working mom I really appreciated your article. Id love to be home with my son all year (I am a teacher, so I do have good hours and summer vacation) but cannot afford it. My husband and I both have to work to pay the mortgage on our modest home in a decent neighborhood. One- and two-year olds do need more that your average 66 year old! Unfortunately they cant vote for politicians or school budgets so guess whose voice is louder.

Carolyn Cavuoto

Your concluding paragraph concerning Social Security eligibility got me thinking. How about this? Instead of raising the age for full retirement, lower the full retirement age for people who will be full-time child care workers, paid or unpaid, if only for their own grandchildren. Imagine the hordes of us baby-boomers who are approaching retirement and would actually like to help raise our grandchildren, but cant afford to take early retirement!
 OK, so its a pipe dream. But at this point, so is every other alternative provision for child care in this country.

Pat Sitler

Those groups that wish to keep women at home (ostensibly because "its best for the children" but perhaps because they believe on a moral or spiritual level that "its where a woman belongs"), will use the Quebec results to vigorously argue that daycare is detrimental to children (ignoring the subtleties of the results), and more quietly, perhaps, argue that it encourages a "social ill" in that more women will choose to work outside the home when free daycare is available.
 The bottom line is, its heartening to see a call for government-funded daycare at the end of your piece, but in light of how the rest of the article confirms the middling-to-poor results from the experiment in Quebec, your call seems destined to be largely overlooked, except perhaps as fodder for opponents' arguments.

Lisa S. Wren

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILD CARE (90%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (89%); FAMILY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (70%); TAX INCENTIVES (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: QUEBEC, CANADA (73%) UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2006



291 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: Team Booker Sweeps Municipal Races in Newark 

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE; John Holl contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: NEWARK, June 13 

 BODY:
A new mayor, like a new broom, apparently sweeps clean.
 All six Municipal Council candidates backed by Cory Booker won seats in a runoff Tuesday night, giving Mr. Booker, the mayor-elect, a nine-member Council of allies and a crystal-clear mandate to carry out his proposed overhaul of city government.
The results -- coming five weeks after Mr. Booker coasted to victory with 72 percent of the vote -- effectively end the era of Mayor Sharpe James, who has dominated Newark for two decades, and kick-start what many here hope will be a period of increased public safety and economic growth. 
 ''It's the consolidation of a revolution,'' said Ross K. Baker, a political science professor at Rutgers University. ''It gives Booker the opportunity to set the agenda.''
 Mr. Booker, 37, and the new Council will take over on July 1. They inherit a Jekyll and Hyde of a city where rising property values inspire local pride even as fatal shootings, deficient schools and relentless unemployment reduce residents to tears. 
 Mr. Booker and his team have promised to make Newark safe, prosperous and efficient for its 280,000 residents, a New-York-like model of urban reform. Among the new administration's goals are a re-organization of the police department, with an emphasis on eliminating gangs, the return of local control in the city's public schools, and a new approach to development that emphasizes jobs for city residents.
 In a brief speech outside a restaurant, where 150 supporters of Mr. Booker shouted and waved stiff new brooms in the air, the mayor-elect said that the victory guaranteed change and improvement for Newark. ''This city has seen the biggest turnover in its history,'' he said, holding a broom over his head. ''We have a sweep.''
 Luis Quintana, Mildred Crump, Carlos Gonzalez and Donald Payne Jr. were winners in the seven-way race for the Council's four at-large seats. The other Booker team victors were Oscar S. James II, who beat John James, Mayor James's son, in the South Ward, and Ronald C. Rice, who defeated the incumbent, Mamie Bridgeforth, in the West Ward.
 Mr. Booker said their work was just beginning. ''The real victory we seek is a vision for our children's future; the real victory we seek is security and safety in the streets; the real victory we seek is to have a city government that doesn't serve itself but the people.''
 In recent weeks, Mr. Booker has been more specific. He said that he and the Council would pass a strict new ethics law in their first 100 days, and re-evaluate Newark's deal with the New Jersey Devils to build a new $310 million hockey arena downtown. He has promised to end discounted sales of city-owned land, which developers have bought in recent years for as little as $1 a square foot, and to hire national leaders in urban policy even if it angers the local political establishment. 
 The Rev. Reginald T. Jackson, executive director of the Black Ministers Council of New Jersey, said that with Mr. Booker's wide margin of victory and a majority on the Council, ''everything is on the table.''
 ''That's one of the expectations of those who elected him mayor,'' Mr. Jackson said. ''They are expecting change and not piecemeal change. They expect a complete revamping.''
 Word of the Council sweep reached Mr. Booker's supporters at Flava, a club downtown, just before 9:30 p.m. Mr. Booker arrived about a half-hour later in a black S.U.V., followed by the victorious candidates. 
 Among the losing candidates the mood was dim. Ras Baraka, an incumbent who lost his at-large seat and John James both complained in recent days of being outspent and outmanned by Mr. Booker's campaign, which raised $6 million. On Tuesday night, Mr. Baraka told a small crowd of his supporters at a community center downtown that they needed to stay vigilant and check the power of ''the Booker machine.'' 
 ''We fought against a lot of money and a lot of media,'' Mr. Baraka said in an interview. ''It was an uphill battle from the beginning.''
 In another closely watched New Jersey runoff, Joseph V. Doria Jr., the mayor of Bayonne, beat Patrick D. Conaghan 53 to 47 percent. It was the first runoff for Mr. Doria -- who is also a state senator -- since being elected mayor eight years ago.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Cory Booker, with broom, and Oscar S. James II, a Council candidate, arriving at a victory party yesterday. (Photo by Marko Georgiev for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (93%); MAYORS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (74%); POLICE FORCES (73%); ICE HOCKEY (71%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); ETHICS (67%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (54%); SHOOTINGS (52%) Mayors; Elections; City Councils; Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: DONALD M PAYNE (75%) Damien Cave; Cory Booker; Luis (Councilman) Quintana; Mildred Crump; Carlos (Councilman) Gonzalez; Donald Jr Payne; Oscar S II James; Ronald C Rice

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (96%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Newark (NJ); Newark (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2006



292 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2006
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 1075 words

HEADLINE: Economic Forum Opens as National Stocks Plunge

BYLINE: COMPILED by ALEXANDER NURNBERG

 BODY:
A summary of the top stories in Russian newspapers appears Monday through Friday.
 TODAY'S TOP STORY
 Russia's strength as a world economic power was discussed in most national newspapers Wednesday, after President Vladimir V. Putin opened a conference billed as the Russian Davos on the same day that the stock market suffered its biggest one-day drop since Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky was arrested in 2003. 
 Opening the 10th Petersburg International Economic Forum on Tuesday, Mr. Putin said that "nobody has any doubt that Russia is a world leader in the speed of its economic growth," according to Rossiskaya Gazeta. Mr. Putin added that gold and currency reserves continued to grow, and that his country was no longer threatened by foreign debt or in need of foreign loans, several newspapers reported. Izvestia concluded that "everything in Russia is going very well". 
 First Deputy Prime Minister Dmitri A. Medvedev, who is regularly touted as Mr. Putin's heir-in-waiting, delivered a speech at the conference's opening session in which he seemed "enthused by the strong state of the Russian economy," according to Nezavisimaya Gazeta. Mr. Medvedev also questioned the wisdom of the United States dollar remaining the basic unit for world currency reserves, citing high budget and trade deficits in America. "The current state of the economy in the United States the issuer of the world's sole reserve currency raises concerns," Mr. Medvedev said, according to the Moscow Times, "and gives us the moral right to initiate a discussion about the need for more balanced rules in this area." He suggested diversifying the world reserve system by including several world currencies, including the Russian ruble. Kommersant said that Mr. Medvedev's speech amounted to a "presentation of his campaign program." 
 Vremya Novostei referred to the day as "another black Tuesday," however. While delegates at the conference in St. Petersburg "were talking about investment opportunities," the paper wrote, "investors were getting rid of Russian assets, which are still considered risky." The Russian Trading System stock exchange plunged 9.37 percent, with Gazprom shares falling 11 percent and Lukoil dropping 10.2 percent. The same stock exchange had reached a record high in early May, the Moscow Times noted, highlighting "the growing volatility of the local market." 
 Vremya Novstei attributed the crash to the turnaround of the dollar and its recent rise against other world currencies, which decreased the price of gold in world markets. 
 "What exactly it was that caused this fall in the market," Kommersant wrote, "is almost of no interest to its participants." Vedomosti, a financial newspaper, reported: "In describing the investors' behavior, there were few market participants who did not use the words 'panic' and 'fear.'"

IN OTHER NEWS

ROSSISKAYA GAZETA

CABINET RESHUFFLING EXPECTED SOON: The official state newspaper writes that the present structure of the government makes work "practically impossible" and that a cabinet reshuffling, or total restructuring, is expected. There has been much talk recently about transferring the responsibility for trade from German Gref, at present the Minister for the Economy and Trade, to another minister, potentially Viktor Khristenko, the Minister for Energy and Industry. The paper notes that under Prime Minister Mikhail Fradkov there are five deputy prime ministers, and then 25 ministers, a system that the paper says precludes " conducting any sort of task-oriented policy." "The vice-premiers had authority, but no leverage," the paper wrote. "The ministers had leverage, but no authority."

VREMYA NOVOSTEI

BELARUS TIGHTENS CONTROL OVER GOODS: Belarus has operational customs posts on the border with Russia and has deployed officers to monitor transit of goods through its territory to Russia, for the first time since 1995. In that year a "customs union" between Moscow and Minsk was signed by President Aleksandr G. Lukashenko and the Russian Prime Minister at the time, Viktor Chernomyrdin; the two leaders ceremoniously "disinterred border fenceposts." Belarus says the present move is "a temporary measure," largely focused on the transit of alcohol and cigarettes. A Belarusian pundit quoted suggests that a customs border might be fully reinstated if, as proposed, Russia raises the prices of its natural gas exports to Belarus.

VEDOMOSTI

RUSSIA HURTS NEIGHBORS' ECONOMIES: Russia's economic measures against "obstinate Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine" are dealing a serious blow to those nations' economies, the paper writes, although so far the measures seem not to have "exacted an influence on their politics." Russia has increased the price of natural gas to all three republics, and also closed internal markets to produce from those countries. Ukraine, for example, is spending an extra $900 million annually for its gas as of this year, and loses about $50-60 million every month due to a Russian ban on imports of meat and milk products.

IZVESTIA

BILL CLINTON STILL GENERATES INTEREST: The veteran Soviet journalist Melor Sturua writes in a long article which leads the international news pages in Izvestia that President Bill Clinton's "mischievous heart continues to throb at the sight of every skirt, even after a quadruple bypass." Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton is "perhaps the main pretender" for the Democratic candidacy for president, but "the cause of her problems" is her husband, according to Mr. Sturua. He further alleges that Mr. Clinton "used the services" of prostitutes at the Copacabana Palace hotel in Rio de Janeiro, and that Mrs. Clinton has compiled a dossier or "sex biography" of her husband's infidelities, as a "guarantee" to protect her reputation and secure her financial position in the event of a divorce.

THE MOSCOW TIMES

GM AND NISSAN OPEN PLANTS IN RUSSIA: General Motors chief executive Rick Wagoner met with President Vladimir V. Putin Tuesday after breaking ground for a new plant at Shushary, near St. Petersburg. Nissan chief executive Charles Gohn also signed an agreement in St. Petersburg to build a plant nearby, and Shushary is the site of a Toyota factory due to open in 2007. The governor of St. Petersburg, Valentina Matvienko, said that the G.M. project was "a good indicator of Russian-U.S. relations," and that success was guaranteed, thanks to Dmitri A. Medvedev, the First Deputy Prime Minister, who was the project's "godfather," she said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BUDGETS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); US DOLLAR (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); EXTERNAL DEBT (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (65%); ARRESTS (56%); FOREIGN LENDING (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: OAO GAZPROM (63%); RUSSIAN TRADING SYSTEM STOCK EXCHANGE OJSC (52%); OAO LUKOIL (52%)

TICKER: OGZD (LSE) (63%); GAZP (RTS) (63%); LKOH (RTS) (52%); LKOD (LSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (63%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (63%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (63%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (63%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (63%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (63%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2006



293 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1004 words

HEADLINE: Giuliani Says Nation Lacks Energy Policy

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY; Conrad Mulcahy contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
Challenging fellow Republicans in Washington, former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani said yesterday that the Bush administration lacked an energy policy and that greater reliance on nuclear power, ethanol-based fuels and hybrid vehicles was more realistic than President Bush's goal of independence from foreign energy sources.
 Mr. Giuliani, who is considering a presidential bid in 2008, did not criticize Mr. Bush by name, and some of his ideas reflected Republican orthodoxy about increasing energy supply. Yet in a speech to conservative thinkers from the Manhattan Institute for Policy Research, Mr. Giuliani implicitly accused the White House of doing little to expand energy sources. Afterward, too, he expressed concern about global warming, saying that ''everyone accepts the fact that it's happening and it has an impact.'' 
''I can't imagine how you can achieve anything in government without a plan,'' he said in his remarks at the Princeton Club, referring to the nation's long-range energy needs. ''This is an area where we haven't had a plan in a very, very long time.''
 Mr. Giuliani, whose consulting firm, Giuliani Partners, advises energy companies and a liquefied natural gas project on Long Island Sound, called for easing and hastening permits for more nuclear power plants, natural gas ports and oil refineries. He said the nation could not afford another 30 years without a far-sighted energy policy.
 ''We've been sitting there for a generation, just hoping there'll be some magic solution,'' he said.
 His comments come as some of the leading Democratic presidential prospects, including Al Gore and Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, have been highlighting environmental issues, particularly the need to move away from dependence on fossil fuels. 
 Asked by an audience member what his advice to Mr. Bush would be, Mr. Giuliani called for fixed numerical goals and deadlines to build more nuclear power plants, encourage use of hybrid cars, and increase the supply of ethanol and other resources. Ethanol is an economic priority in Iowa, which has the nation's first presidential caucuses.
 While Mr. Giuliani has spoken recently on immigration and terrorism, he has mostly avoided giving presidential-style addresses this year. He said yesterday he would make a decision about a presidential bid after the 2006 elections. 
 Yet he also did not fuss yesterday when an audience member asked how he would approach education as president. He spoke forcefully in favor of school choice and vouchers, saying education was ''a major civil rights issue'' in cities that had failing public schools.
 He did not explicitly propose a program of federal vouchers, but he said he would emphasize the idea in office and urge local districts to ''go to a choice system and break up the monopoly'' of public school education.
 Many political analysts regard Mr. Giuliani as a popular national political figure who would nevertheless be a long shot for the presidency, because he would face real challenges winning the Republican Party nomination. He supports abortion rights, gay civil unions and gun control measures, three positions that are unacceptable to many Republican primary voters.
 Political advisers to Mr. Giuliani say they believe that national security, terrorism, the economy, and perhaps Iraq will dominate the 2008 race, and that Mr. Giuliani is in the Republican mainstream on those issues. They also note that, in large part because of leadership after the 9/11 attacks, Mr. Giuliani is in first or second place in most public opinion polls surveying the 2008 race; only Senator John McCain tends to do as well.
 In recent months, Mr. Giuliani has applied his political muscle to raising money for Republican candidates for state and federal office, as well as defending President Bush's Iraq strategy and tax cuts.
 Given how rarely he has publicly disagreed with the White House, Mr. Giuliani's complaints about federal energy policy were intriguing.
 During the speech -- in which he relied on a slide show instead of prepared remarks and rambled at times -- Mr. Giuliani was relentlessly skeptical while also being short on specific solutions. He questioned the notion of energy independence that Mr. Bush and many Democrats have floated, yet his own alternatives were fairly general.
 ''The idea of energy independence for the United States is maybe the wrong paradigm -- I don't know if we can ever be independent,'' he said. But he added, ''I think you can be independent by being diversified,'' arguing that Americans needed to depend more on home-grown fuels and energy resources.
 Mr. Giuliani repeatedly touted hybrid cars and said they needed ''to be heavily supported and effectively moved forward.'' (It did not escape reporters' attention, however, that a large Escalade was idling outside for him.)
 At the same time, he sounded a skeptical note about energy conservation, saying it was ''helpful but not really very, very effective'' in dealing with energy. He said decreasing demand could harm the economy, though he did not go into detail.
 Energy analysts said that while his remarks had a theatrical call-to-arms quality, many of his ideas were familiar. 
 ''There's not a lot here that's different from what Dick Cheney would say,'' said Ashok Gupta, director of the air and energy program at the Natural Resources Defense Council, an environmental group in New York.
 ''Giuliani is focused so much on supply, instead of dealing with demand and energy efficiency and conservation,'' Mr. Gupta said. ''To pass anything through Congress, you need a balanced message.''
 Yet Myron Magnet, an audience member and the editor of City Journal, a Manhattan Institute publication, praised Mr. Giuliani's plan as ''absolutely coherent.''
 Later yesterday, Mr. Giuliani was host of a reception at the Four Seasons to raise $2 million for his political action committee, Solutions America. 
 It drew 200 donors and friends, as well as Ken Mehlman, chairman of the Republican National Committee.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Rudolph Giuliani at a fund-raiser yesterday. He says he will decide about a 2008 bid after the 2006 elections. (Photo by Heidi Schumann for The New York Times)(pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (92%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); HYBRID VEHICLES (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ETHANOL (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ALCOHOLS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (86%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CITIES (78%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (77%); LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (75%); POWER PLANTS (73%); CAUCUSES (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (73%); IMMIGRATION (72%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (71%); OIL & GAS PLANT CONSTRUCTION (71%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (71%); GLOBAL WARMING (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); CITY LIFE (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (63%); SCHOOL CHOICE (63%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (60%); TERRORISM (50%); CIVIL RIGHTS (50%) Energy and Power; Electric Light and Power; Atomic Energy; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Ethanol; Fuel Efficiency; Energy and Power; Automobiles; Electric and Hybrid Vehicles

ORGANIZATION: MANHATTAN INSTITUTE FOR POLICY RESEARCH (83%) Manhattan Institute for Policy Research

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (94%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); AL GORE (58%) Patrick Healy; Rudolph W Giuliani; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2006



294 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: THE PRESIDENT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1481 words

HEADLINE: Bush Makes Surprise Visit To Iraq to Press Leadership

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS and DEXTER FILKINS

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, June 13 

 BODY:
President Bush used a surprise visit to Baghdad on Tuesday to tell the country's new leaders that ''the fate and future of Iraq is in your hands'' and that the time had come for Iraqis to pull together to save the faltering American-sponsored democracy here.
 ''My message to the Iraqi people is this: seize the moment,'' Mr. Bush said in a speech to American troops and embassy employees who gave him a rapturous reception in one of the marbled halls of Saddam Hussein's old Republican Palace, now the main American command center in the Green Zone. ''Seize the opportunity to develop a government of, and by, and for the people.''
Only a handful of Mr. Bush's closest aides knew about the six-hour visit before he departed from Washington on Monday night. Mr. Bush seemed intent on pressing home a message that American military commanders and embassy officials have been urging on the new government since it took office three weeks ago: after two previous Iraqi governments since Saddam Hussein became mired in incompetence and corruption, time is running out for Iraq's politicians to develop an effective government and a common front against the insurgents. 
 Seated beside Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, in a meeting that included American officials and 17 members of the Iraqi cabinet, Mr. Bush told the prime minister that he had come ''to look you in the eye.'' He repeated the phrase later at the palace, when he told troops and other Americans he had come ''to look at Prime Minister Maliki in the eyes and determine whether or not he is as dedicated to a free Iraq as you are.'' 
 Mr. Bush added, ''And I believe he is.''
 Mr. Bush also gave Mr. Maliki a renewed assurance that the United States would not abandon the new government as it struggles to curb the spiraling violence, rebuild the country's shattered infrastructure and put Iraqis back to work in a reviving economy. 
 ''I also have a message to the Iraqi people: that when America gives a commitment, America will keep its commitment,'' he said, to wild cheers from the 300 American soldiers and civilians gathered in the palace hall.
 The trip was Mr. Bush's second to Iraq, after his trip here at Thanksgiving in 2003, when he remained at an American military base at the Baghdad airport, and arrived and departed under cover of darkness. This time, he landed in midafternoon and left the safety of the airport for the 10-mile journey by helicopter over some of the most dangerous neighborhoods in Baghdad, including predominantly Sunni Arab districts on the city's western edge that have been a haven for insurgents. 
 On Tuesday, Mr. Bush left the palace at 9.20 p.m., and boarded an American military helicopter for Baghdad's international airport and Air Force One, which had carried the president and a small party of White House aides from Washington on the 11-hour journey on Monday night. Aides said that the return trip would involve a refueling stop at an American air base in Mildenhall in Britain, and that Mr. Bush would be back in Washington by dawn on Wednesday.
 Security for the visit on Tuesday was extraordinarily tight, exceeding anything previously experienced in a city that has become a byword for suicide bombings, ambushes and kidnappings. The airport was closed for at least an hour before Air Force One spiraled steeply down onto the runway, following procedures aimed at foiling insurgents' missiles.
 American officers said Mr. Bush had flown into the city on a heavily armed Nighthawk helicopter, forsaking the distinctive Marine One helicopter that the president traditionally uses in the United States and abroad. 
 Bridges across the Tigris River in the city's heart were closed, and American attack helicopters circled low over the Green Zone during the visit. Additional Humvees with turret gunners were stationed on approaches to the palace inside the Green Zone, and hundreds of Americans working in the building were told to pack up for the day and leave several hours before Mr. Bush arrived, leaving him to enter an eerily quiet building. 
 American officials said Mr. Maliki was told that Mr. Bush was coming only shortly before the president arrived, after the Iraqi leader joined American officials at the palace in preparation for what had been announced late last week as a video-conference meeting involving Mr. Bush and members of his cabinet at Camp David and the Maliki cabinet in Baghdad.
 The president's promise that the United States would stand by its Iraqi allies appeared aimed not only at Mr. Maliki and his cabinet, but also at other critical audiences: Iraqi insurgent groups whose Web sites have noted increasing popular discontent in the United States with the war, and politicians in the United States who see the American effort in Iraq as doomed and favor an early end to the military commitment.
 The rebuttal to his critics came as Mr. Bush, meeting with the American soldiers and civilians as he wrapped up his visit, rehearsed the themes that have been hallmarks of his presidency -- America's role in widening liberty in the world, and its tradition of steadfastness under challenge.
 After a minute's ovation when he entered, the audience repeatedly interrupted the president with wild cheering and whoops, and crowded around him for 10 minutes afterward as he strode in among them and chatted about their families and their war experiences.
 The cheering was loudest when Mr. Bush, flanked by the two top Americans in Baghdad, Gen. George W. Casey Jr., the overall military commander, and Ambassador Zalmay Khalilzad, spoke of Saddam Hussein as a ''selfish, brutal leader'' who had humiliated Iraqis and denied them freedom, and when he invoked the bombing strike last week that killed America's most-wanted man in Iraq, Abu Musab al-Zarqawi. 
 ''Our military will stay on the offensive,'' Mr. Bush said. ''We will continue to hunt down people like Mr. Zarqawi and bring them to justice.''
 ''You know,'' he said, ''right after September the 11th, I knew that some would forget the dangers we face, some would hope that the world would be what it's not: a peaceful place where people wouldn't want to do harm to those of us who love freedom. I vowed that day, after September the 11th, to do everything I could to protect the American people. And I was able to make that claim because there were people such as yourselves, who are willing to be on the front line in the war on terror.''
 Mr. Maliki, at 56 a newcomer to government office, appeared uneasy at times during the visit, smiling when he greeted Mr. Bush on his arrival in the palace rotunda, but otherwise looking mostly somber. One Iraqi official said the visit was a double-edged sword for Mr. Maliki -- allowing Iraq's 25 million people to see that he enjoyed the personal backing of the American leader, but also inviting criticism from Iraqis who regard most of the politicians who have run for office under the American-sponsored elections as American stooges.
 Mr. Maliki's remarks when reporters were ushered into the conference room where he and his cabinet colleagues were meeting with Mr. Bush and other American officials were brief, and seemed aimed at echoing Mr. Bush's themes.
 He thanked Mr. Bush for the American role in overthrowing Mr. Hussein, saying that Iraqis had freedom ''for the first time'' in their history, and vowing that Iraq would ''stay united and strong.'' He added: ''God willing, all the suffering will soon be over and all the coalition soldiers can return to their countries.''
 American officialsin Baghdad, who asked not to be identified because they were not authorized to discuss details of the trip, said advance work for the journey went into high gear last week when Mr. Maliki finally won approval from feuding Sunni and Shiite political groups on nominees to the crucial war-related posts in the cabinet.
 A member of the American advance party said the decision to make the journey had been made by the time that Mr. Zarqawi, Al Qaeda's leader in Iraq, was killed by two 500-pound bombs that struck the safe house where he was hiding at Hibhib, 35 miles north of Baghdad, last Wednesday evening. 
 The strike provided the 135,000 American troops here with their biggest morale boost since the capture of Mr. Hussein in December 2003, and set off a series of raids, mostly around Baghdad, in which the American command has said it killed or captured dozens of other Qaeda-linked terrorists and seized a trove of new intelligence about the Qaeda role in the war.
 Once the decision to make the trip was made, said officials quoted in pool reports filed by reporters traveling on Air Force One, the White House went to extraordinary lengths to keep the trip secret, even by the strict standards usually applied for the president's overseas visits. Only six White House officials knew that Mr. Bush was making the trip, they said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush and Nuri Kamal al-Maliki in Baghdad yesterday. (Photo by Pablo Martinez Monsivais/Associated Press)(pg. A1)
 President Bush and Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, far right, met with Americans and Iraqi cabinet members in the Green Zone yesterday. (Pool photo by Jacob Silberberg)(pg. A14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (61%); HELICOPTERS (60%); THANKSGIVING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); NOURI AL-MALIKI (91%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2006



295 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Square Feet; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1241 words

HEADLINE: In Major Projects, Agreeing Not to Disagree

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

 BODY:
To blunt opposition to its proposed Atlantic Yards project in Brooklyn, Forest City Ratner promised to make half of the rental units affordable for low- and moderate-income families. 
 To gain neighbors' support for its new cancer care center, Yale-New Haven Hospital agreed to create an outreach program for children with asthma.
 And to smooth the way for its Gateway Center retail project, which will replace the Bronx Terminal Market, the Related Companies pledged to bar Wal-Mart as a tenant. 
 In New York and around the country, it has become standard practice for developers of major projects to negotiate with neighborhood and other groups to forge so-called community benefits agreements -- contracts that almost always contain wage and hiring goals and may also include a grab bag of concessions, like a day care center, a new park, free tickets to sports events and cash outlays to be administered by the groups themselves. 
 In New York, in contrast with many other jurisdictions, the city itself is not a party to these agreements. Theoretically, at least, the pacts are not supposed to play a role in the city's zoning review process. 
 Since 2001, when a comprehensive community benefits agreement was struck for a hotel-and-entertainment project now being developed in Los Angeles next to the Staples Center sports arena, the trend has quickly spread to other cities, including Denver, Milwaukee, Chicago and Washington. Advocates of C.B.A.'s, as they are known, see them as an outgrowth of the Smart Growth movement -- the idea that development decisions should address a broad range of social and economic issues like transportation, jobs and housing. 
 In New York, however, some critics are wondering if this trend is threatening to distort the planning process. They say the danger is that local groups will agree not to oppose the projects in exchange for favors that may be unrelated to the project's impact on the neighborhood. 
 Critics of the Atlantic Yards (whose developer is a partner to The New York Times Company in its new headquarters building on Eighth Avenue) and other agreements have questioned whether the groups signing the document really speak for the community. ''Groups pop up and you're not sure who they represent,'' said Patricia A. Jones, the co-chairwoman of the Manhattan Community Board 9 task force on Columbia University's expansion in Manhattanville. Ms. Jones contends that development plans ought to be reviewed by community boards, which are currently excluded from the C.B.A. process, before the benefits are meted out. ''They can look at the bigger picture,'' she said. 
 Ross F. Moskowitz, a real estate partner at the law firm Stroock & Stroock & Lavan, said developers would like the procedures to be clearer and more predictable. ''The danger of a C.B.A. is that it is outside the process,'' he said. ''There are no guidelines, no controls. The transparency is not there. You just don't know what you're walking into.''
 In California, leaders of the community benefits movement say New York's agreements lack the protections that are standard elsewhere. ''In the C.B.A.'s we work on,'' said Julian Gross, the legal director of the California Partnership for Working Families, an advocacy group that has negotiated a number of agreements, ''the city is closely involved in the negotiations. There's no point in the community group and the developer negotiating a lot of stuff that the city doesn't want.'' 
 Outside New York, benefit agreements are usually incorporated into the developer's agreement with the city, adding another layer of enforcement. 
 The local redevelopment agency was ''intimately involved'' in the C.B.A. that J. H. Snyder, a Los Angeles developer, negotiated for NoHo Commons, a 1.5-million-square-foot mixed-use project centered on a subway stop in North Hollywood, said Clifford Goldstein, a senior partner. ''It's a very open process,'' said Mr. Goldstein, who is currently working on another C.B.A. for a project in South Los Angeles.
 Carl Weisbrod, the president of Trinity Real Estate in New York, said that the government should be involved in any agreement that pertained to a subsidized project to ensure that ''the services and the organizations that are being given money to provide the services are fully in keeping with government priorities.''
 There are signs that Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's administration is rethinking its position on community benefits agreements. A year ago, it was the mayor himself who trumpeted the Atlantic Yards agreement between Forest City Ratner and eight community groups.
 But in April, the mayor reacted angrily to the suggestion that the Mets would negotiate a C.B.A. for its new ballpark. ''Every development project in this city is not going to be a horn of plenty for everybody else that wants to grab something,'' the mayor said. And while the Mets agreed after heated discussions with council members from Queens to contribute $50 million over 20 years to local community groups, no C.B.A. was signed.
 The mayor's office declined requests for interviews with city officials, saying it was premature to discuss the administration's plans for C.B.A.'s.
 Several land-use specialists said the debate over community benefits agreements was a throwback to the 1980's, when local groups in New York often leveraged their support for development projects to get libraries, parks and other amenities. Critics at that time also said it was unfair for a community's chance to get a park to hinge on its ability to attract a deep-pocketed developer, said Margaret P. Stix, a land-use lawyer.
 In an influential 1988 report, the New York City Bar Association said that some politicians had approved projects solely to get unrelated benefits, thereby corrupting the zoning process. The lawyers' group recommended that any amenities promised by a developer have a reasonable relationship to the project, a practice that successive administrations adopted, said Jesse Masyr, the lawyer who negotiated the Bronx Terminal Market agreement. 
 In the 1990's, Mr. Masyr said, the Giuliani administration barred his client, the Blumenfeld Development Group, from providing a park to appease opponents of East River Plaza, a shopping center now under construction in East Harlem. They reasoned that testimony from people who had received a benefit unrelated to the project could taint the zoning review process, he said. 
 But the current administration has taken a more hands-off approach, Mr. Masyr said. ''I'll tell you what I think is the most dicey part of this: there's cash involved, money payments to be made. Who monitors it?'' he said. ''This is about as unregulated a world as you could imagine.''
 In California, leaders of the community benefits movement that are party to an agreement never accept money from the developer, said Madeline Janis-Aparicio, the executive director of the Los Angeles Alliance for a New Economy, a nonprofit research group. ''No donations of any kind,'' she said. She also said it took six months to a year to pull together a coalition before negotiations could begin. ''You can't skip steps,'' she said. 
 Melinda R. Katz, chairwoman of the City Council's land use committee, said that New York officials were examining how other cities handled community benefits agreements. ''We can probably learn a lot from other jurisdictions,'' she said. ''And we're in the process of doing that.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: An artist's rendering of NoHo Commons, a mixed-use project in North Hollywood. (Photo by The Jerde Partnership) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); TRENDS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ZONING (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); CHILDREN (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (76%); LAND USE PLANNING (75%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (75%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (74%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (68%); SPORTS (68%); ASTHMA (57%) Labor; Wages and Salaries; Hiring and Promotion; Area Planning and Renewal

COMPANY: STROOCK & STROOCK & LAVAN LLP (84%); NEW YORK TIMES CO (63%)

ORGANIZATION: CANCER CARE (58%)

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (63%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (63%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (63%)

PERSON: Terry Pristin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York City; New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2006



296 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: Markets Regain Some Momentum After Recent Losses 

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Stocks rebounded Wednesday, with the Dow Jones industrial average climbing more than 110 points, pulling Wall Street out of a two-week decline that had wiped out the year's gains in every major index.
 Stocks gained momentum in late afternoon trading after a largely lackluster session affected by mixed reactions to the Commerce Department's Consumer Price Index inflation data. Consumer-level inflation grew in May at an annual rate of 2.4 percent, making another Federal Reserve rate increase a near certainty and putting an end to traders' fretting about the possibility.
The Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, and Fed governors have said that anything above a 1 to 2 percent rate of inflation is outside their ''comfort zone.'' 
 Stocks have fallen for six of the last seven trading days on inflation fears, with the Dow losing more than 541 points over the previous seven sessions. Yesterday's gains put the Dow back into positive territory for the year, but the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index and the Nasdaq composite index remain lower.
 ''Today is a reversal day,'' said John C. Forelli, portfolio manager for Independence Investment in Boston.
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 110.78, up 1.03 points, to 10,816.92. Broader stock indicators also rose, but not as much. The Standard & Poor's index rose 6.35 points, or 0.52 percent, to 1,230.04, and the Nasdaq composite index rose 13.53 points, or 0.65 percent, to 2,086.
 Bonds fell, with the price of the benchmark 10-year note falling 24/32 to 10016/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, rose to 5.06 percent, from 4.96 percent late Tuesday. The dollar was down against most major currencies. Gold prices also fell, closing at $559.75 a troy ounce, far below their recent highs above $700.
 Crude oil futures rose. A barrel of light crude was quoted at $69.14, up 58 cents, in trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 Japanese markets rebounded yesterday after their biggest drop in two years, and European stocks closed mixed. But markets remained shaky elsewhere. Russia's benchmark index dropped 9.4 percent yesterday after falling 10 percent in Tuesday's trading. Pakistan's benchmark index lost 5.86 percent, and Thai stocks fell 3.54 percent.
 Both United States and global stocks have been pummeled by fears that inflation will reduce spending worldwide, and that the resulting rise in interest rates will make capital more expensive for companies seeking to expand. But by the time the C.P.I. numbers came out yesterday, analysts said, inflation news had already been factored into stock prices.
 In company news, Boeing rose $5.03, or 6.5 percent, to $82.01 after Singapore Airlines said it would buy 20 Boeing 787-9 aircraft for $4.52 billion, hours after it expressed unhappiness about delays in the delivery of the A380 superjumbo from Airbus.
 Bayer rose $3.07, to $41.28, after an agreement that could clear the way for it to take over Schering. Schering rose $2.54, to $111.55.
 The Tribune Company rose 89 cents, to $31.94, after one of its largest shareholders called for a breakup of the company, saying its strategy of combining broadcasting and newspaper properties in large cities had failed.
 Shares of the stun-gun maker Taser International rose 55 cents, to $8.02, after the company's chairman, Phillips W. Smith, bought $762,000 worth of the company's stock. The stock has fallen nearly 18 percent since Monday, when the company announced that it had filed a patent infringement lawsuit against Bestex, a maker of air guns that fire darts to shock humans.

New VeraSun Shares Soar 30%
(By Bloomberg News)
 Shares of VeraSun Energy, an ethanol producer based in Brookings, S.D., jumped as much as 34 percent in their first day of trading yesterday.
 VeraSun rose as high as $30.75 after an initial public offering at $23, at least $1 a share more than the company anticipated in its regulatory filing for the sale. The shares closed at $30, up 30.4 percent.
 ''Ethanol supplies are pretty tight and demand is still rising,'' said Kevin Buente, who helps oversee a $2 billion portfolio of loans to ethanol makers and farmers at 1st Farm Credit Services, which is based in Normal, Ill. ''Anyone who can make ethanol will have no trouble finding buyers for it.''
 Stocks of ethanol makers, including Pacific Ethanol and Archer Daniels Midland, have almost doubled in the last year.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (97%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INFLATION (92%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); FUTURES (79%); CURRENCIES (79%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); STATISTICS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); METALS MARKETS (77%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); ENERGY MARKETS (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); US DOLLAR (76%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); INTEREST RATES (71%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (69%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (61%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (57%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (52%); SINGAPORE AIRLINES LTD (50%); BOEING CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (58%)

TICKER: C6L (SGX) (50%); BOE (LSE) (50%); BAB (BRU) (50%); BA (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (50%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (50%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (50%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PAKISTAN (75%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (52%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2006



297 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: Investing in Good Deeds Without Checking the Prospectus 

BYLINE: By Tyler Cowen. 
Tyler Cowen is a professor of economics at George Mason University and is a co-author of a blog, www.marginalrevolution.com. He can be reached at tcowen@gmu.edu.

 BODY:
DONORS to charities, it seems, do not behave rationally. Increasing evidence shows that donors often tolerate high administrative costs, fail to monitor charities and do not insist on measurable results -- the opposite of how they act when they invest in the stock market.
 The charitable sector now represents more than 2 percent of gross domestic product in the United States. So, improvements could bring significant value to American higher education, religion and the arts, which have come to rely on donations. 
But before we can improve our charity, we must first understand it. John A. List, an economist at the University of Chicago, is studying fund-raising campaigns toward this end. Professor List, combining his career as a researcher with a role as part-time consultant, introduces variations into real world fund-raising campaigns and studies the results. This reflects his core method of the ''field experiment,'' which he has applied to topics as diverse as competition between the genders, how contestants cooperate on television game shows and how markets work in baseball card trading. Steven D. Levitt, co-author of ''Freakonomics'' and a colleague at the University of Chicago, refers to Professor List as the young economist most likely to win a Nobel Prize.
 Professor List's research implies that most donors do not respond when they have opportunities to be more effective in their giving. For instance, it is well known that a ''matching pledge'' -- if one donor gives a dollar, some other donor pledges to give a dollar more -- increases charitable contributions. Donors are enticed by the idea of ''more bang for the buck.'' Yet Professor List finds (''Does Price Matter in Charitable Giving?'', co-written with Dean Karlan, an economics professor at Yale University, http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract--id=903817) that the size of the match does not seem to matter. When the pledge is for $2 or even $3 to match an outside dollar, donors do not, in the aggregate, give more money. 
 Professor List's work more generally suggests that people become rational in their spending only through the repeated experience of trading in markets. This trial-and-error process, with the accompanying feedback, is absent when people give money to a distant charity. Once the money is gone, donors do not personally bear direct costs from bad charitable decisions. Nor is it easy to learn what went wrong.
 Professor List has yet to delve into the specifics of donor motives, but the obvious conclusion is that donors do not behave like customers. Customers take great care to learn about the merits of different expenditures, on cars or on homes, for example. 
 But donors often give to charities for reasons of pride. Monitoring a charity means worrying about the wisdom of contributing to that charity. Many donors would instead prefer simply to feel good about their generosity and thus they deceive themselves into thinking that all is going well. Furthermore, many donors seek a sense of affiliation and wish to be a part of large and successful organizations -- the ''winning team,'' so to speak. Again, these donors do not focus on how, or if, they actually end up improving the world.
 If donors are not looking at results, they may end up choosing charities on the basis of extraneous qualities. Professor List conducted another experiment (''Toward an Understanding of the Economics of Charity'' (http://www.nber.org/papers/w11611.pdf), with Craig Landry, Andreas Lange, Michael K. Price and Nicholas G. Rupp) on charitable giving. He and his research team ran a door-to-door fund-raising trial, using a variety of methods, across nearly 5,000 households. The team then measured the difference between the most effective fund-raising method (selling lottery tickets) and the least effective method (just asking for money). 
 For purposes of contrast, Professor List and his team then increased the attractiveness of the woman who asked for the money. The more attractive women (a ''one standard deviation increase in attractiveness,'' in statistical terms) had as big a positive impact on giving -- in the range of 50 to 100 percent -- as moving from the least successful fund-raising method to the most successful.
 The philanthropic sector is showing a growing awareness of these sorts of institutional failures, so initiatives are under way to improve their performance. The Robin Hood Foundation in New York City pledges that its board will cover all overhead expenses; remaining donations go to antipoverty programs. The charity College Summit raised $15 million by going to Wall Street with a plan for growth and fund-raising, much as a venture capitalist might do. Geneva Global encourages donors to think of themselves as investors; it measures and reports results for each of its programs. 
 It remains to be seen which particular innovations will stick or spread, but well-informed and self-critical donors are probably a key to improvement for nonprofit organizations. If donors do not abandon failing causes, those efforts will continue. Perhaps the content of donor pride needs to change. Rather than taking pride only in their generosity, donors should also take pride in their willingness to confront unpleasant news. Many individual donors are reluctant to take such steps, but the result would be better charities and greater real generosity all around.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHARITIES (92%); FUNDRAISING (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); PHILANTHROPY (90%); CHARITABLE GIVING (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); NOBEL PRIZES (75%); BASEBALL (72%); AWARDS & PRIZES (72%); WRITERS (71%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (71%) Philanthropy; Philanthropy

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (83%)

PERSON: John A List; Tyler Cowen

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%) ILLINOIS, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2006



298 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; ENTREPRENEURIAL EDGE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1081 words

HEADLINE: Building a Business Empire in China 

BYLINE: By James Flanigan. 
This column about small-business trends in California and the West appears on the third Thursday of every month. E-mail: jamesflanigan@nytimes.com

 BODY:
THIS is a story of the global economy -- and an American story. Roger Wang came from Taiwan in 1971 to earn a master of business administration degree from Southeastern Louisiana University, and then journeyed to Los Angeles, where he worked as a manager of a Thrifty Drug store.
 ''There was not much I could use from my M.B.A. courses, but I learned stockroom organizing and inventory and how to merchandise to customers,'' Mr. Wang recalled recently.
He worked two years at the drugstore. Then he sold life insurance for Pacific Mutual, started a real estate escrow company and became a retailer of convertible sofas catering to the growing Chinese immigrant community in the San Gabriel Valley east of Los Angeles. He became an American citizen in 1978, and in the next decade he developed condominium apartments and small commercial buildings. 
 When the Los Angeles area's economy went into decline early in the 1990's, after the Cold War ended and military work in California diminished, Mr. Wang went to Nanjing, China, to visit friends and survey business possibilities. 
 There he was commissioned to build a 60-story office building, suffered surprise reversals, founded an entirely new business and ultimately became one of the richest men in China as owner of a company that he runs part of the time from his home in Beverly Hills. Today he is starting yet another venture, to spread American fashion through a department store network in China. 
 Every aspect of that story illustrates the present global reality, in which American know-how is building a formidable economy in China while creating echoing opportunities in the United States. 
 Mr. Wang, now 57, recalled recently that the idea of a 60-story building sounded challenging but that the mayor of Nanjing, a city of five million on the Yangtze River, promised that the government-owned Industrial and Commercial Bank of China would provide the equivalent of $100 million in financing. 
 ''So I consulted with architects here in America and invested $4 million of my own money and started the project,'' he said. 
 Building in China in 1992 demanded fresh approaches. The building codes were all Russian ones dating to 1945. ''Human labor was so cheap that we didn't need to use machinery to dig the foundation,'' Mr. Wang said.
 The laborers, however, had never worked on a building site or on any kind of industrial project. So Mr. Wang had to write detailed descriptions of their tasks every day.
 ''I explained the purpose of the work and the concept of the building,'' he said. ''It was like my days at Thrifty Drug. To make it work, you have to be a leader and an educator and an enforcer.'' 
 But in 1993, the central government in Beijing, fearing inflation from a surge of building projects around the country, decreed a halt to bank loans for construction. ''My Chinese partner, the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, had to quit our joint venture and pull out all their investments,'' Mr. Wang recalled.
 His company, named Golden Eagle, became ''a sole foreign investment company, but I was short $96 million of the funds needed.''
 So he subdivided the building, which existed only in plans and blueprints, and sold some space to local customers and banks. He put in more of his own money and hung on, persuading suppliers to stick with the project on the promise of a future payoff. 
 ''It was very hard,'' said Dominic Ng, chairman of East West Bank in Pasadena, Calif., which has backed Mr. Wang's ventures in America and overseas. ''Roger stuck it out there while his wife and daughters were here in Beverly Hills.''
 By 1995, six stories of the building were completed. Mr. Wang hit upon the idea of opening a department store in those floors while construction continued above them. He stocked the store with merchandise on consignment -- when the items sold, he would pay the suppliers.
 The store was a success, and cash flow from retailing helped finance further construction. A year later, Mr. Wang brought in Crowne Plaza to put a hotel on several upper levels of the building. The 60-story building was completed in 1997.
 By that time, department stores had taken on a life of their own. Success in Nanjing spawned Golden Eagle stores in six other locations, including the cities of Xi'an and Suzhou. Today the group has 11 stores, 4 of them former government-owned operations where business practices are being overhauled and workers retrained. Last year, the Golden Eagle Retail Group, with 10,000 employees, had total sales of more than 3 billion yuan, or about $350 million.
 And it is one of the most efficient and profitable companies in China because Mr. Wang has brought modern technology to bear, revolutionizing retailing in China. In the late 1990's, he bought a software company and helped it develop a program for running retail operations.
 ''It is a user-friendly program so it can be used by middle managers,'' Mr. Wang said, mindful of the struggles he once endured as manager of an American drugstore. 
 The company took a significant step in March when the Golden Eagle Group issued stock on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange worth 1.8 billion Hong Kong dollars -- about $234 million. 
 Why go public? 
 ''To gain transparency of accounts and a stock so the company can grow,'' Mr. Wang said, ''and for eventual succession.''
 Mr. Wang has spent eight months of every year since 1991 in China and only four months at home in California. Now, he said, there may be more time in Beverly Hills. But he is not retiring. On the contrary, informed that he is now one of the richest men in China, he shrugged. ''It's only paper. I'm building a large company.'' 
 He is pursuing a new idea, to start a fashion business that would give exposure in China to designers like Vera Wang, the New York designer of bridal fashion, and Victoria's Secret, the lingerie division of Limited Brands. ''I can showcase the fashions inexpensively in my stores,'' Mr. Wang said. 
 The hope is that American ideas and fashions, some of them undoubtedly sewn in China or elsewhere in Asia, will become hot sales items in China.
 ''It's not simply trade. It's an exchange of American business principles and ideas inspiring China,'' Mr. Ng of the East West Bank said.
 Mr. Wang put it more specifically: ''The skills I acquired in Southeastern Louisiana University, Thrifty Drugs, Pacific Mutual, along with knowing the history, behavior and local staff, helped make Golden Eagle a success story.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Roger Wang visited China after the Cold War ended, founded a business and ultimately became one of the richest men in that country. He spends eight months a year in China and the other four in Beverly Hills, Calif. (Photo by Jill Connelly for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RETAILERS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); COLD WAR (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (75%); OFFICE PROPERTY (75%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (75%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (75%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (75%); CONDOMINIUMS (70%); PROPERTY ESCROW (70%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (65%); CITIZENSHIP (56%); LIFE INSURANCE (55%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (53%) Retail Stores and Trade; Sales; Entrepreneurship; Biographical Information

COMPANY: INDUSTRIAL & COMMERCIAL BANK OF CHINA LTD (64%)

ORGANIZATION: SOUTHEASTERN LOUISIANA UNIVERSITY (84%) Golden Eagle Group

TICKER: 1398 (HKSE) (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (64%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (64%)

PERSON: Roger Wang; James Flanigan

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); BEIJING, CHINA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); EAST CHINA (76%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (76%); JIANGSU, CHINA (73%); YANGTZE RIVER (70%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); TAIWAN (92%) Los Angeles (Calif); China

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2006



299 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: Fed's Dilemma: Prices Climb As Economic Growth Slows

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
Economic growth in the last month and a half was generally strong across the country, the Federal Reserve said in a report yesterday, but showed ''some signs of deceleration.'' 
 At the same time, prices in most regions rose, according to the report, known as the Beige Book.
With a decision on setting interest rates two weeks away, the report underscores the two issues competing for the Fed's attention: rising inflation and softening economic growth. 
 Remarks in recent weeks by the Fed's chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, and other central bank officials have made clear that their primary concern is fighting inflation. That point was reaffirmed yesterday when the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, Richard W. Fisher, a nonvoting member of the Fed's rate-setting committee, called current inflationary pressures corrosive and discomforting. Susan Schmidt Bies, a Fed governor, made similar remarks yesterday, saying inflation was running at a level that made her uncomfortable.
 In its Beige Book report, which it releases eight times a year, the Fed said high energy costs had pushed up prices in manufacturing and, to a lesser extent, retail from mid-April to early June. Reports of those costs being passed along to the consumer varied, but were more prevalent than earlier in the year.
 ''I think the Beige Book was a pretty faithful mirror on what we pretty much already know, which is that economy is slowing a bit, but it's not nearly enough to stop the pressures of inflation,'' said Ethan Harris, chief United States economist for Lehman Brothers. ''It's a milder version of stagflation.'' 
 The report said consumer spending continued to increase but showed signs of moderating. It said gas prices had put pressure on spending but noted that ''rising interest rates were a concern'' in some districts.
 The report painted a mixed picture of how far inflation was spreading down the supply chain. It noted that manufacturers had seen higher prices for concrete, steel, copper and natural gas, causing them to increase their own prices. ''Few reports indicated that these increases were reaching the retail level.'' Still, the report said retailers had been able to raise prices in the Boston, Dallas and Philadelphia areas.
 In many parts of the country, the Fed said, employers reported that they were facing a shortage of skilled workers. Truck drivers, engineers, oil and gas workers and financial analysts were all difficult to find.
 The report also noted that existing home sales and construction had slowed. ''Residential real estate markets continued to cool across much of the country,'' it said. Home prices did not rise as rapidly as they had in some areas, including New York; the report said there had been ''a sharp deceleration in prices'' in the suburbs around New York City. The Manhattan rental market, however, tightened.
 The Fed district of New York expressed concern about slowing growth in the second half of the year. The area's housing market showed ''mixed but generally softer signs,'' the report said. 
 Area banks reported decreased demand for loans and refinancing and loosened their standards for issuing credit. The report said banks in the New York district relaxed their loan criteria from mid-April to early June, more than during any other time period since the Fed began asking about it in 1997.


GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: ''Mixed Growth in Most Regions''A roundup of regional economic conditions for the Federal Reserve's 12 districts, according to survey results released by the Fed yesterday. Data are for April 18-June 5.MINNEAPOLISEconomic growth was steady, led by gains in consumer spending, manufacturing and tourism, among others.SAN FRANCISCO (Includes Alaska and HawaiiMost industries reported steady increases in activity. Housing weakened. Wage increases remained strong for specialized workers.CHICAGOManufacturing, consumer spending and business investment were strong. Demand for commercial real estate increased.CLEVELANDRetail sales exceeded expectations. Businesses reported an intention to hire more workers.BOSTONThe region's economy accelerated thanks to growth in software and information technology services.NEW YORKCost pressures increased, but consumer prices remained steady. Retail sales fell within expectations while housing cooled.PHILADELPHIAOver all, the region's economy improved. General merchandise retail sales grew, but auto sales declined.RICHMOND, VA.Economic activity grew at a slower pace because of decreases in the manufacturing, retail and housing sectors.ATLANTAGeneral merchandise retail sales held steady while auto sales, particularly those of S.U.V.'s and large trucks, declined.ST. LOUISManufacturing and service sectors strengthened. Year-over-year retail and auto sales were down.KANSAS CITY, MO.Consumer spending and manufacturing increased. Commercial real estate grew, but residential construction slowed.DALLASThe manufacturing and service sectors reported expansion, and the energy industry remained ''very robust.''(Source by Bloomberg News)Map of the United States highlighting above mentioned cities.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); RETAILERS (87%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); EXISTING HOME SALES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); HOME PRICES (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); TRUCK DRIVERS (72%); FACTORY WORKERS (71%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (70%); MARKET RESEARCH (70%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (67%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (62%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (60%); LABOR SHORTAGES (60%) United States Economy; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Electric Light and Power; Retail Stores and Trade; Consumer Behavior; Factories and Industrial Plants

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF DALLAS (83%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (83%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (83%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (59%) Jeremy W Peters

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2006



300 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 476 words

HEADLINE: Cost of Living Is Going Up At Fast Pace In New York 

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
The cost of living and traveling in the New York City area is rising unusually fast, pushing the local inflation rate to its highest level in almost 15 years, according to the federal Department of Labor. 
 In the last year, the government's main gauge of inflation, the consumer price index, rose 4.8 percent in the city and 26 surrounding counties, according to a federal report released yesterday. The last 12-month period during which local prices increased at a faster rate ended in July 1991, a period of severe recession for the regional economy.
 The local inflation rate was significantly higher than the national rate of 4.2 percent for the past year, largely because the costs of housing and gasoline have been rising faster in New York, said Michael L. Dolfman, regional commissioner for the Bureau of Labor Statistics. In May, consumer prices rose 0.6 percent locally, and 0.4 percent nationally, the bureau reported.
 ''Energy prices in New York are among the highest in the nation,'' said Marisa L. DiNatale, an economist with Moody's Economy.com in West Chester, Pa. ''House prices there are much higher than the national average and have been rising faster than the national average.''
 Those expenses are eating up more of people's paychecks, economists said. Though no current data on local salaries is available, the average weekly earnings for all Americans in the private sector increased by just 2.9 percent last year, Mr. Dolfman said.
 In New York, where housing accounts for almost half the cost of living, the overall cost of housing rose 6 percent from May 2005 to May 2006. The biggest component of that expense, rent or the estimated rent forgone on homes occupied by their owners, was up 5.6 percent from a year ago in New York, though the national rise was 3.3 percent, Mr. Dolfman said.
 Mr. Dolfman said the rental value of homes in the New York area has risen by at least 0.6 percent in each month of 2006, the longest such streak in more than 20 years. He attributed the steady increase in part to rising interest rates that are pushing up the cost of buying a home. Unable or unwilling to buy at current prices, more residents are renting at a time when a wave of condominium conversions is reducing the supply of rental units, he said.
 Though New Yorkers drive less than other Americans, the high price of gasoline still is taking a toll in and around the city. The cost of gasoline in the region has risen 36.6 percent in the past year, compared with 33.4 percent nationally. Last month, it increased 9.6 percent in New York and just 6.6 percent nationally, Mr. Dolfman said.
 Even without the more volatile components of energy and food, the so-called core rate of inflation has been rising faster in New York. The local core rate was up 3.9 percent in the last 12 months, and the national core rate rose 2.4 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INFLATION (92%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (91%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); COST OF LIVING (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (88%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RECESSION (78%); STATISTICS (78%); CITIES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS (77%); GASOLINE (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (74%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (71%); CONDOMINIUMS (69%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (69%) Consumer Price Index; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Housing

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (84%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (56%) Labor Department (US)

PERSON: Patrick Mcgeehan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2006



301 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 695 words

HEADLINE: Europe Plan to Aid Palestinians Stalls Over U.S. Salary Sanctions

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 14 

 BODY:
A European proposal to provide aid for Palestinian health care has stalled because of concerns by the Bush administration that the plan may violate an American ban on paying salaries to a Hamas government.
 Despite what has been described as a humanitarian crisis in Gaza and the West Bank, American and European officials say they strongly doubt that any aid will reach the Palestinians quickly, given the violent chaos in Palestinian areas and Hamas's declared intention to scrap a truce with Israel.
The Europeans have proposed that the World Bank set up a ''mechanism'' through which donations from Europe and the Arab world can get to the Palestinians. 
 But American and European officials say that might violate American sanctions laws, which could lead to penalties against any bank that allows a transfer of money to employees in a Hamas government, even if the transaction is overseen by the World Bank.
 ''This is a nasty situation,'' said a European diplomat, who was not authorized to speak publicly on the issue. ''No bank wants to run afoul of American banking laws and get shut down by the Treasury Department.''
 The United States Treasury has barred almost all financial dealings with the Palestinian Authority in response to Hamas's rise to power, under a federal law that makes it a crime to provide funds to terrorist groups. 
 A senior administration official, also speaking anonymously, noted that the Palestinian situation was a vivid illustration of the reach of American sanctions laws.
 ''What you've got is a system of banks, even Arab banks, that cannot ignore the risk to their reputations of doing business with terrorists,'' the official said. ''That's quite apart from what they might actually face as a legal risk, which could be substantial.''
 Hamas, which is on the State Department's list of terrorist organizations, took office in April. Europe and the United States then cut off most of the $1 billion that outside donor governments have given annually to keep the Palestinian Authority afloat. Some 160,000 employees have had their pay suspended or delayed, and banks have halted the transfer of money to the government out of fear of violating American sanctions laws.
 Faced with criticism from Arab countries, the United States joined with Russia, Europe and the United Nations in early May on a plan to speed aid to the Palestinians, bypassing the Hamas government. At the time, officials expressed concerns that some of this money might end up paying nurses, doctors, teachers and others previously on the government payroll, thereby helping to finance Hamas.
 But as negotiations on the plan proceeded, a rift opened between the Bush administration and its allies in the Middle East negotiating process. The World Bank is now caught in the middle, various officials said.
 The bank president, Paul D. Wolfowitz, the deputy defense secretary in President Bush's first term, has told European negotiators that he wants to help the Palestinians but that the bank has not received adequate guidance from the United States and the Europeans about where the money is to go. 
 ''The World Bank would like to facilitate the delivery of assistance that a number of donors are eager to provide, so that the Palestinian people do not suffer from a lack of social services, particularly health and education,'' Mr. Wolfowitz said Wednesday.
 On top of these disputes is a fundamental difference in the American and European assessment of the situation in the West Bank and Gaza, officials on both sides say. 
 European officials charge that there is a real humanitarian crisis because of the aid cutoff, and some say the Bush administration may actually be seeking to block funds in order to promote chaos and eventually bring down the Hamas government. Bush administration officials strongly deny the accusation. 
 ''There is no humanitarian crisis in the Palestinian territories,'' the senior administration official said. ''There is a political and security crisis, and the Hamas government has to make some responsible decisions about how to handle it.'' The best way, he said, would be for Hamas to reject violence and recognize Israel.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAMAS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); BANKING LAW (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (66%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (94%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (98%); ISRAEL (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2006



302 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:

TRIBUNE SHOWDOWN A boardroom feud at the Tribune Company escalated as the Chandler family -- the billionaire former owners of the Los Angeles Times and now large Tribune investors -- called for a breakup of the company. [Page C1.] 


AIRBUS DELAY HURTS STOCK Shares in European Aeronautic Defense and Space, the parent company of Airbus, fell sharply after another delay in the delivery of the new double-decker A380 airplane. In the short term, the latest fumble casts a cloud over the future of Noel Forgeard, above, a co-chief executive of EADS. Over the longer term, analysts said Airbus's troubles would probably give a lift to its rival Boeing. [C3.]

QUESTIONS FOR GRASSO Richard A. Grasso, the former chief of the New York Stock Exchange, faced questions from federal regulators about whether he prodded traders to support the American International Group's share price while he was head of the exchange and its regulatory unit, government documents revealed. [C1.]

HURDLES TO EURONEXT DEAL A trans-Atlantic deal that looked like a strategic coup for the newly public NYSE Group -- its proposed acquisition of the pan-European stock exchange Euronext -- appears to be running into a quagmire. [C1.]

NEW INFLATION ATTITUDE When the government reported that a measure of consumer prices edged up 0.3 percent in May and was up 2.4 percent from 12 months earlier, analysts greeted the numbers as uniformly bad. That is a far cry from how such data would have been viewed 25 years ago. [A1.]

FED REPORTS SLOWER GROWTH Economic growth in the last month and a half was generally strong across the country but showed ''some signs of deceleration,'' the Federal Reserve said in a report. At the same time, prices in most regions rose, according to the report, known as the Beige Book. [C3.]

STOCKS REBOUND The Dow Jones industrial average rose 110.78 points, or 1.03 percent, to 10,816.92. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 6.35 points, to 1,230.04, and the Nasdaq composite index rose 13.53 points, to 2,086. [C6.]

JAPAN AND TRADING SCANDAL Revelations that the Japanese central bank governor invested in a fund implicated in an insider-trading scandal has led to criticism of the bank and of one of the country's most respected economic leaders. [C5.]

BAYER TO ACQUIRE SCHERING The health care giant Bayer clinched its bid for Schering as a rival bidder, Merck of Germany, backed off, agreeing to sell its stake to Bayer in return for a possible joint venture with the combined company. [C5.]

DELL STRATEGY Kevin B. Rollins, the chief executive of Dell, is pushing his company, which is growing more slowly than the rest of the PC industry, to act quickly and aggressively to fix its problems lest they grow bigger. [C1.]

NEW HEWLETT SERVERS Hewlett-Packard announced a line of servers that it said would play a major role in its vision of next-generation data centers that operate with less energy and almost no people. [C4.]

AOL CHANGE AOL is turning Netscape.com into a collection of links to news articles submitted by users and expanded upon by a staff of bloggers. AOL, owned by Time Warner, has been moving away from its rapidly declining Internet access business by building a series of advertising-supported Web sites. [C3.]

U.A.W. LEADER RE-ELECTED Members of the United Automobile Workers union elected Ron Gettelfinger to a second term as president. [C13.]

COSMETIC RISK VS. REWARD More people are having liposuction to remove fat from their ankles, knees, chins, necks, backs and upper arms, raising questions about the increasing risks cosmetic doctors and patients are willing to take in the name of perfection. [G1.]

AEGIS REJECTS PROPOSAL Shareholder of the London-based advertising company Aegis overwhelmingly rejected a proposal by Vincent Bollore, who owns a 29 percent stake in the company, to name two representatives to its board. [C4.]

ONLINE

ONLINE JOB SEARCH The online persona of some jobseekers has undermined their resume. Companies are looking up job applicants on social networking sites like MySpace. A report is at nytimes.com/business.

SLIDE SHOW A look at five properties for sale in the New York region can be found at nytimes.com/realestate.

STOLEN LIVES The ranks of identity theft victims are large. Just how large may depend on the definition. A special report is at nytimes.com/national/nationalspecial2.

Business Briefing

Articles on these developments are at nytimes.com/business.

AMERICAN MEDIA, publisher of the Star gossip magazine, said it would explore the sale of five publications. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

CHINA'S GOVERNMENT stepped up efforts to cool the world's fastest-growing major economy as investment rose the most in almost two years in the first five months. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

ANGELO R. MOZILO, chairman and chief executive of Countrywide Financial, defended his $22.2 million salary and bonus at an annual meeting. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

A SENIOR EXECUTIVE of Ford said the automaker was making faster-than-expected progress in reducing its work force as part of a corporate revamping. (REUTERS)

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks the daily closing price of Time Warner shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); INSIDER TRADING (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (76%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); RESEARCH REPORTS (75%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (60%); COMPUTER MAKERS (60%); SCANDALS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (93%); EUROPEAN AERONAUTIC DEFENCE & SPACE CO EADS NV (92%); AIRBUS SAS (85%); BAYER AG (83%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (69%); PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (68%); BOEING CO (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); NYSE GROUP INC (55%)

TICKER: EAD (PAR) (92%); EAD (MCE) (92%); BAYN (FRA) (83%); BAY (MCE) (83%); BAY (BIT) (83%); AIG (NYSE) (69%); 8685 (TSE) (69%); PANASONIC (NSE) (68%); BOE (LSE) (56%); BAB (BRU) (56%); BA (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (93%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (93%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (85%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (69%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (56%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2006



303 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: Airbus Delay On Giant Jet Sends Shares Plummeting

BYLINE: By NICOLA CLARK; Leslie Wayne contributed reporting from New York for this article.; International Herald Tribune

DATELINE: PARIS, June 14 

 BODY:
Shares in European Aeronautic Defense and Space, the parent company of Airbus, fell sharply on Wednesday, after another delay in the delivery of the new double-decker A380 airplane raised questions about the company's management and strategy. 
 Shares in the company, known as EADS, closed down 26.3 percent at 18.73 euros ($23.55), after it warned late Tuesday that a delay of six to seven months in the delivery schedule of the A380, the world's biggest passenger jet, would probably reduce operating profit by 2 billion euros ($2.5 billion) extending from 2007 to 2010. 
Several leading customers for the aircraft, including Singapore Airlines, Emirates and Qantas Airways, suggested that they would seek compensation for the delay, adding further momentum to the sell-off. 
 In addition, Singapore Airlines -- unhappy that its A380 orders will be delayed -- announced that it would buy 20 Dreamliner 787's from Boeing, worth $4.52 billion, and take options on another 20 planes. 
 ''This is in our view very damaging both to the credibility of EADS management, and also to Airbus's reputation for program management,'' Sash Tusa, an analyst at Goldman Sachs, wrote in a note to investors. 
 Airbus is betting its future on the A380, but the plane has been dogged with problems, ranging from engine noise to weight and fuel consumption. The latest delays compound concerns about the company's direction that had already been raised after it acknowledged that it had erred in the design of another airliner, the midsize A350, which it announced in 2004 to compete with the Dreamliner 787. 
 In the short term, the latest fumble casts a cloud over the future of Noel Forgeard, a co-chief executive of EADS who oversaw the start of the superjumbo project when he led Airbus from 1998 to 2005.
 Over the longer term, analysts said Airbus's troubles would probably give a lift to Boeing, which last year fell behind Airbus in total aircraft orders but has been regaining lost ground as Airbus stumbles. 
 Shares of Boeing rose 6.5 percent yesterday, closing at $82.01.
 ''This sets up a scenario for further market share gains by Boeing with its 777 and 747,'' said Howard Rubel, an aerospace analyst at Jeffries & Company in New York. ''And when the 787 Dreamliner comes on line, Boeing will have a relatively modern and attractive product line.'' 
 Analysts noted that internal squabbles over the leadership of EADS and Airbus might have distracted managers from addressing challenges posed by the Dreamliner, which has proved extremely popular. Airbus last month announced that it planned a radical redesign of its A350 -- a plane hastily developed to compete with the Dreamliner -- after customers complained that it compared poorly with the Boeing model, especially in fuel efficiency.
 ''There has been a lot of criticism that Airbus has been asleep,'' said Nick Cunningham, an aerospace analyst at the Panmure Gordon brokerage in London. ''They massively underestimated how strong a product the 787 was going to be, and the only explanation for this seems to be that they have been too busy engaging in infighting.''
 To be sure, it is too early to write the A380's obituary, Mr. Rubel said. ''It's a unique plane that will serve a purpose -- it was just overhyped.'' 
 How quickly Airbus can recover will depend largely on how Mr. Forgeard manages the situation. Analysts say that will not be an easy task because the latest delay has dealt a serious blow to his reputation. 
 ''It's hard not to put the blame on Forgeard,'' said Richard Aboulafia, an analyst at the Teal Group in Fairfax, Va.
 During a conference call with analysts, Mr. Forgeard was contrite. ''I'm extremely sorry,'' he said. ''I built my entire industrial career on building confidence with shareholders. This announcement comes as a big blow.'' 
 But he played down the suggestion that his job might be at risk. ''That is a shareholder decision,'' he said. ''We have to find the right way forward rather than finger-pointing any responsibilities of the past.'' 
 EADS named Mr. Forgeard and a German, Thomas Enders, as co-chief executives last July after a protracted struggle aimed at preserving the balance between the company's largest French and German shareholders. 
 ''This is obviously going to weaken his position with the Germans,'' Peter Hearne, a British aerospace consultant, said of Mr. Forgeard. But Mr. Hearne said he did not believe the episode would result in any dismissals.
 Mr. Cunningham of Panmure agreed, adding that ''it would be very difficult to put the company through another change of leadership now.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); PARENT COMPANIES (90%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (87%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (78%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AIRCRAFT MFG (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); SPACE INDUSTRY (78%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); MARKET SHARE (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); FACTORY ORDERS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); EURO (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%) Airlines and Airplanes; Sales; Production; Finances; Airlines and Airplanes

COMPANY: EUROPEAN AERONAUTIC DEFENCE & SPACE CO EADS NV (96%); AIRBUS SAS (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); BOEING CO (86%); QANTAS AIRWAYS LTD (56%); SINGAPORE AIRLINES LTD (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Airbus; European Aeronautic Defense and Space Co

TICKER: EAD (PAR) (96%); EAD (MCE) (96%); GS (NYSE) (90%); BOE (LSE) (86%); BAB (BRU) (86%); BA (NYSE) (86%); QAN (ASX) (56%); C6L (SGX) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (86%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (86%); NAICS561520 TOUR OPERATORS (56%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); SIC4725 TOUR OPERATORS (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%)

PERSON: Nicola Clark

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (51%) SINGAPORE (71%); UNITED STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2006



304 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 788 words

HEADLINE: Laws Can Be Good for You, Mayor Tells Health Officials

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL

DATELINE: ATLANTA, June 14 

 BODY:
Putting New York's aggressive public health agenda on a national stage, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg told some of the nation's top health officials on Wednesday that government should use laws to influence behavior to fight chronic disease.
 Appearing before a public health law conference here run by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Mr. Bloomberg urged other cities and the federal government to follow New York's strategy to attack problems like tobacco use, obesity and related ills. 
 ''New threats result from, and are aggravated by, our forbearance, and even social and economic encouragement, of such behavior as tobacco addiction, unhealthy nutrition and excessively sedentary lifestyles,'' Mr. Bloomberg said, calling chronic and noncommunicable diseases like diabetes the biggest health threats facing Americans. 
 ''An effective public health strategy must therefore alter that calculus by changing how we live,'' he said.
 Mr. Bloomberg also took the opportunity to criticize the federal government for shortchanging New York and other cities in preparing for health emergencies brought on by epidemics or bioterrorism. 
 Since taking office, Mr. Bloomberg has pushed through higher taxes on cigarettes, imposed strict prohibitions on smoking in restaurants and bars, mandated better nutrition and exercise programs for children in day care centers and created a registry for people with diabetes. And his reception in Atlanta was an indication that New York has become a model city for the aggressive use of information and legal tools -- including licensing, regulation, tax policy, litigation and enforcement -- to combat chronic diseases.
 Mr. Bloomberg's address, which drew applause about a half-dozen times, was the keynote speech of the conference, a spot reserved for an elected official who is a ''recognized champion of public health,'' said Lynn Austin, chief of staff to the center's director, Dr. Julie L. Gerberding. 
 Officials from the Public Health Law Association gave Mr. Bloomberg an award for his record in public health.
 ''In 2001, the heartbeat of America was in New York City,'' Daniel O'Brien, the president of the association, said in presenting the award. ''And a decade from now, a century from now, the heart of New York City will beat stronger because of what you're doing today.'' 
 Mr. Bloomberg spent much of the speech outlining what he said were some of the achievements of his administration, including a reduction in the teenage smoking rate from one in four to one in 10, the strengthening of nutritional standards for school lunches and the fighting against the influx of illegal guns.
 But the administration did not plan to stop there, he said. In addition to working on the first comprehensive overhaul of the city's health code in 50 years, he said, the city would soon start a pilot program in the Bronx to intervene with diabetes patients and their doctors when tests showed dangerously high blood-sugar levels.
 In addition, Mr. Bloomberg said, the city was contemplating other legal steps to encourage greater physical activity by New Yorkers, but he declined to provide any details.
 Comparing his approach to the kind of full-out social effort that vanquished polio and pushed for laws that required seat belts or helped reduce drunken driving, Mr. Bloomberg said that although public education campaigns were an important part of any strategy, they could not succeed on their own.
 ''We rely on the forceful application of law democratically debated and approved as the principal instrument of our public health policy,'' he said. ''Clearly there are many matters of personal behavior and personal taste that we have no business regulating. But just as clearly, there are also areas in which we have an obligation to act on what we know, on what incontrovertible facts tell us.''
 Even as he worked to promote his own approach, he used the speech to assail the federal government for its policy and financing decisions, calling its reactions to the threat of avian flu or a shortage of flu vaccine disjointed.
 Still stung over a 40 percent cut in New York's allocation of money for domestic security, Mr. Bloomberg said that the only rational way to distribute bioterror funds was based on population density and risk. Clearly, he said, these were not the yardsticks being used.
 ''I really don't know how anyone can justify a distribution of bioterrorism funds that awards $8.20 per person to North Dakota, when New York City gets less than $3 per person,'' he said, describing a preliminary plan for distribution money from the Centers for Disease Control, which is part of the federal Department of Health and Human Services, for the next fiscal year.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael R. Bloomberg with Shirley Franklin, the mayor of Atlanta. (Photo by John Amis/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISEASES & DISORDERS (92%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (91%); SMOKING (90%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); CHRONIC DISEASES (90%); NUTRITION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); DIABETES (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (78%); EPIDEMICS (78%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TAX LAW (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (76%); SCHOOL MEAL PROGRAMS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); OBESITY (73%); ADOLESCENTS (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (71%); TERRORISM (71%); RESTAURANTS (71%); CHILDREN (70%); LITIGATION (69%); DRINKING PLACES (66%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (52%); CHILD CARE (51%); LICENSES & PERMITS (50%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (50%) Medicine and Health; Weight; Smoking and Tobacco; Life Styles; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Medicine and Health; Exercise; Diet and Nutrition

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (84%) Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (93%); JULIE LOUISE GERBERDING (57%) Diane Cardwell; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City; United States

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2006



305 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-13

Bush Making Push at Home And Abroad for Iraq Efforts
Seeking political momentum from his surprise trip to Baghdad, President Bush warned Democrats that an early withdrawal of troops would set back counterterrorism efforts, and promised to send American diplomats to press countries to make good on $13 billion in pledges toward rebuilding Iraq. A1

On the first day of the new government's security regime in Baghdad, soldiers and police officers took up positions, while Iraqis went about their business, wondering what, if anything, would be different. 
 A13

Afghans' Release Sought
An Afghan government delegation to Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, said about half of the 94 Afghans being held there were not guilty of serious crimes and should be released. A12

After the three suicides at Guantanamo, the respectful reception for a former detainee, Moazzam Begg -- whom the Pentagon still portrays as a terrorist -- is one of many markers of the waning credibility of Washington's detention policies. A1

Palestinians Protest Back Pay
Palestinian civil servants stormed the parliament building in the West Bank demanding back pay, in the second violent protest this week at parliament, underscoring growing pressure on the Hamas government on several fronts. A10

Offer to Iran Omitted Penalties
When a formal incentives package by the six powers to encourage Iran to curb its nuclear program was presented in writing in Tehran, it omitted a long list of potential punishments should Iran reject it, according to senior officials familiar with the package. A3

NATIONAL A14-21

Officials Seeking Source Of Lethal Heroin Mixture
Police and health authorities are struggling to track down the source of a doctored, intensely powerful heroin that has killed many in and around Chicago and Detroit and sent hundreds more to hospitals in cities from St. Louis to Philadelphia. A14

Wealthier to Displace the Poor
Federal housing officials said over 5,000 public housing apartments for the poor are to be demolished in New Orleans and replaced by developments for residents with a wider range of incomes. A16

Rove Decision Relieves Bush
President Bush said he ''took a sigh of relief'' when federal prosecutors decided this week not to indict Karl Rove, his top political adviser, in the C.I.A. leak case. Mr. Bush voiced full support for Mr. Rove, but otherwise declined to go into the details of the investigation. A19

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Genetics to Explain Behavior
Studies that suggest a connection between DNA makeup and certain behaviors are causing many people to blame genetics for their shortcomings. Genes seem to influence whether a person is fat, for example, has a gift for dance or may become addicted to cigarettes. A1

Bush Plans National Monument
President Bush will create the world's largest protected marine area, designating as a national monument a 1,200-mile chain of small Hawaiian islands and surrounding waters and reefs that are home to a spectacular array of sea life, senior administration officials said last night. A14

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Rampage Followed Attack In Subway, Police Say
A man suspected of stabbing a tourist from Texas on a downtown C train then went on a 13-hour rampage through Manhattan, the police said, plunging a knife into three more people and terrorizing workers at a late-night grocery store. He was arrested after a doorman and cabbies who had seen one of the attacks called 911 on their cellphones as they followed him. A1

Ruling on 9/11 Detentions
A federal judge in Brooklyn ruled that the government has wide latitude under immigration law to detain noncitizens on the basis of religion, race or national origin, and to hold them indefinitely without explanation. But the judge allowed the class-action lawsuit that prompted the ruling -- filed by Muslim immigrants detained after 9/11 -- to continue on other claims. B1

Crime Rises, but Not in City
Violent crime rose last year in cities and even in some quiet suburbs in the New York, New Jersey and Connecticut region, according to preliminary statistics released by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The increases were such that New York City, which saw decreases in violent crime and murders, appeared to be an oasis of relative calm. B1

SPORTSTHURSDAY D1-8

1st Woman Joins Bowling Tour
Kelly Kulick, a 29-year-old from Union, N.J., who works part time in her father's auto body shop in neighboring Elizabeth, became the first woman to qualify for a season-long exemption on the Professional Bowlers Association Tour, a 20-event circuit that begins in October. A1

BUSINESS DAY C1-15

Inflation Worries Analysts
When the government reported that the core measure of consumer prices edged up 0.3 percent in May and was up 2.4 percent from 12 months earlier, analysts greeted the numbers as uniformly bad -- a far cry from how such news would have been viewed in decades past. A1

Tribune Breakup Urged
A boardroom feud at the Tribune Company escalated as the Chandler family, one of the largest shareholders, called for a breakup of the company, the latest sign of the growing pressure on newspapers. C1

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A22-23

Editorials: A leap of faith, off a cliff; running Hoover's railroad; the journalist as scapegoat; Donald Hall, poet laureate.

Columns: David Brooks, Bob Herbert.

Bridge E6
Crossword E2
Obituaries C16
TV Listings E12
Weather A20

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); NATIONAL PARKS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); PUBLIC HOUSING (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (77%); HEROIN (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (76%); CIVIL SERVICES (76%); VIOLENT CRIME (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); INDICTMENTS (74%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); HAMAS (73%); RIOTS (71%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (69%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (67%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (63%); DNA (63%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); KARL ROVE (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); IRAN (79%); CUBA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2006



306 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 593 words

HEADLINE: 5,000 Public Housing Units in New Orleans Are to Be Razed

BYLINE: By SUSAN SAULNY

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, June 14 

 BODY:
Federal housing officials announced on Wednesday that more than 5,000 public housing apartments for the poor were to be demolished here and replaced by developments for residents with a wider range of incomes.
 The announcement, made by Housing and Urban Development Secretary Alphonso R. Jackson, provoked strong criticism from low-income tenants and their advocates, several of whom noted that thousands of public housing apartments had been closed since Hurricane Katrina. But local officials have for months said they do not want a return to the intense concentrations of poverty in the old projects, where crime and squalor were pervasive.
Acknowledging the immediate need for housing here, Mr. Jackson also said 1,000 apartments in several public housing complexes that were only lightly damaged in the storm would be opened over the next 60 days. Federal housing officials also said they had raised by 35 percent the value of disaster-housing vouchers for displaced residents who wanted to rent market-rate apartments, because the city's housing shortage had caused rents to increase. 
 The demolition, which is scheduled to begin over the next several months, would be the largest of its kind in the city's history and would erase the sprawling low-rises of the St. Bernard, C. J. Peete, B. W. Cooper and Lafitte housing developments. The four developments were damaged in Hurricane Katrina to varying degrees and have been off-limits -- along with most of the city's public housing -- to residents ever since. 
 The four developments represent more than half of all traditional public housing in the city, where only 1,097 units have been opened since the storm. Before the hurricane, the city had close to 8,000 units, although not all were habitable. 
 ''Hurricane Katrina put a spotlight on the condition of public housing in New Orleans,'' Mr. Jackson said in a teleconference with reporters in Washington. ''I'm here to tell you we can do better.''
 His announcement appeared to heighten the fears of many displaced tenants that they would be pushed out in favor of higher-income families.
 ''Right now, we feel it's not the time to start huge building projects because there are lots of people who are displaced as we speak and need a place to stay,'' said Lynette Bickham, who was evacuated from the St. Bernard project. ''We're going to continue to fight for our homes.''
 This month, former residents began demanding the right to return, setting up a tent city outside the St. Bernard project, the largest of the developments. Local and federal officials refused to open the developments, saying they were unsafe.
 Mr. Jackson outlined the first official plans for the projects since the storm, and they were incomplete. He did not specify how many units in the new developments would be set aside for public housing or whether there would be units for all the low-income residents who had such housing before the storm. Planning for the new developments, which are to be financed by bonds, tax credits and federal housing money, has not begun, he said.
 Mayor C. Ray Nagin responded to Mr. Jackson's announcement enthusiastically.
 The proposed demolitions have renewed a debate about the future of the city's enormous poor population, most of which remains displaced.
 ''I think the people who've been planning the recovery process never wanted poor people to return to the city in the first place,'' said Lance Hill, the director of the Southern Institute for Education and Research at Tulane University. ''And they haven't made it easy.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC HOUSING (97%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (92%); HURRICANES (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); DISPLACED PERSONS (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); CITIES (77%); WEATHER (76%); FAMILY (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); HISTORY (66%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Housing

PERSON: ALPHONSO JACKSON (79%) Susan Saulny

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2006



307 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1621 words

HEADLINE: A Modest Rise Still Amplifies Inflation Fears

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 14 

 BODY:
Twenty-five years ago, any hint that basic consumer prices were climbing less than 3 percent a year would have struck most people as impossibly good news.
 Paul A. Volcker, the towering, cigar-chomping Federal Reserve chairman who is widely credited with breaking the spiral of double-digit inflation that began in the 1970's, saw consumer prices climb less than 3 percent during only one year of his tenure.
Alan Greenspan, who ruled the Fed for 18 years after Mr. Volcker, had only five years in which his preferred measure of inflation was lower than the pace reached in May.
 But when the government reported on Wednesday that the core measure of consumer prices -- considered a more reliable indicator of underlying trends than the overall rate because it excludes volatile food and energy prices -- edged up 0.3 percent in May and was up 2.4 percent from 12 months earlier, analysts greeted the numbers as uniformly bad. 
 ''Rotten to the core,'' declared Stuart G. Hoffman, chief economist at PNC Financial in Pittsburgh.
 And while the stock market gained some ground on Wednesday, it has been on a losing streak. The decline is largely because investors are convinced that the Fed is about to respond to the rise in prices with another dose of anti-inflationary medicine -- its 17th increase in short-term interest rates in two years -- and that it might not stop there. 
 An observer from the past might be forgiven for asking: why is an underlying inflation rate of less than 3 percent so alarming?
 The answer, economists now contend, is that experience has taught them that even a relatively modest level of inflation can soon run wild if it is not nipped in the bud.
 After taking over as Fed chairman this year, Ben S. Bernanke indicated that he believed the underlying rate of inflation should not exceed 2 percent a year. That tough goal, which most other Fed policy makers share, reflects a major shift in attitude about the risks of inflation. 
 Much as the 1930's Depression seared an entire generation of Americans who lived through it, the stagflation of the 1970's and the acute recession of the early 1980's indelibly marked an entire generation of economists.
 ''It's a complete regime change,'' said Barry P. Bosworth, a top economic adviser to President Jimmy Carter during the worst years of soaring inflation. 
 ''Back then, we were arguing about the trade-off between unemployment and inflation, and we weren't clear about which one was more important,'' he explained. ''Today, there is no question: you cannot run the economy without the primacy of the goal of price stability.''
 These days, the Fed's goal is to reduce ''inflation expectations,'' even though the effect could be to slow down an economy that already seems to be slowing, to send another icy chill through the housing market and possibly to increase unemployment. All that, even though hourly wages have barely kept up with consumer prices, which, including energy and food costs, rose 0.4 percent in May, leaving them 4.2 percent higher than a year earlier.
 The effort to keep inflation so low is not without controversy, however. Some argue that the Fed should tolerate a slightly higher range, worrying that if the Fed establishes a narrow comfort zone of zero to 2 percent, it runs the risk of something worse -- actual deflation -- if the economy hits a bump in the road. 
 For another thing, experts note, the economic condition of the United States today is far different from the 1970's, or even in the late 1960's when inflation first started to creep upward.
 Productivity, the amount of labor required to produce a particular amount of goods or services, is climbing at more than twice the pace of the 1970's. Wages, in general, have been climbing far more slowly than productivity, and corporate profits are high. 
 And even the recent surge in energy prices -- up 23.6 percent over the last year -- has had a far smaller impact on the economy than similar surges in previous decades.
 ''The idea that we are in danger of stagflation is absurd,'' said David M. Jones, an economist and author who has written about the Fed for several decades.
 But Stephen H. Axilrod, a top adviser to the Fed on monetary policy under Mr. Volcker, cautioned that the Fed faced a major challenge to its credibility. Mr. Bernanke, the new Fed chairman, remains a comparatively unknown and untested Fed chairman after 18 years of Mr. Greenspan. On top of that, inflation has already crept higher than Mr. Bernanke's stated comfort zone for price stability.
 ''They are on the edge of losing their credibility,'' Mr. Axilrod said. ''That gives them an immense dilemma.''
 What concern Fed officials are not so much the parallels between today and the 1970's era of stagflation, but rather the parallels between today and the first whiffs of inflation that began around 1966.
 Then, as now, consumer price increases seemed mild at first and came after years of comparative tranquillity. The core pace of inflation edged up from 2.4 percent in 1966 to 3.6 percent in 1967, and to 4.6 percent in 1968.
 Except during periods immediately after the recessions of 1970 and 1974, however, the underlying inflation rate continued to accelerate almost every year and peaked above 12 percent in 1980. Overall inflation hit nearly 15 percent.
 There are other parallels. Then, as now, the early uptick of inflation coincided with a surge in war spending and rising budget deficits. In the 1960's, President Lyndon B. Johnson became embroiled in Vietnam and created major new antipoverty programs. In the last five years, President Bush embarked on the war in Iraq and pushed through major tax cuts. 
 And just as oil prices soared in the early 1970's and again in the early 1980's, they have shot up to record highs and now hover around $70 a barrel. 
 But many economists, including those who endured the worst years of stagflation, contend that the differences between then and now are at least as profound as the similarities.
 The biggest underlying difference is in productivity growth, the amount produced for given amount of labor. Productivity growth slowed to barely 1 percent from the early 1970's until the early 1990's. But the pace over the last decade has been more than twice as fast. In some years, it averaged more than 4 percent.
 Faster productivity growth allows faster growth in wages, without stoking inflation. But where wages climbed several times faster than productivity in the 1970's, wage increases have lagged behind the growth in productivity for much of the last five years.
 The contrast between demands for higher wages today and those 30 years ago is stark.
 From 1971 through 1975, hourly wages climbed almost 40 percent, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. But labor productivity over that same period climbed only 6.5 percent.
 By contrast, in the last year, wages have risen about 3.7 percent, while productivity is up roughly 3 percent.
 The big question now is whether rising prices will lead people -- workers as well as investors -- to raise their long-term inflation expectations. 
 ''What you want is a situation in which inflation is so low that nobody pays much attention to it,'' said Charles L. Schultze, an economist at the Brookings Institution who served as chairman of President Carter's Council of Economic Advisers. ''You don't want inflation to be built into people's planning. Once that happens, then prices increases in one sector get passed to another, and then into wages. And that doesn't do any good for workers, because inflation starts to climb even faster.''
 In fact, Mr. Greenspan used almost the same informal rule of thumb to characterize price stability. Rather than suggest a numerical ceiling for tolerable inflation, Mr. Greenspan defined his goal as the point at which inflation expectations have no impact on people's decisions to buy, save or invest.
 Indeed, the experience of the late 1990's and early 2000's demonstrated that low and steady inflation provided the foundation for an economic boom and was achieved with less pain than economists once feared. Those few years under Greenspan set a new standard in the markets and among economic policy makers.
 ''The lesson,'' said Mr. Jones, who has written many books on Fed policy, ''is that you have to have low and stable inflation expectations.''
 Current and former Fed officials say that even mild inflation exacts a high cost. If prices climb 2 percent a year, they double every 36 years. If they climb by 3 percent, they double every 21 years -- enough to make a significant difference in retirement planning.
 Still, more than a few longtime analysts contend that Mr. Bernanke's attachment to an inflation target of no more than 2 percent may be too rigid, though the European Central bank and the Bank of England have set similar goals.
 Rather than setting a firm limit of 2 percent for core inflation, argues Edward Yardeni, an independent economist, ''it should trigger a careful evaluation of all the inflation indicators when it is exceeded.''
 Today, inflation pressures are building on several fronts: high commodity prices, the desire of workers to catch up after a decade of slow wage growth and even pressures from Chinese workers to reap a bigger share from Chinese growth.
 That raises the challenge for the Fed and its counterparts in Europe and Japan.
 ''In the last 10 or 20 years, central banks in the developed world have had the luxury of working in a garden that didn't have too many weeds,'' Mr. Axilrod, the former Fed official, said. ''But now they're at the point where the weeds are growing.''

 Ben S. Bernanke

(Sources by Bureau of Labor Statistics; The Federal Reserve Board)(pg. C2)

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''A Moving Target''Analysts sounded the alarm as inflation crept up to 2.4 percent in May. Though that is still low by the standards of the recent past, policy makers now consider anything above 2 percent too high.Graph tracks inflation (annual change in Consumer Price Index, monthly) since 1960. The graph highlights Overall, Recessions, and Core, which excludes food and energy. The following persons were Federal Reserve Chairmen during that period between 1960 and 2005:William McC. Martin Jr.Arthur F. BurnsPaul A. VolckerG. Wm. MillerAlan Greenspan

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); INFLATION (93%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); RECESSION (77%); TRENDS (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); INTEREST RATES (69%); GREAT DEPRESSION (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (72%); BEN BERNANKE (57%); JIMMY CARTER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2006



308 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2543 words

HEADLINE: Jihadist or Victim: Ex-Detainee Makes a Case 

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN

 BODY:
When President Bush ordered Moazzam Begg's release last year from the Guantanamo prison camp, United States officials say, he did so over objections from the Pentagon, the C.I.A. and the F.B.I. -- all of which warned that Mr. Begg could still be a dangerous terrorist.
 But American officials may not have imagined the sort of adversary Mr. Begg would become in the war of perception that is now a primary front in the American-led campaign against terrorism.
''The issue here is: Apply the law,'' Mr. Begg told an audience earlier this spring at the Oxford Literary Festival in England, one of many stops on a continuing lecture tour. ''If I've committed a crime, we say, take this to court. After all of that, if they can't produce something in court, then shame on them!'' 
 With a new book about his experiences and a small blizzard of media attention, Mr. Begg, a 37-year-old Briton of Pakistani descent, has emerged over the last few months as a minor celebrity in his home country.
 Human rights groups have hailed his courage. University students have invited him to speak. Journalists have generally taken at face value his claim that he is an innocent man, unlawfully seized and arbitrarily held. After the three suicides at Guantanamo last Saturday, Mr. Begg instantly became a sought-after commentator for British newspaper and television reporters. 
 The respectful reception for Mr. Begg -- whom the Pentagon still portrays as a terrorist -- is one of many markers of the waning credibility of Washington's detention policies overseas, and particularly in European countries that are closely allied with the United States in fighting terrorists.
 A British feature film that is to be released in the United States on June 23, ''The Road to Guantanamo,'' depicts another group of former detainees as innocent, good-natured men cruelly mistreated by their American captors. The British attorney general, Peter Goldsmith, recently called the prison ''unacceptable'' and said it should be shut down.
 Whether Mr. Begg is the potential threat the Pentagon claims or the harmless man he professes to be cannot be fully resolved from the available evidence. But the mystery makes Mr. Begg one of the more intriguing case studies in the trans-Atlantic divide on detention policy.
 He and another Briton, Feroz Abbasi, were among the first six Guantanamo detainees designated by Mr. Bush in 2003 as eligible for trial by military commissions there. Pentagon officials say Mr. Begg trained at three terrorist camps, ''associated'' with an array of operatives of Al Qaeda and was ready to fight American-led forces in Afghanistan but fled into the Tora Bora mountains when the Taliban lines collapsed.
 The British government's refusal to accept the Guantanamo tribunals, in which rights of due process are sharply limited, eventually forced American officials to set aside the prosecutions of Mr. Begg and Mr. Abbasi. Officials said they and two other Britons were finally sent home, in January 2005, after Mr. Bush overruled most of his senior national security advisers as a favor to Prime Minister Tony Blair, who was then being harshly criticized for his support of the Iraq war.
 Now, the Bush administration finds itself in the awkward position of insisting on the danger of a man it set free. ''He has strong, long-term ties to terrorism -- as a sympathizer, as a recruiter, as a financier and as a combatant,'' said a Defense Department spokesman, Bryan Whitman.
 In interviews in Britain and in his memoir, which is to be published in the United States on Sept. 11 as ''Enemy Combatant: My Imprisonment at Guantanamo, Bagram and Kandahar,'' Mr. Begg denied that he ever supported terrorism, knowingly associated with Qaeda members or took up arms against the United States. Rather, he offers himself as evidence that the wide American net had trapped many Muslims who never threatened United States interests.

A Professorial Air
 A small, soft-spoken man with a professorial air, Mr. Begg has distinguished himself from other former prisoners partly by his tone.
 While others have told (and, in some cases, sold) the British press lurid tales of American interrogators' tempting them with prostitutes and torturing them to confess, Mr. Begg avoids the word torture. He was sometimes badly mistreated, he says, and kept in prolonged isolation. But he makes a point of telling audiences of his friendships with some of his military police guards, and he espouses a tolerance that seems incompatible with the hatred of militants to whom American officials link him. 
 One British interviewer described Mr. Begg as ''devastatingly reasonable.''
 Of nearly 20 American military and intelligence officials who were interviewed about Mr. Begg, none thought he had been wrongly detained. But some said they doubted that he could be tied to any terrorist acts. At Bagram, where he was held for 11 months, Mr. Begg's interrogators nicknamed him Hemingway.
 ''I don't think he was the mastermind of 9/11, but nor do I think he was just an innocent,'' said Christopher Hogan, a former military interrogator who oversaw some of Mr. Begg's early questioning there but said he did not have access to top-secret American or British intelligence files on him. ''We compared him to somebody who went off to Spain during the civil war -- more of a romantic than some sort of ideologically steeled fighter.''
 Like other military and intelligence personnel familiar with Mr. Begg's interrogations, Mr. Hogan also described him as having been unusually forthcoming. ''He provided us with excellent information routinely,'' he said.
 Yet if Mr. Begg is a more ambiguous figure than the Bush administration now describes, the story of his life before he was seized in Pakistan in January 2002 is also more complicated than the account he has put forward, and full of questions. 
 Like many from Europe who fell in with Islamic militants in the 1990's, Mr. Begg was a son of immigrants who settled in a working-class environment where economic struggles fueled racial prejudice.
 During high school in Birmingham, the industrial capital of the English Midlands, he joined a gang of mostly South Asian teenagers who banded together against skinheads, punk rockers and other anti-immigrant legions of the day. Mr. Begg, who now stands 5-foot-3, was the smallest member of the gang; he said he rarely joined in the fights.
 But much of his upbringing did not fit the pattern. His family was relatively comfortable and liberal. His father, a Muslim born in India, was a bank manager who wrote poetry in Urdu. He sent Moazzam and his brother to a Jewish primary school, where they wore blazers with the Star of David.

Inspired by Mujahedeen
 Moazzam's interest in Islam was awakened during a trip with relatives to Pakistan and Saudi Arabia in his late teens. On a second visit to Pakistan in late 1993, he writes, he crossed into Afghanistan with some young Pakistanis and visited a camp where mujahedeen rebels were training to fight the Soviet-backed Afghan government. 
 Inspired by the guerrillas' commitment, he threw himself into helping besieged Muslims in Bosnia and Herzegovina. He said he traveled to the Balkans 9 or 10 times with a small aid agency, Convoy of Mercy. But the group's founder, Asad Khan, said he had no recollection of Mr. Begg.
 Defense Department officials said one of Mr. Begg's former associates was Omar Saeed Sheikh, who volunteered on a Convoy trip in 1993. Mr. Sheikh was later convicted of kidnapping Western tourists in India and is facing execution in Pakistan for the murder of the Wall Street Journal correspondent Daniel Pearl. Mr. Begg insisted he did not know Mr. Sheikh.
 There are some notable gaps in Mr. Begg's memoir. The book does not mention that while working as an interpreter at a government welfare office in 1994, he and a friend were arrested and charged with defrauding the agency. The police found a night-vision sight, a bullet-proof vest and what news reports called ''extremist literature'' at Mr. Begg's home.
 The charges against him were later dropped for lack of evidence, but his friend, Shahid A. Butt, pleaded guilty and served 18 months in prison. Mr. Butt was later convicted with seven other Britons of plotting a terrorist bombing in Yemen, where he served a five-year sentence.
 In early 1998 Mr. Begg, by then married, with two small children, moved his family to Peshawar, Pakistan, on the border with Afghanistan. He describes the period as idyllic, with evening strolls through a local park and a quick trip to visit another training camp in Afghanistan, this one run by Iraqi Kurds. He and his wife socialized primarily with members of the town's small Palestinian community, as well as some Arab and Afghan veterans of the anti-Soviet jihad.
 But the book does not mention one Palestinian friend, Khalil Deek, who also lived in Peshawar at the time. The United States 9/11 commission described Mr. Deek, a naturalized American, as an associate of Abu Zubaydah, a senior Al Qaeda lieutenant of Palestinian descent who was also in Peshawar then, recruiting new operatives and sending them to train at Afghan camps. 
 An American counterterrorism official who began tracking Mr. Begg in 1999 said the Central Intelligence Agency and MI5, Britain's domestic intelligence service, suspected Mr. Begg of working with Mr. Deek to create a CD-ROM version of a terrorist manual, ''Encyclopedia of Jihad,'' which Mr. Deek gave to two Palestinians who plotted with Mr. Zubaydah to bomb tourist sites in Jordan. 
 American intelligence officials also said Mr. Deek helped arrange transportation to Jordan for some operatives in the foiled plot, but after being held in Jordan for 17 months, he was released without charge. 
 Mr. Begg acknowledged in an interview that he had met Mr. Deek in Bosnia and later invested with him in a small business deal to sell traditional Pakistani clothing. But he said he had never met Abu Zubaydah -- something Pentagon officials said he had admitted to his American interrogators. 
 He also denied an assertion by Mr. Whitman, the Pentagon spokesman, that he spent five days in early 1998 at Derunta, a notorious Al Qaeda-affiliated training camp in Afghanistan, learning about poisons and explosives.
 Two Defense Department officials read to a reporter from what they said were lengthy sworn statements Mr. Begg made to the Federal Bureau of Investigation, admitting that he had supported jihad in Chechnya and Kashmir, knew a half-dozen Al Qaeda figures and had trained at Derunta and two other Afghan camps. 
 Mr. Begg said that he had never told the F.B.I. anything of the sort, but that he did sign some documents in custody because he feared for his life. 
 After he returned to Birmingham in the summer of 1998, he and a friend opened an Islamic bookstore, which he described as a meeting place for young Muslims, including some who later fought in the separatist struggle in Kashmir.
 Mr. Begg received a first visit from an officer of MI5 soon after the shop opened. A year later, in late 1999, dozens of police agents searched the book shop and Mr. Begg's home. They were raided again in February 2000, and Mr. Begg was arrested under the Prevention of Terrorism Act, but was quickly released without charge.

'It Was Going Too Far'
 Mr. Whitman, at the Defense Department, said the British government cited Mr. Begg's ''proven or suspected links to persons who have been arrested or convicted of terrorist offenses worldwide,'' including Richard C. Reid, who was later convicted of trying to blow up a trans-Atlantic flight with a shoe bomb. Mr. Begg said he had never met Mr. Reid or two other men, Ibn al-Shekh al-Libi and Abu Qatada, whom Pentagon officials linked to him.
 ''Up until this time I had thought it was all just a silly mistake or a fishing trip,'' Mr. Begg wrote of the security services' interest in his activities, ''but now I knew it was going too far.''
 He said in an interview that he had never even heard of Al Qaeda before 9/11. He knew something about Osama bin Laden, he said, but generally agreed with those who saw Mr. bin Laden's conflict with the United States as counterproductive for Muslims. He said he opposed attacks against civilians but saw justification for jihadi assaults on ''military targets'' in ''times of war.''
 In July 2001, little more than a year after his brief arrest, Mr. Begg moved his wife and children to Afghanistan. Despite the Taliban's status as an international pariah for its treatment of women and its hospitality toward Al Qaeda, the Beggs saw it as a fine, inexpensive place to raise a family. The memoir describes Mr. Begg's work on charity projects and his fascination with the atmosphere of Kabul. But without television, he writes, he did not grasp the enormity of the Sept. 11 attacks. Only when bombs and cruise missiles began to strike on Oct. 17 did he realize ''it was time to go.''
 But, he said, he became separated from his family and reunited with them only after he crossed the border to Pakistan. They had been in Islamabad only a couple of months when, on Jan. 31, 2002, Pakistani intelligence agents and C.I.A. officers burst into their home, pulled a hood over his head and took him away.
 Mr. Begg's memoir recounts a three-year odyssey from a safe house in Pakistan to a prison camp in Kandahar, Afghanistan, to the main military prison at Bagram Air Base and finally to Guantanamo. He describes endlessly repetitive interrogations, with soldiers sometimes demanding information about events that took place after his capture. 
 Even now, he says, the accusations against him remain maddeningly vague.
 ''There is no specific allegation; there are no specific charges,'' he said in one interview. ''Whom did I recruit? When did I recruit them? Who told them this? What is the corroborating information -- names, times, places?''
 After repeated questions about Mr. Begg by The New York Times, Pentagon officials offered some information they said had been declassified from intelligence files. Mr. Whitman said the files showed Mr. Begg to be ''a sympathizer, a recruiter and a financier'' for terrorists. But officials offered almost nothing to corroborate such assertions other than excerpts they read from the F.B.I. statements.
 Still, Mr. Begg has hardly been ignored by the administration. Earlier this year, a State Department public diplomacy official, Colleen P. Graffy, challenged his supporters, saying, ''Guantanamo is not a spa, but nor is it an inhumane torture camp.'' The department's little-known Office of Countermisinformation has also sought to refute Mr. Begg's claims. 
 But other American officials said their secrecy about the detainees was partly responsible for having Mr. Begg's version of events accepted as credible.
 ''This has been the story of our lives here in trying to convince the world about the propriety of keeping people in Guantanamo,'' said one senior administration official in Washington, who asked not to be named because he was criticizing government policies. ''It's been difficult to persuade all U.S. government agencies to release enough information publicly to show that individuals like Begg represent a significant threat.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Moazzam Begg, a former Guantanamo detainee rich in ambiguities. (Photo by Paolo Pellegrin/Magnum, for The New York Times)(pg. A1)
Moazzam Begg, right, with a lawyer, Clive Stafford Smith, in London in November. Mr. Begg was held for two years at Guantanamo, top. Whether President Bush should have released him is still an open question. (Photo by Hugo Philpott/European Pressphoto Agency)
 (Photo by Mark Wilson/Getty Images)(pg. A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); PRISONS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); MILITARY COURTS (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); AL-QAEDA (77%); TALIBAN (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (75%); FESTIVALS (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (75%); WRITERS (74%); LITERATURE (74%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); JOURNALISM (72%); COUNTERTERRORISM (72%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (69%); SUICIDE (65%); CASE STUDIES (60%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (71%) UNITED STATES (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPE (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); ENGLAND (71%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2006



309 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: Changing Bedfellows

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
If American politics could start with a clean slate today, the main argument wouldn't be between liberalism and conservatism, words that have become labels without coherent philosophies. The main fight would pit populist nationalism against progressive globalism. 
 The populist nationalist party would be liberal on economics, conservative on values and realist on foreign policy. It would bring together a wide array of people who are disenchanted with their respective parties' elites, and who would find they have a lot in common. It would bring Kevin Phillips together with Pat Buchanan, the Virginia senatorial candidate James Webb together with Lou Dobbs, Al Sharpton together with James Dobson.
 Here's how a populist nationalist candidate would sound: ''We are the ordinary, burden-bearing people of this country. We are the ones who work hard and build communities. It's time for us to come together and recognize that our loyalty to our fellow Americans comes first. 
 ''That means we can't waste our precious blood and treasure on poorly planned, pie-in-the-sky wars to bring democracy to the Middle East. We need to get out of Iraq now. That means we can't sell our ports to our enemies. That means we must secure our borders against terrorists and illegal immigrants who break the law, take our jobs and drive down wages. 
 ''We need to stand up to the big money interests who value their own profits more than their own countrymen, who outsource jobs to China and India, who destroy unions and control Washington. We need to fight off their efforts to take away our Social Security and Medicare. Instead of widening inequality and a race to the bottom, we need universal health care and decent wages. We need a government that will stand up to Internet porn and for decent family values. 
 ''We're tired of both the corporate elites and the cultural elites. We want leaders who understand our anxieties and are, like us, tired of a world where nothing is safe, where everything can be swept away by a serious illness, a divorce or a terrorist's bomb.''
 Populist nationalism of this sort would be politically potent. It would be against the war without seeming naive and dovish. It would be against corporate power without seeming socialist. It would tap the passions aroused by immigration and outsourcing and cohere with the populist uprisings taking place in different forms around the world.
 The progressive globalists, on the other hand, would be market-oriented on economics, liberal on values and multilateral interventionists in foreign affairs. The leading spokesman for this movement would be Tony Blair. Domestically, it would be led by the major presidential aspirants, who don't differ much: John McCain, Hillary Clinton, Mitt Romney, Mark Warner and Rudy Giuliani. 
 Here's how a globalist might sound: ''We're inspired by the opportunities a globalizing and flattening world open up before us. We embrace technological dynamism and cultural diversity and reject beggar-thy-neighbor policies. But we understand that globalization means interdependence, and we have to build institutions to ensure everybody shares the new prosperity.
 ''We have to reform education and improve skills so that more people succeed. We need to reform entitlements so the economy can remain flexible and not buried by debt. We have to work together to address global warming, oil dependence and protectionist barriers. We have to understand that this open, diverse world has enemies. We have to confront Islamic extremism ideologically and militarily, and battle it at its roots with democracy and freedom. We need to manage the movement of peoples without shutting off the flow, open up trade, not shut it down.'' 
 This modernizing progressivism would also be politically potent. It would thrive among the educated, among aspiring suburbanites, among hawks and among immigrants who look to the future more than the past. 
 Of course these alignments won't come about instantaneously. Our political institutions and habits have staying power, and the politics of globalization is lagging far behind the reality of it. But the issues that realigned politics in the 1960's are fading, and issues like immigration, trade and interdependence are rising to the fore. Politics is becoming less about left versus right and more about open versus closed. Or, to put it in starker terms, the populists are getting more populist while the elitists are getting more elitist. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (72%); FAMILY (72%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (72%); BORDER CONTROL (71%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (70%); TERRORISM (70%); OUTSOURCING (70%); MEDICARE (63%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (57%); PORNOGRAPHY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); JIM WEBB (73%); MARK WARNER (58%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); AL SHARPTON (54%); TONY BLAIR (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2006



310 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; MARKET PLACE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1014 words

HEADLINE: NYSE's Coup Stirs Political Opposition in Europe 

BYLINE: By JENNY ANDERSON and HEATHER TIMMONS; Carter Daugherty contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
A trans-Atlantic deal that looked like a strategic coup for the newly public NYSE Group -- its proposed acquisition of the pan-European stock exchange Euronext -- appears to be turning into a quagmire.
 The NYSE Group's traction has slipped as politicians in Europe have lined up in favor of a domestic alternative to the deal. The opposition reflects fears among European companies that they might be subject to American securities regulations if the acquisition is completed.
 Euronext, which comprises the exchanges in Paris, Brussels, Lisbon and Amsterdam, and NYSE Group have entered into a definitive agreement to merge, pending approval by shareholders. 
 Companies listed on the European exchanges have raised concerns about whose regulations would govern them. They are particularly worried that they could be subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which imposes strict reporting requirements on executives.
 Annette L. Nazareth, one of two Democrats on the five-member Securities and Exchange Commission, said yesterday that the deal would not alter the regulatory framework. 
 ''The mergers as proposed will not subject foreign markets or their listed companies to U.S. regulation,'' she said, adding that United States regulations applied only to markets that transacted business in the United States. ''The notion that this is a backdoor means of exporting Sarbanes-Oxley requirements internationally is completely misguided. 
 ''Market forces should drive these merger transactions rather than political or regulatory imperatives.''
 A recent decline of more than 20 percent in the NYSE Group's share price has narrowed the gap between its bid and that of the Deutsche Borse, the Frankfurt-based exchange, which is also in the bidding. 
 French banks, which are large owners of Euronext, are concerned about whether they are getting a fairly priced deal, said one person close to the negotiations, who agreed to speak only on the condition of not being identified. 
 The political storm grew this week as the Italian prime minister, Romano Prodi, added his support for a European deal to that of Jacques Chirac, the president of France, and Jean-Claude Trichet, president of the European Central Bank.
 Mr. Prodi told reporters in Berlin yesterday that he favored a tie-up between Deutsche Borse and Euronext. He was quoted by Reuters as saying a deal between the two European exchanges would ''help a Europe that is being born.''
 Mr. Trichet said during a news conference on June 8 that he preferred a ''European option'' to the NYSE deal, adding that it was his personal view rather than a position of the central bank. Earlier this month, Mr. Chirac and the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, said they would prefer that Euronext combine with the German exchange. 
 John A. Thain, the NYSE Group's chief executive, was in Europe earlier this week trying to sell his deal. Already the exchange has hired Societe Generale, a French bank, to advise with Citigroup on the deal. The news conference announcing the transaction was held in Paris to assuage fears that the United States would seek to dominate the local exchanges. 
 Callum McCarthy, the chairman of the British stock market regulator, the Financial Services Authority, addressed that concern on Monday when he issued a statement concerning a possible takeover of the London Stock Exchange. He said that if the London exchange were to be acquired by an exchange in the United States, neither his agency nor the S.E.C. considered ''that U.S. ownership of the L.S.E., in and of itself, would result in U.S. regulations, including Sarbanes-Oxley, applying to companies listed or quoted on its markets or member firms of the L.S.E.'' 
 Nasdaq has made an approach to the London exchange but has been rebuffed and has since acquired a 25.1 percent stake. 
 Edward Balls, Britain's economic secretary to the Treasury, said Sarbanes-Oxley was unwelcome in Britain. He said the country had considered and rejected more onerous market regulations at the same time that Sarbanes-Oxley was passed in the United States.
 ''We could have sought easy headlines and used an aggressive and heavy-handed populist response,'' Mr. Balls said. ''But at what cost? That approach, as the Americans have found with Sarbanes-Oxley, would have been wrong for Britain.''
 There has been little public discourse about the NYSE-Euronext deal in the United States but one senator said Sarbanes-Oxley was not going to be exported. 
 ''Europe will be regulated by Europe, period,'' said Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, a Democrat. ''It will hurt the merger and the market if the U.S. imposes its standards on Europe.''
 The political storm adds a layer of complexity to the commercial question of which deal is better. 
 ''The problem with the politicians getting involved is that it turns this from a commercial deal to a political deal, and that is not what this is all about,'' said Lynton Jones, head of Bourse Consult, a London consulting firm, and the former head of Nasdaq International.
 Ultimately the deal will be decided by Euronext shareholders who will have the right to vote at an as-yet-unscheduled meeting. 
 Some major shareholders appear to have taken sides: the Children's Fund, an activist fund in Europe, backs a Deutsche Borse deal, according to press reports, while Atticus Capital, an influential hedge fund, appears to favor the NYSE Group, according to comments made by Mr. Thain. 
 Neither fund returned calls for comment. The NYSE declined to comment as well.
 Some long-term shareholders, meanwhile, have already abandoned Deutsche Borse and Euronext stock, figuring consolidation frenzy had driven them to a peak. 
 ''We sold out of both earlier this month,'' said Ed Wallace, investment manager of global equities at Gartmore Investment Management in London. The stocks had done well because the equity and derivative markets were strong, and because of the prospect of consolidation. ''We struggled to see how the outlook could get any better and the stocks were expensive to the market,'' Mr. Wallace said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Annette L. Nazareth of the S.E.C. said regulations would not change. (Photo by Mannie Garcia/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); ACQUISITIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); MERGERS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); US SARBANES OXLEY ACT (76%); APPROVALS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (68%); EXECUTIVES (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (91%); NYSE GROUP INC (90%); NYSE EURONEXT INC (85%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (63%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (91%); NYX (PAR) (85%); NYX (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (90%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (90%)

PERSON: JOHN THAIN (58%); JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (57%); ROMANO PRODI (50%); ANGELA MERKEL (50%); JACQUES CHIRAC (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (78%); PARIS, FRANCE (72%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (95%); FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); BELGIUM (79%); ITALY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2006



311 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Thursday Styles; Dress Codes; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: Dilbert Doesn't Work Here Anymore Dress Codes

BYLINE: By DAVID COLMAN

 BODY:
PART of what drives men's fashion is the urge to emulate -- in clothing, if not career choices -- those inspired heroes of the 1960's and 70's. Skinny jeans and worn T-shirts recall the staccato punk soul of Joey Ramone. Zip-front ski cardigans conjure James Bond's jet-fueled alpine exploits. The leather cafe racer jacket: pure Steve McQueen.
 Little wonder the short-sleeved dress shirt can't get any respect. 
Unlike clothes that have rubbed elbows with supercool characters, the short-sleeved shirt is the Dilbert of men's wear, redolent of rocket scientists and substitute teachers. Think Ron Howard doing the right thing on ''Happy Days,'' Jack Webb of ''Dragnet'' barbecuing on his day off or, worse, Homer Simpson living the nuclear-family dream. Even the charismatic crew of ''The Right Stuff'' could not make the look take off.
 But just as nerdy retro-inspired glasses have become a fashion staple, the shirt is rolling up its invisible sleeves to get into the fashion fray. Young and fashionable men's wear designers -- Marc Jacobs, Thom Browne, Scott Sternberg of Band of Outsiders, Alexander McQueen, Michael Bastian -- see the short-sleeved dress shirt as an indispensable part of summer 2006. 
 ''I think they're really looking cool again,'' Mr. Bastian said. ''It feeds into that 60's variation on clean, preppy style.'' He even cited an antihero model: Benjamin Braddock, the tormented alumnus of ''The Graduate'' (1967). 
 Still, it is not an easy pitch to get across the plate. ''It's a particular look,'' said Michael Macko, the men's fashion director at Saks. ''You can look very cool in it, but you're never going to be chic. It's easy to slide into schlumpy office worker.'' He cited an anti-antihero: Dwight Schrute, the laser-tag-happy loser on ''The Office.'' 
 That said, Mr. Macko predicts the look -- call it loser with an edge -- will be even bigger next summer. ''This is just the beginning,'' he said. ''I'm seeing a return to classic madras short-sleeved shirts. It's very 'My Three Sons.' '' 
 If fashion people are conflicted, many men are not. Short sleeves? Um, no. ''You look like a third grader,'' said Bradley Giddens, who works for a pharmaceutical company's sales division in Manhattan. Mr. Giddens was appalled to find that his favorite British shirtmaker, Thomas Pink, makes shirts with short sleeves. ''No one is going to take you seriously,'' he said. ''You think if you wore one of these into a sales meeting you would walk away with a sale?''
 Then, too, there are some thorny economics. Short-sleeved shirts are almost as expensive to produce as normal shirts, so they are not cheap. Yet men expect to pay much less for them.
 But fashion is always happiest when it is having a bit of fun at the expense of convention. Last summer Steven Klein shot a portfolio for W with Brad Pitt as a short-sleeved Sun Belt dad burdened with a bored wife and four towheads. As Mr. Pitt neatly demonstrated, this wholly square fashion load works best when it is offset by a trim physique and tailoring to match. 
 ''You can't have a belly -- that's totally Dilbert -- and you should have some tone to your arms,'' said Mr. Sternberg, whose line includes the celery-thin shirts and ties that have become a favorite of natty-dressing indie rockers like Beck. 
 Designers have also tried to sex up the shirt a bit. In the past the sleeves, shortened versions of long sleeves, were big and blousy. This leaves even gym-grown biceps looking spindly. (And what guy is going to let all those curls go to waste?) Mr. Sternberg, like other designers, has trimmed the arms and cut the torso close to the body for a sharper fit. 
 Not only is the cut more flattering, it also lends the silhouette a nerdy uprightness. As such, Mr. Sternberg noted, ''it looks best freshly starched, like it's right out of the box.'' And though it is a summer shirt, it looks best neat, trim and, above all else, tucked into pants. 
 For men who want to look youthful and professional, the style is a way to dress colorfully while wearing a plain dress shirt. ''They're less serious, if you're not in a staid business environment,'' said Daniel Estes, an interior designer in Manhattan. ''I think of the Mormon evangelicals with their white short-sleeved shirts. There's something wholesome about them even while it's square. And there's something about playing it up that makes it not square it all.'' 
 In other words, as Mr. Macko stressed, ''It has to be worn with the right amount of irony.''
 That means an old-school tie (in a skinny solid, a rep stripe or madras -- nothing too flashy), a pair of neat trousers (khakis, pastel poplin slacks or plaid pants -- and not jeans) and, of course, thick black glasses. 
 And if you want the perfect accessory, you are in luck: Prada makes a T square.

 Co-op; Paul Smith tie, $135; Brooks Brothers belt, $88; Kala glasses, $195 at A. R. Trapp.; 4. Theory featherweight cotton shirt with elbow-length sleeves, $145 at Neiman Marcus; Club Monaco khakis, $69; vintage tie and belt from Cherry; vintage Tag Heuer watch from eBay; Morgenthal Frederics glasses, $375.; 5. Club Monaco cotton broadcloth shirt, $59; Calvin Klein checked cotton pants, $68 at Macy's; Banana Republic silk rep tie, $90; Anglo American horn-rimmed glasses, $195 at A. R. Trapp.; On cover: Haute cotton shirt, now $353 at Jeffrey New York; Brooks Brothers cotton trousers, $128; Morgenthal Frederics glasses, $275. (Photographs by Mark Veltman for The New York Times; photographed at 165 Charles Street ) 

GRAPHIC: Photos: 1. Thom Browne elbow-length oxford cotton shirt with button-cuff detail, $190 at Bergdorf Goodman Men
Prada cotton gabardine slacks, $455
Band of Outsiders tie, $125 at Barneys New York
Anglo American glasses, $195 at A. R. Trapp.
2. Band of Outsiders skinny-fit striped cotton shirts, $205, and ties, $125, at Barneys and South Willard in Los Angeles
glasses, left, by Oliver Peoples for Paul Smith, $285 at Myoptics and, right, by Kala, $195 at A. R. Trapp.
3. Marc Jacobs cotton broadcloth shirt, now $149 at Bergdorf
 Barneys cotton madras pants, $175 at 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEN (90%); MEN'S CLOTHING (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); WORKPLACE DRESS CODES (89%); SCHOOL DRESS CODES (89%); GARMENT WORKERS (78%); FASHION DESIGN (73%); MEN'S APPAREL MFG (73%); SKIING (71%); SUBSTITUTE TEACHERS (69%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (60%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (55%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (50%) Apparel; Shirts; Men

COMPANY: THOMAS PINK LTD (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2331 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' BLOUSES & SHIRTS (84%); SIC2321 MEN'S & BOYS' SHIRTS, EXCEPT WORK SHIRTS (84%)

PERSON: MARC JACOBS (73%); RON HOWARD (53%) David Colman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) CALIFORNIA, USA (74%); NEW YORK, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2006



312 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 609 words

HEADLINE: Big Airlines To Increase Some Fares

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
Add this to the growing list of headaches for travelers: Fares keep rising. 
 Most of the nation's largest airlines said yesterday that they would raise prices for many last-minute tickets.
If the fare increase holds, it will be further evidence that the airlines are taking advantage of a situation that is good for them and bad for consumers -- demand for travel is growing with the economy, yet the number of seats remains limited, giving the airlines the power to raise fares. 
 Yesterday, American Airlines, United Airlines, Northwest Airlines, Continental Airlines and US Airways followed the move by Delta Air Lines to increase one-way walk-up fares by $50. Those fares are typically purchased by business travelers. 
 Airlines generally raise fares in smaller increments. So even if some airlines break from the pack and pull back somewhat from the increase, fares on many routes could end up higher, extending a run of rising ticket prices.
 ''Because of demand they don't have to offer seats for $50 when they can sell them for $150,'' said Mike Boyd, president of the Boyd Group, an aviation consulting firm. ''Since we have a strong economy and increased pressure on airlines in terms of the seats they have, they can start to raise fares.'' 
 This latest increase will affect some of the most expensive flights, which have already increased 21 percent in the last year, according to Harrell Associates, an airline data-tracking firm. 
 With the $50 increase, the average last-minute one-way ticket, which last week cost $478, will likely rise $38.
 Investors reacted to the news by bidding airline stocks higher. Shares of AMR, the parent of American Airlines, rose $1.43, to $23.31. Shares of United, a unit of UAL, rose $2.61, to $30.42. Shares of US Airways climbed $2.99, to $45.48. 
 Business travel accounts for roughly a quarter of the seats sold by the nation's airlines but nearly half their revenue. The $50 price increase should add to the industry's bottom line this summer, which is expected to be the most profitable for the airlines since 2000. 
 A record 207 million people will fly this summer on flights that will be fuller than at any time in the last 60 years. So far, travelers generally have not balked at the higher fares. 
 ''There's a recognition on the part of the public that if we're paying at the pump ourselves, the air carriers are having to pay, too,'' said David Beckerman, director of consulting for Back Aviation Solutions. ''It doesn't look like they're really taking advantage of passengers in any way.''
 But analysts say there is a limit to how much airlines can raise prices without consumers pushing back.
 ''Do you like sitting in a middle seat and paying more for it?'' Betsy Snyder, a credit analyst with Standard & Poor's, asked. ''I think the question that everyone is raising now is, at what point do you get resistance from passengers?''
 David A. Castelveter, a spokesman for the Air Transport Association, the industry's trade group, said airlines realized they could only go so far. 
 ''The carriers have great concern about that,'' Mr. Castelveter said. ''They do need to raise fares to offset growing costs. They've been doing all they can through self-help, through bankruptcy negotiations with labor groups, but the price of fuel is reducing their ability to cut costs.''
 Fares have gone up for leisure travelers, though not as sharply as for business travelers.
 ''To get the fares in leisure even 5 to 10 percent higher takes a huge effort by the airlines because it's so competitive,'' Mr. Harrell said. ''That's the vacation man's territory, and every nickel, every dollar counts.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); AIR FARES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); TICKET SALES (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (92%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (90%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (90%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (57%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (57%)

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (92%); UAL (NYSE) (90%); DAL (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2006



313 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 299 words

HEADLINE: Industrial Production Fell Unexpectedly in May

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 15 

 BODY:
Industrial production fell unexpectedly in May, reflecting weakness in manufacturing, as the economy gave more signs of a slowdown.
 The Federal Reserve reported Thursday that output at the nation's factories, mines and utilities dropped by 0.1 percent last month after an increase of 0.8 percent in April. It was the first decline since a 0.1 percent drop in January. 
The weakness last month reflected a slowdown in the auto industry. Production of autos and auto parts fell by 1.3 percent last month, after a 0.2 percent drop in April. Analysts said the slowdown in production of autos, appliances and other big-ticket consumer items was consistent with a slower pace of consumer spending. Manufacturing, which had finally started to recover from the 2001 recession, will slow in coming months as overall economic growth slows, economists say.
 ''Manufacturing output growth will slow in 2006 and 2007 as U.S. and global growth slows,'' said Cliff Waldman, an economist for the Manufacturers Alliance/MAPI. ''But export growth and capital spending should stay strong enough to keep the factory expansion intact for at least the next few years.''
 The decline in industrial production left United States industry operating at 81.7 percent of capacity in May, down slightly from an April operating rate of 81.9 percent of capacity.
 The Federal Reserve keeps a close watch on the operating rate to see if it is approaching levels where bottlenecks could develop and threaten to heighten inflationary pressures.
 The economy expanded at a sizzling pace of 5.3 percent in the first three months of the year, but many economists say they believe that will slow to around 3 percent in the April-June quarter, as consumers struggle with rising interest rates, soaring gas prices and cooling home sales.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Industrial Production''Index of total industrial production, 1997 = 100, seasonally adjusted.May: -0.1%April: +0.8March: +0.5(Source by Federal Reserve)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (93%); AUTOMOTIVE MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INFLATION (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (76%); REAL ESTATE (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); INTEREST RATES (65%); EXPORT TRADE (52%) United States Economy; Production; Factories and Industrial Plants; Automobiles

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2006



314 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 409 words

HEADLINE: Carriers End Feud on Flights And Ticketing at Love Field

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: GRAPEVINE, Tex., June 15 

 BODY:
Love Field would shrink but Dallas travelers would eventually be able to fly from the airport near downtown to distant cities under an agreement announced Thursday by American Airlines, Southwest Airlines and the mayors of Dallas and Fort Worth. 
 If approved by Congress, the deal could end decades of squabbling over Love Field, which escalated into an all-out lobbying and public relations fight between American, based in Fort Worth, and Southwest, based in Dallas.
Each airline would get something from the deal.
 American, a unit of the AMR Corporation and the nation's largest carrier, would win eight more years of limits on long-haul flights at Love Field, which is closer to Dallas business travelers than American's hub at Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport. Love Field flights would still be limited to a nearby nine-state area during that time.
 Southwest would be able for the first time to sell tickets from Dallas to distant cities -- called through-ticketing -- instead of requiring customers to buy two separate tickets.
 Southwest also would solidify its hold on Love Field, getting 16 of the 20 gates that would be left after the demolition of 12 other gates. And the aging Love Field would get a new main terminal.
 The deal's immediate benefits for travelers were less clear.
 Southwest executives said through-ticketing would cause fares to fall, even though passengers making long trips would have to go through nearby cities like Houston or Albuquerque.
 But consumers who wanted immediate repeal of the Wright Amendment, the 1979 limits that Congress imposed on Love Field, were disappointed.
 ''There's nothing in this for consumers,'' said Tony Page, a leader of a group called Friends of Love Field. ''This doesn't repeal the Wright Amendment for eight years. A significant number of people in the metroplex will be dead by then.''
 Southwest has been pressing Congress to remove the limits at Love Field since late 2004. But a bill to repeal the Wright Amendment has made little headway and is opposed by several important members of the Texas delegation in Congress.
 Dallas and Fort Worth officials intended to close Love Field to commercial traffic when they joined together to build Dallas-Fort Worth Airport on a barren stretch of prairie midway between the two cities. Civic leaders thought a big regional airport would help the local economy.
 Southwest, however, went to court and won the right to stay at Love Field.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (92%); AIRLINES (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); LOBBYING (77%); APPROVALS (72%) Airlines and Airplanes; Love Field (Dallas); Airports

COMPANY: AMR CORP (84%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: American Airlines; Southwest Airlines

TICKER: LUV (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (84%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (99%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (91%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) Dallas (Tex); Fort Worth (Tex)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2006



315 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; The New Face of Solidarity; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1442 words

HEADLINE: Unions Focus Attention on Workers in Service Industries 

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
Manuel Alvarez is the type of worker that service-sector unions are eager to attract. After 11 years as a houseman at the Hilton Hotel at Los Angeles International Airport, he earns $9.95 an hour, about $20,000 a year.
 ''It's not enough to live on,'' said Mr. Alvarez, an immigrant from Mexico who vacuums halls and flips mattresses. ''I go to two churches each week to pick up donated food.'' On his days off, he collects bottles and cans for the deposit, adding $200 a month to his income. His hope is to join a union, and soon.
This week, judging by the somber mood at the United Automobile Workers convention, the state of organized labor would seem dire. Not so long ago, the U.A.W. was the nation's largest and most swaggering union, leading the way in building America's middle class by winning impressive wages, health coverage and pensions. But the U.A.W. is now in full retreat, ready to make concessions to help save the American auto industry. 
 Its plight points to a little-understood development: the nation's private sector is divided into two very different labor movements. The first comprises manufacturing unions, like the auto workers and machinists, which are on the defensive and on the decline. The second is made up of unions for the expanding service sector, which are upbeat and on the prowl for hundreds of thousands of nursing home aides, janitors, supermarket cashiers and workers like Mr. Alvarez.
 Unite Here, the union that represents hotel, restaurant and apparel workers, is seeking to organize thousands of nonunion Hilton workers in a battle that could culminate in a strike at many Hiltons this summer. 
 In a way, said Bruce Raynor, president of Unite Here, the service-sector unions hope to imitate the manufacturing unions of old. ''Our goal is to move service-sector workers into the middle class,'' he said. ''The manufacturing unions did that for factory workers. It took them 20 years to do that, and we hope to do the same thing.''
 The manufacturing unions have been devastated by globalization, with many companies insisting that America's unionized factory workers are overpaid and their benefit packages too rich compared with overseas workers. Delphi, the beleaguered auto parts company, has repeatedly trumpeted this assertion as it called for cutting its workers' $27-an-hour wages in half.
 In contrast, the service-sector unions are largely immune to globalization -- just try to outsource the job of a hamburger-flipper, hotel housekeeper or bedpan-emptier to China. Helping to make service-sector unions optimistic about attracting more members is the perception that workers like hotel housekeepers and janitors are underpaid and have skimpy benefits. Moreover, many of these workers are immigrants, who are often more enthusiastic about unions than native-born workers.
 To help his union rebound, Ron Gettelfinger, the president of the auto workers, announced plans this week to spend $60 million more on recruiting nonunion workers. But this could prove an uphill battle.
 ''The U.A.W. and the steelworkers once defined the labor movement, but now they're associated with declining membership and declining influence,'' said Richard W. Hurd, a labor relations professor at Cornell University. ''It's tough for the manufacturing unions to overcome what has happened the last 20 years, and it will make it harder for them to reach out to areas of manufacturing that are still vibrant.''
 Today, just 2 million manufacturing workers belong to unions, down from 3.5 million a decade ago. That compares with more than 3 million workers in service and retail unions, and more than 7 million in public sector unions.
 ''The service sector presents a tremendous opportunity for the labor movement,'' said Paul F. Clark, a professor of labor studies at Pennsylvania State University. ''There are lots of low-paid workers, lots of immigrant workers, a lot of workers who can benefit from a union. But there are a lot of hurdles they need to navigate if they are going to form unions.''
 Some labor experts say the effort to help workers like Mr. Alvarez join a union may not be easy. Companies have grown more aggressive and sophisticated in combating unions, often hiring consultants who lecture workers and show videos, hammering the point that unions do not help workers and only want their dues. Even many workers who favor unions are scared to speak out in favor of them, frightened that their employers will retaliate against them, perhaps by firing them, perhaps by cutting back their hours.
 ''There's great hostility to unions in general,'' said Nancy B. Johnson, a professor of management at the University of Kentucky. 
 ''In the old days,'' she said, ''you'd see co-workers dying and you'd see raw exploitation, so you wanted a union to protect you. Now if you work at nice retailers like Target or Kmart, you don't see people dying on the job. Yeah, you suffer some minor injustices, but a lot of workers today have learned to settle with what they have.''
 Nonetheless, many labor leaders voice confidence that unions will grow again. They point to some polls showing that more than half of nonunion workers say they would vote to join a union if given the chance. Despite such sentiments, unions represent just 7.8 percent of the nation's private-sector work force, down from 35 percent in the 1950's. 
 ''I think the labor movement has a bright future,'' said Mr. Raynor of Unite Here. ''The objective conditions -- income inequality, employers using their power over workers to shift the burden of health care and retirement, workers being paid below middle-class wage levels -- make it clear that many workers need unions. Unions are the only institution in society that can force employers to change the way they distribute their income.''
 He said it was outrageous that some luxury hotels paid their workers $7 or $8 an hour. 
 Mr. Alvarez, 59, says that out of his $20,000 pay, he spends $1,600 a year on health insurance premiums and another $2,500 on prescription drugs for his wife's asthma and for his high blood pressure and a thyroid ailment. 
 ''I want a union because it would give us more pay and far better health insurance,'' he said, noting that unionized workers at the Hilton in Beverly Hills pay no premiums for their health insurance. 
 The unions that broke off from the A.F.L.-C.I.O., including Unite Here and the Service Employees International Union, largely represent service sector workers and have ambitious plans to unionize far more of them.
 Daniel J. B. Mitchell, a professor of public policy at the University of California, Los Angeles, said many service-sector workers held jobs that were every bit as blue-collar as factory jobs. ''It's not surprising that unions are targeting workers in industrial laundries,'' where the temperature is soaring and the pace intense, he said. ''It's not classified as manufacturing, but it's like blue-collar work.''
 Manufacturing unions -- their membership and their image -- have been devastated by the constant stream of plant closings in recent years. General Motors, Ford and Delphi have announced widespread closings, which will reduce their union work force by more than 60,000, while a Maytag factory will soon close in Newton, Iowa, the town where the company was founded. Since 2000, the nation has lost three million manufacturing jobs, one-sixth of the total. 
 Nowadays many unionized factory workers seem on their heels, worried about imports, plant closings and demands for concessions. 
 Bob Perdue, a locomotive operator at AK Steel's mill in Middletown, Ohio, is in a surly mood because his company locked him out along with its 2,700 unionized workers on March 1, when their union rejected the company's demands for concessions. The company has called for a pension freeze, having the workers start contributing toward health insurance premiums and having retirees pay far more each year for their health insurance. 
 AK says those proposals are needed to help it control costs and remain competitive against low-cost rivals.
 ''Things are bad,'' Mr. Perdue said. ''We never expected to be out this long. We want to protect ourselves and protect our retirees.
 Leo W. Gerard, president of the United Steelworkers of America, said American manufacturers were at a huge disadvantage because companies rather than the government shouldered the cost of health coverage. If the United States adopted a national health care plan like Canada's, he said, that would go far to revive American manufacturing.
 ''We need an economic policy in which the nation decides to have a manufacturing base,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The nation's private sector is divided into two very different labor movements: manufacturing and service-sector unions. (Photos by left, Carlos Osorio/Associated Press
top center, Jim Wilson/The New York Times
David bottom center, McNew/Getty Images
right, Ric Francis/Associated Press)Chart: ''A Changing Movement''Percentage of union members who work in manufacturingGraph tracks percentage of union members who work in manufacturing from 1983 to 2005.2005: 12.9%(Sources by Bureau of Labor Statistics
 Barry T. Hirsch and David A. Macpherson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); HOTEL STAFF (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); HOTEL HOUSEKEEPING (89%); OUTSOURCING (78%); GARMENT WORKERS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); IMMIGRATION (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (75%); RESTAURANTS (73%); AIRPORTS (72%); MACHINE TOOLS (70%); HEALTH INSURANCE (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: HILTON WORLDWIDE (92%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (83%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (92%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2006



316 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 635 words

PERSON: Craig Morris

HEADLINE: Craig Morris, a Towering Figure in Inca Expeditions, Dies at 66

BYLINE: By JOHN NOBLE WILFORD

 BODY:
Craig Morris, an archaeologist who helped transform modern knowledge of the Inca civilization and a leader of research and exhibitions at the American Museum of Natural History, died Wednesday in Manhattan. He was 66 and lived in Greenwich Village. 
 The cause was complications of heart surgery performed on Monday at NewYork-Presbyterian/Columbia hospital, the museum announced.
Dr. Morris was a towering figure in pre-Columbian archaeology, colleagues said. His research on the Inca culture took him on expeditions to the heights of the Andes and down to the valleys of the Pacific coast for years of vigorous excavations. 
 One of his most intensive expeditions explored ruins of Huanuco Pampa, the huge Inca city at an elevation of 12,000 feet in the Andes. In the 1970's and 80's, he excavated more than 300 of the sites and some 4,000 crumbling buildings. 
 Other archaeologists said Dr. Morris's excavations and interpretations transformed understanding of Inca urban life before the Spanish conquest in the early 16th century. His more recent research concentrated on the architecture and ceramics of coastal Peru as a reflection of Inca political and economic structure. He also incorporated aerial and declassified satellite photography in his latest work. 
 For 10 years, until 2004, Dr. Morris was dean of science at the American Museum, overseeing the staff of curators and coordinating their work on public exhibitions. ''He was a pillar of our community personally and intellectually,'' said Ellen V. Futter, the museum president. 
 Michael J. Novacek, senior vice president and provost of the museum, said that Dr. Morris had a major role in the renaissance of the scientific exhibitions at the museum in recent years. He took a direct hand in curating several temporary and permanent exhibits, including one on the royal tombs of Sipan in Peru. 
 But it was Dr. Morris's own research that dominated his 31 years at the museum, where at his death he was a senior vice president and curator of anthropology. His expertise in Inca culture and his scholarly publications earned him membership in the National Academy of Sciences and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. 
 He was also vice president of the Institute of Andean Research, treasurer of the Peruvian-American Research Foundation and an adjunct professor of anthropology at Columbia. 
 Edward Craig Morris was born on Oct. 7, 1939, in Murray, Ky., and grew up there. As an undergraduate student at Vanderbilt University in Nashville, he developed an interest in anthropology, and at the University of Chicago, where he earned his Ph.D. in 1967, his abiding fascination with Peruvian prehistory took root. 
 This led to his principal work on three long-term field projects. Besides the 11-year research at Huanuco Pampa, he put in years at sites of the Chincha kingdom on the south coast of Peru and then at excavations on the southeastern frontier of the Inca realm on the slopes of the Bolivian Andes. 
 Collaborating with Adriana von Hagen, an American writer living in Peru, he wrote ''The Cities of the Ancient Andes'' and ''The Inca Empire and Its Andean Origins.'' She is also co-author with him of a new book on art in the ancient Andes, expected to be published by Thames & Hudson. 
 ''We were working together only last week on the final chapter,'' Ms. von Hagen said by telephone from Lima. ''It's ready to go to our editor.''
 Dr. Morris is survived by a sister, Emily Morris Luther of Murray, Ky., and his partner, Alexei Baklanov of New York City. 
 Colleagues and other archaeologists who knew him said that the Peruvian past was such a central part of his life that Dr. Morris maintained an apartment in Lima, his base of exploration over the years, and that Peruvian archaeologists considered him one of their own. 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Craig Morris with an Inca tunic and headdress in 2003 at the American Museum of Natural History, where he was dean of science for 10 years. (Photo by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); ARCHAEOLOGY (93%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (93%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); HISTORY (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (84%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (72%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (70%); CITY LIFE (69%); CITIES (69%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information; Incas; Indians, American; Archaeology and Anthropology

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (91%)

John Noble Wilford

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%) TENNESSEE, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); ANDES (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (51%) PERU (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

CATEGORY: Explorers

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2006



317 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1180 words

HEADLINE: For Fans of Asian Films, Two Weeks of Brash Bliss

BYLINE: By MANOHLA DARGIS

 BODY:
''Hollywood is so over. And Subway Cinema is proud to do its part to spread the word.'' That was 2002, and the founders of the New York Asian Film Festival had thrown down the gauntlet. Calling themselves the Subway Cinema collective, five Asian-film freaks entered the festival scene that year on a mission from God or, more accurately, the gods of cinema: entertainment or die! Uninterested in the kind of auteurist fare slated for art houses and uptown festivals, they wanted to showcase the audience-pleasing films they loved, the kind with monsters, tears and belly laughs. Art wasn't anathema, but neither was it a fetish. 
 Now in its fifth year, the New York Asian Film Festival (today through July 1) has evolved from the little festival that could into one of the city's most valuable events. Last year an estimated 8,000 to 10,000 film aficionados trekked to the Anthology Film Archives in the East Village, which has served as the festival's base since the beginning, to watch films from the internationally acclaimed likes of Park Chanwook and Takashi Miike. Also on tap last year was the North American premiere of the Japanese master Seijun Suzuki's delirious ''Princess Raccoon,'' which had screened at Cannes just the month before. It was a coup for the festival programmers and because, like so many foreign-language films, ''Princess Raccoon'' remains without an American distributor, it was a gift to local cinephiles.
In 1999 the Subway Cinema collective -- Paul Kazee, Brian Naas, Goran Topalovic, Nat Olson and Grady Hendrix, later joined by Dan Craft -- combined forces after the shuttering of the Music Palace movie theater. Located on the Bowery, that legendary Chinese-language cinema showcase had been a near high holy temple, the place where dedicated moviegoers could discover, amid curlicues of cigarette smoke and vapors from what sometimes seemed like an entire dim sum brunch, the joys of Hong Kong cinema. 
 It was where some New Yorkers saw their first John Woo movies and others discovered ''Raped by an Angel 4.'' It was a place for epiphanies both majestic and sordid.
 Speaking by telephone from his home in Manhattan, Mr. Hendrix, 33, explained that while they couldn't keep the Music Palace alive, he and his fellow enthusiasts wanted to keep their movie love burning. So, after kicking in $1,000 each, they began spreading the word, initially by mounting retrospectives dedicated to Hong Kong virtuosos like Johnnie To and Tsui Hark. 
 The collective began crossing borders shortly thereafter, screening 11 films from five different countries for its first festival. As in 2002, most of the films in this year's edition are from Japan, which has a robust and, in the United States, criminally neglected national cinema. Also showing are films from Korea (seven), India (five) and Thailand, Malaysia and China (one apiece). 
 The crisis in foreign-language film distribution in the United States is a point of obsessive concern for those who believe the movie of the moment isn't ''The Break-Up'' but the Romanian social satire ''The Death of Mr. Lazarescu.'' Still, despite the grim tidings -- the shrinking theatrical audience, the shuttered distributors -- showcases like the New York Asian Film Festival suggest all may not be lost. And Mr. Hendrix, for one, remains uncharacteristically hopeful for someone in this business. 
 ''Kids who read manga and watch anime,'' he said, ''they're into movies with female protagonists, they're into romance and comedy. They make it a point to seek out animes with subtitles. And at some point someone in the U.S. is going to realize that is an audience that should be served.'' 
 Over the next two weeks the festival will play 29 films, including a short, ''Hair,'' from the South Korean director Jang Jun-Hwan, whose ''Save the Green Planet'' received a limited American release last year. As usual, the selections encompass a range of genres, from hardcore horror to softhearted melodrama, and include multiple premieres. Some of the films arrive laden with accolades, like the epic-size Chinese family drama ''Peacock'' (2005), which won a significant prize at last year's Berlin Film Festival. Directed by Gu Changwei, a cinematographer who has shot films for Chen Kaige and Robert Altman, ''Peacock'' follows three adult children who, beginning in the 1970's, are trying to find their way in a country not yet in the grip of Louis Vuitton knockoffs and ennui.
 The hushed naturalism and unhurried rhythms of ''Peacock'' could not be more different from the go-go frenzy of a film like ''Gangster'' (2005), the festival's sole selection from Malaysia. Directed by Bade Haji Azmi, this cinematic pileup -- think ''Amores Perros'' by way of ''The Fast and the Furious'' and every Roger Corman cheapie you can think of -- is as irredeemably absurd as it is watchable. The film offers a glimmer of social commentary tucked between its throbbing musical-and-storybook beats, but what it mostly has to offer are slick surfaces, spinning wheels and a young cast who -- whether hanging off one another curbside or bouncing in the local nightclub -- unintentionally provide further evidence of pop culture's homogenizing effects.
 Those looking to satisfy their craving for Asian extreme cinema will find relief in ''Art of the Devil 2'' (2005), a sporadically amusing, gore-soaked Thai horror flick that proves you should never eat anything you haven't cooked yourself. (Oops, is that a blue lacquered fingernail in my soup?) 
 Far more satisfying, aesthetically if not nutritionally, is the slick, fast-moving gangster film ''Company'' (2002), from the well-regarded Indian director and producer Ram Gopal Varma. A sweeping, self-consciously cynical crime story about a cartel that spreads its violent tentacles from Bollywood to Hong Kong (''Yes, it stinks, but it's business''), the film is playing as part of a four-title tribute to Mr. Varma titled ''No Singing, No Dancing, No Mercy.'' 
 Given the festival's commitment to genre cinema it's instructive that two of best films I've seen from this year's lineup push the limits of form almost to the breaking point. In the diverting ''Cromartie High School'' (2005), the Japanese director Yudai Yamaguchi, working with an economy of means and a bountiful imagination, tracks the supremely unhinged adventures of a group of very unusual high school students. Much like the swoon-worthy South Korean period story ''Duelist'' (2005), from Lee Myung-Se, this parody of juvenile delinquent films takes a satisfyingly heretical approach to traditional narrative. In ''Duelist,'' a film that bridges the musical and the action movie with abandon, brandished swords lead not only to some wonderfully riotous fight scenes, but also to an awfully fine romance. 

The New York Asian Film Festival runs from tonight through June 25 at the Anthology Film Archives, 32 Second Avenue, at Second Street, East Village, (212) 505-5181; and from June 22 to July 1 at the ImaginAsian Theater, 239 East 59th Street, Manhattan. (212) 371-6682. Information: subwaycinema.com.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ha Ji-Won in ''Duelist,'' a film by the South Korean director Lee Myung-Se being shown at the New York Asian Film Festival, which begins today. (Photo by Core Studios)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (93%); FESTIVALS (92%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (72%) Motion Pictures; New York Asian Film Festival

PERSON: Manohla Dargis

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (92%); JAPAN (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2006



318 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; The Listings: June 16 - June 22; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 16259 words

 BODY:
Selective listings by critics of The New York Times of new and noteworthy cultural events in the Northeast this week. * denotes a highly recommended film, concert, show or exhibition.

Theater

Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current shows, additional listings, show times and tickets: nytimes.com/theater. 


Previews and Openings

'BIG SHOOT' In previews; opens on Thursday. The Culture Project presents a French political drama about the confrontation between an interrogator and a suspect (1:10). Culture Project, 45 Bleecker Street, at Lafayette Street, East Village, (212) 307-4100.

'THE BUSY WORLD IS HUSHED' In previews; opens on June 25. A minister played by Jill Clayburgh finds herself at odds with her estranged, wayward son in this new play by Keith Bunin (''The Credeaux Canvas''). Mark Brokaw directs (2:00). Playwrights Horizons, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200.

'GODOT HAS LEFT THE BUILDING' Previews begin tonight; opens on Thursday. This Los Angeles transfer updates Beckett to the world of drab, modern office life -- in a postapocalyptic landscape, of course. Will Pomeranz directs (2:00). 45 Below Theater, 45 Bleecker Street, at Lafayette Street, East Village, (212) 352-3101.

'THE HOUSE IN TOWN' In previews; opens on Monday. Richard Greenberg's latest drama, about a troubled marriage, is set in early-20th-century New York society. Doug Hughes directs (1:30). Mitzi E. Newhouse Theater, 150 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200.

'KING LEAR' Previews start today. Opens Monday. He's played the Fool opposite Orson Welles's Lear, and Gloucester opposite F. Murray Abraham's. Finally Alvin Epstein, who is in his 80's, takes the lead in a production that received great word of mouth after a run in Boston last year (1:30). La MaMa E.T.C. Annex, 66 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 475-7710.

'MACBETH' In previews; opens on June 28. First at the Public in the park this year will be Moises Kaufman's production of ''the Scottish play,'' starring Liev Schreiber, who went unto the breach at the Delacorte Theater in 2003 in ''Henry V'' (2:15). Delacorte Theater, Central Park West and 81st Street, (212) 539-8750.

'PIG FARM' In previews; opens on June 27. The Roundabout Theater reunites part of the artistic team from ''Urinetown'' -- the playwright Greg Kotis and the director John Rando -- for this play about a couple struggling to hold onto their herd of pigs. Denis O'Hare stars (2:15). Harold and Miriam Steinberg Center for Theater, 111 West 46th Street, (212) 719-1300.

'SATELLITES' In previews; opens on Sunday. This new play by Diana Son is about an interracial couple moving into a gentrifying neighborhood in Brooklyn. Sandra Oh stars; Michael Greif directs (1:45). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 239-6200.

'SCHOOL OF THE AMERICAS' Previews start on Tuesday. Opens on July 6. Based on historical fact, Jose Rivera's new play is about two days that Che Guevera spent trapped in a one-room schoolhouse. A co-production with the Labyrinth Theater company. John Ortiz and Patricia Velasquez star. (2:00). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 239-6200.

'TROUBLE IN PARADISE' In previews; opens on Tuesday. The Hourglass Group presents a stage adaptation of the 1932 film about two con artists who conspire to hoodwink an heir to a perfume empire (1:30). Hudson Guild Theater, 441 West 26th Street, Chelsea, (212) 352-3101.

Broadway

* 'AWAKE AND SING!' (Tony Award, Best Play Revival 2006) Dreams and disappointments, hopes and fears, encouraging words and bitter putdowns clash by day and night in Clifford Odets's turbulent comedy-drama about a Jewish family struggling to stay afloat in the 1930's. A gifted roster of performers -- including Mark Ruffalo, Lauren Ambrose, Zoe Wanamaker and Ben Gazzara -- manage to locate the dreaming centers of their characters, buried beneath layers of political sloganeering, everyday gripes or street slang. And even when the focus occasionally blurs in Bartlett Sher's ultimately moving revival, Odets's zesty dialogue, in which jazzy period colloquialisms are slung around like punches at a prize fight, is a joy to hear (2:30). Belasco Theater, 111 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Charles Isherwood)

* 'BRIDGE & TUNNEL' (Tony Award, Special Theatrical Event 2006) This delightful solo show, written and performed by Sarah Jones, is a sweet-spirited valentine to New York City, its polyglot citizens and the larger notion of an all-inclusive America. In 90 minutes of acutely observed portraiture gently tinted with humor, Ms. Jones plays more than a dozen men and women participating in an open-mike evening of poetry for immigrants (1:30). Helen Hayes Theater, 240 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

'THE COLOR PURPLE' So much plot, so many years, so many characters to cram into less than three hours. This beat-the-clock musical adaptation of Alice Walker's Pulitzer Prize-winning novel about Southern black women finding their inner warriors never slows down long enough for you to embrace it. LaChanze leads the vibrant, hard-working cast (2:40). Broadway Theater, 1681 Broadway, at 53rd Street, (212) 239-6200.(Ben Brantley)

'DIRTY ROTTEN SCOUNDRELS' The arrival of Jonathan Pryce and his eloquent eyebrows automatically makes this the season's most improved musical. With Mr. Pryce (who replaces the admirable but uneasy John Lithgow) playing the silken swindler to Norbert Leo Butz's vulgar grifter, it's as if a mismatched entry in a three-legged race had become an Olympic figure-skating pair (2:35). Imperial Theater, 249 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE DROWSY CHAPERONE' (Tony Awards, Best Book of a Musical and Best Original Score 2006) This small and ingratiating spoof of 1920's stage frolics, as imagined by an obsessive show queen, may not be a masterpiece. But in a dry season for musicals, ''The Drowsy Chaperone'' has theatergoers responding as if they were withering house plants, finally being watered after long neglect. Bob Martin and Sutton Foster are the standouts in the eager, energetic cast (1:40). Marquis Theater, 1535 Broadway, at 45th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

*'FAITH HEALER' In the title role of Brian Friel's great play, Ralph Fiennes paints a portrait of the artist as dreamer and destroyer that feels both as old as folklore and so fresh that it might be painted in wet blood. Also starring Cherry Jones and the superb Ian McDiarmid, this mesmerizing series of monologues has been directed with poetic starkness by Jonathan Kent (2:35). Booth Theater, 222 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

* 'THE HISTORY BOYS' (Tony Awards, Best Play and Best Direction of a Play, 2006) Madly enjoyable. Alan Bennett's play about a battle for the hearts and minds of a group of university-bound students, imported with the original British cast from the National Theater, moves with a breezy narrative swagger that transcends cultural barriers. Directed by Nicholas Hytner, with a perfectly oiled ensemble led by the superb Richard Griffiths and Stephen Campbell Moore as schoolmasters with opposing views of history and education (2:40). Broadhurst Theater, 235 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'HOT FEET' A dancing encyclopedia of cliches set to the music of Earth, Wind and Fire. Numbing (2:30). Hilton Theater, 213 West 42nd Street, (212) 307-4100. (Isherwood)

'JERSEY BOYS' (Tony Award, Best Musical 2006) From grit to glamour with the Four Seasons, directed by the pop repackager Des McAnuff (''The Who's Tommy''). The real thrill of this shrink-wrapped bio-musical, for those who want something more than recycled chart toppers and a story line poured from a can, is watching the wonderful John Lloyd Young (as Frankie Valli) cross the line from exact impersonation into something far more compelling (2:30). August Wilson Theater, 245 West 52nd Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

* 'THE LIEUTENANT OF INISHMORE' Please turn off your political correctness monitor along with your cellphone for Martin McDonagh's gleeful, gory and appallingly entertaining play. This blood farce about terrorism in rural Ireland, acutely directed by Wilson Milam, has a carnage factor to rival Quentin Tarantino's. But it is also wildly, absurdly funny and, even more improbably, severely moral (1:45). Lyceum Theater, 149 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE LIGHT IN THE PIAZZA' Love is a many flavored thing, from sugary to sour, in Adam Guettel and Craig Lucas's encouragingly ambitious and discouragingly unfulfilled new musical. The show soars only in the sweetly bitter songs performed by the wonderful Victoria Clark, as an American abroad (2:15). Beaumont Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

*'SHINING CITY' Quiet, haunting and absolutely glorious. Conor McPherson's impeccably assembled ghost story about being alone in the crowded city of Dublin has been brought to American shores with a first-rate cast (Brian F. O'Byrne, Oliver Platt, Martha Plimpton and Peter Scanavino), directed by Robert Falls (1:45). Biltmore Theater, 261 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

* 'SWEENEY TODD' (Tony Award, Best Direction of a Musical 2006) Sweet dreams, New York. This thrilling new revival of Stephen Sondheim and Hugh Wheeler's musical, with Michael Cerveris and Patti LuPone leading a cast of 10 who double as their own musicians, burrows into your thoughts like a campfire storyteller who knows what really scares you. The inventive director John Doyle aims his pared-down interpretation at the squirming child in everyone who wants to have his worst fears both confirmed and dispelled (2:30). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'TARZAN' This writhing green blob with music, adapted by Disney Theatrical Productions from the 1999 animated film, has the feeling of a super-deluxe day care center, equipped with lots of bungee cords and karaoke synthesizers, where children can swing when they get tired of singing, and vice versa. The soda-pop score is by Phil Collins (2:30). Richard Rodgers Theater, 226 West 46th Street, (212) 307-4747. (Brantley)

'THE THREEPENNY OPERA' Presented as a long, pansexual orgy, Scott Elliot's numbing revival of the Brecht-Weill classic feels like a party where the hangover begins almost as soon as the evening does. The starry cast includes Alan Cumming (as Mac the Knife) and a Dietrich-like Cyndi Lauper, though only Jim Dale and Nellie McKay appear to have a clue as to what the show is about (2:40). Studio 54, 254 West 54th Street, (212) 719-1300. (Brantley)

* 'THE 25TH ANNUAL PUTNAM COUNTY SPELLING BEE' The happy news for this happy-making little musical is that the move to larger quarters has dissipated none of its quirky charm. William Finn's score sounds plumper and more rewarding than it did Off Broadway, providing a sprinkling of sugar to complement the sass in Rachel Sheinkin's zinger-filled book. The performances are flawless. Gold stars all around (1:45). Circle in the Square, 1633 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

'THE WEDDING SINGER' An assembly-kit musical that might as well be called ''That 80's Show,'' this stage version of the 1998 film is all winks and nods and quotations from the era of big hair and junk bonds. The cast members, who include Stephen Lynch and Laura Benanti, are personable enough, which is not the same as saying they have personalities (2:20). Al Hirschfeld Theater, 302 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

Off Broadway

'ASSISTED LOVING' This warm and witty monologue by Bob Morris, who contributes the Age of Dissonance column to the Sunday Styles section of The New York Times, is performed by the author, who chronicles his widowed father's and his own search for love in and around New York. Engaging, subtle and winning (1:10). Daryl Roth Theater, D-Lounge, 103 East 15th Street, at Union Square, (212) 239-6200. (George Hunka)

'BURLEIGH GRIME$' A feeble-witted comedy by Roger Kirby about dirty dealings on Wall Street, featuring a pair of skilled actors known for recent television work -- Wendie Malick of ''Just Shoot Me'' and Mark Moses of ''Desperate Housewives'' -- and incidental music by David Yazbek, who wrote the score for Broadway's ''Dirty Rotten Scoundrels.'' These putative assets are painfully ill served by Mr. Kirby's play, which is long on ludicrous plot and short on fresh humor. (2:10). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

'CAGE LOVE' The new thriller by Christopher Denham -- star of ''Red Light Winter'' -- is a compulsively watchable, sometimes ridiculous drama about a man who becomes increasingly suspicious of his wife-to-be (1:30). Rattlestick Theater, 224 Waverly Place, Greenwich Village, (212) 868-4444. (Jason Zinoman)

'CIRQUE DU SOLEIL -- CORTEO' The Cirque du Soleil's latest extravaganza, which upholds the ubiquitous Cirque standard, is a fantasy of a dead (though cheerful) clown imagining his own funeral. Unsurprisingly, his cortege is full of circus acts (2:30). Grand Chapiteau at Randall's Island, (800) 678-5440. (John Rockwell)

'CRAZY FOR THE DOG' Christopher Boal's effective family melodrama about a brother, a sister, a wife and a boyfriend caught in a web of recrimination and confession, touched off by the kidnapping of a shih tzu (2:00). Bouwerie Lane Theater, 330 Bowery, at Bond Street, East Village, (212) 677-0060, Ext. 16. (Hunka)

'THE FIELD' John B. Keane's portrait of rural life in Ireland in the mid-20th century, both sorrowful and censorious. This sturdy new production, directed by Ciaran O'Reilly, features Marty Maguire as Bull McCabe, a tough farmer who will stop at nothing to preserve his right to raise his cattle on a field about to be auctioned. A little moralistic, but powerful nonetheless (2:30). Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-2737. (Isherwood)

* 'FORBIDDEN BROADWAY: SPECIAL VICTIMS UNIT' This production features the expected caricatures of ego-driven singing stars. But even more than usual, the show offers an acute list of grievances about the sickly state of the Broadway musical, where, as the lyrics have it, ''everything old is old again'' (1:45). 47th Street Theater, 304 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200.(Brantley)

'THE GOLD STANDARD' A successful alumnus, his trophy girlfriend and an eccentric Korean professor form a romantic triangle at a campus bar in Daniel Roberts's drama, which is occasionally original but often downright odd (2:30). The Irish Arts Center, 553 West 51st Street, Clinton, (212) 868-4444. (Anita Gates)

'IN THE MATTER OF J. ROBERT OPPENHEIMER' In the title role, Thomas Jay Ryan makes morality, in its truest sense, look fashionable. This is a long but frequently gripping play of literate talk and real ideas (2:45). The Connelly Theater, 220 East Fourth Street, Lower East Side, (212) 868-4444. (Gates)

'JACQUES BREL IS ALIVE AND WELL AND LIVING IN PARIS' A powerfully sung revival of the 1968 revue, presented with affectionate nostalgia by the director Gordon Greenberg. As in the original, two men (Robert Cuccioli and Rodney Hicks) and two women (Natascia Diaz and Gay Marshall) perform a wide selection of Brel's plaintive ballads and stirring anthems. Ms. Marshall's captivating performance of ''Ne Me Quitte Pas,'' sung in the original French and with heart-stirring transparency, represents Brel at his best (2:00). Zipper Theater, 336 West 37th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

'NOT A GENUINE BLACK MAN' Brian Copeland's solo memoir about his African-American family moving into a white suburb in the early 1970's is an engaging, if stiltedly performed, show (1:30). DR2 Theater, 103 East 15th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Zinoman)

'NOTHING' A morsel of catnip for Anglophiles, flavorfully adapted by Andrea Hart from the novel by Henry Green. Simon Dutton and Sophie Ward play onetime lovers contemplating the possible marriage of their children in this comedy of manners about the string of upheavals that a romance in one generation causes in another (1:40). The 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200. (Isherwood)

'THE PORCH' Kari Floren, who wrote this comedy about three unwanted guests at a failing B & B, takes a battering-ram approach to forcing her figures into her plot: there's a lot of noise and messiness along the way. But after establishing her four stereotypes (the abrasive and lonely career woman, the failed alcoholic writer, the gay dancer and the confused ex-dancer with commitment issues, who all declaim in loud, loud voices), she pulls off a surprise ending that manages to confer considerably more credibility on the enterprise (1:30). Altered Stages, 212 West 29th Street, Chelsea, second floor, (212) 279-4200. (Anne Midgette)

'RED LIGHT WINTER' A frank, occasionally graphic story of erotic fixation and the havoc it can wreak on sensitive types. Written and directed by Adam Rapp, this play is both a doomy romantic drama and a morbid comedy about the anxieties of male friendship. Although somewhat contrived, it features a lovely performance by Christopher Denham as a lonely soul starved for intimacy (2:25). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, West Village, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

'SANDRA BERNHARD: EVERYTHING BAD AND BEAUTIFUL' Sandra Bernhard was a proverbial rock star long before headline-making folks in even the most prosaic walks of life were being referred to as such. Her new show, a collection of songs interspersed with musings on her life and on public figures ranging from Britney Spears to Condoleezza Rice, is casual to the point of being offhand. That said, it's invigorating to be in the presence of a true original (2:00). Daryl Roth Theater, 101 East 15th Street, at Union Square, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

'SOME GIRL(S)' A slight and sour comedy from Neil LaBute that once again puts a morally bankrupt man under the microscope and watches him squirm. The central specimen is here played by Eric McCormack, who as a thoughtless heterosexual gives much the same performance he did as a thoughtful homosexual on ''Will and Grace.'' Jo Bonney directs a cast that also includes Fran Drescher, Judy Reyes, Brooke Smith and Maura Tierney as women done wrong by the same man (1:40). Lucille Lortel Theater, 121 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 279-4200. (Brantley)

'STOPPING TRAFFIC' The actress Mary Pat Gleason's endearing one-woman show about making movies (and just getting through life) while bipolar is a play with both a message and some hearty laughs (1:30). Vineyard Theater, 108 East 15th Street, (212) 353-0303. (Gates)

* 'STUFF HAPPENS' Daniel Sullivan's sharp, invigorating production of David Hare's journalistic drama about the road to war in Iraq is conducted on the modest scale of a town-hall meeting. The characters (who have names like Bush and Blair) seem less like destiny-shaping gods than the ego trippers in your office. If that means they're too close for comfort, then ''Stuff Happens'' is doing its job (2:50). The Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'TEMPEST TOSSED FOOLS' This musical audience-participation children's version of ''The Tempest'' is rowdy, colorful and not all that Shakespearean. Manhattan Ensemble Theater, 55 Mercer Street, SoHo, (212) 239-6200. (Gates)

Off Off Broadway

'BACK OF THE THROAT' An Arab-American playwright, Yussef El Guindi, addressing the harassment of Arab-Americans after Sept. 11? Interesting. But the play would have been even more interesting if the harassers were something other than cardboard characters out of the J. Edgar Hoover closet (1:15). Flea Theater, 41 White Street, TriBeCa, (212) 352-3101. (Neil Genzlinger)

'HAM LAKE' A gregarious 20-something man reveals more than he intends to in this 80-minute seriocomic barroom monologue by Sam Rosen and Nat Bennett. Mr. Rosen is a wry and skilled earbender. Huron Club at the SoHo Playhouse, 15 Vandam Street, South Village, (212) 691-1555. (Hunka)

* 'WAITING FOR GODOT' Vladimir (Wendell Pierce) and Estragon (J. Kyle Manzay) wait and wait, but in this version they're soaking wet, their desolate plot being surrounded by water. A familiar play is injected with surprises (2:00). Harlem School for the Arts, 645 St. Nicholas Avenue, near 141st Street, Hamilton Heights, (212) 864-4444. (Genzlinger)

Long-Running Shows

* 'ALTAR BOYZ' This sweetly satirical show about a Christian pop group made up of five potential Teen People cover boys is an enjoyable, silly diversion (1:30). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200.(Isherwood)

'AVENUE Q' R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:10). Golden, 252 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'BEAUTY AND THE BEAST' Cartoon made flesh, sort of (2:30). Lunt-Fontanne Theater, 205 West 46th Street, (212) 307-4747. (Brantley)

'CHICAGO' Irrefutable proof that crime pays (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200.(Brantley)

'DOUBT, A PARABLE' John Patrick Shanley makes subversive use of musty conventions in the clash between the head of a parochial school and the young priest who may or may not be too fond of the boys in his charge (1:30). Walter Kerr Theater, 219 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'HAIRSPRAY' Fizzy pop, cute kids, large man in a housedress (2:30). Neil Simon Theater, 250 West 52nd Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'THE LION KING' Disney on safari, where the big bucks roam (2:45). Minskoff Theater, 200 West 45th Street at Broadway, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'MAMMA MIA!' The jukebox that devoured Broadway (2:20). Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA' Who was that masked man, anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE PRODUCERS' The ne plus ultra of showbiz scams (2:45). St. James Theater, 246 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'RENT' East Village angst and love songs to die for (2:45). Nederlander Theater, 208 West 41st Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'SLAVA'S SNOWSHOW' Clowns chosen by the Russian master Slava Polunin are stirring up laughter and enjoyment. A show that touches the heart as well as tickles the funny bone (1:30). Union Square Theater, 100 East 17th Street, Flatiron District, (212) 307-4100.(Lawrence Van Gelder)

'SPAMALOT' This staged re-creation of the mock-medieval movie ''Monty Python and the Holy Grail'' is basically a singing scrapbook for Python fans. Such a good time is being had by so many people that this fitful, eager celebration of inanity and irreverence has found a large and lucrative audience (2:20). Shubert Theater, 225 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'WICKED' Oz revisited, with political corrections (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

Last Chance

'AIN'T SUPPOSED TO DIE A NATURAL DEATH' Melvin Van Peebles's 1971 Tony-nominated musical, ''Ain't Supposed to Die a Natural Death,'' isn't so much performed at the club T New York, as erupted, like some sort of streetwise lava flow. This early precursor to hip-hop, rap and poetry slams is a get-down, roiling depiction of ghetto life, and we're not talking urbane bling (1:30). T New York, 240 West 52nd Street, Clinton, (212) 352-3101; closing tomorrow. (Phoebe Hoban)

* 'BILLY CONNOLLY LIVE!' This popular comedian will remind you of a Scottish George Carlin, with a bit of Eddie Izzard mixed in (2:00). 37 Arts, 450 West 37th Street, (212) 307-4100; closing tomorrow. (Zinoman)

'DARK YELLOW' Elias Koteas and Tina Benko star in this compelling one-act psychological thriller about a one-night stand that involves one shocking revelation after another (1:35). Studio Dante, 257 West 29th Street, Chelsea, (212) 868-4444; closing tomorrow. (Gates)

'IN BETWEEN THE SHEETS' Based on three short stories by Ian McEwan, this trilogy is billed as the first-ever theatrical adaptation of the author's works. But the writer-director, Seth Duerr, doesn't provide a strong enough hand to replace the author's voice that's lost in the move from page to stage (1:30). Theater 54 in the Shetler Studios, 244 West 54th Street, 12th floor, Clinton, (212) 868-4444; closing tomorrow. (Midgette)

* 'THE PAJAMA GAME' (Tony Award, Best Musical Revival 2006) Sexual chemistry in a Broadway musical? Isn't that illegal now? If it were, then Harry Connick Jr. and Kelli O'Hara -- the white-hot stars of Kathleen Marshall's delicious revival of this 1954 musical -- would be looking at long jail terms. This intoxicating production, which features a charming supporting cast led by Michael McKean, allows grown-up audiences the rare chance to witness a bona fide adult love affair translated into hummable songs and sprightly dance (2:30). American Airlines Theater, 227 West 42nd Street, (212) 719-1300; closing tomorrow. (Brantley)

'THREE DAYS OF RAIN' In this revival of Richard Greenberg's slender, elegant drama of family disconnectedness, Julia Roberts is stiff with self-consciousness, glancingly acquainted with the two characters she plays and deeply, disturbingly beautiful. Otherwise, it is almost impossible to discern the virtues of the play itself in this wooden and splintered production, directed by Joe Mantello and also starring Paul Rudd and Bradley Cooper, who have little chance of capturing the audience's attention (2:30). Bernard B. Jacobs Theater, 242 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200; closing on Sunday. (Brantley)

'NO CHILD' Teachers will love Nilaja Sun's one-woman show about the challenges of teaching drama at Malcolm X High School (1:10). Beckett Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200; closing on Sunday. (Gates)

Movies

Ratings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, show times and tickets: nytimes.com/movies.

* 'AN INCONVENIENT TRUTH' (PG, 96 minutes) Al Gore gives a lecture on climate change. One of the most exciting and necessary movies of the year. Seriously. (A. O. Scott)

* 'ARMY OF SHADOWS' (No rating, 140 minutes, in French) Dark as pitch and without compromise, Jean-Pierre Melville's 1969 masterpiece centers on the feats of a small band of Resistance fighters during the occupation. Brilliant, harrowing, essential viewing.(Manohla Dargis)

'ART SCHOOL CONFIDENTIAL' (R, 102 minutes) A lump of misanthropy from Terry Zwigoff and Daniel Clowes, who made the sublime ''Ghost World.'' This time they plod through a grouchy attack on the pretense and hypocrisy of self-declared artists. John Malkovich's performance as a drawing instructor is sly and insightful, a glimpse at what the movie might have been. (Scott)

'THE BREAK-UP' (PG-13, 105 minutes) Jennifer Aniston and Vince Vaughn split up and share custody of a Chicago condominium. Dull and cheerless, notwithstanding a handful of funny supporting turns, notably from Judy Davis and Jason Bateman. (Scott)

'CARS' (G, 114 minutes) The latest 3D toon from Pixar just putt, putt, putts along, a shining model of technological progress and consumer safety. John Lasseter directed, and Owen Wilson provides the voice of the little red race car who learns all the right lessons from, among others, a 1951 Hudson Hornet given voice by Paul Newman. (Dargis)

* 'CROSSING THE BRIDGE: THE SOUND OF ISTANBUL' (No rating, 91 minutes, in German, Turkish and English) If life were fair and film exhibition better, you could watch Fatih Akin's infectiously enjoyable survey of contemporary Turkish music while standing up, or, more ideally, while swaying, spinning and shimmying. But whether you sit or spin, remember to tell the projectionist to crank up the volume. (Dargis)

'THE CULT OF THE SUICIDE BOMBER' (No rating, 96 minutes) An engrossing if intellectually thin made-for-British-television documentary that purports to explain how suicide bombing -- which its narrator, Robert Baer, likens to a ''pathological virus'' -- evolved from a weapon of war into a weapon of terror and finally, in Iraq, a ''weapon of chaos.'' (Dargis)

'THE DA VINCI CODE' (PG-13, 148 minutes) Theology aside, ''The Da Vinci Code'' is, above all, a murder mystery. And as such, once it gets going, Ron Howard's movie has its pleasures. He and the screenwriter Akiva Goldsman have deftly rearranged some elements of the plot, unkinking a few overelaborate twists and introducing others that keep the action moving along. The movie does, however, take a while to accelerate, popping the clutch and leaving rubber on the road as it tries to establish who is who, what he's doing and why. So I certainly can't support any calls for boycotting or protesting this busy, trivial, inoffensive film. Which is not to say that I'm recommending that you go see it. (Scott)

* 'DOWN IN THE VALLEY' (R, 114 minutes) This allegorical neo-western set in the San Fernando Valley has dreams as big as the fantasies that consume its protagonist, a Stetson-wearing suburban cowboy (Edward Norton) who is not what he appears to be. How much you like it will depend on your appetite for the kind of cultural metaphors that David Jacobson flings onto the screen with a reckless abandon. (Stephen Holden)

'THE HEART OF THE GAME' (PG-13, 98 minutes) A documentary look from the newcomer Ward Serrill at the hoop dreams of both a girls' high school basketball team and of the tough-talking, softhearted coach who guides them to their championship season. (Dargis)

'THE KING' (R, 105 minutes) James Marsh uses cliches and some lived-in emotions and atmosphere for his fitfully engaging, exasperating film about a young Mexican-American (Gael Garcia Bernal) whose search for his patrimony leads him into the bosom of a deeply religious Texas family (headed by a very fine William Hurt). (Dargis)

* 'LA MOUSTACHE' (No rating, 86 minutes, in French) Emmanuel Carriere's psychological mystery prepares you to bask in one of those sexy, bittersweet marital comedies that are a hallmark of sophisticated French cinema. Then, by degrees, it subverts those expectations to spiral down a rabbit hole of ambiguity and doubt. (Holden)

'MISSION: IMPOSSIBLE III' (PG-13, 126 minutes) Er, this time it's personal, as Tom Cruise plays a dashing operative for a clandestine organization who sweeps a simpering brunette off her feet. Directed, without much flair, by J. J. Abrams, the small-screen auteur behind ''Lost'' and ''Alias.'' (Dargis)

'THE OMEN' (R, 110 minutes) The supremely unnecessary remake of ''The Omen,'' the 1976 horror show that, along with ''Rosemary's Baby'' and ''The Exorcist,'' plunked everyone's favorite baddie, Satan, into the Hollywood mainstream, wants to capitalize on the tabloid theology in the air. Except for a few contemporary touches (the World Trade Center in flames as a portent of Armageddon) it slavishly recycles the original. (Holden)

'OVER THE HEDGE' (PG, 83 minutes) This tale about some woodland critters threatened by their new human neighbors has the technical trappings of a worthwhile Saturday matinee, so it's too bad no one paid commensurate attention to the script. The writers, including Karey Kirkpatrick, who directed with Tim Johnson, pad the story with the usual yuks and some glop about family, but there is no poetry here and little thought. (Dargis)

'bombon-EL PERRO' (No rating, 96 minutes, in Spanish) A lonely, unemployed, middle-aged man finds a glimmer of hope when he acquires a purebred show dog in this sweet, gritty neo-realist fable from Argentina. (Scott)

'POSEIDON' (PG-13, 100 minutes) Wolfgang Petersen's ''Poseidon'' is unlikely to replace the original in the hearts of action-hungry moviegoers, though it will probably expunge the memory of the earlier, made-for-TV remake (and also, perhaps, of the 1979 sequel, ''Beyond the Poseidon Adventure''). The hard-working cast does a lot of screaming, climbing and death-defying in soaking-wet evening wear, but they can hardly hope to match the ripe absurdity of Shelley Winters, Red Buttons, Gene Hackman and Ernest Borgnine. (Scott)

* 'A PRAIRIE HOME COMPANION' (PG-13, 105 minutes) Garrison Keillor's long-running Public Radio hootenanny turns out to be the perfect vehicle for Robert Altman's fluid, chaotic humanism. The performances -- especially by Lily Tomlin and Meryl Streep as a pair of singing sisters -- are so full of relaxed vitality that you almost don't notice that the film is, at heart, a wry, sober contemplation of mortality. (Scott)

'SEE NO EVIL' (R, 84 minutes) In ''See No Evil'' the wrestler Glen Jacobs (a k a Kane) plays a lumbering psychopath intent on butchering the juvenile delinquents on cleanup duty at the hotel where he's holed up. Propelled by an inebriated camera that careers off walls and, at one point, roots around in an empty eye socket, the movie soon devolves into a bloodily creative string of mutilations and impalings. (Jeannette Catsoulis)

'UNITED 93' (R, 115 minutes) A scrupulously tasteful Hollywood re-creation of the downing of the fourth plane hijacked by Muslim terrorists on Sept. 11 and easily the feel-bad American movie of the year. Written and directed by Paul Greengrass, whose earlier films include ''Bloody Sunday.'' (Dargis)

* 'WATER' (PG-13, 114 minutes, in Hindi) Set in India in 1938, ''Water'' focuses on a group of widows condemned by Hindu law to live in an institution on the banks of the River Ganges. The arrival of a high-spirited 8-year-old girl encourages one widow to question her faith and another to begin a love affair with a Gandhian idealist. Bobbing back and forth between romantic melodrama and spiritual inquiry, ''Water'' is an exquisitely beautiful film about the institutionalized oppression of an entire class of women. (Catsoulis)

'X-MEN: THE LAST STAND' (PG-13, 104 minutes) As expected, the third and presumably last film about the powerful Marvel Comics mutants who walk and often fight among us pretty much looks and plays like the first two, though perhaps with more noise and babes, and a little less glum. The credited writers here are Simon Kinberg and Zak Penn, who, like the director, Brett Ratner, are not mutant enough to fly. (Dargis)

Film Series

HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH INTERNATIONAL FILM FESTIVAL (Through Thursday) This weekend's features in this annual festival, sponsored by the Film Society of Lincoln Center, include ''Amu'' (2005), about a young Indian-American and the 1984 Sikh massacre in Delhi; ''Winter in Baghdad'' (2005), a Spanish documentary about the effects of the United States invasion of Iraq; and ''Rosita'' (2005), the true story of a pregnant 9-year-old rape victim in Nicaragua. Walter Reade Theater, 165 West 65th Street, (212) 875-5600; $10. (Anita Gates)

STANLEY KUBRICK RETROSPECTIVE (Through July 9) The Museum of the Moving Image's five-week series continues this weekend with ''Paths of Glory'' (1957), the World War I drama starring Kirk Douglas; ''Full Metal Jacket'' (1987), the Vietnam War drama (this screening is followed by a discussion with the film's star Matthew Modine); ''Spartacus'' (1960), with Kirk Douglas as a resourceful Roman slave; and ''A.I.: Artificial Intelligence'' (2001), the futuristic fantasy developed by Kubrick before his death and completed by Steven Spielberg. 35th Avenue at 36th Street, Astoria, Queens, (718) 784-0077; $10. (Gates)

NEW YORK ASIAN FILM FESTIVAL (Through July 1) Subway Cinema's fifth annual festival of high-grossing and/or award-winning new movies opens today at Anthology Film Archives. The weekend's films, all from 2005, include ''Gangster,'' a particularly bloody crime flick from Malaysia; ''The Great Yokai War,'' which has been described as Takashi Miike's ''Lord of the Rings''; and ''Cromartie High School,'' a Japanese spoof of juvenile delinquent movies, with robots, demons and space monkeys. 32 Second Avenue, at Second Street, East Village, (212) 505-5181; $9. (Gates)

TOMORROWLAND: CAL ARTS IN MOVING PICTURES (Through Aug. 13) The Museum of Modern Art is sponsoring a three-decade survey of films and videos by former students at the California Institute of the Arts. Four programs of shorts will be screened this weekend. The films include Joanna Priestley's ''Voices'' (1985), all about neuroses; Brooke Keesling's ''Boobie Girl'' (2001), about an unendowed young woman whose prayers are answered; and Q. Allen Brocka's eight-minute comedy ''Rick and Steve: The Happiest Gay Couple in All the World'' (2000). Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters, (212) 708-9400; $10. (Gates)

TO SAVE AND PROJECT: THE FOURTH MOMA INTERNATIONAL FESTIVAL OF FILM PRESERVATION (Through June 21) This monthlong program of preserved and restored films continues at the Museum of Modern Art. This weekend's features include ''By the Law'' (1926), a Soviet silent based on Jack London's story ''The Unexpected,'' and ''The Mad Fox'' (1962), a Japanese fable in which a for tuneteller goes insane and marries an animal in human disguise. Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters, (212) 708-9400; $10. (Gates)

THE VISION THAT CHANGED CINEMA: MICHELANGELO ANTONIONI (Through June 29) BAMcinematek's tribute to Antonioni continues with three films this weekend. ''Il Grido'' (1957) is his drama about a mechanic, rejected in love, who becomes a drifter. ''L'Avventura'' (1960) is a mystery drama about two men who grow close after a woman in their lives disappears. ''La Notte'' (1961) stars Jeanne Moreau and Marcello Mastroianni as a couple with a dying friend and a dying marriage. BAM Rose Cinemas, 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, (718) 636-4100; $10. (Gates)

Pop

Full reviews of recent concerts: nytimes.com/music.

AFI (Thursday) This band, whose name stands for A Fire Inside, gives its funereal emo songs a jolt of energy by reaching back to the anthemic hard-core punk of 1980's groups like Agnostic Front and Naked Raygun. The recipe works: this week, on the strength of its catchy single ''Miss Murder,'' the band's new album, ''Decemberunderground'' (Interscope), went to No. 1. Also on the bill are Dillinger Escape Plan, which plays an impossibly complex kind of punk-jazz, and Nightmare of You. At 7:30 p.m., Roseland, 239 West 52nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 777-6800; sold out. (Ben Sisario)

LAURIE ANDERSON (Tomorrow) Her entrancing performances weave coolly surrealistic songs and witty, reflective monologues with a seamless dream logic. At this outdoor concert, part of the Celebrate Brooklyn series, she will play new, old and improvised pieces, and will be joined by the Tuvan throat singers of Chirgilchin, who also open the show. At 7:30 p.m., Prospect Park Bandshell, Prospect Park West and Ninth Street, Park Slope, (718) 855-7882; $3 suggested donation. (Sisario)

BABY GRAMPS (Tomorrow through Tuesday) With a gray beard the size of small shrubbery, a raspy Popeye voice and manic skills on the steel guitar, Baby Gramps offers a cartoonish variation on the role of hobo troubadour in old-timey songs like ''Big Rock Candy Mountain.'' But where he really shines is in his hilarious and ingenious wordplay, as in his palindrome song (''Go hang a salami -- I'm a lasagna hog''). Tomorrow at 7 p.m., Terra Blues, 149 Bleecker Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 777-7776. Sunday at 9 p.m., Rodeo Bar, 375 Third Avenue, at 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 683-6500; free. Monday at 9:30 p.m., Lakeside Lounge, 162 Avenue B, between 10th and 11th Streets, East Village, (212) 529-8463; free. Tuesday at 8 p.m., Zebulon Cafe, 258 Wythe Avenue, near North Third Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 218-6934; free. (Sisario)

BEIRUT (Tuesday) Zach Condon, a 19-year-old from Albuquerque, has already made albums inspired by the Magnetic Fields and classic doo-wop. For his latest, ''Gulag Orkestar'' (Ba Da Bing), released under the name Beirut, he turned to the somber and ecstatic marches of Balkan Gypsy music. On the album Mr. Condon plays most of the horns, pianos, organs, percussion and even ukulele and mandolins himself, but for this tour he is joined by a full band. With A Hawk and a Hacksaw. At 9 p.m., Northsix, 66 North Sixth Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 599-5103; $10. (Sisario)

CHUCK BERRY (Tonight) Half a century ago, in songs like ''Maybellene'' and ''Johnny B. Goode,'' Chuck Berry hit on a formula that gives him as much a claim as anybody to being the inventor of rock 'n' roll: a taut, fast boogie derived from R & B, matched to lyrics that celebrate the carefree, mythical teenage lifestyle. At 8, B. B. King Blues Club and Grill, 243 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 997-4144; $90. (Sisario)

BLUE CHEER (Sunday and Tuesday) On a few gloriously untidy albums in the late 1960's and early 70's, Blue Cheer followed the blunter edges of Jimi Hendrix's sound into a bludgeoning kind of primordial heavy metal, and played it with an un-self-conscious glee that made the members sound like cavemen discovering fire. Sunday at 9 p.m., with Dead Meadow, Maxwell's, 1039 Washington Street, Hoboken, N.J., (201) 653-1703; $15. Tuesday at 8 p.m., with the Black Hollies, CBGB, 315 Bowery, at Bleecker Street, East Village, (212) 982-4052; $15. (Sisario)

'BROADWAY BY THE YEAR: THE MUSICALS OF 1978' (Monday) In the last program this season of Town Hall's Broadway by the Year series, ''Ain't Misbehavin','' ''Eubie!,'' ''The Best Little Whorehouse in Texas,'' ''On the Twentieth Century'' and other shows from 1978 get the oh-what-a-time treatment from Carolee Carmelo, Mary Bond Davis, Chuck Cooper, Felicia Finley, Julie Garnye, Nancy Opel, Noah Racey, Christine Pedi, Lennie Watts and Lari White. At 8 p.m., 123 West 43rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 840-2824; $40 and $45. (Sisario)

ALEJANDRO ESCOVEDO, MARAH (Thursday) Mr. Escovedo's songs stare down loss and mortality with a mixture of unflinching memory and a rocker's defiance. The band Marah's articulate songs are doused in greasy, sweaty, exuberant rock. At 7:30 p.m., Irving Plaza, 17 Irving Place, at 15th Street, Manhattan, (212) 777-6800; $20. (Jon Pareles)

FAIRPORT CONVENTION (Sunday) One original member and two later recruits of this groundbreaking British progressive-folk group from the 1960's and 70's -- the guitarist Simon Nicol, who was in it from the beginning, along with the violinist and mandolin player Chris Leslie and the violinist Ric Sanders -- play an acoustic set of Fairport Convention songs, jazz and swing standards and traditional folk. At 7 p.m., Joe's Pub at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 239-6200; $25. (Sisario)

THE FIGGS (Tonight) Joining the pop-punk lineage that stretches back to the early, rowdy Beatles and any number of 1960's garage bands, the Figgs make their guitars blare through the neat constructions of their songs. They sing about rejects and romantic also-rans, with a streak of resentment that's as strong as their melodic skills. With Tommy Keene and Seth Tiven. At 9:30, Maxwell's, 1039 Washington Street, Hoboken, N.J., (201) 653-1703; $10. (Pareles)

* ARETHA FRANKLIN (Tuesday and Wednesday) Aretha Franklin has said she intends to stop extensive touring, but she keeps coming back, to grateful crowds. She gives her first concerts at the Apollo Theater in more than 20 years. At 8 p.m., 253 West 125th Street, Harlem, (212) 531-5305 or (212) 307-7171; $77 to $177. (Sisario)

'FROM B TO Z' (Tomorrow) The avant-garde band the Z's, whose songs sputter forth in Morse-code dots of percussion and saxophone, kicks off a tour at this ''episode'' in a series of casual artistic gatherings. The night also features music by Electroputas, Lake, Vizusa and Legend, projections by Meredith Arena and dance by Skint. At 8 p.m., Cake Shop, 152 Ludlow Street, between Stanton and Rivington Streets, Lower East Side, (212) 253-0036; $7. (Sisario)

GOMEZ (Wednesday) This British band emerged in the mid-1990's, the heyday of Britpop, with an against-the-grain obsession with tight, sharp blues-rock. On its new album, ''How We Operate'' (ATO), it has veered into folkier realms, though it still plays with unusual precision and focus. Also on the bill is Martha Wainwright, whose passionate songs swirl from her acoustic guitar into grand arrangements but never lose their intimacy. At 7:30 p.m., Webster Hall, 125 East 11th Street, East Village, (212) 533-2111; $25. (Sisario)

ETTA JAMES, SUSAN TEDESCHI (Tuesday) In 1954 a teenage Etta James made her first record, ''The Wallflower (Dance With Me, Henry),'' a flirty response to Hank Ballard's hit ''Work With Me, Annie,'' and she has been singing sexy, assertive blues and R & B ever since. She comes to Carnegie Hall as part of the JVC Jazz Festival, with Susan Tedeschi, a singer and guitarist who blends some soul and funk into her blues. At 8 p.m., (212) 247-7800; $35 to $85. (Sisario)

LEGENDARY PINK DOTS (Monday and Tuesday) Since 1980, Edward Ka-Spel has led the Legendary Pink Dots through songs that hold on to the psychedelia of 1967-68; they set his surreal imagery and hints of gothic legend to music that can be amiable, chaotic or eerie. With One Bit Music on Monday and Beat the Devil on Tuesday. At 8 p.m., Knitting Factory, 74 Leonard Street, TriBeCa, (212) 219-3006; $15 in advance, $18 at the door. (Pareles)

LOS LONELY BOYS (Tuesday and Thursday) These three West Texan brothers reached No. 1 on the adult contemporary charts a couple of years ago with the breezy Tex-Mex blues of ''Heaven.'' A new album, ''Sacred'' (Or/Epic), is due next month. Tuesday at 8 p.m., with the singer-songwriter Justin King, Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111; sold out. Thursday at 7:30 p.m., with the soul singer James Hunter, Celebrate Brooklyn, Prospect Park Bandshell, Prospect Park West and Ninth Street, Park Slope, (718) 855-7882; $3 suggested donation. (Sisario)

McDONALD'S GOSPELFEST (Tonight through Sunday) This competition and performance series puts amateurs and gospel's biggest stars on the same stage. This year those stars include Donnie McClurkin, the Rev. Hezekiah Walker and the Love Fellowship Tabernacle Choir, Vickie Winans, Cissy Houston and Tye Tribbett. Tonight and tomorrow night at 7:30, Sunday afternoon at 4:30, City Center, 131 West 55th Street, Manhattan, (212) 581-1212; $35 to $100. (Sisario)

* NELLIE McKAY (Sunday) On nights off from ''The Threepenny Opera'' on Broadway, Ms. McKay, a songwriting sprite whom it is impossible to get tired of, has been playing a series of late-night shows at Joe's Pub; this weekend's show is her last. These are rare chances to hear the songs from her excellent second album, ''Pretty Little Head,'' which has been in music purgatory since Ms. McKay was dropped by Columbia late last year. At 11:30 p.m.; Joe's Pub at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 239-6200; $20. (Sisario)

MIDSUMMER NIGHT SWING (Tuesday through Thursday) Lincoln Center's annual outdoor series of low-dipping, high-kicking music and dancing opens on Tuesday with the 14-piece Jonathan Stout Orchestra, featuring the singer Hilary Alexander, in big-band favorites by Count Basie, Benny Goodman, Tommy Dorsey and others. Wednesday is a Gay Pride salute, with Martha Wash and friends, and Thursday features QuinTango, said to be the only tango music group to give a command performance at the White House. At 7:30 p.m., with dance lessons at 6:30 p.m., Josie Robertson Plaza, Columbus Avenue at 63rd Street, (212) 875-5460; $15 each night. (Sisario)

RHETT MILLER, TEDDY THOMPSON, OLLABELLE (Tomorrow) Country and folk will get three varied readings at Central Park SummerStage tomorrow. Rhett Miller, whether with his country-flavored bar band Old 97's or in solo heartthrob mode, is an unrepentant honky-tonker with a gift for melody. Teddy Thompson is the son of the great British folk-pop singers Richard and Linda Thompson, and he absorbed some of his parents' pithy melancholy, an attitude that leaves room for some smirks. Ollabelle worships country, bluegrass and gospel with crystalline voices and wide eyes. At 3 p.m., Rumsey Playfield, midpark at 70th Street, (212) 360-2777; free. (Sisario)

MORNINGWOOD (Wednesday) Led by Chantal Claret -- who, when not whipping her hair into a brunet cloud, struts the stage in a hypersexualized trance -- Morningwood plays quick, jumpy, New Wave vamps about one of two things: sex and rock. With Rock Kills Kid and Big City Rock. At 7 p.m., Warsaw, 261 Driggs Avenue, at Eckford Street, Greenpoint, Brooklyn, (718) 387-0505; $15. (Sisario)

NINE INCH NAILS, BAUHAUS (Tonight and tomorrow night) Trent Reznor waited six years to make another Nine Inch Nails album, but ''With Teeth,'' released last year, showed that Mr. Reznor's talents for disorienting electronica, self-flagellating lyrics and, most of all, cathartic tantrums of noise, have remained intact. This summer Nine Inch Nails is touring with Bauhaus, whose bleak and shadowy songs helped create goth-rock in the late 1970's and early 80's. Also on the bill is Peaches, whose bawdy electro-punk burlesque provides its own kind of catharsis. Tonight at 7, PNC Bank Arts Center, Holmdel, N.J., (732) 335-8698; $29.50 to $49.50. Tomorrow night at 7, Nikon at Jones Beach Theater, Wantagh, N.Y., (516) 221-1000; $29.50 to $49.50. (Sisario)

ODETTA (Thursday) Odetta has been a blues powerhouse since the 1950's, strumming hard and singing with a deep, leathery voice that harks back to field hollers and spirituals. She gives her songs the authority of archetypes. At noon, BAM Rhythm & Blues Festival, MetroTech Commons Plaza, Flatbush Avenue and Myrtle Street, Downtown Brooklyn, (718) 636-4100; free. (Pareles)

* TOM PETTY AND THE HEARTBREAKERS (Tuesday) Tom Petty is going all out for his current tour, celebrating 30 years with the Heartbreakers. Peter Bogdanovich is working on a documentary, and the roster of guests for dates later in the summer includes Pearl Jam and the Allman Brothers. At Madison Square Garden on Tuesday, the opening act will be Trey Anastasio from Phish, and Stevie Nicks is to join the band for, among others, ''Stop Draggin' My Heart Around,'' her duet with Mr. Petty that still sounds as achy and soulful as it did in 1981. At 8 p.m., (212) 465-6741; $45 to $85. (Sisario)

SMOKEY ROBINSON (Thursday) As part of the JVC Jazz Festival, the Motown prince makes his first appearance at Carnegie Hall in 31 years. At 8 p.m., (212) 247-7800; $35 to $85. (Sisario)

SLAYER, LAMB OF GOD, MASTODON, CHILDREN OF BODOM (Tonight) Here is a quick primer on the meaner side of heavy metal over the last couple of decades. Slayer emerged in the early 1980's with a hellish, claustrophobic sound -- all foreboding skies and tormented vocals -- and has stuck steadfastly to it. Lamb of God, from Richmond, Va., derives some of its grinding, jackhammer-fast churn from Slayer and Pantera, and, without any irony or sarcasm, calls its style ''pure American metal.'' Mastodon reaches into avant-garde noise and progressive rock, and Children of Bodom, from Finland, is an exemplar of the operatically dismal black-metal school. At 5:30 p.m., Continental Airlines Arena, East Rutherford, N.J., (201) 935-3900; $39. (Sisario)

SOUTHSIDE JOHNNY AND THE ASBURY JUKES (Tomorrow and Sunday) While his friend Bruce Springsteen left the Jersey Shore behind and went on to write all-American anthems and parables, Southside Johnny Lyon stuck to the old bar-band basics: rolling R & B vamps and raspy-voiced, good-natured soul plaints, complete with horn section. At 8 p.m., B. B. King Blues Club and Grill, 237 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 997-4144; $35. (Pareles)

* BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN WITH THE SEEGER SESSIONS BAND (Thursday) A hootenanny of musicians, playing banjos, accordions, fiddles and guitars, accompanies Bruce Springsteen in folk songs of work, hardscrabble survival and political anger -- the Depression-era ''How Can a Poor Man Stand Such Times and Live'' gets a Hurricane Katrina rewrite -- from his latest album, ''We Shall Overcome: The Seeger Sessions'' (Columbia). At 8 p.m., Madison Square Garden, (212) 465-6741; $59.50 to $89.50. (Sisario)

TAKFARINAS (Sunday) The Algerian singer Hassen Zermani, who performs as Takfarinas and plays a double-necked lute, blends Berber music with reggae and electronic pop. With Chris Berry and Panjea. At 3 p.m., Central Park SummerStage, Rumsey Playfield, midpark at 70th Street, (212) 360-2777; free. (Sisario)

* LEE ANN WOMACK (Tonight) Ms. Womack drew the respect of Nashville and lots of new fans with last year's ''There's More Where That Came From,'' whose heartfelt reflections, conservative arrangements and outstanding songwriting represented an ideal of country music. At 8, St. George Theater, 35 Hyatt Street, Staten Island, (718) 442-2900 or (212) 307-7171; $50 to $85. (Sisario)

YELLOWCARD (Wednesday) Yellowcard's mopey lyrics and nursery-rhyme pop-punk might sound like generic emo-rock until you hear the violin. And even then At 7 p.m., Nokia Theater, 1515 Broadway, at 44th Street, (212) 307-7171; $26 in advance, $28 at the door. (Sisario)

Cabaret

Full reviews of recent cabaret shows: nytimes.com/music.

BARBARA CARROLL (Sunday) Even when swinging out, this Lady of a Thousand Songs remains an impressionist with special affinities for Thelonious Monk and bossa nova. At 2 p.m., the Algonquin Hotel, Oak Room, 59 West 44th Street, Manhattan, (212) 419-9331; $58, including brunch at noon. (Stephen Holden)

BLOSSOM DEARIE (Tomorrow and Sunday) To watch this singer and pianist is to appreciate the power of a carefully deployed pop-jazz minimalism combined with a highly discriminating taste in songs. The songs date from all periods of a career remarkable for its longevity and for Ms. Dearie's stubborn independence and sly wit. Tomorrow at 7 p.m., Sunday at 6:15 p.m., Danny's Skylight Room, 346 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 265-8133; $25, with a $15 minimum, or $54.50 for a dinner-and-show package. (Holden)

* Eartha Kitt (Tonight and tomorrow night, and Tuesday through Thursday nights) The latest edition of an act Ms. Kitt has been performing for decades is the lightest, swiftest and funniest one to date, and that's all to the good. More than ever, the singer, now a glamorous 79, pauses to poke fun at her status as the greatest and wittiest of all singing tigresses. At 8:45, with additional shows tonight and tomorrow night at 10:45, Cafe Carlyle, Carlyle Hotel, 35 East 76th Street, Manhattan, (212) 744-1600; $100. (Holden)

ANNIE ROSS (Wednesday) Cool, funny, swinging and indestructible, this 75-year-old singer and sometime actress exemplifies old-time hip in its most generous incarnation. At 9:15 p.m., Danny's Skylight Room, 346 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 265-8133; $25, with a $12 minimum. (Holden)

Jazz

Full reviews of recent jazz concerts: nytimes.com/music.

BEN ALLISON'S COWBOY JUSTICE (Tuesday) The bassist Ben Allison has a knack for assembling hardy and sophisticated ensembles like this one, with Ron Horton on trumpet, Steve Cardenas on guitar and Gerald Cleaver on drums. At 10 p.m., 55 Bar, 55 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 929-9883; cover, $10. (Nate Chinen)

BISHOP-CLEAVER-FLOOD (Tomorrow) As on his new album, ''Time and Imaginary Time'' (Envoi), the saxophonist Andrew Bishop engages in an equal exchange with the drummer Gerald Cleaver and the bassist Tim Flood, expanding compositional frames and exploring open space. At 9 p.m., Night and Day, 230 Fifth Avenue, at President Street, Park Slope, (718) 399-2161, www.nightanddayrestaurant.com; cover, $5 to $10, with a $7 drink minimum. (Chinen)

CHRIS BOTTI/LIZZ WRIGHT (Tomorrow) The world of contemporary jazz, as it's now called, has few stylists as consistently winsome as Mr. Botti, a trumpeter whose melodic understatement (along with a few celebrity endorsements) has translated into popular appeal. Ms. Wright is a young and self-assured singer whose soulful alto has emerged as one of jazz's most welcome new timbres. At 8 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800; $30 to $75. JVC Jazz Festival. (Chinen)

BRAZIL NIGHTS (Wednesday through June 24) As part of the JVC Jazz Festival, the Jazz Standard offers four consecutive nights of Brazilian jazz, beginning with Choro Ensemble, a quintet that devotes itself to the choro, a traditional strain of cafe music (Wednesday), and Antropo-Fagia, a new quintet led by the percussionist Cyro Baptista and featuring the guitarist Romero Lubambo (Thursday). At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., with an 11:30 p.m. set on Fridays and Saturdays, Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232; cover, $25. (Chinen)

DAVE BRUBECK'S BIRTHDAY PARTY: TAKE 5 PLUS 80 (Wednesday) At 85, Mr. Brubeck plays the piano with undiminished vigor and still maintains a punishing schedule. This concert features not only his well-traveled quartet but also a new big band, in its first New York performance. For good measure, Bill Cosby will also be there. At 8 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800; $30 to $75. JVC Jazz Festival. (Chinen)

CLARINET MARMALADE (Tuesday) The clarinet, once a dominant instrument in jazz, has become something of a connoisseur's choice. This concert gathers a handful of its leading contemporary practitioners, with styles ranging from New Orleans traditional (Evan Christopher) to mainstream swing (Ken Peplowski, Kenny Davern) to ultramodern (Don Byron). At 8 p.m., Kaye Playhouse 68th Street, between Lexington and Park Avenues, (212) 772-4448; $45. JVC Jazz Festival. (Chinen)

CLARION CALL: A NEW ORLEANS TRUMPET CELEBRATION (Thursday) Four accomplished trumpeters from New Orleans -- Marlon Jordan, Kermit Ruffins, James Andrews and Christian Scott -- join a rhythm section with similar pedigree: David Torkanowsky on piano, Roland Guerin on bass and Herlin Riley on drums. At 8 p.m., Kaye Playhouse, 68th Street between Lexington and Park Avenues, (212) 772-4448; $45. JVC Jazz Festival. (Chinen)

* ORNETTE COLEMAN QUINTET (Tonight) With an expanded version of the superb quartet first heard at a JVC Jazz Festival concert at Carnegie Hall in 2003, the alto saxophonist and composer Ornette Coleman pursues a holistic ideal of improvised group communication that's easier to recognize than define. His fellow adventurers are Tony Falanga and Greg Cohen on double basses, Al MacDowell on electric bass, and Denardo Coleman, his son, on drums. At 8, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800; $30 to $75. JVC Jazz Festival. (Chinen)

RAVI COLTRANE QUARTET (Tuesday through June 24) Mr. Coltrane, the tenor and soprano saxophonist, has developed one of the strongest working bands in jazz over the past few years. For this engagement the group's ranks -- with Luis Perdomo on piano, Drew Gress on bass and E. J. Strickland on drums -- are augmented by a guest guitarist, David Gilmore. At 9 and 11 p.m., Birdland, 315 West 44th Street, Clinton, (212) 581-3080; cover, $30; $35 on Fridays and Saturdays, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

RICHARD GALLIANO'S NEW YORK TRIO (Monday through Thursday) Mr. Galliano is a technically dazzling accordion player with a flair for romanticism. For this engagement he enlists the polished rhythm team of George Mraz on bass, and Al Foster on drums. At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 258-9595; cover, $30, with a minimum of $10 at tables, $5 at the bar. (Chinen)

DIZZY GILLESPIE ALL-STAR BIG BAND (Tuesday through June 25) Bebop's goateed ambassador did some of his best work with big bands, a fact that this repertory ensemble, led by his former trombonist and arranger Slide Hampton, happily exploits. The band includes other veterans of Gillespie's employ -- like the saxophonists James Moody, Frank Wess and Jimmy Heath -- as well as Roy Hargrove, the trumpeter enlisted to fill his shoes here. At 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, West Village, (212) 475-8592; cover, $35 at tables, $20 at the bar, with a $5 minimum. (Chinen)

BOBBY HUTCHERSON QUARTET (Sunday) In the late 1960's, Mr. Hutcherson defined a commanding, harmonically exploratory post-bop vibraphone style. He has lost none of his prowess, as he has demonstrated in recent years with the SFJAZZ Collective, and as he further proves here, with a rhythm section composed of Renee Rosnes on piano, Dwayne Burno on bass and Willie Jones III on drums. At 3 p.m., Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture, 515 Lenox Avenue, at West 135th Street, Harlem, (212) 491-2200; $20; members, $17. JVC Jazz Festival. (Chinen)

LEE KONITZ (Through Sunday; Tuesday and Wednesday) This weekend Mr. Konitz lends his august reputation and dry-martini alto saxophone tone to a nine-piece band, featuring arrangements by the tenor saxophonist Ohad Talmor. Next week he pares down to a trio, with the bassist John Hebert and the drummer George Schuller. Through Sunday at 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., with an additional 11:30 set tonight and tomorrow night, Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232; cover, $20. Tuesday and Wednesday at 9 and 10:30 p.m., Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village, (212) 242-1063; cover, $20. (Chinen)

BRAD MEHLDAU (Tuesday) In his solo piano recitals Mr. Mehldau blends judicious pop offerings, archaic songbook standards and intricate originals, employing a touch that runs from sprightly to somber. His recent solo album ''Live in Tokyo'' (Nonesuch) was a noteworthy achievement, and time has only deepened his ambidextrous grace. At 8:30 p.m., Zankel Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800; $50. JVC Jazz Festival. (Chinen)

MARCUS MILLER BAND/ROY HARGROVE AND RH FACTOR (Tonight) There may not be a funkier electric bassist than Mr. Miller, who is still best known for his work with the late, synthesizer-strewn bands of Miles Davis. Mr. Miller's own ensemble includes a Milesian trumpeter, Patches Stewart, as well as the drummer Poogie Bell, the saxophonist Keith Anderson, the keyboardist Bobby Sparks and the harmonica virtuoso Gregoire Maret. Some of those musicians also have ties to RH Factor, a neo-soul outfit led by Mr. Hargrove, a sharp and ever-poised trumpeter. At 9, Irving Plaza, 17 Irving Place, at East 15th Street, Manhattan, (212) 307-7171; $30. JVC Jazz Festival. (Chinen)

NU JAZZ TODAY! (Tonight) This concert, which inaugurates the Central Park SummerStage season, assembles four acts that spike their grooves with avant-garde experimentation. In ascending order of abstraction, they are Nils Petter Molvaer, a Norwegian trumpeter specializing in electronic textures; Groundtruther, composed of the guitarists Charlie Hunter and Elliott Sharp and the drummer Bobby Previte; Sex Mob, a quartet equally enamored of Billy Preston and Albert Ayler; and Matthew Shipp, a pianist and composer drawn to thorny pointillism. At 7, Central Park SummerStage, midpark at 70th Street, (212) 360-2777; www.summerstage.org; free. (Chinen)

BUCKY PIZZARELLI 80TH-BIRTHDAY CELEBRATION (Monday) Warmth and wit are assured in this party for Mr. Pizzarelli, the venerable swing guitarist. Among the many musicians on hand are the tenor saxophonist Harry Allen, the clarinetist Ken Peplowski and several fine guitarists (Howard Alden, Gene Bertoncini) and guitarist-singers (like Kenny Rankin and John Pizzarelli, Mr. Pizzarelli's son). At 8 p.m., Kaye Playhouse, 68th Street, between Lexington and Park Avenues, (212) 772-4448; $45. JVC Jazz Festival. (Chinen)

CHRIS POTTER'S UNDERGROUND (Tonight) The tenor saxophonist Chris Potter has an improvisational approach that is intellectual and athletic in equal measure. His funk-fusion band Underground, originally formed at the 55 Bar, returns there tonight. At 10 p.m., 55 Bar, 55 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 929-9883; cover, $10. (Chinen)

ROB REDDY QUINTET (Tuesday) Mr. Reddy is a soprano and alto saxophonist with a taste for ragged polyphony; he features his own compositions in this group with the guitarist Jef Lee Johnson, the pianist Michael Cain, the bassist Dom Richards and the drummer Pheeroan akLaff. At 8 p.m., Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, near Delancey Street, Lower East Side, (212) 358-7501; cover, $12. (Chinen)

JASON RIGBY QUARTET (Monday) ''Translucent Space'' (Fresh Sound-New Talent), the new album by the saxophonist and bass clarinetist Jason Rigby, doesn't come by its name casually; it's an album of airy, often diaphanous music, with faint echoes of early fusion and Third Stream. Mr. Rigby plays here with the album's rhythm section of Mike Holober on piano, Cameron Brown on bass and Mark Ferber on drums. At 8:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village, (212) 989-9319; cover, $10, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)

NED ROTHENBERG, GERRY HEMINGWAY, ALEX WATERMAN (Tonight) Extended techniques and broad textural range are both assured in this ensemble, which consists of Mr. Rothenberg on saxophones, clarinets and shakuhachi; Mr. Waterman on cello; and Mr. Hemingway on drums and percussion. At 8, Issue Project Room, 400 Carroll Street, between Bond and Nevins Streets, Carroll Gardens, Brooklyn, (718) 330-0313, issueprojectroom.org; cover, $10. (Chinen)

* SANGAM: CHARLES LLOYD, ZAKIR HUSSAIN, ERIC HARLAND (Thursday) This collaborative trio recently released a gripping self-titled album documenting its first performance, in 2004. The group has toured since then, and its exploratory rapport has sharpened; what remains the same is the quality of its components, from the saxophones and flutes of Mr. Lloyd to the percussive virtuosity of Mr. Hussain (on tablas) and Mr. Harland (on drum kit). At 8:30 p.m., Zankel Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800; $50. JVC Jazz Festival. (Chinen)

SWEET LORRAINE: A JAZZ CELEBRATION FOR THE VILLAGE VANGUARD (Monday) Lorraine Gordon, the owner and proprietor of the Village Vanguard, receives a fitting tribute from some of the top-shelf bands that have been regulars at the club: the Vanguard Jazz Orchestra, with the saxophonist Joe Lovano as a guest; the Roy Hargrove Quintet, with the vibraphonist Bobby Hutcherson; a group led by the drummer Paul Motian, featuring the saxophonist Chris Potter; Dr. Michael White's Original Liberty Jazz Band, from New Orleans; and the Bad Plus. 8 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800; $30 to $75. JVC Jazz Festival. (Chinen)

RALPH TOWNER (Wednesday) Mr. Towner has perfected a solo guitar style of exceptional fullness, as he recently demonstrated on a gem of an album called ''Time Line'' (ECM). In all likelihood, he'll perform an equally entrancing program here. At 8:30 p.m., Zankel Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800; $50. JVC Jazz Festival. (Chinen)

TRIO BRAAMDEJOODEVATCHER (Tonight) The unwieldy name of this Dutch piano trio is merely a combination of surnames: Michiel Braam, pianist; Wilbert de Joode, bassist; and Michael Vatcher, drummer. As heard on an appealing new live album, ''Change This Song'' (Bik Bent Braam), the group practices a strain of modern jazz that's pliable, playful and rhythmically capricious. At 7:30 p.m., Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, near Delancey Street, Lower East Side, (212) 358-7501; cover, $8. (Chinen)

* VISION FESTIVAL XI (Through Sunday) Avant-garde jazz culture has no better colloquy in this country than the Vision Festival, which encompasses experimental dance and visual arts as well as improvised music. Its final few days include promising panel discussions and afternoon performances, but the focus remains on the evening concerts, featuring luminaries like the violinist Billy Bang (tonight) and the saxophonist and composer Roscoe Mitchell (tomorrow). Sunday's closing act, scheduled for 9 p.m., is being billed as the final United States performance of the saxophonist David S. Ware's celebrated quartet. Times vary, with activities running from the afternoon past midnight at Angel Orensanz Foundation for the Arts, 172 Norfolk Street, Lower East Side, visionfestival.org; $25 per night. (Chinen)

MATT WILSON AND TED NASH (Monday) Mr. Wilson, a drummer, and Mr. Nash, a saxophonist and flutist, have played together in each other's groups (and other settings) for years, so they should have no problem connecting in a duo setting. Among the traits they have in common: rhythmic flexibility, melodic directness and an aversion to pretension and cliche. At 8 p.m., Merkin Concert Hall, 129 West 67th Street, Manhattan, (212) 501-3330; $25. (Chinen)

Classical

Full reviews of recent music performances: nytimes.com/music.

BARGEMUSIC (Tonight through Sunday, and Thursday) Jeffrey Swann plays and talks about Chopin's piano music at this East River setting. Tonight, tomorrow and Thursday at 7:30 p.m., and Sunday at 4 p.m., Bargemusic, Fulton Ferry landing, next to the Brooklyn Bridge, Brooklyn, (718) 624-2083; $35; $20 for students. (Bernard Holland)

LOCRIAN CHAMBER PLAYERS (Tonight) There are contemporary chamber music ensembles, and then there are the Locrian Chamber Players, a vehemently contemporary chamber music ensemble. The group's operating principle is to perform only works written within the last 10 years. If this policy seems unduly restrictive, looked at another way, it's fresh and exciting, and represents the group's conviction that there are enough worthy works being written right now to assure varied and engaging programs. Tonight the ensemble plays works by the major German composer Wolfgang Rihm, as well as by John Adams, Tom Johnson, David MacDonald and Jonathan Faiman (a pianist with the ensemble). The free concerts are held in the intimate and acoustically vibrant performance space on the 10th floor of Riverside Church, which even boasts an open-air balcony accessible during intermission. At 8, 91 Claremont Avenue, at 121st Street, Morningside Heights, (718) 458-4864. (Anthony Tommasini)

MANNES INSTITUTE AND FESTIVAL FOR CONTEMPORARY PERFORMANCE (Thursday) The format resembles that at the Marlboro festival in Vermont, but the content is strictly modern. Starting this week and running through June 30, this year's institute focuses on violin, piano and percussion, offering young participants a chance to work with the likes of Frederic Rzewski and Curtis Macomber in master classes, open rehearsals and symposiums. The definition of contemporary seems to extend back to the early 20th century; at the first public concert on Thursday, Rolf Schulte, a violinist, and Marc Ponthus, a pianist and the institute's director, will play works by Krenek, Stockhausen, Mario Davidovsky and Richard Wilson. Events begin at 10:30 a.m.; the concert is at 8 p.m., Mannes College, 150 West 85th Street, Manhattan, (212) 580-0210, Ext. 4884; free. (Anne Midgette)

TANNERY POND CONCERTS (Tomorrow) Christian Steiner is well known for his photography; less well known, perhaps, as a musician; and least known as the artistic director of this lovely little concert series, for which he lures leading musicians up to the Berkshires to perform in an enchanting little wooden hall. This weekend's offering is an all-Milhaud program, with the pianist Gilbert Kalish, the violinist Carmit Zori and other musicians. At 8 p.m., Mount Lebanon Shaker Village, New Lebanon, N.Y., (888) 820-9441; $25 and $30. (Midgette)

Dance

Full reviews of recent performances: nytimes.com/dance.

* AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (Tonight and tomorrow; Monday through Thursday) ''Giselle'' continues through tomorrow night, with Diana Vishneva and Angel Corella, so magical last year, dancing the final performance. Kenneth MacMillan's ''Manon'' begins a run on Monday, with Alessandra Ferri and Julio Bocca on opening night; they repeat the lead roles on Thursday, which marks Mr. Bocca's farewell performance with the company. The season continues until July 15. Tonight, tomorrow night and Monday through Thursday nights at 8; tomorrow and Wednesday at 2 p.m. Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000 or abt.org; $23 to $100.(John Rockwell)

'BODY BLEND' (Tuesday) Work by Will Rawls, Daniel Linehan, Pedro Jimenez and Susan Honer, who were chosen by the curator Isabel Lewis, will be performed in this showcase. At 8 p.m., Dixon Place, 258 Bowery, between Houston and Prince Streets, Lower East Side, (212) 219-0736 or www.dixonplace.org; $12; $10 for students and 65+. (Jennifer Dunning)

* H. T. CHEN (Tonight and tomorrow night) The aptly named ''Shift'' will travel all over the place, mixing choreography and video to traverse the past and the future and cultural boundaries. Tonight at 7:30; tomorrow at 2 and 7:30 p.m. Dance Theater Workshop, 219 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 924-0077 or dtw.org; $15 and $25. (Claudia La Rocco)

CORBINDANCES (Thursday) Patrick Corbin, a former dancer with Paul Taylor, offers the premiere of ''Bathing Jeff, Part I,'' a monologue with movement based on Mr. Corbin's experiences in the worst years of the AIDS epidemic. (Through June 25.) At 8 p.m., Joyce SoHo, 155 Mercer Street, (212) 334-7479; $200 for the Thursday gala; $25 for other performances. (Jack Anderson)

DANCE BY NEIL GREENBERG (Wednesday and Thursday). A revival of ''Not-About-AIDS-Dance,'' a commentary on life, illness and loss, originally produced in 1994, shares the program with the new ''Quartet with Three Gay Men.'' (Through June 25.) At 7:30 p.m., Dance Theater Workshop, 219 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 924-0077; $25; $15 for students, 65+ and artists. (Anderson)

* DANCING IN THE STREETS: TAMANGO (Tomorrow) ''Urban tap'' by a dancer called Tamango will be performed outdoors, and it's free. From 3 to 4 p.m., Water Tower, Highbridge Park, entrance at 174th Street and Amsterdam Avenue, Washington Heights, (212) 625-3505. (Dunning)

DIXIE FUN DANCE THEATER (Through Sunday) During ''The Money Show,'' which concerns the cost of producing modern dance, members of the audience will receive tokens they can spend on anything from food services to foot massages. There will also be a snowstorm of theatrical money. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8, Sunday at 2 p.m., Dance New Amsterdam, 280 Broadway, at Chambers Street, Lower Manhattan, (212) 279-4200 or www.ticketcentral.com, $17. (Anderson)

FLAMENCO VIVO CARLOTA SANTANA (Tonight through Sunday) Will New York ever get its fill of flamenco? This Spanish company presents its premiere of Rafaela Carrasco's ''Burlador'' and a traditional work, ''Imagenes Flamencas.'' Tonight at 8, tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m., Sunday at 2 and 7:30 p.m., Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 242-0800; $40. (La Rocco)

FOOD FOR THOUGHT (Tonight through Sunday night) Feed the hungry and see some promising dance, by choreographers chosen by Nami Yamamoto, Christopher Williams and Tere O'Connor. At 8:30. Danspace Project at St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th Street, at Second Avenue, East Village, (212) 674-8112 or www.danspaceproject.org; $10; $5 with two cans of food. (Dunning)

ISH (Tonight through Sunday) This Dutch company presents ''4-ISH,'' a show that might be called hip-hop but is really hip-hoppish and involves many kinds of urban derring-do, including quarter pipes (as in skateboarding), kung fu, electrified skate wheels and a live D.J. Tonight at 7, tomorrow at 2 and 7 p.m., Sunday at noon and 5 p.m., New Victory Theater, 209 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (212) 239-6200, newvictory.org; $10 to $30. (Erika Kinetz)

INFINITY DANCE THEATER (Through Sunday) ''Wheels and Bodies in Motion,'' a co-production with Roxey Ballet, portrays the human body in flux over time, with choreography by Kitty Lunn, Mark Roxey, Ronnie Carney and Giovanni Ravelo. At 8 p.m., Joyce SoHo, 155 Mercer Street, (212) 334-7479; $25; $15 for students, 65+ and people with disabilities. (Anderson)

STEPHAN KOPLOWITZ (Opens Thursday) ''Revealed'' seeks to alter perspectives of place, site and scale with the aid of 10 dancers and the optical device known as the camera obscura. Thursday through June 25 at noon, World Financial Center, 220 Vesey Street, Lower Manhattan, (212) 945-0505 or www.worldfinancialcenter.com; free. (Anderson)

* JACOB'S PILLOW DANCE FESTIVAL (Wednesday and Thursday) After an opening gala tomorrow night, this bucolic, tradition-laden, artistically lively Berkshires dance festival -- the premiere event of its kind in the Northeast and (along with the American Dance Festival in North Carolina) the country -- gets under way on Wednesday. The opening attraction is CND2, whose name is short for the second company of Nacho Duato's Compania Nacional de Danza from Spain. This is the younger, smaller ensemble attached to the big company, and it devotes itself to Mr. Duato's quirky, inventive choreography. Ted Shawn Theater at 8 p.m. $50; $45 for students, 65+ and children. Details of the week's free performances and exhibitions can be found at www.jacobspillow.org. Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival, 358 George Carter Road, Becket, Mass., (413) 243-0745 or (413) 243-9919, Ext. 25, for gala information. (Rockwell)

MYUNG SOO KIM (Tonight through Sunday) Ms. Kim, who channels ancient Korean shamanistic rituals through modern dance, will perform six solos in costumes inspired by vivid Korean traditional dress. Tonight at 8, tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m., Sunday at 2 and 7 p.m., the Duke on 42nd Street, 229 West 42nd Street, (212) 239-6200 or telecharge.com; $35; $25 for students and 65+. (Dunning)

MICHELA MARINO-LERMAN (Tonight, tomorrow night and Thursday night) Ms. Marino-Lerman, a 19-year-old ''Sesame Street'' alumna, and her company will examine existence, public life and education in tap dance. At 8, Dixon Place, 258 Bowery, between Houston and Prince Streets, Lower East Side, (212) 219-0736 and www.dixonplace.org; $12 or T.D.F.; $10 for students and 65+. (Dunning)

* NEW YORK CITY BALLET (Tonight through Sunday, and Tuesday through Thursday) The spring season is winding down. Tonight will offer the last of this year's Diamond Project premieres, a new ballet by Jorma Elo. It will have three more performances: tomorrow afternoon, Tuesday night and Thursday night. The penultimate Diamond Project commission, Alexei Ratmansky's, will get its final performance Wednesday night. All the programs in the last week, starting Tuesday, will be conducted by Andrea Quinn, the departing music director; there will be a special tribute to her on Wednesday. The season ends June 25. Tonight, tomorrow night and Thursday night at 8; tomorrow at 2 p.m.; Sunday at 3 p.m.; Tuesday and Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. New York State Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 870-5570 or nycballet.org; $30 to $86; student rush tickets, $15. (Rockwell)

* NOCHE FLAMENCA WITH SOLEDAD BARRIO (Tonight through Sunday; Wednesday and Thursday) Ms. Barrio is a remarkable dancer, serious and impassioned, and the hit of this winter's Flamenco Gala at City Center. Her Spanish company, founded with her husband, Martin Santangelo, has settled into the intimate Theater 80 for this month and next, through July 30. Tonight, tomorrow night and Wednesday and Thursday nights at 8; tomorrow and Sunday at 2 p.m. Sunday at 5 p.m., Theater 80, 80 St. Marks Place, East Village, (212) 352-3101 or theatermania.com; $45. (Rockwell)

NOTES IN MOTION (Tonight and tomorrow) The company director Amanda Selwyn's new evening-long ''Disturbance,'' a multimedia collaboration that she describes as luscious and demanding, will be performed. Tonight at 8, tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m., Ailey Citigroup Theater, 405 West 55th Street, Clinton, (212) 868-4444 or www.notesinmotion.org; $35. (Dunning)

OF MOVING COLORS (Thursday) The company, based in Baton Rouge, La., will perform dances by Pavel Zustiak, Ashleigh Leite, Nick Erickson and the company director Garland Goodwin Wilson. (Through June 24.) At 8 p.m., Dance New Amsterdam, 280 Broadway, at Chambers Street, TriBeCa, (212) 279-4200 or www.dnadance.org; $17. (Dunning)

RAIFORD ROGERS MODERN BALLET (Wednesday and Thursday) A program of repertory works features the premiere of ''Transcription,'' a multimedia piece that seeks to create the sensation of a vehicle moving through the ethnically diverse neighborhoods of Los Angeles. (Through June 24.) At 8 p.m., Ailey Citigroup Theater, 405 West 55th Street, Clinton, (800) 595-4849 or www.tix.com. $20; $15 for students and 65+. (Anderson)

Art

Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art.

 Museums

* American Folk Art Museum: 'WHITE ON WHITE (AND A LITTLE GRAY),' through Sept. 17. The importance of neo-Classicism to early American architecture, silver and fine furniture is not exactly news. This small, beautiful show follows its spread into more personal corners of visual culture: often exquisite, strikingly dimensional white-work bedcovers; luminously grisaille, sometimes wacky marble-dust drawings; and print-work embroidery mourning pictures. 45 West 53rd Street, (212) 265-1040. (Roberta Smith)

* BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'SYMPHONIC POEM: THE ART OF AMINAH BRENDA LYNN ROBINSON,' through Aug. 13. This prodigious show, by an artist born and still living in Columbus, Ohio, celebrates her heritage in paintings, drawings, sculpture, stitchery, leather work and less classifiable forms of expression. Besides its sheer visual wizardry, using materials like leaves, twigs, bark, buttons and cast-off clothes, her art is compelling in that it ruminates on the history of black migration to, and settlement in, the United States, from early times to the present, in a garrulous, very personal way. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000. (Grace Glueck)

COOPER-HEWITT NATIONAL DESIGN MUSEUM: 'FREDERIC CHURCH, WINSLOW HOMER AND THOMAS MORAN: TOURISM AND THE AMERICAN LANDSCAPE,' through Oct. 22. It turns out that the Cooper-Hewitt owns thousands of rarely seen paintings, prints and sketches by Church, Homer and Moran. Studies of the countryside, mostly, they revere unspoiled nature and record tourism, a booming industry in 19th-century America. Here they're combined with antique postcards, old Baedekers, stereoscopic photographs, playing cards with pictures of Yellowstone on them and souvenir platters, all to trace the nation's transformation from primeval wilderness to Catskills resort. The show is extremely entertaining. 2 East 91st Street, at Fifth Avenue, (212) 849-8400. (Michael Kimmelman)

* FRICK COLLECTION: 'VERONESE'S ALLEGORIES: VIRTUE, LOVE AND EXPLORATION IN RENAISSANCE VENICE,' through July 16. Paolo Veronese (1528-88), a superb colorist and one of the most suavely sensuous of Renaissance Venetian painters, used the age-old device of allegory to make abstract concepts visual, often by means of human or mythological figures. In this five-painting show, the first to include all of his large-scale allegories from American collections, high ideals mingle with earthy and sometimes erotic physicality, as in the painting ''Venus and Mars United by Love.'' 1 East 70th Street, (212) 288-0700. (Glueck)

SOLOMON R. GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'ZAHA HADID: THIRTY YEARS IN ARCHITECTURE,' through Oct. 25. This exhibition, Ms. Hadid's first major retrospective in the United States, gives New Yorkers a chance to see what they've been missing. The show, in the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum's rotunda, spirals through Ms. Hadid's career, from her early enchantment with Soviet Constructivism to the sensuous and fluid cityscapes of her more recent commissions. It illuminates her capacity for bridging different worlds: traditional perspective drawing and slick computer-generated imagery, and the era of utopian manifestos and the ambiguous values of the information age. (212) 423-3500. (Nicolai Ouroussoff)

* International Center of Photography: 'UNKNOWN WEEGEE,' through Aug. 27. From the 1930's through the 1950's, Weegee -- real name, Arthur Fellig (1899-1968) -- was one of the best known news photographers in the country. He specialized in capturing the sensational side of urban life: crime, disaster, demi-monde nightlife. Tirelessly invasive, he lived by night. For him, the city was a 24-hour emergency room, an amphetamine drip. This show of 95 pictures gives a good sense of his range, and calls particular attention to his awareness of social problems related to class and race. 1114 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 857-0000.(Holland Cotter)

* METropolitan museum of art: 'GIRODET: ROMANTIC REBEL,' through Aug. 27. Hugely famous in the early 19th century, Girodet dropped down the memory chute. His ''Ossian Receiving the Ghosts of French Heroes,'' painted for Napoleon, is one of the most deranged pictures in art history. It's so unhinged that it's almost lovable, which is otherwise the last word to come to mind for an artist who, in his uptight, smarty-pants mode, could be a bore. But give the show a shot. It's sometimes brilliant, and Girodet's strangeness and fairly repellent character make him at least fascinating to contemplate and heroic in his immoderation. (212) 535-7710.(Kimmelman)

* Morgan Library and Museum: 'Masterworks from the Morgan,' through Sept. 10. Almost three years after closing to build an expansion, the Morgan is back and brilliant. What's new: Renzo Piano's splendid four-story glass-and-steel court, a sort of giant solarium with see-through elevators; two good-size second-floor galleries; and a neat little strongbox of an enclosure, called the Cube, for reliquaries and altar vessels, medieval objects made with so much silver and gold that they seem to give off heat. What's not new: almost everything in this exhibition, which fills every gallery with mini-exhibitions of master drawings and musical manuscripts, as well as illuminated gospels, devotional sculptures and historical and literary autograph manuscripts from the Brontes to Bob Dylan. 225 Madison Avenue, at East 36th Street, (212) 685-0008 or www.themorgan.org. (Individual show closings can be checked by telephone or through the Web site.) Cotter)

Museum of Arts & Design: 'THE EAMES LOUNGE CHAIR: AN ICON OF MODERN DESIGN,' through Sept. 3 Celebrating the 50th anniversary of a chair whose combination of declarative modernist structure and sheer creature comfort was both innovative and a bit alien, this exhibition is a successful design object in its own right. It pays homage with drawings, advertising ephemera, precursors, vintage television clips, a wonderful documentary and three versions of the chair itself, enshrined, exploded and useable. 40 West 53rd Street, (212) 956-3535. (Smith)

Museum of Modern Art: Douglas Gordon: 'Timeline,' through Sept 4. This selection of works by the artist known for appropriating and inventively manipulating Hollywood movies includes his projection of Alfred Hitchcock's ''Psycho,'' which runs so slowly that it takes 24 hours to complete, and a large-scale video installation that studies a circus elephant performing in an empty art gallery. Museum of Modern Art. (212) 708-9400. (Ken Johnson)

National Academy: '181st Annual: an Invitational Exhibition of Contemporary Art' This year's sprawling hodgepodge of an invitational presents works by 124 artists ranging from tightly focused realist painting to politically charged video installation. National Academy, 1083 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 369-4880, through June 18. (Johnson)

New York Public Library: 'FRENCH BOOK ART/LIVRES D'ARTISTES: ARTISTS AND POETS IN DIALOGUE,' through Aug. 18. Organized with the Bibliotheque Litteraire Jacques Doucet in Paris, this lavish exhibition surveys some of the experimental ferment brought on by the combination of free verse, visionary publishers and the high rate of talent among French artists and poets, especially in the early years of the 20th century. New York Public Library, Fifth Avenue at 42nd Street, (212) 869-8089. (Smith)

NOGUCHI MUSEUM: 'BEST OF FRIENDS: BUCKMINSTER FULLER AND ISAMU NOGUCHI,' through Oct. 15. Great, lasting friendships are rare, but friendships that enlarge the spirit through ideas, ideals and new insights are in a class by themselves. Over a stretch of more than 50 years, the sculptor Isamu Noguchi and the visionary designer R. Buckminster Fuller enjoyed such a friendship, which led to aesthetic and practical achievements that left their mark. The course of their varied collaborations is traced in this exhibition, which includes models, sculptures, drawings, photographs and films. 9-01 33rd Road, between Vernon Boulevard and 10th Street, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 204-7088. (Glueck)

* The Studio Museum In harlem: 'Energy/Experimentation: Black Artists and Abstraction, 1964-1980,' through July 2. During one of the most radical periods in 20th-century American politics, the Black Power era, a group of African-American artists was working in one of the most radical forms of 20th-century art: abstraction. This show is stylishly installed; (one gallery bursts with color, another has a cool platinum shimmer); the 15 artists are intensely individualistic and part of an important history. 144 West 125th Street, (212) 864-4500. (Cotter)

Galleries: Uptown

Peter Dayton: 'Surfboards by Clement Greenberg' For a witty spin on commodity-critique art, Mr. Dayton creates panel paintings combining the glossy surfaces, colorful banding and logos of surfboard design and the striped patterns of paintings by Kenneth Noland and Barnett Newman that were favored by the powerful formalist critic Clement Greenberg. Winston Wachter, 39 East 78th Street, (212) 327-2526, through June 24. (Johnson)

* WANGECHI MUTU: EXHUMING GLUTTONY: A LOVER'S REQUIEM In tandem with this artist's Chelsea debut, an over-the-top installation made with the British architect David Adjaye includes fur-trimmed wine bottles dripping wine, animal skins and an enormous raw wood table. Conflating morgue, tannery and banquet hall, it brings the excess and color of this artist's paintings on Mylar into real space, but its main message seems to be: I built this because I can. Salon 94, 12 East 94th Street, (646) 672-9212, through July 7. (Smith)

* Sarah Sze: 'Corner Plot' The upper corner of an apartment building protrudes from the Doris C. Freedman Plaza's pavement as if the whole edifice had toppled and sunk into the ground. Through the window's of Ms. Sze's magical outdoor sculpture you can see a complicated interior that looks as if it were created by a mad architect. Doris C. Freedman Plaza, 60th Street and Fifth Avenue, (212) 980-4575, through Oct. 29. (Johnson)

Galleries: 57th Street

'Coup de Foudre' Four works loosely related by the metaphor of lightning. Emilie Halpern offers a white plastic lightning bolt and walls papered by heat-sensitive film. Small cutouts by Tim Noble & Sue Webster cast pornographic shadows; stick-on letters applied to the floor, walls and ceiling by Tamara Sussman spell out an erotic fantasy written in Web-based ''slash fiction'' style; and a surprisingly affecting, grainy, rambling video created by Enid Baxter Blader with a homemade camera explores stormy natural and emotional weather. Tina Kim, 41 West 57th Street, (212) 716-1100, through June 23. (Johnson)

Galleries: SoHo

* 'Artists Against the State: Perestroika Revisited' Satiric and subversive Pop and Conceptualist works by more than 50 artists working in the Soviet Union during the years leading up to the end of Communism. Ronald Feldman, 31 Mercer Street, (212) 226-3232, through June 24. (Johnson)

Philippe Decrauzat: 'Plate 28' A conceptually perplexing but visually striking installation by a young Swiss artist includes a black and white grid painted on the walls; a sculpture based on a Russian Constructivist design; and a grainy, flickering black-and-white film showing glimpses of ominous landscapes from ''The Twilight Zone.'' Swiss Institute, 495 Broadway, at Broome Street, (212) 925-2035, through July 15. (Johnson)

Jackie Gendel: 'Portraits' With seemingly off-hand painterly verve, smudgy colors and a sweet sense of humor, Ms. Gendel creates smart and sensuous, semi-abstract riffs on Modernist portraiture. Jeff Bailey, 511 West 25th Street, (212) 989-0156, through July 1. (Johnson)

Galleries: Chelsea

* 'An Ongoing Low-Grade Mystery' Organized by the curator Bob Nickas, this excellent group show includes works in many different mediums and styles, related in that they are all predominantly red. Donald Judd, Sherrie Levine, Jim Drain, Wolfgang Tillmans and Dan Walsh are among more than 30 artists included. Paula Cooper, 534 West 21st Street, (212) 255-1105, through June 23. (Johnson)

* 'The Rest is Silence: James Lee Byars' New York only really started to wake up to James Lee Byars (1932-1997) when he died. Although born in the United States, he spent his formative years in Japan, where he developed a performance-based aesthetic of evanescance; and his main career was in Europe, where he adapted reductiveness to an art of material luxe. This three-gallery survey has some early work but focuses on the large-scale sculptures of his later years. It is tempting to fit him into existing slots: performance art, Minimalism, Conceptualism, whatever. But his extravagance and his privacy combine to keep him outside the fold, as do his his philosophical concerns: Big Ideas, or rather Big Questions, about perfection, death and eternity. Perry Rubenstein Gallery, 526 West 24th Street, (212) 627-8000; 534 West 24th Street and 527 West 23rd Street; Mary Boone Gallery, 541 West 24th Street and 745 Fifth Avenue, (212) 752-2929); Michael Werner, 4 East 77th Street, (212) 988-1623. All through June 24. (Cotter)

Reto Boller A Swiss artist who has exhibited widely in Europe, Mr. Boller creates minimalist works in two and three dimensions that focus on color and texture. For his first exhibition in the United States, he has covered the walls and floor of a large section of this gallery with bright red adhesive material, to perceptually intense effect. James Nicholson, 547 West 27th Street, (212) 967-5700, through June 24. (Johnson)

* Loretta Lux By means of subtle digital manipulations, Ms. Lux turns color photographs of children in empty rooms into hallucinatory portraits of angelic beings with slightly oversized heads; big, soulful eyes; and beautiful clothes. Yossi Milo, 525 West 25th Street, (212) 414-0370, through June 24. (Johnson)

* NEW VIDEO, NEW EUROPE A selection of 49 tapes by 40 artists from 16 Eastern European countries, several of which did not exist before the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1989, presents bits and pieces of another world. Revolution, landmines, economic hardship and disappearing ways of life alternate with wit and artistic originality. The whole forms an inadvertent documentary, but many of the parts are well worth attention. The Kitchen, 512 East 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 255-5793, through June 30. (Smith)

RICHARD SERRA: 'ROLLED AND FORGED' The centerpiece of the latest Serra spectacular, which favors mass, compression and rectangles over stretched-thin curves and spirals, is a low-lying maze in which the shifting heights and staggered placement of 16 thick, hedgelike plates create one of the most spatially complex yet straightforward works of his career. Gagosian Gallery, 555 West 24th Street, (212) 741-1111, through Aug. 11. (Smith)

Last Chance

* Mamma Andersson: 'Rooms Under the Influence' In haunting paintings of rooms and landscapes, this Swedish painter combines the sensuousness of Edouard Vuillard and the moody angst of Edvard Munch. David Zwirner, 525 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-2070; closing tomorrow. (Johnson)

* MARCO BOGGIO SELLA: DREAMS AND NIGHTMARES OF THE AFRICAN ASTRONAUTS Combining a salon hanging with ethnographic displays, and works made by the artist in various collaborations with artisans of an impoverished village in Bukina Faso, this show opens a Pandora's box of artistic and ethical issues, and gives the viewer plenty to look at. John Connelly Presents, 625 West 27th Street, Chelsea, (212) 337-9523; closing tomorrow. (Smith)

* JENNY HOLZER: ARCHIVE and NIGHT FEED Two exhibitions of new work present color photographs of poems projected on public buildings and silk-screen paintings that enlarge declassified, often heavily censored military and intelligence documents. The plight of the individual in an unforgiving (and in the second case, post-9/11) world is starkly evoked, but might be equally if not more effective in book form. Cheim & Read, 547 West 25th Street, Chelsea, (212) 242-7727, and Yvon Lambert New York, 564 West 25th Street, Chelsea, (212) 242-3611; closing tomorrow. (Smith)

* WANGECHI MUTU: AN ALIEN EYE AND OTHER KILLAH ANTHEMS This gallery debut includes opulent collage and ink paintings on Mylar of exotic creatures, sculpture and fierce little collages combining ethnographic postcards with pornographic images. It indicates extravagant artistic gifts, passion and pressing subjects but also suggests that too many options are under consideration. Sikkema Jenkins & Company, 530 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 929-2262; closing tomorrow. (Smith)

REGENERATION: 50 PHOTOGRAPHERS OF TOMORROW A show of emerging and student photographers gives a surprisingly energetic view of the medium as unavoidably surreal, frequently digitalized and extremely ambiguous, in which the divisions among real, manipulated and set-up are concerned. Current trends are confirmed. Relatively straight photojournalism tends to carry the day. Aperture Gallery, 547 West 27th Street, Chelsea, (212) 505-5555; closing on Thursday. (Smith)

* THOMAS ZIPP: URANLICHT An impressive solo debut pairs dark, nearly abstract landscapes and cursory botanical imagery with appropriated images of authoritarian bearded men, evoking a bygone avant-garde and the reaction against it. A room-filling hand-built organ that Pere Ubu might have loved completes the presentation. HarrisLieberman, 89 Vandam Street, South Village, (212) 206-1290; closing tomorrow. (Smith)

CORRECTION-DATE: June 20, 2006

 CORRECTION:
A classical music entry in the Listings pages of Weekend on Friday for events scheduled this Thursday at the Mannes Institute for Contemporary Performance, at Mannes College, 150 West 85th Street in Manhattan, misstated the admission prices. The concert is $20, or $10 for students, and the master class is $8; they are not free.

GRAPHIC: Photos: MOVIES -- Far left, Woody Harrelson, left, and John C. Reilly in Robert Altman's ''Prairie Home Companion,'' Page 22. (Photo by Melinda Sue Gordon/Picturehouse)
ART -- Left, ''Space Patrol'' is on view in ''Unknown Weegee'' at the International Center of Photography, Page 24. (Photo by Weegee/International Center of Photography)
 JAZZ -- Below, Chris Potter and his funk-fusion band Underground return to the 55 Bar in the West Village, Page 23. (Photo by Heidi Schumann for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (90%); BRITISH MONARCHS (86%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (78%); DRAMA FILMS (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (73%); WRITERS (67%); HOG & PIG FARMING (60%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (60%); THEATER (58%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: THE INTERNATIONAL CENTER (59%); INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2006



319 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; FILM REVIEW; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 530 words

HEADLINE: A Love Triangle With Soft Edges

BYLINE: By A. O. SCOTT

 BODY:
Deco (Lazaro Ramos) and Naldinho (Wagner Moura), friends since childhood, grew up on the seedy waterfront of Salvador, in northeastern Brazil, where they share ownership of a rusty old boat. One is black, the other white, but they see themselves as brothers. In a bar fight, Naldinho does not think twice about stepping in front of a knife blade aimed at Deco. ''No woman will ever come between us,'' Nadinho tells Deco at one point in Sergio Machado's ''Lower City,'' using language that is significantly more profane. ''All the women in the world couldn't come between us,'' his buddy concurs. 
 A noble sentiment, to be sure. But by now the audience knows that it is nonsense, since the woman in question is Karinna, a dancer and prostitute played by Alice Braga (''City of God''), one of the most forthrightly and powerfully sexual screen actresses in the world. Ms. Braga, niece of the Brazilian actress Sonia Braga, brushes aside any hint of glamour and gives a tough, candid performance. The movie turns out to be a predictable and somewhat sentimental lower-depths love triangle, but Ms. Braga almost makes it work.
Karinna's complicated relationship with Deco and Naldinho starts as a simple business transaction. She needs a ride to Salvador, they have a boat, and an exchange of services (with a little cash thrown in) is quickly negotiated. But the storm of emotions that follow -- pity, jealousy, longing, love -- is more than any of them bargained for. Each man wants to possess Karinna, who comes to represent an escape from the impoverished, semicriminal lives they lead. What she wants is less clear. She doesn't seem to mind her work, and she feels a sisterly affection as well as a sexual bond with both Deco and Naldinha.
 The look of ''Lower City'' is impressively naturalistic. Toca Seabra's cinematography makes the sweat and grit of Salvador almost palpable, and the music, by Carlinhos Brown and Beto Villares, provides a sweet, lusty throb. The frankness that has been a notable feature of recent Brazilian cinema -- about social decay and economic frustration as well as about sex -- is evident here, as is the soulful romanticism that distinguishes much of Brazil's culture. In this case, the mix doesn't quite work, partly because the motives of the characters remain opaque. Too often, they seem to be following the demands of narrative convention rather than their own impulses, and certain developments in the plot -- a gunshot, a violent robbery -- seem arbitrary and implausible. Despite the exertions of the cast, the film does not quite achieve the intensity of feeling it evidently craves.

Lower City
Opens today in Manhattan.

Directed by Sergio Machado; written (in Portuguese, with English subtitles) by Mr. Machado and Karim Ainouz; director of photography, Toca Seabra; edited by Isabela Monteiro de Castro; music by Carlinhos Brown and Beto Villares; production designer, Marcos Pedroso; produced by Walter Salles and Mauricio Andrade Ramos; released by Palm Pictures. At the Landmark's Sunshine Cinema, 143 East Houston Street, East Village. Running time: 97 minutes.

WITH: Alice Braga (Karinna), Lazaro Ramos (Deco) and Wagner Moura (Naldinho).


GRAPHIC: Photo: Alice Braga and Wagner Moura in Sergio Machado's ''Lower City.'' (Photo by Palm Pictures)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); FILM (87%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (72%); FILM DIRECTORS (71%); DANCERS (68%); CINEMATOGRAPHY (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (50%) NEW YORK, USA (50%) BRAZIL (94%); UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2006



320 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 946 words

HEADLINE: Pataki Keeps Landlord Lobbyist As Chief of Mortgage Agency

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: ALBANY, June 15 

 BODY:
Last month, a commission created by Gov. George E. Pataki said that directors of state authorities needed to follow the ethics rules for other public officials and have no substantial conflicts of interest. The governor endorsed the report.
 But a recent nomination by the governor suggests that he has already cast aside the report's recommendations: Mr. Pataki has renominated a registered lobbyist for landlords and developers, Joseph Strasburg, as chairman of the State of New York Mortgage Agency, an authority that makes low-interest loans available to prospective homeowners and also does business with developers, allowing them to offer advantageous loans and obtain favorable mortgage insurance rates for their projects.
The move to reappoint Mr. Strasburg also follows new scrutiny about whether the state's housing authorities, including the mortgage agency, have lived up to their mission: to provide affordable housing. 
 A scathing report last week from a housing advocacy group, the Pratt Center for Community Development, said that Mr. Pataki's appointees at the mortgage agency and other state authorities have squandered public housing resources on luxury housing, prominent campaign contributors and politically connected developers. 
 Mr. Strasburg is not paid as chairman of the mortgage agency but is paid more than $600,000 a year as president of the Rent Stabilization Association, a trade association of landlords that leads the fight every year for increases in rent and decreases in the number of rent-regulated apartments in New York City. 
 Essentially, in his unpaid mortgage agency role he is supposed to be one of the state's top advocates for making housing more affordable, while his highly paid lobbying effort makes housing less affordable.
 ''Clearly, I'm a controversial issue,'' Mr. Strasburg said in an interview on Thursday, adding that if the new report on public authorities were enacted, ''you won't have the Joe Strasburgs of the world serving in those positions.''
 The nomination is one of more than a hundred that Mr. Pataki has submitted to the State Senate as the legislative session winds down. While Mr. Pataki's staff said the number of nominations is no more than usual at this time of year, Democrats have accused the governor of rewarding friends and allies in his waning days in office.
 ''I believe that fundamentally, someone who is a paid lobbyist in the state should not be in a position of authority over state funds through public authorities,'' said Senator Liz Krueger, a Manhattan Democrat. ''Doesn't this seem a tad hypocritical, that the same governor who created this commission, they release their report, and now he seems to be totally ignoring their findings and recommendations?''
 Michael E. Marr, a spokesman for the governor, said that Mr. Strasburg's original nomination had been approved by the State Ethics Commission, which found ''no substantial conflict existed regarding Strasburg's appointment.''
 ''In the rare instances where conflicts would or could exist, the Ethics Commission laid out guidelines for Strasburg to follow,'' Mr. Marr added.
 How rare are the instances?
 ''Today, I recused myself for five out of the six items on the agenda,'' Mr. Strasburg said. ''Sometimes, I recuse myself once, sometimes five times.'' He said that when he was originally appointed, ''there was nothing in the law or ethics that precluded lobbyists like myself from serving on any board.''
 The governor's staff has also defended its housing record, saying state agencies ''have preserved or created almost 190,000 units of housing'' during the governor's nearly 12 years in office. And they maintained that financing luxury housing has helped pay for low-income housing.
 Brad Lander, director of the Pratt Center, accused the Pataki administration of being too cozy with developers, and contrasted its work with that of the New York City Housing Development Corporation, which he said used its resources more efficiently. ''They combine their tax-exempt bonds,'' Mr. Lander said, ''some of their low-income housing tax credits and additional subsidy dollars that come through the fees they've earned by issuing bonds and mortgages, and that means you can get more affordable housing.'' 
 ''The Pataki administration's housing policy,'' he added, ''has sought to weaken rent regulations and has had an uncomfortably close relationship with the real estate industry.'' 
 Michael McKee, a longtime tenants rights advocate who has often squared off against Mr. Strasburg in the city's annual battles over rent increases, said, ''I think it's totally inappropriate for a paid lobbyist for the real estate industry to head an agency making loans to some of his members.''
 ''I've known Joe for 25 years,'' said Mr. McKee, who recently became treasurer of a tenant political action committee. ''He's just a hired gun.''
 Mr. Strasburg was first appointed to the mortgage agency by Mr. Pataki in 1996. The Rent Stabilization Association is a generous donor through its political action committee, which has given several hundred thousand dollars to Senate Republicans in recent years and has also contributed to Attorney General Eliot Spitzer's campaign for governor, among other contributions. 
 Mr. Strasburg's renomination is expected to come before the Senate Finance Committee next week. 
 ''He's solid, hardworking, he's been an asset to the board,'' said Senator Nicholas A. Spano, a Westchester Republican who has received $9,000 over the last four years from the Rent Stabilization Association's political action committee.
 ''If there was a potential conflict, he would recuse himself,'' Mr. Spano said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Joseph Strasburg, head of the Rent Stabilization Association. (Photo by Alan Chin for The New York Times)(pg. B7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (92%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (91%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); LOBBYING (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); RENT CONTROL (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); ETHICS (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); MORTGAGE LENDER GUARANTY INSURANCE (76%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (76%); APPROVALS (73%); MORTGAGE INSURANCE (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); POLITICS (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%) Housing; Politics and Government; Appointments and Executive Changes; Lobbying and Lobbyists; Ethics; Public Housing; Housing

PERSON: Danny Hakim; George E (Gov) Pataki; Joseph Strasburg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); ALBANY, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2006



321 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: Report Finds Hardship Amid Plenty on L.I.

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT

DATELINE: GARDEN CITY, N.Y., June 15 

 BODY:
Lurking behind the Wisteria Lane facade of suburban prosperity, many middle-class Long Islanders are barely hanging on and others are suffering in pockets of poverty, disease and dysfunction, a new report says. 
 The study, ''Vital Signs,'' was issued Thursday by Adelphi University and measures the island's ''social health'' with 25 indicators. Among them are alcohol-related traffic fatalities -- which are the highest in the state -- and hunger, the cost of housing, domestic violence, AIDS, teen pregnancy, homelessness, asthma, diabetes, crime and suicide.
 ''To borrow from Charles Dickens, the story of contemporary Long Island is a tale of two suburbs,'' the report said. ''On the one hand, many residents are living out the American Dream. On the other, largely hidden from view, growing numbers of the poor, working and middle class, people of color, immigrants and seniors are struggling to get by each day.'' 
 Warning that such problems ''threaten regional vitality,'' the report urged community leaders to forge solutions enabling the island '' to continue to thrive and grow.'' 
 In what is a land of plenty for many of the island's 2.8 million residents, hunger is nonetheless an issue, the report found. About 37,000 families rely on food stamps. Two charities, Long Island Cares and Island Harvest, help feed 259,000 people a year. Nearly half of charitable food pantries and a third of soup kitchens report they sometimes turned away the needy for lack of supplies, according to the report. 
 Many people face ''difficult decisions between paying for food'' and necessities like rent and medicine.
 Despite seemingly impressive wealth -- the median family income on Long Island was $84,560 in 2004 versus the national figure of $53,692 -- the numbers are often illusory, the report said. The reason is the high cost of living. While a federal formula sets $19,350 as the poverty line for a family of four, the study says the realistic number for Long Island is $34,000. And about 200,000 households, or 22 percent of total, fall below that.
 Housing costs especially have skyrocketed in recent years. For 16 percent of homeowners and 32 percents of renters, those costs are gobbling up more than half their household income, the report said.
 With average home prices hitting $400,000 in Suffolk and $480,000 in Nassau last year, the guideline for mortgages would require a family income of $160,000 to afford a house in Suffolk and $192,000 in Nassau, the report said. Paying monthly bills has grown harder for some people. The average starting wage for local jobs in the last half of the 1990's was $41,000, while in the 2000's it has plunged to $24,000. 
 The face of Long Island is changing too, with more wrinkles and varied skin colors, bringing new social challenges. The young couples who thronged here to create the nation's first post-World War II suburb are now in retirement, and their baby boomer children are nearing that stage. More than a third of the island's residents are 55 or older. One projection foresees a 64 percent increase in those numbers in just the next four nears.
 The portion of nonwhites in Nassau County's population soared to 29 percent in 2004, up from 21 percent in just four years. The numbers also jumped in adjacent Suffolk County, to 24 percent from 15. The number of foreign-born residents on Long Island leaped 45 percent in the 1990's, with most of the arrivals from Latin America, the Caribbean and Asia, and they now total about 400,000.
 By many standards, Long Island as a whole seems to be doing well. But those overall averages mask serious problems in certain groups and places, the study found.
 ''While we speak of Long Island as a region, Nassau and Suffolk are quite different,'' said Suzanne Michael, the faculty director for the study. Domestic violence cases in Nassau in 2000, for example, occurred at a rate of 142 per 10,000 of population, in line with the statewide average of 144. But Suffolk's rate was 242. 
 Stark differences also emerged within each county. The predominantly black and Hispanic village of Hempstead had a high school dropout rate of about 22 percent, compared with 6 percent for all of Nassau. While Long Island has the lowest crime rate of any major suburb in the nation, according to federal statistics, Hempstead's violent crime rate was about triple the Nassau rate. 
 Roosevelt, a mostly black community, had a teenage pregnancy rate four times the Nassau figure of 30 per 1,000 teenage girls. Though Nassau's AIDS rate is a third the state average, Roosevelt's is seven times the state rate of 31 per 100,000 population.
 But there were other surprises, like suicide rates that were double and triple the state and county rates in mostly white parts of eastern Suffolk. And cardiac deaths were much higher than average in areas like Brookhaven, Yaphank, Westhampton and Sayville.
 The study's director, Sarah Eichberg, said researchers do not have ready explanations for every disparity, adding that many findings call for more study.
 Adelphi's president, Robert A. Scott, conceived the study as a companion to Long Island Index, a Rausch Foundation study of public policy issues.
 ''It's a baseline, almost an E.K.G. for the health and welfare of Long Island,'' said Jack O'Connell, executive director of the Long Island Health and Welfare Council, a coalition of nonprofit groups. ''It's also a wakeup call for business and government leaders to make Long Island a better place for people who live under the radar.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Life on Long Island''Despite a median family income of $84,560, many Long Island residents still struggle with poverty and other problems.Rental HousingThe number of people in Long Island who pay one-half or more of their gross income on housing increased to 32.3 percent in 2004 from 22.5 percent in 2000.Food StampsNassau County saw a 40 percent jump in food stamp cases and Suffolk County saw a 24 percent increase from September 2003 to September 2005.Domestic ViolenceThe domestic violence rate in Suffolk County is 68 percent higher than the state rate and 70 percent higher than Nassau County.Diabetes CasesAdult inpatient diabetes cases are increasing, with a 13 percent increase in Suffolk County and 20 percent increase in Nassau County from 1995 to 2004.Alcohol-Related Traffic FatalitiesSuffolk and Nassau Counties had the highest number of alcoholrelated fatal crashes in New York.(Source by Adelphi University)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); FOOD CHARITIES (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (89%); FAMILY (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (88%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (78%); COST OF LIVING (78%); SUBURBS (78%); TRENDS (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (75%); HOMEOWNERS (75%); HOME PRICES (75%); ADOLESCENTS (73%); HOMELESSNESS (73%); DIABETES (72%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (71%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (70%); SUICIDE (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (56%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (55%) Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK ISLANDERS (84%) Adelphi University

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Long Island (NY)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2006



322 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: City to Consider Job Centers For Day Labor

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
A New York City panel is examining whether the city should subsidize job centers for day laborers to link this overwhelmingly immigrant work force to prospective employers and curb wage and workplace abuses. 
 The job centers would bring a measure of regulation to an informal economy that involves throngs of immigrants gathering on curbsides and in parking lots each morning waiting to be hired for work doing light construction, landscaping or domestic chores.
A handful of other major cities, including Los Angeles, Denver and Phoenix, have given public funds to day labor centers, but efforts in other locales have drawn fierce opposition from groups that favor tighter immigration controls. 
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and the City Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn, appointed the commission, which held its first public hearing on Wednesday evening. Its goal is to evaluate the legal issues surrounding the job centers and determine whether public financing and oversight would be feasible.
 ''As the demand for day laborers continues in New York City, we must address the issues that arise, including day laborers' need for safe and healthy work conditions,'' Guillermo Linares, the mayor's commissioner of immigrant affairs and the chairman of the panel, said at the hearing. ''To address these issues, other jurisdictions have created day-labor job centers with public and private support. For the past 10 years, cities throughout our nation have found these centers to be viable long-term solutions.''
 Nationally, the centers have provoked debate. Advocates for tougher enforcement of immigration laws have argued that the job centers encourage illegal immigration, legitimize the informal economy and depress wages or working conditions of native-born workers. Last year, Arizona lawmakers voted to ban public financing of day-labor centers. In New York, Nassau County has two taxpayer-supported centers, in Glen Cove and Freeport, and Suffolk County has one, in Huntington Station, though the county executive has fiercely resisted the idea.
 The centers typically coordinate job assignments, inform employees about their rights under minimum-wage laws and help workers to file complaints and lawsuits. The National Day Laborer Organizing Network says the centers prevent a ''race to the bottom'' in wages and working conditions.
 The mayor has called for a federal database to allow employers to verify the immigration status of job applicants and tougher penalties for businesses that fail to perform the checks or ignore the results. But he has also called for gradually giving roughly 11 million illegal immigrants permanent status and ridiculed the idea of deporting them as ''pure fantasy.''
 The panel, the Temporary Commission on Day Laborer Job Centers, comprises representatives of nonprofit and advocacy groups, city officials, including the police, , and leaders of two privately run day labor centers.
 ''It's going to be hard for us not to come up with a recommendation that supports the centers,'' said one commission member, Edwin Melendez, a professor at Milano the New School for Management and Urban Policy. ''Personally, I think it's not only a solution that's in the character of New York as an immigrant-receiving region, but also a part of our history. We've had day laborers going back 200 years.''
 Dr. Melendez, an economist, was a co-author of the first national study of day laborers. The study, completed in January, estimated that there were 117,600 such workers in the United States, and concluded that they were routinely denied payment for their work and subjected to workplace hazards, as well as insults and abuses from employers.
 The study found that 21 percent of the laborers found jobs through centers, and the rest informally. The impetus for the city commission came from three council members -- Vincent J. Gentile and Bill de Blasio of Brooklyn and Helen Sears of Queens -- whose constituents had complained that the proliferation of day laborers was hurting the quality of life. In response to such complaints, Mr. Gentile helped the Latin American Workers Project, a nonprofit group in Bushwick, secure space for a small jobs center in Bensonhurst, which opened in March 2002 and is privately financed. 
 Stu Loeser, the mayor's chief spokesman, said the panel needed to finish its work before the mayor could make a decision. ''It's simply too early to predict what those recommendations may be,'' he said. 
 At the Wednesday night hearing, the commission heard from seven day laborers -- six men and one woman -- and a former day laborer who is a home-renovation contractor.
 Santiago Torres, 29, said he once had a job cutting grass from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. for $70 or $75 a day. One time, he said, an employer berated him for not cutting the grass at the proper angle and then refused to pay him. Mr. Torres said that when he tried to write down the employer's license plate, ''he threw me to the ground and hit me three times.'' He added, ''I went to the police and they said that since my face wasn't bloody they couldn't help me.''
 Javier Gallardo, an official from the Latin American Workers Project, said the job center in Bensonhurst -- a $300-a-month trailer with no toilet -- was often cramped. ''We need a dignified space, like a classroom, a meeting room, a computer lab, a bathroom,'' he said. ''Heat in the winter. Running water.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Day laborers waiting to be hired on Roosevelt Avenue in Queens. A study has found that such workers are routinely cheated and endangered. (Photo by Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); CITIES (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (78%); WAGE VIOLATIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (78%); MINIMUM WAGE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (75%); COUNTIES (74%); LITIGATION (74%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (73%); REFUGEES (73%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (72%); MINIMUM WAGE LAWS (72%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (69%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (56%) Labor; Immigration and Refugees; Illegal Immigrants; Law and Legislation; Wages and Salaries; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%) Sewell Chan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2006



323 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: Battle to Revise Eminent Domain Law Escalates in Trenton

BYLINE: By LAURA MANSNERUS

DATELINE: TRENTON, June 15 

 BODY:
For weeks, New Jersey legislators have been frantically writing and amending bills to answer widespread complaints that local governments are too quick to condemn property for redevelopment projects. 
 The lawmakers have been under pressure to tighten New Jersey's law, which is one of the most permissive in the nation, since the United States Supreme Court ruled a year ago that local governments could use eminent domain to acquire land for economic development, in addition to traditional purposes like building roads and schools.
But so far, the lawmakers' efforts have infuriated most of those who called for change -- and who now say the legislation does little more than give residents better notice that their property is going to be seized. 
 ''The reason we are having this problem in the first place is that there's eminent domain abuse,'' David Pringle, the campaign director of the New Jersey Environmental Federation, said after a Senate committee hearing here on Thursday, where only supporters of the proposed legislation were permitted to testify. ''And it's the abusers who are writing the law.''
 Senator Ronald L. Rice, the chairman of the Community and Urban Affairs Committee and author of the bill, already had a reply when he opened the hearing: ''While there are those who argue the bill doesn't go far enough, I believe it takes a balanced approach.''
 ''Given the media-generated hysteria surrounding this issue,'' Senator Rice, a Newark Democrat, added, ''one would think that every home in the state is threatened by eminent domain.'' 
 Mr. Rice also promised that critics of his bill could testify at open hearings around the state in the next few weeks, as they have been doing at a series of hearings before the General Assembly's Commerce and Economic Development Committee. That panel's last hearing was on Monday.
 The United States Supreme Court decision, Kelo v. New London, brought a reaction that forged an unusual coalition of conservative Republican property rights advocates and groups like the Environmental Federation, South Jersey Legal Services and the Coalition for Affordable Housing and the Environment.
 The state's new public advocate, Ronald K. Chen, shares most of their concerns; he issued a report last month that said the state had not adequately protected property owners and tenants. 
 The furor has forced the hand of the Democrats who dominate the Legislature, many of whom are local officials themselves or work for law firms and other businesses active in redevelopment work.
 The current law was rewritten in 1992 to encourage building in deteriorated urban areas by allowing a local government to declare an area ''in need of redevelopment'' and acquire land there by eminent domain. Critics say the criteria for designating redevelopment area, using terms like ''underutilized'' and ''stagnant,'' are too expansive.
 Both the Assembly and Senate bills restrict the criteria for designating a redevelopment area, and they provide property owners with more notice and opportunity to appeal a condemnation decision. 
 Mr. Chen has voiced support, with reservations, for Mr. Rice's bill and the Assembly bill, sponsored by John J. Burzichelli, the chairman of the economic development committee.
 In testimony on Thursday, George Hawkins, the director of New Jersey Future, the main advocacy organization for the state plan, said its interest was preserving open space while channeling development to cities. Mr. Hawkins also said that while homeowners might be granted more protection, ''how about three warehouses and a gas station?''
 Both committees heard from dissenting Republican legislators this week. Assemblyman Guy R. Gregg, speaking to Mr. Burzichelli's committee on Monday, protested: ''We have a system to redevelop. It's called capitalism.
 ''We've developed an open-space program that has worked for 20 years, working with willing buyers and willing sellers.''
 And Senator Diane B. Allen, a Burlington County Republican, urged Mr. Rice's committee on Thursday to consider a moratorium on eminent domain. During any delay, Senator Allen said, ''we're going to have people's homes taken from them inappropriately, immorally, and in my mind, unethically and illegally.'' 
 Senator Fred H. Madden Jr., a Democrat from Turnersville, said he would support a moratorium, too. ''In traveling around South Jersey,'' Senator Madden said, ''eminent domain always comes up, almost as often as property taxes.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMINENT DOMAIN (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); PROPERTY LAW (91%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); APPEALS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); LEGAL SERVICES (77%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (77%); WRITERS (73%); LAWYERS (73%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (70%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (56%) Eminent Domain; Law and Legislation; Land Use Policies

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (84%); NEW JERSEY ENVIRONMENTAL FEDERATION (56%) Supreme Court (US)

PERSON: Laura Mansnerus

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (93%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (78%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2006



324 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 102 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: Unemployment Drops Again 

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN (NYT); Compiled by John Sullivan

 BODY:
The city's jobless rate dropped to 5 percent in May, its lowest level in almost 18 years, the State Department of Labor reported yesterday. The number of city residents employed exceeded 3.6 million for the first time and the number of unemployed residents dropped to 189,000, the fewest since November 1988, according to the report. The unemployment rate, which fell from 5.4 percent in April, has not been lower than 5.2 percent since July 1988, when it was 4.9 percent. The state rate, which matches the national unemployment rate, dropped to 4.6 percent in May, its lowest in five years. PATRICK McGEEHAN (NYT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (94%); CITY LIFE (88%); CITIES (88%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (88%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (86%) Labor; Unemployment

PERSON: Patrick Mcgeehan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; New York State

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2006



325 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 102 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: More Money For Housing 

BYLINE: By JANNY SCOTT (NYT); Compiled by John Sullivan

 BODY:
The New York City Housing Development Corporation announced yesterday the approval of $179 million in financing to build or preserve 5,300 low- and medium-priced apartments in the Bronx, Upper Manhattan and Queens. The financing includes $36 million to help keep 18 apartment houses in the state's Mitchell-Lama subsidized housing program, and $142.7 million to build or restore 22 buildings in the city. Emily A. Youssouf, the corporation's president, said: ''Not long ago, we would have been excited to finance 5,000 apartments over the course of two years. Now we're doing that in a month.'' JANNY SCOTT (NYT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (88%); CONSTRUCTION (88%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (86%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (86%); PUBLIC HOUSING (86%) Housing; Finances

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: Housing Development Corp (NYC)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (91%)

PERSON: Janny Scott

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2006



326 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: The Phantom Menace

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Over the last few weeks monetary officials have sounded increasingly worried about rising prices. On Wednesday, Richard Fisher, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, declared that inflation ''is running at a rate that is just too corrosive to be accepted by a virtuous central banker.''
 I'm worried too -- but not about recent price increases. What worries me, instead, is the Fed's overreaction to those increases. When it comes to inflation, the main thing we have to fear is fear itself. 
Discussions of inflation can be numbingly arcane -- are you a core C.P.I. type or a trimmed-mean P.C.E. person? But the real issue is whether there's a serious risk that inflation will become embedded in the economy.
 The classic example of embedded inflation is the wage-price spiral -- better described as wage-price leapfrogging -- of the 1970's. Back then, whenever wage contracts came up for renewal, workers demanded big raises, both to catch up with past inflation and to offset expected future inflation. And whenever companies changed their prices, they raised them by a lot, both to catch up with past wage increases and to offset expected future increases. 
 The result of this leapfrogging process was that inflation became a self-sustaining process, feeding on itself. And ending that self-sustaining process proved very difficult. The Fed eventually brought the inflation of the 1970's under control, but only by raising interest rates so high that in the early 1980's the U.S. economy suffered its worst slump since the Great Depression. 
 Fed officials now seem worried that we may be seeing the start of another round of self-sustaining inflation. But is that a realistic fear? Only if you think we can have a wage-price spiral without, you know, the wages part.
 The point is that wage increases can be a major driver of inflation only if workers consistently receive raises that substantially exceed productivity growth. And that just hasn't been happening.
 In fact, the distinctive feature of the current economic expansion -- the reason most Americans are unhappy with the state of the economy, in spite of good numbers for the gross domestic product and explosive growth in corporate profits -- is the disconnect between rising worker productivity and stagnant wages. Over the past five years productivity, as measured by real G.D.P. per hour worked, has risen by about 14 percent, but the real wages of nonmanagerial workers have risen less than 2 percent.
 Nor is there much sign that things are changing on that front. The official unemployment rate is low by historical standards, but workers still don't seem to have much bargaining power. (Does this mean that the official unemployment rate makes the job situation look better than it really is? Yes.) The Federal Reserve's Beige Book, an informal survey of economic conditions across the country, reports that over the last couple of months ''wage pressures remained moderate over all, with the exception being workers with hotly demanded skills.'' 
 But if wage pressures are so moderate, where's the inflation coming from? The answer is soaring oil and commodity prices. 
 It's true that some widely used inflation measures, like so-called core inflation, strip out the direct ''first-round'' effects of rising energy prices. But there are still indirect effects, which usually take some time to show up in the data. Much of the recent rise in core inflation probably represents the delayed effect of the big run-up in fuel prices a few months ago. And unless something else happens to drive up oil prices -- like, to give a wild example, a military strike on Iran -- inflation will probably subside in the months ahead.
 And bear in mind that many economists, including Ben Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, have said that a little bit of inflation -- say, 2 percent a year on average -- is actually good for the economy.
 It would be an exaggeration to say that there's no inflation threat at all. I can think of ways in which inflation could become a problem. But it's much easier to think of ways in which the Federal Reserve, wrongly focused on the phantom menace of a new wage-price spiral, could be slow to respond to bigger threats, like a rapidly deflating housing bubble.
 So I don't fear inflation nearly as much as I fear the fear of inflation. And I wish the Fed would lighten up on the subject. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); PRODUCTIVITY (88%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); GREAT DEPRESSION (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF DALLAS (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (91%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2006



327 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: Annan Sees No Standoff Over Budget At the U.N.

BYLINE: By WARREN HOGE

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, June 15 

 BODY:
Secretary General Kofi Annan said Thursday that he thought the United Nations would avoid a threatened budget showdown at the end of this month over management changes, but he warned against threats to ''pull the plug'' on the organization if it did not meet some countries' expectations.
 ''The cap on the budget will be lifted, there will be no crisis, as far as I can see, this month,'' Mr. Annan said at a news conference. 
 Led by the United States, the major contributors to the United Nations in December obtained agreement on a six-month cap on the current budget that links disbursement of money after June 30 for the two-year, $3.8-billion budget to progress in management improvements.
 In addition, John R. Bolton, the United States ambassador, has periodically hinted that if sufficient changes are not made, the United States Congress will move to withhold its United Nations dues.
 Mr. Annan predicted that the progress being made now would be sufficient to forestall a crisis, but he added that the tactic pressed by the United States had provoked a strong reaction from many nations.
 ''For someone to say that because you have not reformed to my satisfaction, I am going to pull the plug and stop all the activities is going to be a very hard sell for other member states to swallow -- and rightly so,'' he said.
 Mr. Bolton said Thursday that the United States and its allies were in extensive consultations with the so-called Group of 77, which represents 132 developing nations.
 ''We hope we can agree on a consensus decision with respect to the expenditure cap which the United States, the European Union and Japan all said should be based on substantial movement on the reform question by June 30 and a road map through the end of the year,'' he said.
 Mr. Bolton said the group was adopting a ''flexible, accommodating position'' but needed to make progress to increase accountability, toughen oversight and start eliminating committees with expired mandates. ''What we'd like to see is substantial progress in some combination in all three of those areas, but we have not said, 'This is a prerequisite or that is an absolute prerequisite,' '' he said.
 Relations between Mr. Annan and Mr. Bolton remained strained in the aftermath of a speech last week by Mark Malloch Brown, the deputy secretary general, asserting that the United States had failed to stand up for the United Nations or to acknowledge its value to American policymakers, letting its harshest American detractors dominate debate.
 Mr. Bolton unsuccessfully sought a repudiation of the remarks from Mr. Annan, and he said they represented a patronizing attack on American public opinion. He added that they would set back the cause of reform.
 Mr. Annan disagreed with that position on Thursday, saying that a ''poisonous'' atmosphere that had arisen between wealthy and developing nations was subsiding and that he trusted Americans to understand Mr. Malloch Brown's speech. ''I do not think they will read the Mark Malloch Brown statement as insulting, condescending or rude,'' he said.
 But Mr. Bolton was unrelenting on Thursday. ''I can tell you that criticism of the intelligence of the American people is never a smart thing to do politically,'' he said. 
 ''And I do believe that the comments have had a negative impact politically and that impact continues,'' he added. ''I'm not trying to dwell on it, I just think it's a fact of life, and if you don't realize it, you're blinking reality in Washington.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (65%); PRESS CONFERENCES (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2006



328 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2517 words

HEADLINE: U.S.-Style Pay Deals for Chiefs Become All the Rage in Europe

BYLINE: By GERALDINE FABRIKANT; Heather Timmons contributed reporting from London for this article and Mark Landler from Frankfurt.

 BODY:
Along with hip-hop and Hollywood movies, Europeans are eagerly importing another American phenomenon: soaring pay packages for chief executives. 
 For decades, Europeans were far more restrained than Americans when it came to rewarding the boss. Now, executives overseas are less inhibited about asking for American-style compensation. And often they are getting their wish.
But while huge paydays have become a staple of American corporate life, in Europe this appears to be less acceptable to investors, and in some countries, resistance is building. 
 The pay of Asian executives remains well behind that of their counterparts in the United States and Europe. [Page C4.] 
 Signs are abundant that the trans-Atlantic pay gap is shrinking. Last year, Jan Bennink, the chief executive of Royal Numico, a Dutch baby-food producer, was granted $13.4 million. Lord Browne of BP was awarded $18.5 million, and Antoine Zacharias, former chairman of the French construction company Vinci, was given $22 million in compensation and a severance payment.
 While those figures may seem low when compared to awards in recent years to some American executives, European bosses are increasingly winning pay packages that were unimaginable just five years ago. 
 ''Here in France, greed has been legalized,'' said Pierre-Henri LeRoy, who heads the French advisory firm Proxinvest. ''Executives compare themselves to the market in the U.S., not India, when they plan their compensation.''
 Compensation experts say the changes have been striking. ''This is the first time I've seen this gap closing in 30 years, and it is closing quite a lot,'' said John Viney, founding partner of the Zygos Partnership, a London-based executive search firm.
 Slightly tighter controls on pay packages in the United States may be helping to narrow the difference with Europe, Mr. Viney said, but the real shift is coming from the increased use of international comparisons, which are not really all that international.
 ''When you talk about world compensation comparisons, you really mean one country, and that's the United States,'' Mr. Viney said. 

Richer at the Top in U.S.
 In 2005, the median pay package for the chief executives of the 350 largest companies in the United States was $6.8 million, including long-term incentives like stock options, according to a study by Mercer Human Resource Consulting. That was 58 percent above the $4.3 million median for top executives in the companies listed on the Financial Times Stock Exchange 100 index in Britain, according to Cliff Weight, a director at Independent Remuneration Solutions, a compensation consultant in London.
 Yet that compares, Mr. Weight said, to a far broader gap in 1998, when the median in the United States was $4.6 million, more than four times the $1.1 million in Britain. 
 Similar studies in Germany, France and the Netherlands, using a variety of methodologies, also show that pay overseas is on the rise. In the Netherlands, the median pay for chief executives at 75 publicly traded companies studied by the management consulting firm Hewitt Associates -- including those with small, medium and large stock market values -- increased 17.8 percent in 2004, to $1.47 million. 
 In France, the median compensation for the chief executives of companies listed in the CAC-40 benchmark stock index rose to $3 million in 2004, from about $780,000 in 1998, according to Proxinvest, an adviser to pension funds and mutual funds.
 In Germany, a recent survey by Die Welt, the Hamburg-based daily, showed a nearly 11 percent increase in 2005 in the average salary of management board members from the 30 blue-chip DAX index companies. 
 The rise in executive pay is causing some discomfort, even outrage, in some European countries with socialist economic and political traditions. In January, when the giant French hotel company Accor did not renew the contract of the chief executive, Jean-Marc Espalioux, investors were angry that he still managed to walk away with a severance package valued at $15 million. Last month, the payment was approved with only 59 percent of the shares at the company's annual meeting. ''That is an unusually low support for a motion,'' Mr. LeRoy of Proxinvest said. Mr. Espalioux did not return phone calls seeking comment. 
 In Britain last winter, shareholders learned that United Business Media, owner of PR Newswire and other business services, would pay the departing chief executive, Lord Hollick, a $486,000 fee for a smooth handover to the new chief. Lord Hollick, who did not return phone calls seeking comment, ultimately gave it up.
 And in Germany, improved disclosure has thrust the issue of greed into the limelight, setting off criticism of Deutsche Bank's chief executive, Josef Ackermann. 
 A federal court ruled late last year that Mr. Ackermann and five others would be retried in October on charges of violating German corporate law. They had awarded $67 million in bonuses to a handful of executives at Mannesmann, the telecommunications company on whose board Mr. Ackermann sat. The bonuses were granted in 2000 after Mannesmann agreed to be acquired for $183 billion, the largest corporate takeover in Europe. A lower court had acquitted Mr. Ackermann of the charges. Deutsche Bank declined to comment, but the bank's supervisory board, in a statement, said, ''We continue to believe Ackermann has done nothing legally or morally wrong.'' 
 But disclosure may have the perverse effect of whetting competitive appetites. As compensation scoreboards become more common worldwide, executives can argue that they are worth more, as many note has already happened in the United States. 
 In France, where the government now requires fuller disclosure of compensation, said Marco Becht, executive director of the nonprofit European Corporate Governance Institute, ''a senior executive just told me privately that the new disclosure is the best thing, because we all see everybody else's compensation and now we all think we are not paid enough.''
 Royal Numico, the Dutch food producer that specializes in preoperative diets and food for the malnourished as well as infant food, uses Bristol-Myers Squibb, Colgate-Palmolive, Kellogg and H. J. Heinz as part of the group against which it determines compensation for its chief executive, Mr. Bennink. A company spokesman, Michiel Quarles van Ufford, said the company's plan meant that if Numico performed well, both shareholders and management would benefit. 
 Peter de Vries, who heads VEB, a corporate governance watchdog firm, said Dutch companies ''do the same thing Americans do.''
 ''They hire a firm that puts together a report for an international peer group,'' he said, ''and they make a pay package related to that.''
 By VEB's calculations, Mr. Bennink was the Netherlands' highest-paid chief executive last year. Mr. van Ufford of Numico maintained that VEB's figures are too high by 10 percent. 

An American Model
 The trend is most apparent at companies whose executives headed divisions in the United States. ''When I ran Burger King for Diageo, I moved to Miami and I was remunerated in line with U.S. standards,'' recalled Dennis Malamatinas, who until 2000 served as chief executive of Burger King, then a division of Diageo and now a publicly traded company. ''That was how we were measured.'' 
 But even when a company does a good deal of its business in the United States, awarding top executives big pay increases can invite trouble when most of the shareholders are not American. 
 British shareholders have more leverage than their counterparts in the United States in vetoing huge compensation packages. They have won the right to vote on compensation, and even though the vote is nonbinding, boards ignore it at their peril. Newspapers regularly run headlines decrying ''fat cats,'' with full-color photos of executives, their homes, their wives and any candid vacation shots editors can find. 
 And because the investor base in Europe is smaller than in the United States, corporate governance experts agree that it is easier to mobilize shareholders and to reach a consensus among investor groups, either to engage in a dialogue to avoid confrontation or to mount a fight. 
 That leverage may help explain a development three years ago, when Jean-Pierre Garnier, the chief executive of the huge British drug maker GlaxoSmithKline, negotiated a contract that promised him a $35 million severance payment. Investors were so angry that the package was ultimately cut in half, so he will get about $17 million when he retires. At the time, the company disputed the $35 million figure because roughly a third of that was in stock options that had become vested. 
 Still, the trend is inexorably toward higher pay. At United Business Media, where Lord Hollick, gave up his $486,000 severance payment, the board quietly overhauled its bonus arrangements for three senior executives, paving the way for them to make more than ever. The company created long-term incentive plans so that the executives, depending on performance, could earn 110 percent of their salaries. Rising corporate pay in Europe is following a pattern already set in London finance, where compensation at many banks is almost on par with that in the United States, and is higher at some hedge funds. In addition, the explosion of private equity funds and leveraged buyouts in Britain is offering chief executives of public companies the opportunity to make far more money. 
 In a telling move, Lord Hollick left publicly traded business to go to the private equity firm Kohlberg Kravis Roberts.
 In Britain, what is really changing is ''variable pay'' -- bonuses and rewards that are linked to long-term performance that may include meeting growth goals. ''Base pay may be up by 7 to 10 percent, but bonuses are up 75 to 100 percent,'' estimated Richard Singleton, director of corporate governance for F& C Asset Management, which has $240 billion in assets. ''The opportunity is there, but there is also an increase in expected value'' of the management, he said. ''That's why there has probably been more unease than outcry'' from investors. 
 But even the highest-paid executives in Britain still cannot match their American counterparts. For example, Lord Browne of BP, Britain's largest company by stock market value, was awarded $18.5 million in compensation, including $2.6 million in salary and $7.16 million in long-term compensation, and Jeroen van der Veer, the head of Royal Dutch Shell, last year was awarded $12.7 million, according to Mr. Weight of Independent Remuneration Solutions.
 By contrast, David J. O'Reilly, chief executive of Chevron, a company whose stock market value is roughly 60 percent that of BP, was granted $37 million in salary, bonus, stock and options that become vested over several years.
 History and culture may prevent European executives from catching up with their peers in the United States. Stephen Davis, president of Davis Global Advisors, argues that there are better safeguards when it comes to pay overseas. ''There is no shame factor in the U.S.,'' he said. ''In Europe, there is more of a concern about the social impact.''
 In France, the government began requiring disclosure of corporate pay in 2001, stirring investor anger. Jean-Marie Messier generated headlines by trying to walk off with a $25 million settlement from Vivendi after he was ousted in July 2002, and ultimately had to forgo the settlement. 
 ''France is largely a Catholic country,'' said Sophie L'Helias, a French corporate governance expert, ''and there is a great distrust of money, and particularly of people who make a lot of money, and of big business.'' Mr. Messier did not return a call seeking comment. 

More Acceptance in France
 Whether or not shareholders object, an increasing number of chief executives are seeking such large payouts. ''Messier took the money and ran,'' Mr. LeRoy of Proxinvest said. ''That kind of greed was never acceptable 10 years ago.''
 Mr. LeRoy said there have also been cases of what he considers egregious payouts where investors did not protest that much. ''The head of Vinci, the French construction company, walked off with $22 million,'' Mr. LeRoy said of Mr. Zacharias, the former chairman. Mr. Zacharias resigned the chairmanship on June 1 after a power struggle with the chief executive. He could not be reached for comment.
 ''I personally think the Catholic factor is disappearing,'' Mr. LeRoy said. 
 Under French law, investors have the right to vote on severance payments. Mr. LeRoy said that some investors privately grumbled about Mr. Zacharias's payment, and a 34 percent vote against it showed strong opposition, but not strong enough to block it. ''The big firms that do asset management want more business from the issuing company,'' he said, explaining why money managers who control large blocks of shares often do not challenge executive pay increases. 
 When the British-listed Cable and Wireless introduced ''private equity style'' pay packages for its top management in May, investor groups balked immediately. The compensation could amount to as much as $409 million for 62 managers.
 Although the company does not technically need shareholder approval for the bonus packages, some of which allowed individual managers to make as much as $40 million over four years, executives have spent the last few weeks trying to convince the market that the deals are necessary to keep the company from being taken over by a private equity firm.
 ''We do have concerns'' about the bonus structure, said Lucy Butler, spokeswoman for the Association of British Insurers. ''We're in dialogue with C. and W., and looking carefully at the issues,'' she said. 
 A spokeswoman for Cable and Wireless, Antonia Graham, said it ''absolutely thinks it is the right plan for shareholders and for the company.'' 
 Some Europeans are adopting other controversial American pay habits, like lowering performance hurdles. 
 Earlier this year, the Royal Bank of Scotland's new compensation plans raised hackles at G4Owners, a firm that consults with long-term investors on corporate governance issues. Until 2005, the company's performance had to achieve two targets before Fred Goodwin, the chief executive, and his top two lieutenants could collect new stock option grants. Last year, it failed to reach those targets. 
 Then, the Royal Bank changed its compensation plan so it had to reach only one of two goals for its top managers to get half their payouts. 
 ''Now, 50 percent of your options will vest on a total shareholder return measure,'' a spokesman, Mike Keohane, said, ''and 50 percent in an adjusted earnings per share over a three-year period. Before, you had to achieve the total shareholder return or you got nothing.'' 
 But Michelle Edkins, managing director at G4Owners, is skeptical of the shift. ''It has gotten easier to meet the goal,'' she said.

Gilded Paychecks
 Articles in this series are examining executive compensation. Previous articles in the series can be found at nytimes.com/business.


GRAPHIC: Photos: An unhappy GlaxoSmithKline investor making his feelings known about the chief's $35 million compensation package. (Photo by Graham Barclay/Bloomberg News)(pg. C4)Graph: ''Catching Up''The gap between the pay of American and British chief executives is shrinking.Graph tracks median compensation* between pay of American and British chief executives since 1998.*Excludes pensions(Sources by Independent Remuneration Solutions, Manifest [British figures]
Mercer Human Resource Consulting)(pg. C4)Chart: ''Upwardly Mobile Paychecks''Chief executive compensation at European companies is catching up to pay levels in the United States, although in some countries shareholder resistance is building. Here are some examples of what European companies awarded top managers last year.Antoine ZachariasFormer chairman, VinciFrench construction company's award of $17 million, a one-time severance payment, was rejected by 34 percent of shareholders, not enough to block it.TOTAL COMPENSATION, 2005: $22.0 millionJean-Pierre GarnierChief executive, GlaxoSmithKlineBritish drug company negotiated contract in 2003 that promised $35 million severance payment. Angry investors forced company to cut that by half.TOTAL COMPENSATION, 2005: $19.7 millionLord BrowneChairman and chief executive, BPCompensation of the British oil company executive is high, but still falls below that of United States oil executives.TOTAL COMPENSATION, 2005: $18.5 millionJan BenninkChief executive, Royal NumicoHighest-paid chief executive in the Netherlands. The food processor's board chose executives at Bristol- Myers Squibb, Colgate- Palmolive, Kellogg and H.J. Heinz as benchmarks.TOTAL COMPENSATION, 2005: $13.4 million(Sources by the companies
Independent Remuneration Solutions
Proxinvest
 VEB)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); BABY FOODS INDUSTRY (74%); SEVERANCE PAY (73%); HUMAN RESOURCES (73%); FILM (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); SPECIALTY CANNING (69%); FOOD INDUSTRY (68%); STOCK INDEXES (64%); STOCK EXCHANGES (64%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (63%); STOCK OPTIONS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (61%); DANONE BABY & MEDICAL NUTRITION BV (56%); MERCER INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (61%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (61%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311422 SPECIALTY CANNING (56%); SIC2032 CANNED SPECIALTIES (56%); SIC2023 DRY CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCTS (56%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (68%) EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); FRANCE (92%); NETHERLANDS (73%); GERMANY (73%); INDIA (72%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2006



329 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 391 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Court Allows Evidence Despite Rule Violation
The United States Supreme Court upheld the use at trial of evidence found by police officers who execute home search warrants without first following the constitutional requirement to ''knock and announce.'' 
 The 5-to-4 decision left uncertain the value of the knock-and-announce rule, which dates to 13th-century England. Justice Antonin Scalia wrote in the majority opinion that people subjected to an improper police entry were free to go to court and bring a civil rights suit against the police. But Justice Stephen G. Breyer, writing for the dissenters, said the court's ruling ''weakens, perhaps destroys, much of the practical value'' of the knock-and-announce protection. The decision followed a reargument less than a month ago, with the newest justice, Samuel A. Alito Jr., left, evidently casting the decisive vote. PAGE A28

A Vote Against a Colleague
House Democrats voted to remove a Louisiana colleague, William J. Jefferson, who is the subject of a bribery investigation, from the Ways and Means Committee. He has denied any wrongdoing. PAGE A28

Relief, at Least for Now
Stocks rallied for a second day, providing some relief to investors after more than a month of turmoil. But the increased volatility in the markets suggested that their troubles might not be over. BUSINESS DAY, PAGE C1

When the Artists Took Over the Asylum
Marionettes made by the artist Sophie Taeuber in 1918 are among the works in ''Dada,'' an exhibition opening today at the Museum of Modern Art examining the movement that reacted to difficult times by throwing away the rules. A review by Michael Kimmelman. WEEKEND, PAGE E29

Church to Reword Prayers
In a pivotal moment in the 10-year struggle that many English-speaking Roman Catholics had called ''the liturgy wars,'' bishops in the United States voted to reword some prayers and blessings that Catholics recite at Mass, yielding to pressure from the Vatican for an English translation closer to the original Latin. PAGE A18

Last-Minute Air Fares Rise
Most of the nation's largest airlines said they would raise prices for one-way walk-up fares, the kind typically bought by business travelers, by $50. While demand for travel is growing with the economy, the number of seats remains limited, giving the airlines power to push up fares. BUSINESS DAY, PAGE C1

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo by Librado Romero/The New York Times)Graph: ''Dow Jones Industrial Average''Daily highs, lows and closes since April.Graph tracks Dow Jones Industrial average since April.APRIL 3: 11,145MAY 10: 11,643JUNE 13: 10,706JUNE 15: 11,015

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); EVIDENCE (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); SEARCH & SEIZURE (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); LITIGATION (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (88%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (86%); RELIGION (86%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (79%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); BRIBERY (73%); APPEALS (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); STOCK INDEXES (71%); EXHIBITIONS (69%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (69%); AIR FARES (65%); AIRLINES (65%); PRICE INCREASES (65%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (84%)

PERSON: ANTONIN SCALIA (58%); SAMUEL ALITO (58%); STEPHEN BREYER (58%); WILLIAM J JEFFERSON (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ENGLAND (92%); HOLY SEE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2006



330 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 771 words

HEADLINE: 6 Nations Urge Talks in Somalia For Exiled Rulers and Islamists

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER

 BODY:
The United States joined five other countries yesterday in calling for negotiations between Somalia's largely powerless government in exile and the Islamists who have seized control in Mogadishu and swaths of southern Somalia.
 The diplomats also pledged economic and political support to Somalia's long-neglected interim government, which was formed with United Nations support but has been unable to enter Mogadishu, the previous capital, and has been stuck in Baidoa, about 150 miles away.
 A communique issued after the hurriedly convened meeting is filled with diplomatic but nonspecific references to the need for ''enhanced multilateral engagement'' and ''overall coordination of the international community's support.'' 
 The countries in the group are the United States, Britain, Italy, Norway, Sweden and Tanzania. 
 The document represents a resurgence for the State Department, where officials have been critical of the Bush administration's policy on Somalia, which consisted largely of C.I.A. payments to Somali warlords to help them defeat the Islamists. 
 With the warlords now on the run, critics inside and outside the administration are saying that strategy was counterproductive, leaving Washington with no allies in an area that has been fertile breeding ground for terrorists. 
 Secretary General Kofi Annan of the United Nations publicly took on the old policy yesterday. ''I would not have supported the warlords,'' he told a news conference when asked about American involvement. ''I don't think I would have recommended the United Nations or the Security Council supporting the warlords.''
 In any event, Washington is adopting a more conciliatory approach to the Islamists. Jendayi E. Frazer, the State Department's top Africa official, had kind words yesterday about a second letter from Sheik Sharif Ahmed, chairman of the Islamist militia group.
 ''Before our meeting, we received a letter from the Islamic Courts Union,'' Ms. Frazer said. ''They said they won't allow Somalia and Mogadishu to become a haven for terrorists, and that's encouraging.'' 
 Mr. Ahmed and the Islamic Courts Union seized control of Mogadishu last week. The first letter to the international community was also conciliatory, saying that the Islamists wanted a ''friendly relationship.''
 But Ms. Frazer questioned why the Islamic militias were continuing to push north into other Somali towns. Reuters, quoting residents, reported yesterday that Islamist militias had moved on Baladweyne, near the Ethiopian border and about 190 miles north of Mogadishu.
 ''What is the purpose, what is the intent?'' Ms. Frazer asked. 
 Somalia has not had an effective central government since early 1991, when largely clan-based warlords overthrew its dictator, Mohamed Siad Barre, then turned on one another. Last week, American-backed warlords fighting against Islamists were run out of Mogadishu. Washington fears the Somali Islamists may be harboring operatives of Al Qaeda.
 The United States began informally reaching out to Somali clans in late 2002, shortly after an attack on a hotel in Mombasa, Kenya, and a failed attempt to shoot down a plane bound for Israel from Mombasa. Washington was seeking intelligence about people suspected of being Qaeda members, said a recent report by the International Crisis Group, a nonprofit research organization with extensive experience in Somalia.
 But while that approach brought a few successes, it may also be part of the reason for the Islamic resurgence in Somalia, which is far better known for clan loyalty than for adherence to strict Islamic codes.
 Yesterday's communique also called on the international community to increase relief assistance to Somalia. There are some 250,000 displaced people in Mogadishu, and Jan Egeland, the United Nations emergency relief coordinator, said he had told the diplomats, ''Somalia today is one of the worst human crises on earth.''
 ''It's a place where people do not go to school but become child soldiers and terrorists,'' Mr. Egeland said after the meeting. 
 Norway and the United States were joint leaders of the meeting. Norwegian diplomats initially proposed talks on Somalia in April, approaching the Pentagon, the State Department and the National Security Council. Last Friday, four days after the Islamists announced they had taken control of Mogadishu, American officials announced that they would convene a meeting. 
 Diplomats say the next step is to figure out how to channel money -- perhaps through the World Bank and other institutions -- to Somalia's interim government and, through relief agencies, to the Somali people. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (89%); TERRORISM (87%); AL-QAEDA (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); RELIGION (67%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUQDISHO, SOMALIA (96%) SOMALIA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); ETHIOPIA (79%); ITALY (79%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORWAY (79%); AFRICA (79%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2006



331 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 220 words

HEADLINE: So How Much Help Is Foreign Aid?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Nicholas D. Kristof points out that foreign aid, especially if focused on preventive health, can save lives, even if its ability to enhance overall growth is questioned by economists using cross-country regressions. 
But he concedes too much, for even at the so-called macro or total economy level, foreign aid can unambiguously be shown to have been effective if we look at some individual countries' performance over time, for example, Botswana, Chile, Costa Rica and Taiwan. 
 While such cases may admittedly be exceptions, they also provide evidence of what it takes for aid to be effective in overcoming the multitude of problems cited by William Easterly, even the ''natural resource curse'' emphasized by Arvind Subramanian of the International Monetary Fund.
 What it takes is a much greater passivity by donors than is usually brought to the table, a much greater willingness to act like bankers, let recipients define their own problems and reform programs, including setting their own credible and enforceable self-imposed conditions, before they approach and negotiate with the donor community.

Gustav Ranis
New Haven, June 13, 2006

The writer, an emeritus professor of international economics at Yale University, was an assistant administrator at the Agency for International Development, 1965-67.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TRENDS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Foreign Aid; Third World and Developing Countries

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); YALE UNIVERSITY (55%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (55%)

PERSON: Gustav Ranis; Nicholas D Kristof

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (51%) CONNECTICUT, USA (51%) BOTSWANA (79%); UNITED STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2006



332 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 150 words

HEADLINE: So How Much Help Is Foreign Aid?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Nicholas D. Kristof can carry his arguments about the effectiveness (or lack thereof) of United States foreign assistance an important step further by acknowledging the structural changes over the past 25 years in how nongovernmental organizations operate. 
Reimbursement by government and United Nations agencies has created a contracting -- not a charity -- mentality among relief agencies. This has dramatically changed their own values, the type of staff they employ, their commitment to the causes they champion and their effectiveness as long-term partners of the poor they serve.
 Yes, we save millions of lives in emergencies and could save many more with adequate and less restrictive financing, but many nonprofits are that in name only, and the god they serve is their own longevity.

Richard M. Walden
President and Chief Executive
Operation USA
Culver City, Calif., June 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (88%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (88%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TRENDS (71%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (70%); EXECUTIVES (65%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Foreign Aid; Third World and Developing Countries

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%) United Nations

PERSON: Richard M Walden; Nicholas D Kristof

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2006



333 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1202 words

HEADLINE: Long After Revolutionary War, House Is Still a Battle Scene

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

DATELINE: PHILIPSTOWN, N.Y. 

 BODY:
A fight is brewing here over a house where George Washington and the Marquis de Lafayette plotted their defense of the Hudson River.
 The house, named Mandeville House, was left in trust by Margaret Allan Gething, a character actress and an interior designer, with the intent that it become a museum. But more than three decades after Miss Gething's death, it remains largely out of reach to the public.
Instead, a lawyer from Texas, who was her friend and now heads the Texas foundation that owns the house, lives in it several weeks each year. Otherwise, it is locked up.
 ''Once in a great while, it is open to the public when he's here, but otherwise, the house is just sitting there,'' said Robert C. Bickford, a lawyer and former president of the Putnam County Historical Society. ''It has no business being under the control of a Texas foundation.'' 
 Mr. Bickford has filed two formal complaints with the New York State attorney general, whose office said it was reviewing them. Mr. Bickford said he would like to see Miss Gething's intentions honored and the house placed under local control.
 Mandeville House, which is listed on the National Register of Historic Places, was built in 1737. It was the headquarters of Gen. Israel Putnam during the Revolutionary War, and it was over his gate-legged dining room table that Washington and other luminaries of the period conferred.
 The white two-story wooden house is owned by the Perry-Gething Foundation, a Texas nonprofit created a decade after Miss Gething died in 1975 by a lawyer who was a friend and confidant, Robert M. Perry. 
 Most of the year, Mr. Perry lives on his ranch in Bandera, Tex. He spends a few weeks each spring and fall at Mandeville House, which is only open when he is in town.
 ''And even then, it is only open by invitation and only to groups,'' said David Gordon, whose late mother was a board member of the local historical society and ''sweet talked'' Mr. Perry into opening the house for the group from time to time.
 Even the name of the foundation galls local residents. ''I really admire his chutzpah -- he had nothing to do with its assets but he put his name first,'' Mr. Bickford said.
 Mr. Perry said he had named the foundation for his father, who was a good friend of Miss Gething and a well-known conservationist in Texas. 
 In an interview at Mandeville House, he said the house was open to anyone who asked to see it. ''All they have to do is call,'' Mr. Perry said. ''We've never turned anyone down.''
 Mandeville House was bought in 1922 by Col. Julian A. Benjamin, a grandson of Hamilton Fish, a former governor of New York. Colonel Benjamin wanted to restore it and enlisted Miss Gething, whom he met when stationed in El Paso at the turn of the century. He brought her to New York and moved her into the gatehouse at Mandeville House.
 ''One of my aunts told me she was really very good at restoration and had a good eye and a good sense of taste,'' said John B. Benjamin, a great-nephew of the colonel. ''She apparently took a serious interest in it and worked hard.''
 Janet H. Spalding, Colonel Benjamin's great-niece, said the family had always assumed that the two had more than a business relationship. ''All my aunts and uncles and my mother always referred to her in asides as his mistress,'' Mrs. Spalding said.
 Colonel Benjamin bequeathed Mandeville House to Miss Gething when he died in 1953. ''She did such a good job restoring it that he left it to her,'' Mr. Perry said.
 In 1972, she put the house into a charitable trust and directed that any money left when she died be used to maintain it and a historic house that she owned in San Antonio and to operate them as museums.
 In 2004, the foundation, which replaced the trust, had $4.6 million in cash and investments and spent $82,298 on repairs, security and other activities to maintain Mandeville House and its gatehouse, the San Antonio house and two others it owns in that city that are rented out. 
 Miss Gething, who was born in Bandera, spent part of each year in San Antonio, where she founded the first historic district in Texas. Visitors to San Antonio are charged $5 to tour her house, known as Miss Margaret's House, which is open 10 days a year and upon request.
 The foundation's tax form says about 3,000 people tour the houses each year, though its receipts from admissions fees suggest a lower number and Mr. Perry declined to provide specific information.
 Several nonprofit legal experts questioned various aspects of the foundation's administration of the houses. They said that as a trustee, Mr. Perry should not be using Mandeville House as a residence, that the foundation should probably be paying taxes on its rental income and that the houses might not be open enough to justify the foundation's tax exemption.
 ''What's their charitable purpose?'' Evelyn Brody, a professor at the Chicago-Kent College of Law, asked. ''In the past, museums have had to prove they are both charitable and educational, and it's hard to argue these houses are both charitable and educational if people rarely see them.''
 Mr. Perry, who spent part of his career as the Exxon Corporation's lead litigator, contends that the foundation operates entirely within the law. ''The I.R.S. does not require me to open the house,'' he said. ''All we're required to do is maintain it.''
 He said Mandeville had been open to various organizations and schools over the last 30 years and showed thank-you notes and photographs to prove his point.
 ''Sure, it's nice to open the house, but when it makes sense and is economically feasible,'' he said. ''Having a staff on hand to open it, that would be too expensive.''
 He said the foundation paid all required taxes. 
 But the only taxes the foundation reported paying in 2004 were $1,440 on its investment income, a standard requirement of foundations, and $20,399 in property taxes for Mandeville -- even though nonprofit organizations do not have to pay property taxes.
 ''We did not want to be a burden on the community here,'' Mr. Perry explained.
 The Internal Revenue Service by law cannot comment on specific organizations, but in response to general questions, Bruce Friedland, a spokesman, said the law governing the issues the critics had raised was nuanced. For instance, there are no hard and fast rules about how often a museum must be open to qualify for a tax exemption.
 Mr. Friedland said that while rules governing foundations generally barred managers and their families from using the sites, such use could be granted in recognition of services rendered, as long as the benefit was not excessive.
 ''Where else would I stay?'' Mr. Perry said, when asked about his family's use of Mandeville House. ''A hotel in the city?''
 He said he had imposed greater accountability for Mandeville House by creating a foundation. ''I had absolute discretion under the trust Margaret created and could do anything I wanted,'' he said. ''As a foundation, we have a plan for perpetuity, bylaws and a board, checks and balances.''
 The board consists of Mr. Perry and his two sisters.
 Asked how often his sisters vetoed his proposals, Mr. Perry laughed and said, ''You know how ladies are.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert M. Perry in Philipstown, N.Y., outside Mandeville House, where George Washington and a parade of historic figures sometimes gathered. (Photo by Susan Stava for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (89%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); LAWYERS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); INTERIOR DECORATING (72%); HISTORIC SITES (68%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (67%); GRANDCHILDREN (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2006



334 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1352 words

HEADLINE: Housing Tighter For New Yorkers Of Moderate Pay

BYLINE: By JANNY SCOTT

 BODY:
The number of New York City apartments considered affordable to hundreds of thousands of moderate-income households -- with incomes like those of starting firefighters and police officers -- plunged by 17 percent between 2002 and 2005, according to a new report by researchers at New York University. 
 The report, to be released today, for the first time puts hard numbers on a cost squeeze that has intensified with the real estate boom. The researchers found that the number of apartments affordable to households earning about $32,000 a year, or 80 percent of the median household income in the city, has dropped by 205,000 in just three years.
While precise comparisons for earlier periods are not available, this appears to represent the sharpest decline in the number of apartments within the reach of such households since the mid-1990's. 
 The report also found that while the median rent for unsubsidized apartments jumped to $900 from $750 -- a 20 percent increase in three years -- the median household income in the city shrank to $40,000 from $42,700. 
 Whether the rising housing costs are seen as a sign of the city's economic vitality or a harbinger of trouble depends on who is talking. Several economists said they were proof of the city's success: Lots of people still want to live in New York. But housing experts warned that high rents could force workers out of the city or into overcrowded conditions and multiple jobs.
 ''The market will work through this, but there are people who really lose,'' said Chris Mayer, director of the Paul Milstein Center for Real Estate at the Columbia Business School. ''Whether that's a city problem really depends on how much city government or residents feel this is an inevitable thing they can't fight, or whether they're going to try to do something about it.'' 
 City officials say the rapid rent increases may slow down in coming years as new construction adds more units to the market. 
 The study -- by researchers at the Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy and based in part on the city's Housing Vacancy Survey, done by the Census Bureau every three years -- found that the combination of stagnant incomes and rising rents had landed especially hard on households with incomes of $24,000 to $32,000.
 The current minimum salary for a city firefighter is $32,700. Police officers start at the equivalent of roughly a $25,000 salary while in the police academy and jump to about $32,000 in their first year. Experienced home health aides, nursing aides, child care workers, bartenders, coffee shop hostesses, tour guides -- who work in industries the city hopes will continue to grow -- make similar amounts.
 Two out of every five New York City households earn $32,000 or less.
 In calculating the decline of units, the study's researchers assumed that the rent that is truly affordable to a household is no more than a third of its income. While the city lost 205,000 out of about 1.2 million units affordable to households earning $32,000, the number affordable to households making $24,000, or 60 percent of the median, declined by nearly 92,000, or 15 percent.
 ''We couldn't believe the numbers,'' said Vicki Been, director of the Furman Center and an author of the report. ''It's pretty remarkable.'' 
 Ms. Been said it was not possible to compare the rent increases between 2002 and 2005 with increases in the previous three-year period because of differences in the samples used by the Census Bureau. Adjusted for inflation, the increase in median rent between 2002 and 2005 was 8 percent. She said the median rent for all units increased 1.8 percent between 1996 and 1999, adjusted for inflation; for unsubsidized units, the increase was 5.6 percent. 
 There are multiple reasons for the recent rise in rents, economists and others say. The population is growing, and housing construction is only beginning to catch up. Many new arrivals make more money than people already here. Much of the new housing has been for people with higher incomes, and most of it has been for sale, not for rent.
 Some housing experts say escalating rents pose a threat to the city's well-being. They say workers needed for crucial service jobs will move away, if they are not already doing so. Those who choose to stay will double and triple up in apartments, settle for illegal housing or scrimp on education and health care -- investments that might help them get ahead.
 ''So this disparity between income and rent is worrisome from a public policy perspective,'' said Elaine Toribio, a senior policy analyst for Citizens Housing and Planning Council, a policy research group. ''At the high end, you could reach a point where the Goldman Sachs employee says, 'I'm going to Hoboken.' And at the lower end, you force people to make unsound decisions.''
 But some economists say high housing costs go hand in hand with economic growth, not stagnation. Andrew F. Haughwout, a research officer at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, studied 25 metropolitan areas in various time periods including 1980 to 2005 and 1990 to 2005 and found the fastest growth in places where housing prices rose the most.
 ''You might expect in places where housing gets really expensive, it will have a negative impact on economic growth,'' he said in an interview. ''That's a kind of received wisdom: If a place gets too expensive, people move out and it shuts down. The logic doesn't hold together too well. Because why does a place get too expensive? It's typically because of high demand for that place.''
 In New York, the availability of more expensive apartments rose significantly between 2002 and 2005. The number of unsubsidized apartments, including rent-regulated apartments, renting for $1,000 and $1,200 a month rose by 58,000, or nearly 34 percent; the number renting for $1,200 to $1,400 rose by 57,500, or 52 percent; and apartments for $1,400 and above rose by 74,432, or 31 percent.
 City officials say they believe that the rapid escalation in rents may be slowing and that they will continue to do so over the next few years in part in response to the current housing construction boom. Last year, the city issued permits for the construction of nearly 32,000 new housing units, a 34-year high; the number of permits issued in the first quarter of 2006 was up 27 percent over the same period last year.
 Even if most of those new units are for relatively well-off people, city officials say, some existing housing will in turn become available as lower-priced apartments. At the same time, they say, the Bloomberg administration has continued to pursue its goal of creating or preserving 165,000 units of housing affordable to low- and moderate-income people.
 ''Clearly, one solution to the problem is increasing the housing supply over all,'' said Shaun Donovan, commissioner of the Department of Housing Preservation and Development. ''Through rezonings, revising the building code, a range of initiatives, we're focused on trying to make sure that the current level of housing starts continues. On the other side, though, we do also clearly want to increase the number of subsidized units through the mayor's housing plan.''
 The Furman Center's report, called State of New York City's Housing and Neighborhoods 2005, ranked the five boroughs and 59 community districts in terms of 30 indicators like median monthly rent, income diversity and overcrowding. Rents were highest in the district that incorporates Greenwich Village and the financial district and lowest in Mott Haven, Hunts Point and central Harlem.
 The study found that the rental vacancy rate rose slightly in the city as a whole but declined in much of the Bronx. The percentage of household income spent on rent was lowest on the Upper West Side and highest in Highbridge in the Bronx.
 ''We're an economy that has a great addiction to low-wage labor,'' said John H. Mollenkopf, director of the Center for Urban Research at the City University Graduate Center. ''To the extent that we want low-wage labor, we have to make housing available for low-wage people to live in.''


GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: ''A Shift in the Market''Between 2002 and 2005, New York City lost 205,000, or 17 percent, of the rental housing units considered affordable to moderate-income people, like starting firefighters and police officers, who earn about $32,000 a year.Where the losses werePercent change in affordable rental units for those earning 80 percent of the city's median incomeBROOKLYN: (20%)MANHATTAN: (-12%)BRONX: (-15%)QUEENS: (-21%)STATEN ISLAND: (-21%)(Source by New York University's Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy)(pg. B7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); CENSUS (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2006



335 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: Seeds for a Geo-Green Party

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
The recent focus of the Republican-led Congress on divisive diversions, like gay marriage and flag burning, coupled with the unveiling of Unity '08, an Internet-based third party that plans to select its presidential candidate through online voting, has intensified the chatter that a third party, and maybe even a fourth, will emerge in the 2008 election.
 Up to now, though, most of that talk has been about how a third party might galvanize voters, using the Web, rather than what it would actually galvanize them to do. I'd like to toss out an idea in the hopes that some enterprising politician or group of citizens -- or Unity '08 -- will develop it. It's the concept I call ''Geo-Green.'' 
What might a Geo-Green third party platform look like?
 Its centerpiece would be a $1 a gallon gasoline tax, called ''The Patriot Tax,'' which would be phased in over a year. People earning less than $50,000 a year, and those with unusual driving needs, would get a reduction on their payroll taxes as an offset. 
 The billions of dollars raised by the Patriot Tax would go first to shore up Social Security, second to subsidize clean mass transit in and between every major American city, third to reduce the deficit, and fourth to massively increase energy research by the National Science Foundation and the Energy and Defense Departments' research arms. 
 Most important, though, the Patriot Tax would increase the price of gasoline to a level that would ensure that many of the most promising alternatives -- ethanol, biodiesel, coal gasification, solar energy, nuclear energy and wind -- would all be economically competitive with oil and thereby reduce both our dependence on crude and our emissions of greenhouse gases.
 In short: the Geo-Green party could claim that it has a plan for shoring up America's energy security, environmental security, economic security and Social Security with one move.
 It could also claim that -- however the Iraq war ends -- the Geo-Green party has a strategy for advancing political and economic reform in the Arab-Muslim world, without another war. By stimulating all these alternatives to oil, we would gradually bring down the price, possibly as low as $25 to $30 a barrel. That, better than anything else, would force regimes like those in Iran, Sudan, Egypt, Angola, Venezuela and Saudi Arabia to open up. Countries don't reform when you tell them they should. They reform when they tell themselves they must -- and only when the price of oil goes down will they tell themselves they must.
 Moreover, by making America the leader in promoting clean power, the Geo-Greens would be offering a credible plan for recouping a lot of America's lost prestige in the world -- prestige it lost when the Bush team trashed Kyoto. This would put America in a much better position to galvanize allies to combat jihadism.
 Last, Geo-Greenism could be the foundation of a new American patriotism and educational renaissance. Under the banner ''Green is the New Red, White and Blue,'' the Geo-Green party would seek to inspire young Americans to study math, science and engineering to help make America not only energy independent but also the dominant player in what will be the dominant industry of the 21st century: clean power and green technology. 
 Frankly, I wish we did not need a third party. I wish the Democrats would adopt a Geo-Green agenda as their own. (Republicans never would.) But if not, I hope it will become the soul of a third party.
 ''Historically, third parties arise in America when they seize a neglected issue and demonstrate that there is a real constituency for it,'' said Micah Sifry, author of ''Spoiling for a Fight: Third-Party Politics in America.'' ''They win by forcing that issue into the mainstream -- even if the party itself is later forgotten. Conditions certainly seem ripe for such a third-party bid today.'' 
 But rather than artificially splitting the difference between the Democrats and the Republicans, Mr. Sifry added, ''a successful third party has to get in front of both -- with an agenda that inspires hope and with leadership that inspires trust. Fear of a dark future isn't the best motivator; hope for a better one is.''
 That's Geo-Greenism. To be sure, Geo-Greenism is not a complete philosophy on par with liberalism or conservatism. But it can be paired with either of them to make them more relevant to the biggest challenges of our time. Even if Geo-Greenism couldn't attract enough voters to win an election, it might attract a big enough following to frighten both Democrats and Republicans into finally doing the right things. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); POLITICS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (88%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); IRAQ WAR (76%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (73%); BIOFUELS (73%); EMISSIONS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); MARRIAGE (73%); GASOLINE (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); FUEL TAX (73%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (69%); ENERGY RESEARCH (69%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (69%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (69%); COAL GASIFICATION (68%); DIESEL FUEL (68%); ETHANOL (68%); CLIMATE CHANGE (67%); ECONOMIC POLICY (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); PRICE CHANGES (66%); CITY LIFE (65%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (64%); SOLAR ENERGY (64%); GREENHOUSE GASES (62%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (60%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); EGYPT (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2006



336 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: Shanghai Club, Once Obscure, Now Attracts Wide Interest 

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH

DATELINE: SHANGHAI, June 15 

 BODY:
Five years after its founding as an obscure regional organization with a nondescript name, the Shanghai Cooperation Organization opened its annual gathering here on Thursday in an unaccustomed flush of interest from nations eager to join.
 The growing attention paid to the six-member organization, which groups China, Russia and four of their central Asian neighbors, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan and Kazakhstan, reflects the expanding power and assertiveness of its two largest members.
 The group's fortunes have also risen with booming global energy markets, because it unites one of the world's largest and fastest growing energy consumers, China, with several of the largest producers. The politics of the global energy market have proved a powerful draw to many outsiders as well, from Iran to India and Pakistan, which are attending the meeting as observers. 
 With intensifying competition over supplies and rivalries over planned pipelines to major markets in the West and the Far East, the United States, Europe, Russia and China are all stepping up their diplomatic courtship of big producers in Central Asia. As a result, analysts say, the Shanghai Cooperation Organization is emerging as a focal point in a region of complex diplomatic and military relations. 
 For many in the area, particularly the smaller nations, the competition among the major powers for influence and energy supplies presents an attractive opportunity to wrest more generous benefits, whether in aid, security guarantees or energy investments, than they could have dreamed of in previous years.
 The attendance of Iran, which is in a diplomatic confrontation with the United States over suspicions that it is developing nuclear weapons, highlights a predicament for the organization. 
 The group was founded as a counterweight to United States influence in Central Asia, which is an essential, if undeclared, objective of Beijing and Moscow. But China in particular seems loath to challenge Washington directly when China is building its economy and, as a consequence, its national power, in great part through exports to the United States. 
 Chinese officials stated as much several days before the meeting, when the organization's secretary general, Zhang Deguang, a Chinese diplomat, declared that the body had no military ambitions to become an Eastern version of NATO.
 With Iran pressing for membership, Chinese officials and those from other nations have also made clear that they are not ready to consider expanding the organization. But, a ''contact group'' has been formed to explore observer status for Afghanistan, whose president, Hamid Karzai, was expected to attend the meeting as a special guest.
 In an address to the meeting on Thursday, Iran's president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, was uncharacteristically temperate, perhaps in deference to his hosts. He offered energy cooperation and avoided any mention of the nuclear standoff, though he did say Iran would like to see the group develop the strength ''to block threats and unlawful, strong-arm interference from various countries,'' a not-so-subtle reference to the United States. 
 In addition to its oil, Iran has what are believed to be among the world's largest deposits of natural gas, but they remain mostly untapped for lack of investment. China and India are interested in helping to develop the reserves, though overland transport remains a problem, because any pipeline would have to pass through hostile territory. 
 The chief beneficiary of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization's rising status is China, which has an opportunity to act as an intermediary for the West, particularly with Iran. 
 ''This is a time of challenge and opportunity for China,'' said Shen Dingli, a foreign relations specialist at Fudan University in Shanghai. ''The challenge is that you may not feel happy. The opportunity is that China has good reason to handle its own diplomacy, to advance its bilateral relations and to shape Iran-China ties in a more mature direction. You encourage them to be more responsible, and if China can do this and produce a good outcome, this will advance China's image as a responsible stakeholder.''
 Mr. Shen said he expected the meeting to take up issues that hark back to the organization's origins, like the development of new energy projects and antiterrorism measures, including identifying specific groups as targets.
 Yet, for all the interest the group is attracting, its list of accomplishments is short, some observers say. 
 ''This is a very small group, whose operating budget is less than $30 million, and whose staff numbers just a few dozen people,'' said Alexandre Y. Mansourov, who specializes in Asian affairs at the Asia-Pacific Center for Security Studies in Honolulu. ''There is a lot of spin surrounding it, but it's still in its infancy, and its importance really pales compared to what's happening in bilateral terms between China and Russia, the two big players.'' 
 In addition to Iran, which seeks to join the group, Pakistan, a longstanding ally of the United States whose ties with China are strengthening, reportedly has sought to join, proposing the construction of an ''energy corridor'' across its territory that would connect East Asia and the Middle East.
 But the group's expansion is complicated by its statutes, which require unanimous agreement for such changes, and by the difficulties inherent in getting more members to agree on a common agenda.
 ''If the organization expands in the future, it is more likely to consider geographical factors first,'' said Zhao Huasheng, director of the Center for Russian and Central Asian Studies at Fudan University. ''Neighboring countries, like Mongolia, are more likely to join. Distant countries are less likely, because their concerns are different, and cooperation with them would be more complicated.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia yesterday before the Shanghai Cooperation Organization's meeting. (Pool photograph by Dmitry Astakhov)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (71%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (66%); MILITARY WEAPONS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: SHANGHAI COOPERATION ORGANIZATION (93%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (56%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (53%); HAMAD KARZAI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (94%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%) EAST CHINA (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); CENTRAL ASIA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (94%); KYRGYZSTAN (92%); TAJIKISTAN (92%); KAZAKHSTAN (92%); UZBEKISTAN (92%); INDIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2006



337 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Classified; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 102 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
NOONAN, JOHN F.

 BODY:
 NOONAN--John F. Passed May 17, 2006. Educated at St. Mary's High School, Manhasset, NY, Fordham University, and Duke University Graduate School. He worked for firms from First Boston to the World Bank. His last position was as a consultant for USAID in Cairo, Egypt for the Ministry of Finance for Egypt. John's charming wit and powerful intellect will be missed. Son of John and Jayne (nee Thompkins). Father of Kathryn Glaser, Heather, and Michael. Grandfather of two. Brother of Thomas Noonan and Jayne Donahue. Memorial service: St. Peters Church, Port Washington, New York, Friday, June 16, 2006, 7:30 PM. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (87%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (85%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (85%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (85%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: FORDHAM UNIVERSITY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (69%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) EGYPT (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2006



338 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:

CHANGE AT MICROSOFT Three decades after he started Microsoft with the dream of placing a personal computer in every home and business, Bill Gates announced that he would leave his day-to-day role there in two years. He will shift his energies to running the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. Mr. Gates said the transition would begin immediately, with his role as chief software architect taken over by Ray Ozzie, above, one of three chief technical officers. [Page A1.] 


STOCKS RISE Share prices turned up sharply in a broad rally that was fed by tame inflation remarks from Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke and that signaled a return of volatility to the market. [C1.]

AIRLINES TO RAISE FARES Most of the nation's large airlines, emboldened by falling operational costs and soaring demand, said they would raise prices for many last-minute ticket purchases. [C1.]

IN EUROPE, CHIEFS' PAY SOARS Along with hip-hop and Hollywood movies, Europeans are eagerly importing another American phenomenon: soaring pay packages for chief executives. [A1.]

TOUGH TRADE ASSIGNMENT Not many new cabinet members take office with a deadline of six weeks or so to succeed or fail. But that was what Susan C. Schwab faced as she was sworn in as the United States trade representative. [C1.]

PHONE COMPANIES SUBPOENAED The New Jersey attorney general has issued subpoenas to five telephone companies to decide whether they violated the state's consumer protection laws by providing records to the National Security Agency. [B1.]

TWO LABOR MOVEMENTS The nation's private sector is divided into two very different labor movements. The first consists of manufacturing unions, which are on the defensive and on the decline. The second is made up of unions for the expanding service sector, which are upbeat and on the prowl for hundreds of thousands of new members. [C1.]

BATTLE FOR PORT COMPANY A heated battle to buy Associated British Ports, which controls 21 ports in Britain, is pitting Goldman Sachs against Macquarie Bank of Australia. [C7.]

OIL WEALTH AND CHOLERA As Angola experiences an oil boom that is giving it more money than it can spend, the government appears powerless to contain a cholera epidemic. [A1.]

EMI SETTLES RADIO PLAY CASE The EMI Group, the music giant, agreed to pay $3.75 million to resolve accusations of paying radio programmers to play specific songs, becoming the last of four major companies to reach a settlement as part of an investigation by the New York attorney general. [C3.]

BEAR STEARNS PROFIT SOARS Second-quarter profit at Bear Stearns rose 81 percent, beating estimates, as strong trading results lifted its fixed-income business. Its shares rose nearly 6 percent. [C5.]

OLD ADVERTISING MEETS NEW JWT, the oldest ad agency in the country, has purchased all the ad space on The Huffington Post home page for one week, starting tomorrow. [C5.]

ENERGY GROUP DRAWS INTEREST More nations are eager to join the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, which groups China, Russia and four of their central Asian neighbors. The interest reflects the expanding power and assertiveness of its two largest members and their influence in the energy industry. [A12.]

SUPPORT FOR TRIBUNE CHIEF Independent directors of the Tribune Company threw their support behind the company's embattled chief executive, criticizing a call by the company's second-largest shareholder to break up Tribune. A letter from the directors was delivered the day after trusts controlled by the Chandler family criticized a plan to buy back stock and sell some assets. [C3.]

DEMOLITION DETRACTORS In a backlash against the trend of wealthy buyers' tearing down houses and replacing them with outsize second homes, communities are enacting stricter guidelines for home renovations and demolitions. [F1.]

30,000 G.M. BUYOUTS EXPECTED It appears that at least 30,000 union members at General Motors will opt for incentives to leave or retire. [C3.]

ONLINE

THE NEXT BEST THING DVD sales are expected to grow just 2 percent this year, a far cry from the double-digit growth the movie industry enjoyed just two years ago. A report is at nytimes.com/yourmoney.

DEBT, THE AMERICAN WAY Americans moralize about debt, then they borrow. A report can be found at nytimes.com/magazine.

AUDIO: ONE IMMIGRANT'S STORY As illegal immigrants have increased in numbers, so have the ranks of those who want to swindle them. A report is at nytimes.com/yourmoney.

Business Briefing

Articles on these developments are at nytimes.com/business.

THE ONLY EXECUTIVE of the HealthSouth Corporation convicted by jurors in a $2.7 billion accounting fraud was sentenced to eight years in federal prison. Lawyers for Hannibal Crumpler, a former vice president and division controller, said they might appeal because of the harshness of the penalty. (AP)

THE USG CORPORATION, a maker of gypsum wallboard, received court approval for a plan to emerge from bankruptcy by paying as much as $3.95 billion to resolve asbestos liability claims. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

THE H. J. HEINZ COMPANY said it was planning a vigorous campaign against attempts by the billionaire investor Nelson Peltz to get the company to raise its profit. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks the daily closing price of Tribune shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SUBPOENAS (86%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); PRICE INCREASES (75%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); AIRLINES (74%); FOUNDATIONS (72%); IMPORT TRADE (72%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (70%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); RECORD REVENUES (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (69%); RAP MUSIC (67%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (67%); HIP HOP CULTURE (67%); TROPICAL DISEASES (66%); CONSUMER LAW (65%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (65%); COMPANY PROFITS (64%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (64%); EPIDEMICS (61%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%); FILM (53%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%); EMI GROUP LTD (82%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); MACQUARIE BANK LTD (52%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (51%); JWT (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BILL & MELINDA GATES FOUNDATION (58%); NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (54%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); GS (NYSE) (57%); MBL (ASX) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (82%); SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (82%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (52%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (50%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (50%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (88%); BEN BERNANKE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2006



339 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Soar As Fed Chief Eases Fears On Inflation

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
Share prices turned up sharply yesterday in a broad rally that was fed by tame inflation remarks from the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, even as it added to concerns about increasing volatility in the market. 
 Stocks gained for a second day after five tumultuous weeks in which they gave back all of their gains for the year.
Mr. Bernanke, whose recent statements about inflation have unsettled markets, helped the rally when he told business executives that high oil prices had not yet driven up inflation expectations or the cost of goods and services in a substantial way, though they were threatening to do so in coming months. 
 ''As yet, these expectations measures have remained within the ranges in which they have fluctuated in recent years and inflation compensation implied by yields on government debt has fallen back somewhat in the past month,'' Mr. Bernanke said at the Economic Club of Chicago. ''Nevertheless, these developments bear watching.''
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 2.1 percent and the Nasdaq composite jumped almost 2.8 percent, their second day in the black after almost 10 days of declines. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 1.8 percent. Elsewhere in the world, shares in London rose more than 2 percent, while in Tokyo, the Nikkei stock index jumped nearly 3 percent in midday trading today, its strongest showing since late February.
 Stocks staged an even bigger comeback in emerging markets, which had been hammered on concerns that they were beginning to resemble the American technology bubble of the late 1990's and 2000. The Sensex index of India, which had fallen more than 27 percent in the five weeks that ended Tuesday, rose almost 7 percent yesterday.
 Cautioning that the rally could prove to be a brief interlude in a more sustained slide, analysts said the upswing appeared to reflect the fundamental strength of the American and world economies. Inflation remains low by historical standards and economic growth, while slowing, is not expected to stall.
 ''To me this is a lack of sell orders combined with a little bit of a sigh of relief that maybe this isn't a hard landing'' for the economy, said Chris M. Hyzy, an investment strategist at U.S. Trust, an investment firm in New York.
 A report showing that American industrial activity pulled back slightly in May also signaled to investors that a slowdown in economic activity would help rein in inflation, which could allow the Federal Reserve to stop raising interest rates later this summer. Investors are expecting the Fed to raise short-term rates by a quarter-point, to 5.25 percent, at its meeting June 29, and possibly again on Aug. 8.
 In the stock market, volatility, or the rate at which issues move up and down, has increased noticeably in recent weeks, though it remains low by historical standards. The Chicago Board of Options Exchange Volatility Index, which gauges future volatility of the S.& P. 500 based on the prices of options, recently broke out of a low and narrow range but remains at levels that are about half those in 2002, the year in which the market hit its lowest point of the decade.
 High volatility is typically associated with greater pessimism among individual investors because of the uncertainty it creates. Stock trading may be quite turbulent today because stock index futures, stock index options, stock options and single stock futures all expire at the end of trading in what is known as the witching hour, which occurs on the third Fridays of March, June, September and December.
 For savvy investors, volatility may present opportunities to buy stocks they have been watching for a bargain. This may be ''an attractive entry point,'' said Elizabeth Weymouth, a global investment specialist at J. P. Morgan Private Bank, but added, ''We expect to see more competitive entry points.''
 One company that might have fit that profile yesterday was Caterpillar, the industrial giant that has led the Dow industrials in the last five years. Shares of the company rose 5 percent yesterday after having fallen by 18.3 percent in the last five weeks.
 Stocks may also be rising for some technical reasons.
 Investors who believe that the price of a stock will fall often sell shares they do not own in a practice known as short selling. If prices fall they can buy the shares they earlier sold at a lower price to complete their bet. Those latter purchases can briefly bolster the price of those stocks.
 It is hard to determine exactly how much short selling is contributing to the current market movements, but analysts say it appears to have played some part in bolstering the price of metals and other commodities, which staged a small rebound in the last two days. The price of gold rose $17.30, to $577.05 an ounce, yesterday, after falling 12.6 percent in the previous seven days.
 ''Short positions have been closed out significantly in commodities,'' Mr. Hyzy said.
 The Standard & Poor's 500 rose 26.12 points, to 1,256.16, and is now up 0.6 percent for the year; the Nasdaq climbed 58.15 points, to 2,144.15, though it is still down about 2.8 percent for the year; and the Dow Jones industrial average climbed 198.27 points, to 11,015.19, up about 2.8 percent for the year.
 The yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose to 5.09 percent, from 5.06 percent late Wednesday and the price, which moves in the opposite direction of the yield, which fell 9/32, to 100 7/32.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C7)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C7)Graph: ''Tax-Exempt Yields'' shows average yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, plotted weekly since March. (Source by The Bond Buyer)(pg. C7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (88%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); INTEREST RATES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (71%); TOKYO, JAPAN (69%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (69%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2006



340 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1217 words

HEADLINE: A New Trade Envoy, With a Battle on Her Hands 

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 15 

 BODY:
Not many new Cabinet members take office with a deadline of six weeks or so to succeed or fail in their jobs. But that was what Susan C. Schwab faced Thursday when she was sworn in as the new United States trade representative. 
 President Bush praised his new envoy on Thursday as ''a good, hard negotiator.'' Still, she faces long odds as trade diplomats struggle to salvage a global accord that the Bush administration hopes will be one of its signal economic achievements.
But if trade officials are unable to resolve their fundamental differences by the time of a critical meeting in late July, the failure to achieve a deal could prove a huge disappointment for the White House.
 The tight time limit derives from the Congressional authority for the United States to negotiate a trade-expanding agreement under the so-called Doha round, named after the city in Qatar where talks began, and then get an up-or-down legislative vote. The authority expires in mid-2007, and it is doubtful that Congress can approve any deal unless the basic framework is established by mid-2006. 
 ''We are at a critical juncture in a once-in-generation multilateral negotiation,'' Ms. Schwab said in an interview. ''We're getting to the point in the Doha negotiations where some very tough decisions have to be made.''
 Ms. Schwab is certainly prepared to step into the role. She was a deputy trade representative under Rob Portman, the former Ohio representative who was named director of the Office of Management and Budget in April. At the age of 51, she has been involved in trade issues in government, business and the academic community all of her career, but is not a well-known figure outside that world.
 But some critics say the appointment of Ms. Schwab -- succeeding a recognized power hitter with close ties on Capitol Hill -- was a sign that the Bush administration was scaling back its hopes for a successful Doha negotiation.
 ''In my judgment, she's first class,'' said Bill Frenzel, a former Republican congressman from Minnesota and now a guest scholar at the Brookings Institution. ''But she succeeds a very popular and active trade representative whisked out of his job. I think everyone agrees that the chances of a successful Doha round seem quite limited.''
 Ms. Schwab, not surprisingly, says she sees it differently and appears undaunted by the suggestions that she is not up to the job. 
 ''The only way you can respond to those questions is by exceeding expectations,'' she said. ''The joy comes in proving the critics wrong.''
 Moreover, she points out, when the time comes to lobby Congress on trade, she will have the help of Mr. Portman and Joshua B. Bolten, the White House chief of staff, who also has a trade background. 
 Another heavy hitter, Robert B. Zoellick, the former trade representative who is now deputy secretary of state, is also prepared to step up to bat.
 To be sure, the Bush administration has not invested all its trade policy in a successful Doha round, which involves trying to get a multilateral agreement among 147 countries. Its trade record also rests on more than a dozen bilateral agreements so far, and more in the offing, with countries in Latin America, the Caribbean and the Middle East.
 In addition, the administration has tried to win over Congressional critics of freer trade by using the World Trade Organization and other legal avenues to press countries to drop what Washington has charged are illegal or unfair practices keeping out American goods and services.
 It has achieved some gains on that front. Ms. Schwab's nomination for the trade representative job was held up in the Senate until she satisfied Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, that the United States would be tougher toward China. ''She has convinced me that she will be a very strong voice on opening markets,'' Mr. Schumer said when she was confirmed. From the American point of view, the main roadblock to progress in the Doha trade talks is not the so-called emerging markets like China, India or Brazil, whose barriers are a problem in Congress, but a few wealthy European countries opposed to lowering their barriers on farm imports.
 European barriers are a particular anathema to American farmers, and their reservations about any trade deal would doom it on Capitol Hill. Yet there is no sign of bridging the impasse between the Europeans and the United States on the agriculture issue.
 Ms. Schwab said that without a deal on agriculture, the progress that has been made on opening doors to American services, particularly financial, would go for naught, as would what little progress had been achieved in manufactured goods.
 If the United States has a strategy to change European thinking, she said, it is to enlist India, Brazil, China and other fast-developing countries to pressure the Europeans. In addition, she has been meeting with European business associations that would gain from a trade deal.
 Finally, Ms. Schwab said, Mr. Bush has lobbied Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain and Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany to press President Jacques Chirac of France to ease his opposition to lower farm barriers.
 But Peter Mandelson, the chief European Union trade negotiator and a friend of Mr. Blair, has charged that it is the United States that is intransigent. 
 Rebutting the American argument that the poor and developing countries of the world will side with the United States, European negotiators say that the cuts sought by Washington in European farm products would actually hurt the poorest countries of Asia, Africa and the Caribbean by wiping out the advantages of their trade preferences in Europe.
 Mr. Mandelson has called the American demands ''unrealistic'' and insists that at the next round of talks in Geneva at the end of this month, they must be scaled back if the Doha round is to succeed.
 ''We all have our work cut out for us, including Sue,'' Mr. Mandelson said through a spokesman on Thursday. ''None of our domestic constituencies give us an easy ride. And it really is a question of doing the heavy lifting together.''
 Ms. Schwab is the kind of person, in any case, who finds all these political difficulties ''fun.'' 
 Growing up in poor countries in Africa and Asia as the daughter of parents in the foreign service, Ms. Schwab said she realized early on that trade was far more potent than foreign aid in combating poverty and opening up opportunity, a conviction that deepened in graduate school. In that, she says, she has found a kindred spirit in Mr. Bush.
 Ms. Schwab has worked at the Commerce Department, the United States embassy in Japan, on Capitol Hill as a Senate aide and at Motorola, an export powerhouse. She wrote a book about the trade battles of the 1980's and served as dean of the University of Maryland School of Public Policy before joining the Bush administration.
 But now that she is in charge of trade policy, Ms. Schwab argues that she can prove the skeptics wrong about a possible breakthrough.
 ''How can you not be excited and thrilled by this opportunity?'' Ms. Schwab said. ''If you have watched development of U.S. trade policy and global negotiations over the years, you'd be hard pressed to find a more exciting time than the present to be stepping in to this kind of role.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Joshua B. Bolten swore in Susan C. Schwab as trade representative. (Photo by Shawn Thew/European Pressphoto Agency)(pg. C1)
 President Bush called Susan C. Schwab a ''good, hard negotiator.'' (Photo by Shawn Thew/European Pressphoto Agency)(pg. C8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (76%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); LOBBYING (72%); BUDGETS (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); ROB PORTMAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); QATAR (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2006



341 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 3; Sports Desk; Sports of The Times; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: Blue-Collar Caddies Now White Collar

BYLINE: By SELENA ROBERTS. 
E-mail: selenasports@nytimes.com

DATELINE: MAMARONECK, N.Y. 

 BODY:
THE giddy gallery stood as tight as broom straws against the ropes, captivated by the reappearance of Tiger Woods on the first tee, moved to shout, ''We've missed you Tiger'' and ''We love you Tiger'' as offers of sympathy.
 They rushed to his tee time to be moved, to be rope-side for a mythic round by a perfectionist icon mourning the loss of his father. But then Monet struggled just to fingerpaint as he tried to hack his way out of high rough resembling Don King's hair. 
 Suddenly, the happy welcoming committee at Winged Foot turned into unblinking gawkers, unable to leave Tiger's side, not out of loyalty as much as riveting disbelief. Was that Tiger doubled over in frustration after leaving putts a train stop short of the cup? Was that Tiger bending an approach shot from the rough on No. 9 that traveled a route best viewed on Google Earth: around a row of leafy trees, with a fly-by of a white hospitality tent as it arched toward the greenside grandstand?
 Were those television executives sweating ratings points while dreading a TiVo crowd for an audience if Tiger doesn't make the cut at the United States Open?
 Every flubbed flopshot became an entrancing spectacle. The leader, Colin Montgomerie, was an afterthought, and even Phil Mickelson was a benign blip in the consciousness of the crowd.
 It was all about Tiger, all day and into the shadows of late afternoon. It has been this way for a decade, since Woods arrived as golf's Elvis and the PGA Tour's money maker.
 So it wasn't far-fetched when Earl Woods once told Sports Illustrated that his son would do more ''than any other man in history to change the course of humanity.''
 Sometimes courses are tricky, though. While he has touched hundreds of children through his foundation, there has been an unforeseen paradox to Tiger's social reach, an odd twist to the wealth he has bestowed upon the PGA Tour: He has been the innocent accomplice to a reversal of diversity.
 Nearly a dozen black American players were on the PGA Tour 20 years ago. Now, there is only Tiger. There are many reasons behind this -- like the economics of access to country clubs -- but one is not so easy to comprehend: the demise of the black caddie.
 ''What strikes me is that when black players were allowed on the PGA in 1961, ending the Caucasians-only clause, there was an influx of players: Charlie Sifford, Lee Elder and Calvin Peete and so on -- and they won 20 tournaments,'' said Orin Starn, a cultural anthropologist at Duke University who is working on a book about golf and American society. ''All of these guys got their starts in the caddie shacks. That was their way in. And if you go back farther, caddying was a way for the poor, working class and sometimes immigrant kids to climb their way into the blue-blooded world of golf, as with Walter Hagen and Gene Sarazen.''
 Somewhere along the way to riches in the Woods era, the blue-collar job of caddying went white collar, the lunch pail went executive dining room. ''It's a new era,'' said Otis Moore, the caddie for Olin Browne. ''A lot of players are letting brother-in-laws and cousins caddy for them. It's tough right now. You're an independent contractor.''
 Moore is one of the few black caddies left on the PGA Tour. He started his career at Augusta National Golf Club, which began allowing players to take their own caddies to the Masters in 1983. 
 This was supposed to be a sign of progress -- an end to the black caddie in the white Augusta National jumper, a stop to Jim Crow memories and an end to subservient imagery -- but the move turned out to be unemployment for many minority-group members just as caddying became lucrative.
 ''The paradox is the end to caddying correlates to fewer black golf pros,'' Starn said. 
 The entire perception of caddying has been altered by golf's economics in recent 
 years. The caddy isn't just the man on the bag, but a player's counselor, best friend, best man and, as Starn added, he has turned into ''a mini celebrity.''
 Well, not so mini. A show of hands at Winged Foot yesterday would have revealed more fans knew Bones (Mickelson's caddie) and Steve Williams (Tiger's caddie) than David Howell, the leader for most of the day.
 The answer to golf's shrinking diversity is a conundrum. A caddie initiative would be difficult to undertake given how another element of progress -- the golf cart, some with global positioning devices to chart yardage -- has pushed caddying toward irrelevance at many local clubs. And players should be free to hire whomever they want. 
 There is the United States Golf Association's First Tee program to create interest in urban areas. You've probably seen the commercials full of multicultural children all but pulling off cartwheels across America's driving ranges. 
 ''The jury is still out on First Tee,'' Starn said. ''I think golf needs to look at its racial fault lines -- and this is not about racism or prejudice -- but about examining the politics and economics of race.''
 Tiger has been very good to the economics of golf. His life as an icon -- given that even his misses dominate the gallery discussions and television highlights -- has been a boon for everything except golf's diversity. This is not his fault, but it is the true paradox of his power.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Otis Moore is the caddie for Olin Browne. (Photo by Suzy Allman)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (89%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (89%); TOURNAMENTS (76%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (73%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (71%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (70%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (69%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (62%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (52%) Golf; Sports of the Times (Times Column); Blacks

PERSON: TIGER WOODS (92%); PHIL MICKELSON (58%) Selena Roberts

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2006



342 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Op-Art; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 268 words

HEADLINE: The State of Iraq: An Update

BYLINE: By NINA KAMP, MICHAEL O'HANLON AND AMY UNIKEWICZ. 
Nina Kamp and Michael O'Hanlon are, respectively, a senior research assistant and a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution in Washington. Amy Unikewicz is a graphic designer in South Norwalk, Conn.

 BODY:
AFTER his surprise trip to Baghdad this week, President Bush struck a hopeful tone. ''I do think we'll be able to measure progress,'' he declared at a news conference on Wednesday. ''You can measure progress in capacity of Iraqi units in megawatts of electricity delivered in oil sold on the market . There's ways to determine whether or not this government's plans are succeeding.'' 
 We agree. Unfortunately, according to our latest tally of metrics (compiled from a variety of government and news media sources), Iraq has a long way to go. To be successful, the new Iraqi government will have to do things that its predecessors and the United States have generally failed to accomplish.
Violence on the whole is as bad as ever. Sectarian strife is worse than ever. The economy has slowly come back to prewar levels for the most part, but is now treading water. As a result, optimism has waned. According to an International Republican Institute poll conducted in late March, more than 75 percent of Iraqis consider the security environment to be poor and the economy poor or mediocre.
 Those looking for signs of promise in Iraq can still find footholds beyond the killing of the terrorist leader Abu Musab al-Zarqawi. The security forces, particularly the Iraqi Army, continue to improve in technical proficiency -- even if their interethnic cohesiveness remains suspect. Reductions in consumer subsidies have strengthened the financial standing of the government, and high oil prices compensate for Iraq's anemic production levels. But overall, it is increasingly hard to describe Iraq as a glass half-full.


GRAPHIC: Photo/ChartChart shows Iraqi state of progress statistics from May 2003 through May 2006.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed; Caption

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); TERRORISM (69%); ARMIES (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL REPUBLICAN INSTITUTE (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%) IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2006



343 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: Gates to Cede Software Reins In Era Change 

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF and STEVE LOHR; John Markoff reported from Redmond, Wash., for this article and Steve Lohr from New York.

DATELINE: REDMOND, Wash., June 15 

 BODY:
Three decades after he started Microsoft with the dream of placing a personal computer in every home and business, Bill Gates said Thursday that he would leave his day-to-day role there in two years. 
 He will shift his energies to the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, which his Microsoft fortune has made the world's largest philanthropic organization, dedicated to health and education issues, especially in poor nations.
At a news conference after the close of the stock market, Mr. Gates, 50, said he was not leaving Microsoft altogether. He said he planned to remain as chairman and maintain his large holding in the company.
 ''I always see myself as being the largest shareholder in Microsoft,'' Mr. Gates said. 
 But the move, analysts said, points to the changes sweeping the software industry. Probably more than any other person, Mr. Gates has been identified with personal computer software, while the center of gravity in computing is increasingly shifting to the Internet.
 ''I think we'll look back at this day as the separation between two eras in software -- the first being software in a box, and the second software distributed over the Internet for free and funded by advertising,'' said George F. Colony, chief executive of Forrester Research. ''The new era requires a complete re-examination of Microsoft's business model, which has been one of most profitable the world has ever seen.''
 Mr. Gates's college classmate and business partner of 26 years, Steven A. Ballmer, also 50, will remain chief executive of the company. He assumed that post in 2000, with Mr. Gates remaining engaged in the daily operation with the title of chief software architect.
 Mr. Ballmer emphasized in an interview that Mr. Gates would give the preponderance of his time to Microsoft during the two-year transition.
 But the transition will begin immediately, Mr. Gates said, with his role as chief software architect taken over by Ray Ozzie, 50, one of the company's three chief technical officers. Mr. Ozzie, whose software background includes the conception of Lotus Notes in the 1980's, joined Microsoft last year and has been leading its strategic response to the growing Internet challenge the software company faces from companies like Google and Yahoo.
 Mr. Gates said that he and Mr. Ballmer had begun discussing a transition some time ago, but that a decision had been made only in the last few weeks. He noted that he had deferred telling Mr. Ballmer of his decision several times, and that his wife, Melinda, a former Microsoft product manager, had reminded him to communicate with his business partner on several occasions. 
 ''I talked with her even before I talked to Steve about this possibility,'' Mr. Gates said. ''I got her advice. For a couple of weeks she said, 'Have you mentioned it to Steve yet?' I said, 'No, it wasn't easy to bring up today, maybe I'll bring it up tomorrow.' ''
 He said his primary motivation was a desire to spend more time on the issues that he has decided to attack with his foundation, whose resources will continue to swell as Mr. Gates makes good on his commitment to shift most of his fortune, said to be around $50 billion. He remains the largest single shareholder in Microsoft, with 9.6 percent of the stock, a stake currently worth $21.6 billion.
 But his decision to begin scaling back at Microsoft comes at a critical juncture for the company, a dominant force in the computing world for a quarter-century. Although revenues are at record levels and the company's profits are running at a stunning $1 billion a month, Wall Street has grown increasingly critical of Microsoft's inability to make significant headway in new markets as diverse as video games, Internet television and Web advertising. 
 The company's stock has fallen from a high of $28.38 in the last year to close at $22.07 on Thursday. The share price peaked at $58.89 in December 1999. The Gates announcement sent the share price down slightly in after-hours trading.
 At the news conference, Mr. Gates spoke about his emotional commitment to the company that he created with Paul G. Allen in New Mexico in 1975, initially selling software stored as punched holes in paper tape to the first generation of personal computer hobbyists.
 Microsoft became a dominant force in computing shortly after I.B.M. picked the company, by then based in Bellevue, Wash., to provide the principal operating system for the I.B.M. PC in 1981. In the next decade Mr. Gates, aided by Mr. Ballmer, built a software monopoly by adding a growing array of programs bundled together into a single product called Office.
 ''When Paul Allen and I started this 30 years ago, we had big dreams about software,'' Mr. Gates said Thursday at the news conference, held in a television studio on the company's corporate campus here. ''I have no doubt that over the next 30 years that Microsoft will play just as important a role as it has over the last 30 years.''
 Even Mr. Gates's competitors described his role as pivotal in shaping the PC era and transforming modern computing.
 ''Bill Gates redefined the software industry and redefined the computer industry,'' said Rob Glaser, a former Microsoft executive who is now a competitor at RealNetworks, a Seattle-based Internet services company. ''His retirement from a full-time role is a huge milestone, and it marks the end of this era.''
 Still to be determined is how quickly Mr. Gates will depart the computer industry stage. As the chairman, he will remain the face of Microsoft to the outside world, giving speeches and visiting customers. 
 ''And he'll still be involved in all the large business decisions,'' said David B. Yoffie, a professor at the Harvard Business School. ''So the structure will change, but whether the outcomes will be different remains to be seen.''
 As part of the realignment, the company elevated a second chief technical officer, Craig J. Mundie, 56, who will be given the title of chief research and strategy officer. Working with Mr. Gates during the transition, he will take over responsibility for the company's research and product development efforts.
 Since both Mr. Mundie and Mr. Ozzie are contemporaries of Mr. Ballmer and Mr. Gates, analysts did not see the moves as designating a future chief executive.
 The shift follows a September 2005 change in which Mr. Ballmer reorganized the company into three divisions, focused on operating systems, the Office product group and an entertainment and hardware business. 
 Mr. Gates took pains Thursday to minimize his role at Microsoft, saying that the company could innovate and continue to lead in the software industry despite his diminished presence.
 ''The world has had a tendency to focus a disproportionate amount of attention on me,'' he said. ''In reality, Microsoft has had an unbelievable breadth and depth of technical talent.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: With Bill Gates, left, scaling back his duties at Microsoft, other top-tier executives like Craig J. Mundie, Ray Ozzie and Steven A. Ballmer will take on larger roles at the company. (Photo by Dan Lamont/Corbis via Microsoft, via Bloomberg News)(pg. C8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SOFTWARE (92%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); FOUNDATIONS (77%); CHARITIES (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); PHILANTHROPY (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (92%); GOOGLE INC (84%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: BILL & MELINDA GATES FOUNDATION (58%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (92%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (84%); FORR (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (92%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (84%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2006



344 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 16, 2006
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 1041 words

HEADLINE: Summit Ends With Apparent Triumph for Putin in Tussles Over Iran

BYLINE: COMPILED BY ALEXANDER NURNBERG

 BODY:
A summary of the top stories in Russian newspapers appears Monday through Friday.
 TODAY'S TOP STORY 
 A summit marking the five-year anniversary of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization ended with an apparent triumph for Russia and President Vladimir V. Putin in the diplomatic tussles over Iran's nuclear program.
 The organization, which returned to Shanghai for its jubilee summit, was conducted by its participants with "such pride," as Izvestia put it, "that it seemed as if it had turned not 5 years old, but 50." Most newspapers quoted several of Mr. Putin's praises for the success of the young organization. 
 "From the very moment the Shanghai Declaration was signed," Rossiskaya Gazeta quoted the president as saying, "our organization had weight and authority." That newspaper called the S.C.O. a "serious player in Asia and in the world," and said there was a "queue" of would-be members awaiting their chance to join.
 One of the guests at the summit and a budding member, according to several newspapers was President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran. According to Vremya Novostei, "The Chinese had promised that there wouldn't be any unpleasant surprises at their summit and that the speech from the president of Iran would not cast a shadow over the festive atmosphere." Although participants were surprised when Mr. Ahmadinejad opened his speech with the words "in the name of Allah the Merciful," Izvestia wrote, the address did not otherwise offend.
 "There were no allusions to the "great Satan", as America is known in Iran," Vremya Novostei reported. "There was nothing bad about Israel." 
 But there was little time for such words. Vremya Novostei noted of Mr. Ahmadinejad that "he only went two minutes over the five-minute limit he had been allowed." 
 Mr. Putin met separately with Mr. Ahmadinejad and assured the Iranian leader that "Iran is our old and, without any exaggeration, historic partner," according to Nezavisimaya Gazeta. "We are probably the only country in the world today," Mr. Putin continued, according to Rossiskaya Gazeta, "that openly works with Iran in the field of the peaceful atom, and that entirely fulfils its responsibilities." 
 Later Mr. Putin told reporters that he had "a very positive appraisal" of the meeting. So positive was this meeting, in fact, that Kommersant's special correspondent "was struck dumb by this victory for Russian diplomacy."
 Mr. Putin announced that Iran had agreed to enter negotiations with six United Nations powers, the United States, the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Russia and China, which the Moscow Times called "the most significant diplomatic initiative in more than three years."
 Mr. Putin further promised, according to Kommersant, to name a date soon for when the negotiations could start. 
 Vremya Novostei said "the fact that the Iranian president got by without any sharp invective tells not only of his respect for his neighbors in the region, but also of a cautious hope of reconciliation with the West." 
 When Mr. Putin was asked by the newspaper whether he believed Mr. Ahmadinejad's new promises, he said: "This is their position. It has been stated. And how substantial it turns out to be only time will tell."

IN OTHER NEWS IZVESTIA PRIME MINISTER SAYS INFANT RUSSIA NEEDS BETTER FOOD -- A meeting of the cabinet Thursday to assess the government's work during the past year and set targets for the future ended with strong disagreement between Mikhail Y. Fradkov, the Prime Minister, and Alexei L. Kudrin, the Finance Minister. Mr. Kudrin warned that further measures and reforms should not be planned without considering them "in terms of the money". Mr. Fradkov retorted that the government's work was "broader" than the Finance Ministry's, and went "beyond the scope of budget planning". When the minister for agriculture complained that the government had been give a "baby's dummy of a budget", and that a "baby's dummy won't make you full", Mr. Fradkov expanded on the metaphor. He said that Mr. Kudrin would have "to change his stocks, to move from a milk mixture to something of better quality in the same volume, but more nourishing". Mr. Fradkov explained to his ministers, in similar terms, the situation in the country: "This wouldn't have happened earlier... but the baby is growing, and now you have to go and check what's going on in the nursery," Izvestia quoted the prime minister as saying. "And you've got toys scattered in every corner and the diapers haven't been changed."

KOMMERSANT POWERFUL BANKS AND INSURERS "DRAGGED" TO PETERSBURG -- The head of the Federal Tax Service announced Thursday that a new inspectorate would be created in St Petersburg to monitor the biggest taxpayers in the banking and insurance spheres. The proposed location is "very unpleasant news" for these taxpayers, the paper writes, because it will require presenting the inspectorate monthly with complete accounts: although many of the companies have branches in St Petersburg, they will be forced to move a significant proportion of their tax lawyers there. Kommersant quotes several businessmen who assert that this decision aims to increase the wealth and standing of the northern capital, which is President Vladimir V. Putin's hometown.

NEZAVISIMAYA GAZETA YEGOR GAIDAR TROUBLED BY RUSSIA'S ECONOMIC POSITION -- In a new book presented to journalists Thursday, Yegor Gaidar, the former Economics Minister and Prime Minister warns that Russians are "living in a dangerous post-imperial period". 'The Death of an Empire', Mr. Gaidar's book on the economic collapse of the Soviet Union, was prompted by the concern that "Russia today depends on the export of natural resources in much the same way that the USSR did," he said. "And attempts to build state power on such a rickety foundation always end very badly," Mr. Gaidar added.

GAZETA RUSSIA TO LAUNCH STATE TV IN ARABIC -- Following in the vein of its English-language satellite television channel, Russia Today, the government will launch a channel in Arabic for viewers in the Middle East. It will be run by Akram Khazam, the former Moscow chief of Al-Jazeera. "Russia has decided to fight an information war with the West for this strategically important region," the paper writes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANNIVERSARIES (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: SHANGHAI COOPERATION ORGANIZATION (84%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (79%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%) EAST CHINA (92%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ASIA (78%); GERMANY (50%); FRANCE (50%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2006



345 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; FIVE DAYS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1149 words

HEADLINE: Fighting Inflation: Higher Rates and Tough Talk

BYLINE: By Mark A. Stein

 BODY:
FORGET the question of whether the Federal Reserve is finished raising interest rates. It is not. The question now is, Can it continue raising rates without choking off economic growth? Investors and others were wrestling with that question this week amid signs that prices are rising too fast even as economic growth appears to be slowing.

'UNWELCOME,' NOT UNEXPECTED -- Consumer prices rose 0.4 percent last month, and 0.3 percent after stripping out volatile food and energy costs. That pushed the annual rate to 2.4 percent this year. While economists had anticipated just that kind of increase, it still is in a range that the Federal Reserve chairman recently described as ''unwelcome.''
 Investors and others assume that means the Fed will continue raising interest rates, reducing the amount of cash and credit available. Fed board members have also been on the stump, talking tough about keeping prices in check. If effective, such efforts could ease pressure for even higher rates just as the economy appears to be flagging. 
Both retail sales and industrial production slowed in May, according to the latest figures, and there were suggestions of trouble to come. Producer prices outside of food and energy rose 0.3 percent last month, faster than anticipated. Analysts said the increase suggests more inflation is coming.
 Analysts and economists now assume the Fed will raise interest rates again at the next two-day meeting of its policy-making Federal Open Market Committee at the end of the month. The interest rate futures market suggests investors also expect another increase in early August.

REVERSAL OF FORTUNE -- Financial markets reacted strongly to the news about inflation and the measures needed to contain it. But the reactions were not always predictable.
 Stocks generally fell before the Labor Department released the consumer price number and rallied once the bad news was confirmed, but then fell again yesterday. At the same time, gold tumbled this week, falling below $600 an ounce, even though it traditionally is a hedge against inflation.
 Other commodities, notably oil, copper and other metals, also fell early in the week, apparently in anticipation that slower economic growth around the world would reduce demand, only to rally on a belief that global growth will remain strong even if rates rise further in the United States.
 The dollar, meanwhile, rallied against both the euro and the yen, attracted by the outlook for higher interest rates on dollar deposits and by the relative safety and liquidity of dollar assets. It gave up some of those gains after another Fed board member, Randall S. Kroszner, said he thought inflation was ''manageable.''
 Statistics on durable-goods orders, due next Friday, will be the next sign of the economy's health. Analysts expect it to rebound from a 4.4 percent decline in April.

BRACE FOR COLLISION -- Airbus, the European commercial plane maker, ran into a jumbo problem with its new 555-seat A380 airliner, and the stock of its parent, the European Aeronautic Defense and Space Company, plunged by more than one-quarter in value.
 The company, a French-German-Spanish consortium, said it would have to delay many deliveries of its revolutionary double-decked airplane for six months or so, to sort out what it said were problems with complicated wiring. Airbus blamed wiring problems for another delay last year.
 The A380, like other Airbus craft, uses computers sending electronic signals to control it in flight; this particular plane also comes with a complex multichannel movie and music system.
 Adding to Airbus's bad week, Singapore Airlines said that it would buy 20 787-9 aircraft from Boeing, Airbus's only rival in big commercial airliners, and would take options on 20 more. The list price for 20 787's is $4.52 billion, though sales are usually deeply discounted.
 Airbus may face more bad news if its biggest A380 buyers, including Singapore, Emirates Airlines and Qantas Airways, seek compensation for delays in delivery of jets they have ordered.

FAMILIES FEUD -- Directors of a big media conglomerate, the Tribune Company, erupted in open disagreement about strategy, raising the possibility that another major newspaper publisher could be broken up and sold less than a year after Knight Ridder shattered amid a feud between its biggest shareholders.
 In a letter sent to the company's board, trustees representing the Chandler family -- the billionaire former owners of The Los Angeles Times and Tribune's second-largest investor -- accused Tribune management of pursuing a failed strategy of combining local TV stations and newspapers and of failing to keep pace with industry rivals. Tribune bought The Los Angeles Times, its biggest newspaper, and other properties controlled by the Chandlers in 2000.
 The Chandlers' complaints were rebutted and rejected by Tribune's largest shareholder, the Robert R. McCormick Tribune Foundation, named for the founder of The Chicago Tribune, the company's second-largest newspaper. Former and current Tribune executives, including its current chief executive, Dennis J. FitzSimons, control the McCormick foundation. 
 A $2 billion stock buyback program was announced on May 30. Borrowing money to buy back Tribune stock precipitated the Chandler family's revolt.

THE LEGAL OPTION -- With a growing number of companies falling under suspicion of backdating stock options for their senior executives, pension funds and other major institutional investors started filing lawsuits seeking to recoup some of the risk-free gains corporate officers awarded one another.
 Investors have already filed suit against McAfee, the security-software maker that recently fired its general counsel; Juniper Networks, a computer hardware company; and the American Tower Corporation, which owns cellphone towers.
 Federal prosecutors in New York, meanwhile, subpoenaed records at the job search site Monster.com, seeking information on the timing of stock option grants. Prosecutors are looking for evidence that the grants were made retroactively to days right before big gains in the stock price. Such practices virtually guarantee executives big gains without requiring them to improve the company's overall performance, which is the stated goal of options.
 Two other public companies, the Apollo Group, a profit-making education company, and Michaels Stores, a crafts retailer, have said they will report soon on whether their options grants were backdated.

MOST POPULAR -- Following are the most-popular business news articles on nytimes.com from June 10 through June 16:

1. "A Ring Tone Meant to Fall on Deaf Ears"

2. "Was Earning That Harvard M.B.A. Worth It?"

3. "Hiding in Plain Sight, Google Seeks More Power"

4. "Advice to All You Graduates: Let's Start With That Daily Latte..."

5. "Pollution From Chinese Coal Casts a Global Shadow"
 Links are at nytimes.com/business.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Financial markets reacted strongly to the news about inflation and the measures needed to contain it. Even so, the Dow Jones industrial average gained 1.12 percent this week. (Photo by Daniel Acker/Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); CURRENCIES (86%); AIRLINES (82%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); STATISTICS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); FUTURES (77%); DURABLE GOODS (76%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (76%); LITIGATION (74%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (74%); AIRCRAFT MFG (72%); SPACE INDUSTRY (72%); DIVESTITURES (72%); FACTORY ORDERS (72%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%); RETAIL SALES (67%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (67%); ETHICS (64%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (62%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (60%); STOCK OPTIONS (50%) United States Economy; Consumer Price Index; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Interest Rates; Credit; Airlines and Airplanes; United States Economy; Newspapers; Boards of Directors; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Corporations; Suits and Litigation; Stock Options and Purchase Plans; Frauds and Swindling; Ethics; United States Economy; Production

COMPANY: AIRBUS SAS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (54%) Federal Reserve System; Airbus; European Aeronautic Defense and Space Co; Singapore Airlines; Boeing Co; Tribune Co

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (50%)

PERSON: Chandler Family; Mark A Stein

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); SINGAPORE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2006



346 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: Data May Not Fully Reflect Inflation, Fed Official Says

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, June 16 

 BODY:
Inflation in the United States may be worse than government data has indicated, and the Federal Reserve may have to keep raising interest rates if it persists, a Fed official said Friday.
 ''If the inflation rate continues to be persistent like this, the Federal Reserve will simply have to pursue persistently policies that will keep that inflation from increasing further,'' the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, William Poole, told reporters during a conference on monetary policy sponsored by the Bank of Korea.
Mr. Poole, a nonvoting member of the Federal Open Market Committee, which sets interest rates, also described the United States economy as ''fundamentally very robust.'' 
 Recent comments from Fed officials, including the chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, have spurred speculation that the central bank will raise the benchmark federal funds rate a quarter-point, to 5.25 percent, at its next meeting on June 28-29. On Friday, Mr. Poole and two other Fed officials made comments concerning inflation.
 ''Core inflation is modestly above what many of us have expressed as our comfort zone,'' Mr. Poole said, although he also said that the current inflation situation ''is absolutely not dangerous.''
 The Labor Department reported Wednesday that its Consumer Price Index rose 0.4 percent last month, in line with expectations, while core inflation, which excludes food and energy, was up a worse-than-expected 0.3 percent. Core prices are advancing at a 3.1 percent pace so far this year. That compares with a 2.2 percent increase in 2005.
 Earlier, Mr. Poole said more attention should be paid to informal sources of information in addition to official data to determine the extent of inflationary pressure.
 ''Statistical studies to detect pass-through from recent energy price increases have failed to show significant effects in U.S. price data,'' he said. ''But stories about widespread pass-through are becoming increasingly common.''
 ''We may face more inflation pressure than currently shows up in formal data,'' Mr. Poole said. There was still some time, he said, to gather and analyze information before the Fed's next policy meeting.
 Reuters reported on Friday that a Fed governor, Randall S. Kroszner, said that while inflation was under close scrutiny, it remained manageable.
 ''We analyze these numbers very systematically. They are all within manageable ranges,'' Reuters quoted Mr. Kroszner as saying after a speech to the Institute of International Bankers in New York. ''We want to try to look at where inflation is going. We don't want to look in the rearview mirror at what has happened to inflation." 
 And Bloomberg News reported that in remarks for a conference in Massachusetts, another Fed governor, Donald L. Kohn, said the central bank cannot allow the economy to expand above its potential ''for some time'' without igniting a sustained increase in inflation.
 The news service quoted Mr. Kohn as saying that globalization had helped restrain price increases through lower import prices and some ''dampening'' of unit labor prices as the supply of low-skilled labor becomes more abundant. 
 ''The fact that China and some other emerging-market economies have resisted upward pressure on their exchange rates and are running trade surpluses has undoubtedly contributed to their disinflationary effects on the world,'' Mr. Kohn said, according to Bloomberg News. ''These imbalances are not likely to be sustained indefinitely.''
 Inflation concerns in the United States have contributed to declines in global markets amid perceived uncertainty about the Fed's intentions with interest rates.


GRAPHIC: Photo: William Poole, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, at a conference in South Korea. (Photo by Chung Sung-Jun/Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); INFLATION (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (79%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (79%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (79%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (65%) United States Economy; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Credit

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ST LOUIS (72%); BANK OF KOREA (57%); BLOOMBERG LP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%) Federal Reserve System; Federal Reserve Bank of St Louis

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (72%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (72%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (52%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (52%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (59%) William Poole

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (59%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2006



347 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 281 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Trade Deficit Narrows, But Remains Near a Record 

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 16 

 BODY:
The deficit in the current account, the broadest measure of foreign trade, narrowed sharply in the first quarter after setting a record high at the end of 2005. 
 The deficit fell to $208.7 billion in the period January to March, down 6.5 percent from the record $223.1 billion gap set in the final three months of last year, the Commerce Department reported on Friday.
The improvement exceeded expectations, though it still left the shortfall at the second-highest level on record and the equivalent of 6.4 percent of the total United States economy, down from 7 percent in the fourth quarter.
 Analysts said rising oil prices would probably send the deficit in the current quarter to a new high, and they said the imbalance for all of 2006 was on track to set a record for a fifth consecutive year.
 ''Even with the modest improvement at the start of the year, reducing the U.S. current-account deficit will be an exceptionally slow process,'' said Douglas Porter, an economist at BMO Nesbitt Burns, a Toronto investment bank.
 In a second report on Friday, consumer sentiment in early June rebounded to 82.4 after a big drop in May, according to the University of Michigan's preliminary survey for the month. Economists were encouraged that consumers' expectations for future inflation dropped sharply, a development likely to be viewed favorably by the Federal Reserve.
 The current-account deficit in 2005 jumped 19 percent, to $791.5 billion, according to revised figures released on Friday.
 The current account balance is considered the best measure of America's international standing because it covers not only trade in goods and services, but also investment flows and foreign aid.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (91%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (65%) United States Economy; International Trade and World Market; Consumer Confidence (Economic Indicator)

COMPANY: BMO NESBITT BURNS INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (82%) Commerce Department; University of Michigan

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2006



348 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 459 words

HEADLINE: Without Being in the Room, a Far East Behemoth Will Be a Player

BYLINE: By Floyd Norris

 BODY:
THE Group of 7 is supposed to be made up of the world's major industrial nations. But things can change. Maybe they ought to be called the Group of 7 postindustrial countries. 
 As the accompanying chart shows, the G-7 as a group has been running a collective trade deficit since 1997, and it has grown rapidly in recent years -- largely but not solely because of the declining trade performance of the United States.
 Britain's deficit has grown rapidly, and France and Italy now run deficits.
 Germany's surplus remains healthy, but the size of Japan's trade surplus has declined. Canada's trade surplus, buoyed by natural resources, has increased.
 The latest quarterly deficit amounted to 2.6 percent of the gross domestic product of the seven economies -- not far below the level the United States was showing back in 1985, when the Group of 5 met at the Plaza Hotel in New York and agreed that the dollar had to weaken.
 That group comprised just the United States, Britain, France, West Germany and Japan. Canada and Italy would be added later, but the initial five were the economies that really mattered. When they decided the dollar needed to fall, it did. The American trade deficit soon headed lower. 
 When national leaders meet next month, it will be called a meeting of the Group of 8, with Russia added -- not so much because of its economic power as because of its political importance. But these days, it too is running an impressive trade surplus, thanks in no small part to high prices for the oil and natural gas it exports.
 The tables show statistics from 1997 -- the last year the G-7 ran a trade surplus in goods -- and the most recent 12 months for each country in the Group of 8, and China. 
 One measure of trade performance is the percentage of a country's trades that are imports. Whatever the size of its deficit or surplus, a figure far from 50 percent imports implies major imbalances.
 By that standard, the big imbalances now are in Russia and the United States. In Russia, there are $2 of exports for every $1 of imports, while the figures for the United States are almost reversed.
 China's trade picture is now more balanced than it was, but it is also a lot larger. Imports amount to 46 percent of its total trade, up from 44 percent in 1997. Since 1997, the value of its imports is up more than 400 percent, while the value of its exports has risen more than 350 percent.
 That performance means its influence is vast. If a group of nations is to deal with this decade's imbalances, as the Group of 5 did two decades ago, it will not be the Group of 7, or the Group of 8. The situation will require action by China to allow the value of its currency to appreciate much more than it already has.
 Anyone for a Group of 9?


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''China Changes the Trade Equation''Trade balance in goods for the Group of 7 countries as a percentage of their combined G.D.P.Graph tracks G-7 trade balance since 1993.Just how imbalanced a country's trade is can be assessed by calculating imports as a percentage of total trade. This chart compares performance in 1997 and over the most recent 12 months. A figure above 50 percent shows a deficit. The United States has the greatest deficit, while Russia has the biggest surplus. Bars show the change in imports and exports over the period.Graph tracks import percentage change in dollar volume from 1997 to the most recent 12 months for the following:UNITED STATESBRITAINFRANCEITALYJAPANCANADAGERMANYGROUP OF 7CHINARUSSIA(Source by Haver Analytics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (92%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); STATISTICS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (64%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (63%) International Trade and World Market

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (82%) Group of Eight

PERSON: Floyd Norris

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (94%); CANADA (93%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); FRANCE (70%) Great Britain; France; Italy; Japan; Canada; Germany; China; Russia

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2006



349 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2006
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Dance Review; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 322 words

HEADLINE: 'The Money Show' Takes a Wry Look at Dance Economics

BYLINE: By GIA KOURLAS

 BODY:
Dancing doesn't make you rich. Who knew? Well, probably everyone. But such a familiar premise is the focus of "The Money Show" by Dixie FunLee Shulman, a production inspired by a previous sold-out performance at the Joyce SoHo, which left Ms. Shulman $1,500 in debt. In her new group work, presented Thursday at Dance New Amsterdam, she tries to temper her zeal for activism with shtick. 
 Of course, the economy of dance is a disgrace. But two and a half hours of banter and bidding doesn't aid the cause.
"The Money Show" is an interactive exercise. Audience members are given $5 vouchers to bet on dancers' skills (for instance, who can hold an arabesque in releve the longest?). Following the format of "Let's Make a Deal," there are more choices: keep the cash or select the dance behind a curtain for a monetary loss or gain. There is also an opportunity to bid for the chance to sit at a money tree, designed by Jodi Kaplan, which doubles as a bar with wine and snacks. 
 Wedged in between the fun and games are Ms. Shulman's dances, marked by swirling arms and sideway kicks, which do little to endear the uninitiated to the power of movement. Guest choreography included Martha Williams's derivative "Currency Break," as well as dances from "Flashdance" and Michael Jackson's"Thriller" video.
 It's unfortunate that Ms. Shulman's excursion into moneyland followed "The Money Conversation" by Sara Juli, a gutsier look at self-worth, in which real cash was given away at P.S. 122 in February. Ms. Shulman's technique of treating her dancers as commodities is ultimately tiring. When it became time for yet another round of "Deal," an audience member exclaimed: "Take the money! Somebody had to say it." Creative begging under the guise of art doesn't make art. 
 Performances of "The Money Show" continue Saturday at 8 and Sunday at 2 p.m. at Dance New Amsterdam, 280 Broadway, at Chambers Street, Lower Manhattan; (212) 279-4200.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCE (90%); DANCERS (89%); CHOREOGRAPHY (79%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: MICHAEL JACKSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%) NEW YORK, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (57%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2006



350 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 494 words

HEADLINE: A Problem That Can't Be Ignored

 BODY:
There's a barely concealed wish among many old Mideast hands these days to just walk away from the steadily deteriorating Israeli-Palestinian situation. Armed thugs from Fatah are fighting it out with armed thugs from Hamas. Israel is building unilateral fences and defining unilateral borders. If the two sides do not really want to negotiate with each other, the argument goes, there's nothing much outsiders can do to help. 
 That temptation to walk away needs to be strongly resisted. As bad as things are now, they can get a whole lot worse, and almost certainly will if the outside world averts its attention. Already, rockets are raining down again on innocent Israeli and Palestinian civilians, inflaming passions on both sides.
And when those passions explode, the deadly consequences won't be limited to Israelis and Palestinians alone. They never have been in the past, and are even less likely to be in a world of satellite television, ubiquitous Internet access, multinational terrorism and increasingly long-range missiles. 
 Further, there is something very important that the outside world, particularly the Arab and Islamic world, can do to help. It can make plain to the Hamas-led government of the Palestinian Authority that if it means to become the legitimate international voice of the Palestinian people, and a true government in the community of nations, it will have to accept the minimal international ground rules already in place. These include renouncing terrorism, acknowledging Israel's existence as a sovereign nation and abiding by formal agreements previously signed by lawful Palestinian negotiators. 
 Those are ground rules that have already been accepted by Egypt and Jordan and by the Arab League as a whole in its 2002 Beirut peace initiative. They need to be accepted by Hamas, but not as some kind of ideological concession. Hamas must see them as an admission ticket to the real world, a necessary rite of passage in the progression from a lawless opposition to a lawful government. 
 Hamas has repeatedly heard this demand from the United States, Europe and Israel, and has repeatedly ignored it, even when it has been backed by halts in vitally needed economic assistance. Hearing it from Arab and Islamic neighbors, in the form of friendly persuasion, would be harder for Hamas to dismiss. It also could prove easier for Hamas to accommodate. 
 This page has not hesitated to call on Washington, as Israel's most important ally, to encourage Israeli leaders to keep the door open to an eventual negotiated peace. In the same spirit, we call on the leaders of Arab and Islamic states to speak firmly and constructively to Hamas.
 No one expects these countries to remain silent about the sufferings of the Palestinian people or abandon them to their now desperate financial plight. But with support comes leverage, and true friends of the Palestinian people need to start using that leverage to talk straight with Hamas.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAMAS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); AL FATAH (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (89%); PEACE PROCESS (72%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (71%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (69%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (53%) Editorials; Islam; Terrorism; Palestinians

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (91%) Hamas; Palestinian Authority

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (97%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); JORDAN (79%); EGYPT (79%) Israel

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2006



351 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: Free And Easy Riders

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY. 
Maureen Dowd is on vacation.

 BODY:
Until his head collided with a windshield, Ben Roethlisberger savored the liberty of riding a motorcycle without a helmet. Now the Pittsburgh Steelers' quarterback says he has ''a new perspective on life.''
 "If I ever ride again, it certainly will be with a helmet," he announced on Thursday, the day after leaving the hospital.
There's a lesson here for libertarians -- and don't worry, it's not that we must pass laws mandating helmets for everyone. There's a better way to protect riders: libertarian paternalism, which is not as oxymoronic as it sounds. 
 The term was coined by a law professor and an economist at the University of Chicago, Cass Sunstein and Richard Thaler. They want to preserve your liberty to make choices, but they'd also like to improve your odds of choosing what you really want. 
 If Roethlisberger had done a sober cost-benefit analysis, he never would have gotten on a motorcycle. Even a minor accident -- a spill that shattered his elbow -- could have ended his career and cost him tens of millions of dollars. 
 Now he's got a new perspective, and so do the many motorcyclists who will be wearing new helmets this weekend after the publicity about his accident. But their new perspective isn't entirely rational, either. Their odds haven't changed just because of one accident. Why should they start wearing helmets now?
 Because they're making decisions the way most humans do -- haphazardly. We're guided more by one recent horror story than by reams of statistics. Unless pressed, we tend to avoid thinking about unlikely events, like traffic accidents, or problems in the distant future, like how we'll finance our retirement.
 We'll choose something simply because we think it's what most other people would do. Our decision often hinges not on the facts but on how the facts are presented: if told there's a 10 percent chance of dying from a medical procedure, we're less likely to go ahead with it than if we're told there's a 90 percent chance of living. 
 Given all these foibles, Sunstein and Thaler argue, it's naive to assume that people are making fully informed choices. Since people's choices often depend on how the options are presented, authorities should practice a mild form of paternalism: point people toward what experts think is best for them, but don't force them to go there. 
 This might mean simply providing the public with information and advice. Or it could mean changing the options available, as was done in experiments with 401(k) plans. Instead of giving workers the traditional option to enroll in the plans, employers automatically enrolled everyone and gave them the option to withdraw. As a result, far more workers set aside money for retirement. 
 How would you apply this libertarian paternalism to motorcycle helmets? I consulted Sunstein and Thaler, as well as Edward Glaeser, a Harvard economist who's more skeptical about this approach. He worries that bureaucrats and politicians are prone to making their own bad decisions when they turn paternalistic. They've made it their business to stigmatize certain behaviors, like homosexuality, and they've deluged people with dubious guidance, like the changing edicts on what Americans should eat and how much they should weigh. 
 But Glaeser does see a role for paternalism when dealing with a problem as clear-cut and serious as motorcycle fatalities. He, Sunstein and Thaler like the idea of encouraging cyclists to wear helmets by changing the options they face. Instead of telling them that a helmet is optional -- the default situation in most states -- tell them a standard license comes with the requirement to wear a helmet.
 If a libertarian cyclist objected, he could apply for a special license to ride without a helmet (along with a decal for the motorcycle so the police wouldn't stop him). He'd have to provide proof that he carried enough insurance to cover the costs of an accident so that taxpayers wouldn't get stuck with the bill. And he'd have to learn about the risks, perhaps by attending a short class or watching a video of it on his home computer. 
 The class shouldn't be an exercise in fear-mongering. It could include testimonials from intelligent motorcyclists who've weighed the risks and still want the joy of the wind on their faces. But before anyone gets this license, he ought to see a good analysis of the injury statistics and hear about the benefits of helmets -- including that new perspective from the Steelers' quarterback. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (78%); SPORTS (78%); VEHICLE HELMET REGULATION (78%); ACCIDENTAL INJURIES (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (73%); US 401K PLANS (72%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (72%) Motorcycles, Motor Bikes and Motorscooters; Accidents and Safety; Helmets

ORGANIZATION: PITTSBURGH STEELERS (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%)

PERSON: John Tierney; Cass R (Prof) Sunstein; Richard Thaler

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (76%) ILLINOIS, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%) United States

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2006



352 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 388 words

HEADLINE: Where Did the Good Investments Go?

 BODY:
By and large, American companies are flush with cash. That has led many economists and policymakers to predict that an upsurge in business investment will smooth the sharp edges of the next economic slowdown. The thinking goes like this: As consumers retrench in the face of higher gas prices, higher interest rates and staggering household debt, companies will pick up the slack by spending their accumulated fortunes on equipment, technology and factories. 
 But such thinking may turn out to be more wishful than wise. Corporate America has been piling up cash for some time, yet business spending has not been particularly robust. It's not in the doldrums, but it's not on a tear, either.
 And instead of investing, many companies are choosing to distribute their cash to shareholders. The preferred method for doing so, by far, is to buy back the company's own stock. Buybacks benefit shareholders because they reduce the number of shares outstanding. That, in turn, boosts the earnings per share, and generally the price, of the remaining shares. 
 The Wall Street Journal reported this week that in the year ending on March 31, companies spent a record $367 billion in stock buybacks, an extraordinary amount. And, The Journal reported, the torrid pace of buybacks is expected to continue. 
 There's nothing wrong with returning money to shareholders. But companies generally do so only when they can't find a better alternative. In general, buybacks are an indication that there are no investments on the horizon that represent a superior use of the company's money. Another downside to buybacks is that they can give a false impression of corporate performance. Higher earnings per share are generally thought to result from real improvements, like higher sales. But buybacks can enhance the stock price -- and thus mollify unhappy investors -- without increasing overall earnings. So, on the one hand, buybacks are a sign that good investments may be lacking. On the other, they can give investors the impression that the good times are rolling. 
 Mixed signals are to be expected when the economy is in transition, as it is now. What's important for policymakers is to avoid complacency that comes with thinking there's a silver bullet -- like business investment -- for escaping the worst potential effects of a slowdown. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BONDS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (88%); PERSONAL DEBT (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); STOCK OPTIONS (69%); INTEREST RATES (57%) Stocks and Bonds; Editorials; United States Economy; Stock Options and Purchase Plans; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Wall Street Journal

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2006



353 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Classified; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 184 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
ZUCKER, DR. WILLIAM

 BODY:
 ZUCKER--Dr. William. Died at his home in Philadelphia of renal failure on May 13, 2006. He was 88 years old. Dr. William Zucker was the Meshulam Riklis Professor Emeritus of Creative Management at the Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania, and the founder and director of the Wharton Real Estate Center. Previously, he was the President of the Southeastern Pennsylvania Economic Development Corp., 1964-1973; VP, Downtown Lower Manhattan Association, 1959-64; and, Secretary, Commerce and Industry Association of New York, 1944-59. Born in Bridgeport, CT, on July 21, 1917, he received his A.B from Johns Hopkins in 1938; his A.M. from Harvard in 1940, and his Ph.D. from Harvard in 1951. Dr. Zucker is survived by his wife, Kathlyn Saltman Zucker, and children: Peter Zucker; Alison Broadbent; Jeremy Zucker, David Zucker; and four grandchildren. A memorial service will be held at Cathedral Village, 600 E. Cathedral Rd., Philadelphia, PA 19128, on Saturday, June 24th, at 2 PM. In lieu of flowers, donations may be sent to Habitat for Humanity-Philadelphia, 1829 N. 19th Street, Phila., PA 19121 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); CHILDREN (90%); REAL ESTATE (88%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (78%); VOLUNTEER HOUSE BUILDING & REPAIR (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); GRANDCHILDREN (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: COMMERCE & INDUSTRY INSURANCE CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (58%); HABITAT FOR HUMANITY INTERNATIONAL (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (54%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2006



354 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 612 words

HEADLINE: Markets End Bumpy Week on Down Note

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Shares fell slightly yesterday at the end of a week of zigzag trading that saw a substantial rebound after a steep sell-off. The major indexes finished the week mixed.
 Traders paused after a two-session rally undid weeks of selling that had erased the gains in the major indexes for the year. The Dow Jones industrial average gained 110 points on Wednesday and nearly 200 points on Thursday. It was the index's best two-day run since April 2003.
 ''The mentality of the market is one in which investors are looking to sell into strength,'' said Mike Malone, a trading analyst at Cowen & Company. ''You're seeing a little bit of profit-taking today coming off yesterday's move up.'' 
 The day's economic data was robust. The deficit in the broadest measure of foreign trade showed an unexpectedly large improvement in the first three months, but soaring global oil prices are expected to limit such gains.
 Traders, wary of inflation concerns, received some encouragement on Thursday when the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, said record energy and commodity prices could account for some of the recent uptick in core prices but that inflation expectations had remained within historical ranges.
 The Dow Jones industrial average lost 0.64 point yesterday, or 0.01 percent, to 11,014.55. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 4.62 points, or 0.37 percent, to 1,251.54, and the Nasdaq composite index fell 14.20 points, or 0.66 percent, to 2,129.95.
 Bonds were lower, with the yield on the 10-year Treasury note rising to 5.13 percent, up from 5.09 percent late Thursday. The price, which moves in the opposite direction of the yield, fell 8/32, to 99 31/32. 
 Crude oil futures fell. A barrel of light crude settled at $69.88, up 38 cents, in New York trading.
 After two days of steep losses, the market's recovery Wednesday and Thursday helped the major indexes recover somewhat, and gave hope to investors looking for an end to Wall Street's monthlong slide. 
 For the week, the Dow gained 1.13 percent, while the S.& P. 500 was off 0.05 percent and the Nasdaq lost 0.24 percent.
 The question for investors now is whether the late week's rally is sustainable.
 ''Nothing has happened from the fundamental perspective to change the basic fears that have haunted the market since May,'' said Russ Koesterich, senior portfolio manager at Barclays Global Investments in San Francisco. ''Inflation is accelerating, there's tighter monetary policy not just here but internationally and this is going to cause investors to sell riskier assets.''
 In corporate news, Home Depot fell 46 cents, to $36.91, after it found about $10 million in unrecorded stock option expense. Home Depot, the home improvement retailer, said the amount was not material and it did not plan to restate any of the past year's financial results.
 Shares of Oracle jumped 49 cents, to $14.19, after the business software maker said it would beat analyst expectations with a better-than-expected fourth-quarter profit.
 Lower second-quarter earnings from Carnival, the cruise operator, still beat analysts' estimates and company projections and the stock rose $2.02, to $40.19. The company also reaffirmed its full-year forecast.
 Adobe Systems rose 16 cents, to $29.12, despite a weak second quarter after Oppenheimer upgraded the software company's shares to buy from neutral.
 Little economic data is expected to be released next week. On Tuesday, the Commerce Department will report sales of homes started in May. Analysts expect a slight rise in starts. Investors will be anticipating the Labor Department's update on weekly unemployment claims for signs of the job market's health.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); BONDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (87%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); FUTURES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (72%); TREASURY SECURITIES (71%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); MONETARY POLICY (66%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Government Bonds

COMPANY: COWEN GROUP INC (70%); BARCLAYS GLOBAL INVESTMENTS (50%)

TICKER: COWN (NASDAQ) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (70%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (70%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2006



355 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 968 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS BRIEFS

BYLINE: BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:

DELAY IN ENRON SENTENCING -- A federal judge has delayed the sentencing of the former Enron executives Kenneth L. Lay, left, and Jeffrey K. Skilling until October to give their lawyers more time to prepare arguments for leniency.
 Judge Simeon T. Lake of Federal District Court in Houston agreed to push the sentencing back to Oct. 23 because of a scheduling conflict, a defense lawyer, Daniel Petrocelli, said.
 Mr. Lay and Mr. Skilling were convicted last month of fraud and conspiracy tied to the 2001 collapse of Enron. They face at least 25 years in prison.

REFCO DOCUMENTS ORDERED -- A judge yesterday ordered 20 former Refco executives and firms connected with the bankrupt trader to turn over documents for use in a creditors' investigation of the company's collapse. 
 Judge Robert D. Drain of Federal Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan authorized Refco's unsecured creditors' committee to collect documents from Ernst & Young, PricewaterhouseCoopers, the former Refco executives Christopher Sugrue and William Sexton, and 16 other people and businesses.
 The creditors said the 20 individuals and companies might have information regarding payments made by Refco's former chief executive, Phillip R. Bennett, and others before it declared bankruptcy on Oct. 17. Refco owes more than $16.8 billion.

WORKPLACE INSPECTIONS IN JORDAN -- Jordan has closed three factories, increased inspections of others and requested help from the United States and the United Nations in light of an independent report that detailed abuses of foreign workers in its garment plants, Sharif Zu'bi, Jordan's trade and industry minister, said yesterday after meeting with lawmakers and administration officials in Washington.
 A report in May by the National Labor Committee, a labor advocacy group, detailed accusations of beatings, human trafficking and de facto imprisonment of workers from Bangladesh and other nations working in Jordanian factories. 

LEXAR TAKEOVER APPROVED -- Lexar Media shareholders approved an $801 million takeover bid by Micron Technology, rejecting efforts by the billionaire investor Carl C. Icahn and hedge fund managers to block the deal because, they say, the price was too low. Micron, based in Boise, Idaho, will pay 0.5925 share of its stock for each share of Lexar, a money-losing maker of computer memory. That values Lexar at $9.69 a share, based on yesterday's closing prices. Lexar is based in Fremont, Calif.

NEW OWNER OF CHILE PLANTS -- Brookfield Asset Management, the biggest nongovernment owner of hydroelectric plants in North America, and its partners agreed to buy a controlling stake in Transelec Chile for $1.55 billion from Hydro-Quebec, adding transmission lines to its South American energy assets.
 Brookfield, based in Toronto, will buy 92 percent of Transelec, Chile's largest electricity transmission company, with the Canada Pension Plan Investment Board and the British Columbia Investment Management Corporation. The remaining 8 percent, owned by a unit of the World Bank Group, will be bought later, Brookfield said yesterday.

WINNEBAGO TOPS ESTIMATES -- Winnebago Industries, the largest United States motor-home maker, reported a drop in earnings yesterday, though income exceeded analysts' expectations. Its shares had their biggest one-day gain in two years.
 Third-quarter net income fell 25 percent, to $13.2 million, or 40 cents a share, from $17.6 million, or 52 cents, a year earlier, the company said. It was expected to earn 38 cents a share, the average estimate of six analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial. Sales in the third quarter fell 14 percent to $220.3 million. The company's shares rose $2.21, or 7.8 percent, to $30.64. 

CARNIVAL SHARES UP ON SALES GAIN -- The Carnival Corporation, the cruise operator, said yesterday that second-quarter profit fell 2.1 percent because of a rise in fuel costs. Sales were higher than analysts anticipated, sending the stock to its biggest gain in more than three years.
 Net income for the three months ended May 31 declined to $380 million, or 46 cents a share, from $388 million, or 47 cents, a year earlier, the Miami-based company said. This beat the average estimate of analysts and Carnival's forecast.
 Sales rose 5.8 percent to $2.66 billion, lifted by higher ticket prices for Mediterranean cruises and increased spending on ships. 
 The company's shares rose $2.02, to $40.19. 

ADELPHIA BREAK-UP FEE APPROVED -- The bankruptcy judge in the long-running Adelphia Communications case approved a $440.3 million breakup fee yesterday in the sale of the cable operator's assets to Time Warner and Comcast if the sale is completed by Aug. 31.
 Judge Robert E. Gerber of Federal Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan approved a breakup payment of $352.8 million to Time Warner and $87.5 million to Comcast. This effectively reduces the $17.6 billion sale of the bankrupt cable operator's assets by $440 million. (REUTERS)

EURONEXT DEAL 'GOING FORWARD' -- The proposed union of the New York Stock Exchange and Euronext is going ahead, NYSE Group's chief executive, John A. Thain, said in an interview broadcast yesterday, adding that a rival bid from Deutsche Borse was not competitive.
 The N.Y.S.E. agreed this month to buy Euronext, which operates the Paris, Amsterdam, Brussels and Lisbon exchanges, for $9.96 billion. Deutsche Borse has not released terms of its bid, but analysts have estimated it to be worth around $11 billion. (ASSOCIATED PRESS)

VW UNION REJECTS PAY OFFER -- Volkswagen's main union rejected yesterday a pay raise offer of roughly 1.5 percent a year for 3,800 employees working in a special program at the carmaker, Europe's largest.
 The company's proposal was ''fully inadequate,'' said Hartmut Meine, the IG Metall union's chief negotiator with Volkswagen. IG Metall wants a 5 percent increase.


GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks the daily closing price of Carnival shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); LAWYERS (90%); SENTENCING (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); JUDGES (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); TAKEOVERS (88%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (85%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); APPROVALS (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (76%); CONSPIRACY (76%); PLANT CLOSINGS (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); PENSION FUNDS (70%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (69%); POWER PLANTS (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (66%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (66%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (65%); APPAREL MFG (65%); SHAREHOLDERS (62%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%); HUMAN TRAFFICKING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (56%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (56%); MICRON TECHNOLOGY INC (53%); HYDRO-QUEBEC (51%); BROOKFIELD ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%)

TICKER: MU (NASDAQ) (53%); BAMA (AMS) (51%); BAM.A (TSX) (51%); BAM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (56%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (56%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (53%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (53%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (51%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (51%)

PERSON: CARL ICAHN (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOISE, ID, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (74%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (51%) IDAHO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (74%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (66%); QUEBEC, CANADA (51%) CHILE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2006



356 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Outline a Platform for the Fall

BYLINE: By KATE ZERNIKE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 16 

 BODY:
Declaring their party ''ready for this election,'' Democratic leaders in Congress on Friday announced the platform they hope to use to regain the majority in November.
 Their plan, presented at a news conference, included promises to raise the minimum wage, make college tuition tax deductible, eliminate subsidies for oil and gas companies, negotiate lower drug prices for the prescription plan passed last year, increase stem cell research and restore a pay-as-you-go policy for federal budgets.
They noted that Congress had not increased the minimum wage, now at $5.15, since 1997, a fact that Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the House Democratic leader, declared ''immoral.'' Their proposal to raise it to $7.25, they said, would benefit seven million workers. They rejected the argument that such a raise would shrink the economy, noting that jobs increased after the last raise. 
 The Democratic leaders also pledged a 25 percent reduction in oil use by 2020, largely by developing fuel alternatives in the United States. ''We want to send our energy money to the Midwest, not the Middle East,'' Ms. Pelosi said.
 Over and over, the leaders contrasted Republican priorities -- which they deemed ''the wrong direction'' -- with their own -- ''a new direction.'' Under Republican rule, they said, health care, college and gas costs have risen faster than incomes. 
 While Republican leaders vowed Friday to eliminate the estate tax by July 4, Democrats argued that doing so would cost $1 trillion in the first 10 years -- more than enough, they said, to pay for every student who graduated from high school this year to go to a public university. A tax cut passed a month ago, they said, would save millionaires $42,000, more than what four minimum-wage earners make in a year.
 The Democrats sought to link their Congressional opponents to a president whose approval ratings have languished.
 ''Americans can't afford the priorities of this Bush administration any longer,'' said Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois. ''Democrats are ready for this election. We have the message, we have the candidates, we're bringing that message to the American people.''
 The Democrats' declaration comes after two weeks that have reversed a run of bad news for Republicans. The Republicans won a special election in the California Congressional district that both sides saw as a bellwether for November; and a special prosecutor investigating the leak of a C.I.A. operative's name announced he would not indict Karl Rove, the president's senior adviser, whom Democrats hold up as a symbol of Republican corruption. 
 And the president's trip to Iraq and the killing of the Iraqi insurgent leader Abu Masab al-Zarqawi gave Republicans an opportunity to rebut the argument that the war was going badly.
 Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic leader, insisted that ''none of us are running victory laps'' for the fall election. ''The election is not being held today,'' Mr. Reid said, but he added, ''If it were, the Senate would be tied.'' 
 Republicans mocked the Democrats' platform, with a spokesman for Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the majority leader, issuing a one-line statement: ''When you're going in circles like the Democrats, it just seems like you're going in a new direction.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Harry Reid, center, talked with Senator Richard J. Durbin while Representative Steny H. Hoyer, the minority whip in the House, spoke to reporters yesterday at the Democrats' news conference on Capitol Hill. (Photo by Brendan Smialowski for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MINIMUM WAGE (90%); TAX LAW (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TUITION FEES (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); TAX RELIEF (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); ESTATE TAX (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); BUDGETS (77%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); DRUG PRICES (76%); BIOETHICS (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); HIGH SCHOOLS (68%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (60%); INDICTMENTS (60%); CORRUPTION (60%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (56%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (56%) Labor; Wages and Salaries; Minimum Wage; Medicine and Health; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Election Issues; Health Insurance and Managed Care

PERSON: NANCY PELOSI (73%); HARRY REID (58%); STENY HOYER (58%); KARL ROVE (58%); RICHARD DURBIN (58%) Kate Zernike

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2006



357 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1033 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-8

Pentagon Finds Abuse In Old Iraq Interrogations
American Special Operations troops employed a set of harsh, unauthorized interrogation techniques against detainees in Iraq during a four-month period in early 2004, long after approval for their use was rescinded, according to a Pentagon inquiry. A1

The House approved a resolution promising ''completion of the mission'' in Iraq, in a vote reflecting partisan divisions over the war. 
 A7

Two G.I.'s were missing and one was killed after they came under attack at a traffic point southwest of Baghdad, an area with one of the most extensive strongholds of Al Qaeda in Iraq, the military said. A7

Iran Scrutinizing Incentive Plan
Iran's president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, said his country was ''carefully considering'' an international proposal to resolve the dispute over its uranium enrichment program. A5

No Verdict in China Trial
The closed trial of a researcher for The New York Times accused of disclosing state secrets and fraud ended in Beijing but a verdict may not come for a month. A3

North Korea Works on Missile
North Korea appears to have stepped up preparations to test an intercontinental ballistic missile, perhaps as early as this weekend, American officials said. A8

Rebels to Join Nepalese State
Maoist rebels agreed to join Nepal's new government under an accord that obliges both politicians and rebels to give up key pillars of power, in a statement issued by the Maoist leader and the interim prime minister after a meeting. A5

Palestinian Aid Plan Gains Favor
The Bush administration said it would go along with a European proposal to transfer funds through the World Bank to pay stipends to poor Palestinians, some of whom had previously drawn salaries from the Palestinian government. A4

NATIONAL A9-11

As Oil Rises in Markets, Rigs Rise in Mississippi
The high price of oil, hovering around $70 a barrel, has brought a nearly dormant Mississippi petroleum industry roaring to life. Wells abandoned long ago by the major oil companies are being reopened by independent operators. A9

U.S. Still Far From Prepared
States and cities in hurricane zones generally have better plans to deal with disaster than do other regions, but the nation's overall level of preparedness is still far from sufficient, a new report by the Department of Homeland Security says. A10

A Memorial for Columbine
Construction of a long-delayed and scaled-down memorial to the victims of the Columbine High School shootings began with a ground-breaking ceremony and a speech by former President Bill Clinton commemorating the incident. A10

Report on Death of Journalist
Firefighters, ambulance technicians, police officers and the staff at a Washington hospital committed ''multiple individual failures'' in responding to the ultimately fatal beating of a journalist last January, an official inquiry concluded. A9

Democrats Unveil Platform
Democratic leaders in Congress announced the platform they hope to use to regain the majority in November, including promises to raise the minimum wage, make college tuition tax deductible, negotiate lower drug prices for the prescription plan passed last year, and eliminate subsidies for oil and gas companies. A11

Constitutional Showdown
A showdown between Congress and the Bush administration moved into federal court, as a judge peppered lawyers about the legal and historic significance of the F.B.I.'s search for evidence of bribery at the legislative offices of Representative William J. Jefferson, Democrat of Louisiana. A11

NEW YORK/REGION B1-5

After Years in the Hudson, The Intrepid to Get Repairs
The Intrepid, a World War II-era aircraft carrier that has served as a military museum and has been docked on the West Side of Manhattan for almost 25 years, will be dragged down the Hudson River to a dry dock sometime in the next several months to be patched up and repainted, its owners have told some government officials. A1

Charges in Cliffside Suicide
Victor K. Han, whose stepped out of the family minivan before his wife drove it off a cliff in Bear Mountain State Park, killing herself, has been charged with promoting a suicide attempt, the police said. B1

Drop in 5th Graders' Scores
More than 8,900 New York City fifth graders are in danger of being left back as a result of failing scores on annual reading and math tests, city education officials said, a sharp contrast with last year's results. B1

Religion Journal B5

ARTS B7-17

Dan Rather Exiting CBS
Having stepped down as anchor of the ''CBS Evening News'' last year, Dan Rather's contract with CBS, and ''60 Minutes,'' is not scheduled to expire until late November. But he said he and the network were close to an agreement that would end his tenure early, and that he was seriously considering other opportunities. A1

Ancient Tomb Unveiled
Hoping for leniency in a coming trial, an accused tomb robber led Italian officials two weeks ago to a startling discovery on a sun-scorched hilltop less than 13 miles north of Rome: the oldest Etruscan burial chamber ever found. B7

BUSINESS DAY C1-9

Restrictions at Wikipedia
Wikipedia, the online encyclopedia that ''anyone can edit,'' is not the experiment in freewheeling, collective creativity that it might seem to be. In response to well-publicized reports that certain articles are being vandalized, administrators are now protecting some entries. A1

Microsoft Faces Challenges
Microsoft stands astride the computing world much as I.B.M. once did, but now its task is to avoid repeating I.B.M.'s mistakes. Microsoft's revenues have never been higher, but it has yet to profit from the array of businesses that it has entered beyond those it has already dominated. C1

G.E.'s New Appliances
As a result of its commanding position in the major appliance market, General Electric has a new line of products aimed at customers far more concerned with gadgets and style than utilitarian function. C1

Business Digest C2

EDITORIAL A12-13

Editorials: A problem that can't be ignored; where did the good investments go?; keeping the faith with AmeriCorps; the art of the deal.

Columns: John Tierney.

Bridge B11
Crossword B16
Obituaries C10
TV Listings B17
Weather B18

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); INTERROGATION OF SUSPECTS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); JOURNALISM (84%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); APPROVALS (77%); TERRORISM (75%); HOMICIDE (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); VERDICTS (72%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (72%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (71%); SHOOTINGS (70%); SCHOOL VIOLENCE (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (70%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (67%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (67%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (67%); OIL & GAS PRICES (67%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (66%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (66%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (60%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: JAMA'AT AL-TAWHID WAL-JIHAD (AL-QAIDA IN IRAQ) (56%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (78%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (75%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); CHINA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); NEPAL (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2006



358 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1077 words

HEADLINE: A Gaza Political Figure Says He's Become a Scapegoat

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER

DATELINE: GAZA, June 16 

 BODY:
Not long ago, Muhammad Dahlan was the most powerful figure in Gaza. Picked by Yasir Arafat to head the preventive security force and the then-ruling Fatah party, he had few rivals.
 Today, Mr. Dahlan remains Fatah's most powerful figure here, but that makes him the man the new ruling party, Hamas, most likes to despise. It accuses him of collaborating with the Americans and the Israelis to foment chaos and undermine the Hamas government.
Mr. Dahlan, 44, a trim man who rose to power and comparative wealth from the slums of the Khan Yunis refugee camp here, tosses off the criticism, saying Hamas is simply looking for a scapegoat for its own mounting difficulties.
 ''The main reason for recent clashes is the sense of Hamas's failure,'' he said Wednesday in a 90-minute interview in his well-guarded office, referring to the internecine Palestinian battles. ''Hamas is in a crisis, and thus the Palestinians are in a crisis, and they try to push this crisis onto others.'' 
 Mr. Dahlan was in full flow, speaking with steady contempt. ''They used to run a club here and a foundation there, and they thought governing would be easy,'' he said. ''They thought dealing with Israel would be easy. They thought they could concentrate on the Arab world and the rest didn't matter.'' 
 He quoted Khaled Meshal, one of Hamas's leaders in exile, as saying that if the doors of the West were closed, those of the East would be open. ''But a week later they discovered it's different,'' Mr. Dahlan said. ''They're spinning in a circle and looking for a scapegoat -- first it's Fatah, then Dahlan. They say they're besieged, but Arafat was besieged in his bedroom! We've been besieged for six years! But we in Fatah never did anything to provoke civil war, and we never stopped salaries either.''
 Mr. Dahlan described a meeting on Wednesday with the Palestinian Authority president, Mahmoud Abbas, known as Abu Mazen, of Fatah, and the prime minister, Ismail Haniya, of Hamas. ''Abu Mazen asked him, 'What's your program? How will you get out of this crisis? What can you tell us?' And Hamas always says, 'God will help us.' Fine. We all believe in God, but politics requires an answer.''
 Mr. Abbas, with the encouragement of Mr. Dahlan, has seized on a document prepared by prisoners, led by a jailed Fatah leader, Marwan Barghouti, that calls for a unified Palestinian government and program that would support a Palestinian state within the boundaries before the 1967 war, thus implicitly recognizing Israel. If Hamas does not come to an agreement with him to accept the principles set out in the document, Mr. Abbas has declared a July 26 referendum on the proposal, a vote that Hamas says is illegal.
 ''Marwan did a great job in the jail on the document,'' Mr. Dahlan said of Mr. Barghouti, getting a senior Hamas prisoner to sign what ''is the first document in our lives'' that all Palestinian factions managed to negotiate. ''I told Abu Mazen, 'Don't even read the document, just accept it.' And Abu Mazen used the document in a good way,'' he said, presenting Hamas with a political conundrum.
 Ghazi Hamad, the Hamas government spokesman, said in an interview that he was optimistic that the Abbas-Hamas talks would lead to a political agreement without a referendum, allowing Mr. Abbas, as head of the Palestine Liberation Organization, full authority to negotiate with Israel on the basis of the 1967 boundaries.
 But Mr. Hamad conceded that the economic siege of the Hamas government by the West had put the government into crisis, unable to pay most salaries for nearly four months. 
 Mr. Hamad said Mr. Abbas had told Hamas that if it approved the political document, the West could be persuaded to lift the boycott. 
 On Friday in Brussels, the European Union said it had completed a temporary aid mechanism to provide allowances to the poorest in Gaza, ensure fuel supplies and help keep health and social services going without dealing with Hamas, which it considers a terrorist group.
 The Europeans hope to get agreement from Washington and start this aid in July, with an initial European allocation of about $125 million, about the cost of one month's salary bill for the Palestinian Authority.
 The Europeans also want Israel to use the mechanism and stop withholding some $50 million a month in taxes and duties it collects for the Palestinians.
 Mr. Dahlan said the economic boycott hurts ordinary Palestinians and not Hamas itself, which has its own income. Despite what Hamas believes, he said, he wants it to succeed while Fatah reforms itself.
 ''We're not against Hamas politically,'' he said. ''But they don't have the right to starve the people. If you want to fight the U.S. and Israel and Fatah, fine, but don't do it on the backs of the people.'' 
 Mr. Dahlan seemed to be trying to project indifference about Hamas's attacks. ''They say you're corrupt, or a collaborator or an unbeliever, depending on your luck that day,'' he said.
 As for longstanding accusations that he used his previous positions to benefit from Palestinian Authority monopolies on oil sales and cement, as well as from building contracts, exit permits and importing goods through the Karni crossing between Israel and Gaza, Mr. Dahlan scoffed. 
 ''Hamas now has all the corruption files,'' he said. ''I choose silence. If I wear a nice necktie, they say I'm corrupt, and if I take it off, they say it's false modesty.''
 The biggest problem now, he said, is that ''only Israel knows what it wants.'' In his view, Israel wants to ensure that it has no Palestinian partner with whom to negotiate so it can continue its unilateral actions, ''including the confiscation of our lands, the enlarging and deepening of the colonialism in the settlements and the assassination of innocents.''
 The assassination of innocents? Mr. Dahlan backtracked slightly, talking of the anger among Palestinians about the explosion on the Beit Lahiya beach that killed seven members of the Ghaliya family and the deaths four days later of eight more civilians in an attack on an Islamic Jihad rocket team.
 Israel says its shells could not have caused the explosion on the beach. Mr. Dahlan scoffed again. ''It's a scandal, and the Americans don't even condemn it,'' he said. ''It wasn't the Israelis? Who was it? The Palestinian air force?''
 His mood switched again. In a way, he mused, it did not matter. ''Palestinians will believe Israel did it, even if it didn't,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Muhammad Dahlan, a leader of the long-ruling Palestinian movement Fatah, walking out of his office in Gaza with a bodyguard in February. (Photo by George Azar for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAMAS (92%); AL FATAH (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); INTERVIEWS (73%); SLUM DWELLINGS (70%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (70%); REFUGEES (70%); POLITICS (65%) United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (94%) Fatah; Hamas

PERSON: MAHMOUD ABBAS (89%) Steven Erlanger; Muhammad Dahlan

GEOGRAPHIC: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (93%) Israel; Gaza Strip

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2006



359 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 278 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Agrees to Plan for Stipends for Some Palestinians 

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 16 

 BODY:
The Bush administration said Friday that it would go along with a European proposal to transfer funds through the World Bank to pay stipends to poor Palestinians, some of whom had previously drawn salaries from the Palestinian government. 
 The European plan would also pay ''emergency allowances,'' but not salaries, to some nurses, doctors and others in health care.
The European Union had earlier proposed a transfer of money from European governments to a ''mechanism'' set up by the World Bank to pay salaries for nurses, doctors and others in the Palestinian government. But because the government is now run by Hamas, which the United States considers a terrorist organization, the administration had opposed payment of salaries as a violation of American laws barring bank transfers to terrorists.
 But the chief European envoy on the issue, Benita Ferrero-Waldner, said Friday that she would visit Israel and the Palestinian territories on Monday to work out final details in a way she hoped would satisfy American objections.
 Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said the United States was ''close to substantial agreement'' with Ms. Ferrero-Waldner's proposal.
 A senior State Department official, going further, said there was an agreement in principle among the United States, Europe, Russia and the United Nations that would be announced as early as this weekend. 
 The official, speaking anonymously because details remained to be worked out, said the breakthrough in the talks had occurred because the payments would be ''based on need'' and not on who had been employed by the Palestinian government. But he said some government employees might qualify.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (95%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); NURSES & NURSING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HAMAS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); HEALTH CARE (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); TERRORISM (74%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (66%) United States International Relations; Palestinians; Wages and Salaries; Foreign Aid

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); HAMAS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (55%) European Union; International Bank for Reconstruction and Development

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (73%) Steven R Weisman; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); ISRAEL (92%) Israel

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2006



360 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1789 words

HEADLINE: In Race for Mexico's Presidency, Populist Tilts at a Privileged Elite

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, June 16 

 BODY:
It is the fourth stop on a long, rainy day of campaigning, but when the leftist candidate rolls into the small coastal town of Tonala, in southern Mexico, the soaked crowd comes alive with deafening chants of ''Obrador! Obrador!''
 The candidate, Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, gray-haired and slightly stooped, with a nasal voice and a boyish, freckled face, seems to suck up their energy, amplify it, and hurl it back in the form of a simple message. For too long, he booms, politicians, business owners and their families have gotten rich and evaded taxes while the working class has remained mired in poverty.
''The poor pay taxes on everything they buy,'' he says, cutting to the heart of his theme. ''Those of the pure upper class, the influential, don't pay the taxes.''
 With less than three weeks before the July 2 election, Mr. Lopez Obrador, a leftist former Mexico City mayor, is locked in a dead heat with Felipe Calderon, the conservative candidate from President Vicente Fox's National Action Party. After seesawing for weeks, all opinion polls now suggest the race is too close to call. 
 Win or lose, Mr. Lopez Obrador remains the focus of the election, a polarizing figure who has dragged Mexico's enduring class conflict into the light. In recent speeches, he has vowed to end what he calls ''the privileges'' of a powerful oligarchy that has dominated politics here for centuries. 
 His fiery appeals have turned the election into a referendum on whether the country wants to stick with the free trade and pro-business policies of the Fox administration or join the growing number of Latin American countries -- Venezuela, Bolivia and Peru among them -- that have elected populist left-wingers who want to assert greater state control over the economy and funnel more wealth to the poor. 
 But to describe Mr. Lopez Obrador as another populist promising handouts to get votes is to miss the most salient part of his message for his supporters. In their eyes, he is a reformer who has promised to stamp out corruption and make corporations and the rich pay more taxes. He has vowed to end the sweetheart deals for government contracts, to stop the government from bailing out failing businesses and to slash the salaries of top bureaucrats and elected officials, who make far more than their counterparts in the United States.
 In New York City terms, he wants to dismantle Tammany Hall. 
 ''This is the principle problem of the country,'' he said in an interview. ''Because these privileges at the same time impoverish people and affect the country's development.''
 Mr. Lopez Obrador's adversaries and critics portray him as a dangerous populist who will bankrupt the country with social welfare schemes. They say he shows an authoritarian streak, ignoring laws he disagrees with and filling the streets with protesters if things do not go his way. They accuse him of being paranoid, too, seeing plots everywhere. Some biographers maintain he sees himself as the embodiment of the nation's poor, a Christ-like savior.
 ''He sees himself as the incarnation of the masses,'' said George W. Grayson, a professor at the College of William and Mary who has just published a biography of Mr. Lopez Obrador. ''He views himself, I believe, as a messiah to uplift the downtrodden.''
 Mr. Lopez Obrador calls this litany of characterizations ridiculous, especially the notion that he has a messiah complex. ''Sometimes it makes me laugh, because there is no basis for it,'' he said. ''The only thing is I support popular causes with conviction, and to them it seems like I'm causing them harm. They also say that I am authoritarian. It's not true. I never have been. I'm a democrat.''
 If Mr. Lopez Obrador's rhetoric is full of class conflict that rattles business owners and the middle to upper class, there is a reason for it. Poverty, job creation and wealth distribution are the most urgent issues facing modern Mexico, and the failure to address them has driven some 12 million Mexicans north to the United States. 
 About half of Mexicans still live below the poverty line -- earning less than $4 per family member each day -- and one in five earns too little to buy enough food for a healthful diet, according to the World Bank. More than 45 percent of the nation's wealth is held by the elite 10 percent, and that concentration may be even greater since most of Mexico's superrich do not respond to government surveys, poverty experts say. The gap between rich and poor has closed only slightly since the free trade agreement with the United States took effect more than a decade ago.
 Tax evasion is rampant. The last official study, conducted in 2002, estimated about 40 percent of businesses and 70 percent of professionals and small business owners either cheat on their taxes or pay none at all. The poor do not pay income tax, but are hit with a 15 percent sales tax every time they buy clothes or other durable goods.
 How to remedy these problems is where Mr. Lopez Obrador and his opponent divide. Mr. Calderon insists that staying the course on free trade will bring jobs and growth that will help everyone. He has proposed cutting income taxes for the rich and businesses by putting in place a single rate, which he says will spur investment.
 On the stump, Mr. Lopez Obrador, on the other hand, calls for ''profound change, a change to the roots,'' and tells crowds that Mexico today is very like Mexico under the dictatorship of Porfirio Diaz, just before the 1910 revolution. The government, he says, serves the interests of a few. 
 ''The problem is with a minority that has privileges and wants to maintain those privileges,'' he said during a swing last week through Chiapas, the southern state that is home to Tonala, and where complaints of poverty and political exclusion fueled an insurrection in 1994. 
 Mr. Calderon has charged that Mr. Lopez Obrador's prescriptions would lead to financial ruin and claims that as mayor of Mexico City Mr. Lopez Obrador piled up debt to finance social programs, while presiding over a steep rise in crime and corruption. The underlying message in most of Mr. Calderon's attack advertisements is that Mr. Lopez Obrador is a leftist dictator in the making.
 But Mr. Lopez Obrador's record as mayor does not suggest he has a wild-eyed revolutionary lurking in his soul. It is true that the city's debt rose by a third during his tenure, but he also improved tax collection dramatically, by about 44 percent. He slashed more than 500 jobs from the bureaucracy, eliminated perquisites for officials and cut salaries. In the end, he balanced the budget, raising both spending and revenue by about 60 percent.
 He did ignore or refuse to enforce some laws the city assembly had passed that he did not agree with, among them a measure to require auto insurance.
 At the same time, he established a package of welfare programs, like cash grants for the elderly, people with disabilities and single mothers, benefits which made him immensely popular, despite continuing problems with water supply and crime.
 His plan for the country is similar. He says he would take those programs and others like them nationwide and pay for them by cracking down on tax evasion, cutting salaries of top government officials, and slashing other waste to raise about $20 billion. 
 He hopes this infusion of money will jump-start a stagnant economy and create a ripple effect. He also believes that the country's oil wealth, properly channeled, could be used to industrialize Mexico, rather than being used as a kind of slush fund for the government, as it has been for decades.
 Aware of jitters among investors, Mr. Lopez Obrador has dispatched his economic adviser, Rogelio Ramirez, to New York City several times to assure bankers and Wall Street brokerages that Mr. Lopez Obrador will not provoke an economic crisis. ''He's extremely pragmatic on the operational side,'' Mr. Ramirez said.
 Mr. Lopez Obrador, a 53-year-old widower and father of three boys, spent his early years in the riverside village of Tepetitan in Tabasco, the son of an oil worker turned shopkeeper. 
 He studied social sciences at the national university in Mexico City. His first job was running an institute for the Chontal Indians. For six years, he lived in the Indian communities, sleeping in dirt-floor shacks. It was there, he says, his commitment to the poor was forged. 
 Though he started out in the Institutional Revolutionary Party, the machine that controlled Mexico for seven decades until 2000, Mr. Lopez Obrador quit in 1983, he says, because it became clear the pro-democracy reformers within the party would not succeed in Tabasco. In 1988, he joined what would later become the left-wing Party of the Democratic Revolution and lost a race for governor of Tabasco. He lost again in 1994, and finally won the Mexico City mayor's seat in 2000.
 Though he talks little about his home life, by the standards of Mexican politicians he lives like an ascetic in a modest house and drives an inexpensive car. He has promised to cut the president's salary in half if he is elected.
 On the campaign trail, he refuses to stand under an awning if the crowd is in the sun or rain. He takes commercial flights to campaign events and often stays in cheap hotels. On one recent trip through the state of Coahuila, he washed and changed clothes in a filthy bathroom at a gasoline station before a rally. On last week's tour through Chiapas, his car had a minor accident with a van carrying a dozen people to work. He climbed out and apologized to the commuters.
 To the people who come to his rallies, mostly poor, some illiterate, Mr. Lopez Obrador is one of them. He speaks in folksy rhythms and idioms they recognize. They affectionately call him by his first name or Amlo, a nickname formed by his initials.
 ''The man seems very honest, very simple,'' said Maria Consuelo Ayala Perez, a mother of 10 in Cintalapa, Chiapas, last week. ''He's done a lot of good in Mexico City. When Fox came into office, he said there was going to be a change, but a change was never seen.''
 For some of Mr. Lopez Obrador's detractors, it is this very ability to communicate with ordinary Mexicans, especially the poor, that makes him a dangerous man. Mexico, as well as the rest of Latin America, has a long history of people who have used the desperation of the poor as a tool to whip up anger against the rich and gain power. Some critics count President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela among them.
 ''I think Amlo truly feels he's the Redeemer of Mexico, but his reign is of this world,'' said Enrique Krauze, a historian. ''For this reason, even though he says, 'I don't want power for power's sake,' he wants it immensely.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Half of all Mexicans live in poverty, and many of them, including at this rally in Chiapas, see Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador as one of their own. (Photo by Adriana Zehbrauskas for The New York Times)(pg. A8)
 Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador wants a better deal for the poor. (Photo by Adriana Zehbrauskas for The New York Times)(pg. A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (87%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); MAYORS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); TAX FRAUD (75%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); TRENDS (71%); CONSERVATISM (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); REFERENDUMS (68%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); CORRUPTION (60%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (60%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (60%); POLLS & SURVEYS (54%) Politics and Government; Elections; Economic Conditions and Trends; Free Trade Area of the Americas

ORGANIZATION: FREE TRADE AREA OF THE AMERICAS (59%)

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (79%); FELIPE CALDERON (72%) James C Jr Mckinley; Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador; Felipe Calderon; Vicente (Pres) Fox

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) MEXICO (98%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); PERU (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%) Mexico; Latin America; Mexico

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2006



361 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; FILM; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1158 words

HEADLINE: In Search Of a Home For Scarlett And Kong

BYLINE: By BRYAN REESMAN

 BODY:
THOUGH rife with familiar landmarks -- the Paramount gate, the Chinese Theater, that big self-advertisement on the hill -- Hollywood is still waiting for its first large-scale temple: a museum devoted to the film industry and medium. 
 Two years ago the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences said it intended to fill the void by investing a share of its Oscar-show nest egg (more than $160 million and still growing, as of the group's last annual report) in a movie museum. The academy appears to be closing in slowly on a plan to build an 80,000-square-foot, multibuilding complex somewhere in Hollywood.
''The museum will be a world-class facility,'' John Pavlik, director of communications for the academy, said in a prepared statement. ''Something that illuminates the past as a stepping stone to the future and does it in such a way that it is interesting, exciting, user-friendly, interactive, high-tech and makes you want to come back again.'' 
 Meanwhile a handful of institutions around the world are already chasing that will-o'-the-wisp, film history. And they have learned that it isn't easily captured within four walls, not least because moviedom's ephemera have already become the stuff of a booming Internet-driven marketplace.
 ''Film productions like to sell, not to loan or donate, original items,'' said Rolf Giesen, curator for the German Cinematheque's Museum for Film and Television in Berlin, a six-year-old institution run by the German government. ''We really had to work hard to get items from Hollywood movies,'' Dr. Giesen said of the museum's initial development in the 1980's. ''If eBay had been around, we wouldn't have had a chance.''
 A popular attraction at the German museum is the ''Artificial Worlds'' exhibition, which Dr. Giesen has overseen for 15 years in various forms. He said that, when combined with his own personal holdings, it is the second-largest special effects collection in the world, after one owned by Lucasfilm. Stocked with sci-fi and fantasy artifacts, it houses, among other things, a Darth Vader costume, reproductions of figures from ''Alien'' and ''Westworld'' and original Ray Harryhausen models from films like ''The Golden Voyage of Sinbad'' and ''Clash of the Titans.''
 Yet the museum's collection -- which includes one million stills, tens of thousands of posters, 16,000 film titles, 24,000 film prints and thousands of original set designs -- might never have reached critical mass were it not for the initial acquisition of personal collections from the German film collector Albert Fidelius and the German director and film historian Gerhard Lamprecht. That Hollywood must now compete with avid collectors for its own artifacts speaks to what author David Thomson, an adviser to the academy's planned museum, calls the film industry's ''cheerful neglect'' of cultural history. 
 Mr. Thomson recalled a trip to the old Pathe lot in Culver City in 1989, where he learned that pieces of sets and props from films as revered as ''King Kong,'' ''Citizen Kane'' and ''Gone With the Wind'' were being surreptitiously stolen by studio insiders who knew their value. ''Basically that's the way Hollywood has regarded its treasury,'' he said. ''It's been pillaged over the years.''
 In addition to overheated collectors, any new film museum will have to deal with problems of approach and economics that are already challenging others.
 One of the more ambitious attempts to set film in a museum environment, for instance, was the British Film Institute's Museum of the Moving Image, which was praised for its innovative spirit but closed amid economic troubles in 1999 after an 11-year run. 
 The museum chronicled the history and development of moving images from pre-photography through to the digital era. Brian Robinson, communications manager for culture and heritage at the British Film Institute, said the moving-image museum displayed more than 1,000 hours of film extracts and attracted some 450,000 visitors annually. 
 Among the museum's more striking exhibits was a replica Lenin-era ''Kino train,'' a propagandistic cinema on wheels used to promote political ideals to the Russian populace. But overcrowding during peak hours, inconsistent attendance and competition with a growing number of free museums contributed to its downfall. (The museum's former space is now being redeveloped to focus on the collections of the British Film Institute's National Film and Television Archive, and will be called bfi southbank.)
 Elsewhere a handful of museums have focused on film around the world. The National Cinema Museum in Turin, Italy, for instance, is housed in a former synagogue, with 10 ''chapels'' devoted to themes like ''Love and Death,'' ''Animated Cinema'' and ''Horror and Fantasy.'' The Cinematheque Francaise in Paris is considered to be the largest archive of film and film-related documents in the world. The director Peter Jackson is considering building a museum in his native New Zealand.
 In New York, the Museum of Modern Art's department of film and media has done its share to preserve cinematic history with a daily film program in two theaters and in a dedicated media gallery. It also offers exhibitions in other parts of the museum, including a recent, unorthodox Pixar exhibition that spread film, sculpture and digital installations across four floors. 
 Taking a different tack, the Museum of the Moving Image in Astoria, Queens, covers film, television and digital media like video games and computer art. Its central exhibition, ''Behind the Screen,'' explores the various creative processes involved in creating and marketing moving images, using everything from commissioned artworks to interactive experiences. The museum, which presents more than 300 screenings per year and organizes discussions with top directors and actors, plans an expansion to 75,000 square feet, bringing it close in size to what the motion picture academy proposes.
 While specific plans for the exhibits at the academy remain far in the future, Mr. Thomson suggested considerable interaction with visitors, like film sets where museumgoers could participate in a production.
 But Mr. Robinson of the British Film Institute cautioned against pushing such gimmicks into theme-park territory. ''You don't want to be in the business of just giving people a chance to stand on a set that looks like 'Titanic' or see the 'Jaws' shark again,'' he said. ''It's not a thrill ride. What you really want is to explore, explain and entertain. The final aim is getting people to see and learn more.''
 And Dr. Giesen of the Berlin museum said that any true repository of Hollywood history should be international in scope, recognizing the contribution of immigrant filmmakers and actors and their respective cinematic traditions. 
 ''Hollywood is not America,'' he said. ''Hollywood is like Mecca. It's not only considered American, it's considered the cinema of the world.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Moloch, the god in Giovanni Pastrone's ''Cabiria,'' presiding over the main room at the National Cinema Museum in Italy, and, above, as it looked in that film. (Photographs courtesy the Museo Nazionale del Cinema, Turin, Italy)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (91%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FILM HISTORY (89%); HISTORIC SITES (89%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (78%); SPECIAL EFFECTS (78%); EXHIBITIONS (77%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (77%); ANNUAL REPORTS (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (73%) Motion Pictures; Museums

ORGANIZATION: ACADEMY OF MOTION PICTURE ARTS & SCIENCES (84%) Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences ; Ebay

PERSON: Bryan Reesman

GEOGRAPHIC: TURIN, ITALY (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (58%) GERMANY (90%); ITALY (79%); UNITED STATES (58%) Hollywood (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2006



362 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 6; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2994 words

HEADLINE: Is This Game Already Over?

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
AFTER a Long Island charity that provides financial support for 190 current or former firefighters lost $614,036 in the stock market during the Internet bubble several years ago, it eventually did what many aggrieved investors do: it filed an arbitration case against its former broker, Andrew Sirico, contending that he had churned its account to rack up trading fees and had improperly invested its funds in speculative securities. 
 As is also routine in the brokerage business, a panel of three arbitrators -- one representing the securities industry and two designated as public investor representatives -- convened to hear the case of the charity, the East Islip Volunteer Firemen's Benevolent Association. But if the association's members hoped to get a speedy hearing, they were disappointed. Nearly 15 months have passed since the association filed its case, and the most basic facts in the dispute have yet to be argued.
Most of the delay is attributable to the time that Stuart D. Meissner, the association's lawyer in New York, has spent arguing that arbitrators assigned to the case were either biased or improperly classified as investor representatives when, instead, they were closely associated with the brokerage industry. Mr. Meissner said in an interview that he had found what he considered to be conflicts of interest with all five panelists assigned by NASD to the case. 
 Four of five candidates nominated to serve on the panel withdrew after Mr. Meissner's challenges. NASD Dispute Resolution, which is one of the securities industry's two main self-regulatory bodies, rejected his challenge on the fifth panelist. That arbitrator is now the panel's chairman.
 Panelists who decide private arbitration cases are supposed to be completely neutral, like jurors hearing public court cases. But lawyers say that arbitrators with undisclosed ties to Wall Street or other potential conflicts that might disqualify them are common, as the East Islip firefighters' case, and others, demonstrate. Lawyers representing investors uncovered the possible conflicts in those cases, not NASD or the Big Board, also indicating that self-regulators have holes in their screening processes.
 ''In every instance we uncovered,'' Mr. Meissner said of his case, ''it is clear the screening process is not being enforced and there is very little being done about checking on conflicts.'' 
 NASD says it does not discuss individual cases, but that its extensive screening process and the disclosure demands required of arbitrators keep its system fair and reliable. The New York Stock Exchange, which handles far fewer arbitration hearings than NASD, said the same about its resolution procedures.
 In theory, private arbitration panels are supposed to offer a fast and fair system in which customers can resolve complaints with their brokers. Last year, according to NASD, the average turnaround time for a case was 14.3 months, down from 15.4 months in 2004. In 1995, the average was 10.5 months.
 But from start to finish, the securities industry itself oversees the arbitration process. Brokerage firms require clients to file grievances with private arbitrators, not in state or federal court. Arbitration is the only forum that investors can use to resolve disputes -- opening the door to the possibility of lax enforcement or, at worst, outright compromises of the system.
 BOB SILHAN is secretary of the East Islip association, and its members include retired, indigent and disabled firefighters. ''The biggest impact this has had is on our members' families,'' he said, adding that the association can give its families only about $3,500 in annual death benefits. ''We were on the threshold of trying to increase that when all this happened.''
 Securities arbitration has become a thriving business. Last year, 6,074 cases were filed with NASD Dispute Resolution, which oversees more than 90 percent of investor complaints. The peak year for NASD cases was 2003, when 8,945 were filed -- most of which, lawyers say, were related to the stock market fall that began in 2000. The number of cases filed this year is down 13 percent from 2005, NASD said. 
 According to NASD, the percentage of cases in which the plaintiff won an award has declined steadily since 2001. Then, 54 percent of cases were won by plaintiffs. By last year, that figure had fallen to 43 percent.
 Arbitration as a way to resolve investor disputes really took off in 1987, after the Supreme Court ruled in a case known as Shearson/American Express v. McMahon that account forms signed by customers requiring that disputes be resolved in arbitration were enforceable contracts. Brokerage firms soon required all customers to sign such documents.
 Securities lawyers who have conducted arbitrations for many years say that during the 1990's, arbitration seemed to work well -- that it was an efficient, low-cost process that bypassed the increasingly clogged court system. No longer. 
 ''Securities arbitration has become much more like formal court litigation in terms of the parties' investment of time and money,'' said Lewis D. Lowenfels, an expert in securities law at Tolins & Lowenfels in New York. ''What started as a relatively swift and economical process for a public customer claimant to seek justice has evolved into a costly extended adversarial proceeding dominated by trial lawyers and the usual litigation tactics.''
 At the same time that brokerage firms defending themselves in arbitration are resorting to drawn-out litigation maneuvers, some lawyers say panelists are unwilling to push the defendants to produce documents they must maintain. 
 ''There are brokerage firms and lawyers who in the face of rules requiring them to make documents available to the claimants do not do so,'' said John W. Moscow, a former prosecutor who is a lawyer at Rosner Moscow & Napierala in New York. ''The unwillingness of arbitration panels to compel the firms to produce the records they are required to keep puts the less sophisticated and less well-funded claimants at a disadvantage. When a case gets heard only on evidence that one chooses to produce, that is not what the rules envisioned when the S.E.C. approved them.'' 
 Three-member panels oversee securities arbitrations. One member represents the financial industry and has expertise in the field; the other two act as public investors' representatives and can come from any arena. 
 Public panelists cannot have extensive associations with the financial services industry or any other relationship that could compromise their neutrality. Lawyers for both sides choose arbitrators from lists provided by NASD or the New York Stock Exchange. At NASD, for example, there is a pool of 6,340 arbitrators; 3,692 represent the public and the rest are industry panelists. In every case, lawyers for each side can strike arbitrators from the list of candidates during the initial selection process. If all are struck, the lawyers must accept NASD's choices for the panel. At that point, lawyers for both sides can challenge a panelist only for biases, misclassification, conflicts or undisclosed material information. 
 All arbitrators sign applications disclosing their professional histories and any other information -- such as lawsuits filed against them -- so that lawyers for both plaintiff and defendant can assess their fitness for a case. But arbitrators are expected to disclose any conflicts that may arise even after a case has begun. Under NASD rules, an arbitrator can be removed for biases or conflicts in the middle of hearing a case; the New York Stock Exchange does not yet allow for such a removal.
 THE NASD arbitration manual states that arbitrators must disclose any direct or indirect financial or personal interest in the outcome of an arbitration, and ''any existing or past financial, business, professional, family or social relationships that are likely to affect impartiality or might create an appearance of partiality or bias.'' They must sign oaths stating that they have no personal interest in the case before they agree to hear it. Potential arbitrators must also disclose whether an investor has sued them or whether they have been subjected to regulatory inquiry. But according to lawyers who have uncovered evidence of bias in arbitrators, NASD does not seem to police the disclosures for omissions, disqualifications or conflicts. Steven B. Caruso, a lawyer at Maddox, Hargett & Caruso in New York and president-elect of the Public Investors Arbitration Bar Association, a nonprofit group of 800 lawyers representing individual investors, recalled a recent case he had in Florida.
 ''The NASD sent me an arbitrator's profile of a guy who was a public arbitrator and he had previously run a securities firm,'' Mr. Caruso said. ''So I challenged it to the NASD; they went to the arbitrator and came back to me and said, 'Well, he thinks he's properly assigned.' ''After three or four exchanges they finally took him off my panel and reclassified him as an industry arbitrator. If you didn't have the tenacity or knowledge of the system, or if you were a pro se investor, you would have been taken advantage of.''
 In fact, NASD relies heavily on arbitrators themselves to make proper disclosures. Last month, Rina Spiewak, a staff attorney in NASD Dispute Resolution's West regional office, wrote an article published on the association's Web site entitled ''When in Doubt, Disclose.'' In it, she wrote that arbitrators ''have an affirmative duty to become aware of relationships that should be disclosed'' and that the appearance of bias can be as harmful as an actual conflict. 
 LINDA FIENBERG, president of NASD Dispute Resolution, said her organization's screening and arbitrator training system is elaborate and laborious enough that some applicants drop out of the process. ''We believe that our rules are adhered to,'' she said. ''As soon as something comes to our attention that suggests there has been a mistake we obviously look into it and take appropriate steps. We have not had very many instances where that has come to my attention and I monitor these very carefully. If it came to our attention that an arbitrator had intentionally made a material misrepresentation we would remove that arbitrator from our roster.''Karen Kupersmith, director of arbitration at NYSE Regulation, a not-for-profit subsidiary that oversees activities of the Big Board's member firms, said the exchange relies on arbitrators to be candid about their potential conflicts. But as financial services firms have grown more complex, the exchange has narrowed the considerations for public arbitrators to exclude anyone who works for a company that may conduct securities transactions or that controls, either directly or indirectly, a brokerage firm, she said. 
 Previous rules have stated that the spouse of a public arbitrator cannot be engaged in the trading of securities, but under a new rule awaiting Securities and Exchange Commission approval, the list of family members that can disqualify a public arbitrator would also include in-laws, children and parents.
 ''We are trying to broaden the net and raise awareness,'' Ms. Kupersmith said. ''We also do an ongoing review of arbitrators and classifications through a number of checks and balances which is computer-oriented and picks up things.''
 The story of the losses incurred by the East Islip firefighters begins like that of so many other investors who lost money during the stock market bubble. Mr. Sirico, their broker, put the group into speculative technology stocks, made risky bets on options and used borrowed money to expand the group's portfolio. In May, Mr. Sirico was fined $10,000 and suspended from associating with any NASD firm for seven months for disclosure failures. He could not be reached for comment.
 But trouble in their arbitration began last fall, when Robert W. Cockren, a lawyer at Sonnenschein Nath & Rosenthal, became chairman of their arbitration panel and was to act as a public representative.
 Mr. Meissner challenged Mr. Cockren's fitness to serve on the panel because of Sonnenschein Nath's extensive relationships with brokerage houses. NASD rules state that any lawyer whose firm receives more than 10 percent of its annual revenue in the prior two years from the securities industry cannot be considered a public arbitrator. But unless law firms disclose the sources of their revenue, it is impossible to determine if such conflicts exist.
 NASD denied Mr. Meissner's challenge, saying that the arbitrator had done a ''conflict check'' with respect to the brokerage firms that were involved in the case. But Mr. Meissner learned through an extensive search that one client of Mr. Cockren's firm was the parent company of a firm being sued in the case. He presented the evidence to NASD and, on Dec. 9, 2005, Mr. Cockren withdrew from the panel.
 Mr. Cockren said: ''I fully complied with the NASD rules and regulations and nothing that either I or my firm did was improper. We were substantially below the revenue threshold but it wasn't worth my time or energy to deal with the attacks going on.''
 Mr. Meissner also challenged four other arbitrators that the NASD proposed, saying that all of them either had conflicts or had backgrounds that made them inappropriate representatives of public investors. Three withdrew from consideration, while the fourth is chairman of the panel. 
 The East Islip association seeks the $614,000 it lost, as well as attorney's fees, court costs and interest. It has also asked for treble damages, amounting to about $1.8 million. Hearings on the case are scheduled for October.
 Problem panelists have plagued other arbitrations. Donald L. Sturm, a wealthy Colorado businessman who sold his ownership in a company to WorldCom for stock and then lost $900 million after the telecommunications company collapsed, filed for arbitration against Citigroup in 2003. He contends that Jack B. Grubman, the banking giant's former telecommunications analyst, advised him to hold onto his WorldCom stock even as it was plummeting. Mr. Grubman was barred from the securities industry for life in late 2002.
 An NASD arbitration panel ruled against Mr. Sturm in November. But Mr. Sturm's lawyers are asking a federal court to overturn the decision because David H. Drennen, an arbitrator in the matter, failed to disclose past incidents that the lawyers say should have disqualified him or that they could have used as evidence to strike him from the panel. 
 According to a brief filed in the case, Mr. Drennen, general counsel at Bathgate Capital Partners, an investment firm in Greenwood Village, Colo., failed to disclose an arbitration panel finding from 1996 that a previous employer, ''through Drennen's conduct, committed securities fraud.'' The panel in the case ''awarded both the full amount of compensatory damages alleged and punitive damages'' according to the brief. 
 Mr. Drennen, a former NASD regional counsel, declined to comment. In a deposition taken last month in Mr. Sturm's case, he said he recalled the earlier arbitration but said he did not disclose it on his arbitration forms because his conduct was not an issue in the current case. He also said in the deposition that he had testified in the 1996 arbitration on behalf of his employer, attended the entire proceeding and could not identify anyone else at the firm, besides himself, whose conduct was the subject of the case.
 MR. STURM'S lawyers say Mr. Drennen's involvement in the current arbitration is problematic in two ways: first, it may make him less objective or sympathetic to an investor accusing a brokerage firm of fraud, and, equally important, his disclosure of his involvement should have disqualified him from serving on the panel handling Mr. Sturm's grievance. NASD rules state that a prospective panelist is unqualified to serve if he or she, within the past seven years, has been the subject of an adverse, investment-related arbitration award of $25,000 or more. The 1996 arbitration involving Mr. Drennen resulted in a $212,103 award and occurred five years before he applied to become an NASD arbitrator. 
 David E. Warden, a partner at Yetter & Warden in Houston who represented Mr. Sturm, said that a disclosure failure by any arbitrator ''not only deprives the parties of their right to make an informed selection decision but also strips any semblance of integrity from the process.
 ''There doesn't seem to be a watchdog for any of this,'' he added. 
 Plaintiffs' lawyers also say that arbitrator biases and conflicts are harder to plumb as financial services firms grow in size and scope. Rosemary J. Shockman, a former president of the Public Investors Arbitration Bar Association, testified before Congress last year that the problem of potentially biased panelists representing the public ''continues to grow as various sectors of the financial services industry continue to consolidate their operations in the admitted quest for 'capturing assets' and offering the consumer 'one-stop shopping.' '' 
 J. Boyd Page, a lawyer at Page Perry in Atlanta, said that he has often found that arbitrators assigned to represent the public in a case have close associations with the securities industry. ''I just got a proposed panel in Houston and I have 10 so-called public arbitrators that I can pick from,'' Mr. Page said. ''Of those, six had associations with the securities industry. You really wonder about the quality of monitoring.'' 
 The potential for conflicts among arbitrators would not be such a problem, defense lawyers say, if investors had an alternative to arbitration. But they do not. 
 ''We believe that arbitrators should be properly classified and that there should be zero conflicts, either real or apparent,'' Mr. Caruso said. ''An arbitrator is supposed to disclose conflicts but there is no follow-through and no system of checks and balances.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A charity for East Islip, N.Y. firefighters is trying to recoup $614,000 in stock losses in an arbitration case. (Photo by John Dunn for The New York Times)
Steven B. Caruso, a lawyer, said regulators do not do enough checking for arbitrator conflicts. (Photo by Ruby Washington/The New York Times)(pg. 10)
 Donald Sturm filed an arbitration case after losing $900 million in in the collapse of WorldCom. (Photo by David Zalubowski/Associated Press)(pg. 11)Drawing (Illustration by The New York Times)(pg. 1)Chart: ''Fewer Cases, Scarcer Awards''The number of arbitration cases filed with NASD has fallen from its recent peak, and awards to investors are becoming scarcer.Graphs track total arbitration cases filed* and percent of cases filed by customers in which damages were awarded from 2000 to 2005.*through April 2006(Source by Nasdaq)(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (91%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); CHARITIES (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); BONDS (77%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (76%); INTERVIEWS (71%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (70%); ETHICS (70%); JURY TRIALS (69%) Stocks and Bonds; Brokers and Brokerage Firms; Legal Profession; Ethics; Arbitration, Conciliation and Mediation

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (59%) Nasd; Securities and Exchange Commission

PERSON: Gretchen Morgenson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2006



363 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 2; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2285 words

HEADLINE: The New Face of Farming

BYLINE: By WOODY HOCHSWENDER

 BODY:
THE family farm is not dead in these parts. But it has been revised, perhaps by a well-to-do New Yorker or a land-rich Yankee. Nowadays, when you drive country roads, you are likely to spot strange and beautiful breeds, exotic livestock that exist, in some cases, as much for show as for consumption. 
 Llamas and alpacas, which look like miniature camels, crane their necks over split-rail fencing and chew their cuds thoughtfully. Cream-white sheep grazing on brilliant verdured hillsides seem to have stepped out of a scene from Thomas Hardy -- and they have! -- since they are Cotswold sheep, imported from exclusive breeding stock in England. Gaudy peacocks and heirloom chickens race into the road, testing your brakes and patience.
Around the next bend, if you were to see centaurs and unicorns frolicking in a field, you might not be surprised. 
 A cow is no longer just a black-and-white mottled animal that moos and supplies milk, but a large, horned and heroic beast, imported from the highlands of Scotland, with all kinds of beefy, antibiotic-free, grass-fed implications. 
 Life on the farm will never be the same, especially in the exurban areas 50 to 100 miles outside New York City. The once ubiquitous potato fields and duck farms of eastern Long Island now sprout luxury homes and strip malls. Northern Connecticut's stately tobacco barns now house lawn and garden centers. New Jersey poultry and truck farming businesses face increasing competition from corporate farming enterprises to the west. In Westchester, equestrian farms have largely replaced vegetable and dairy operations. 
 Even as real mud-splattered working farms are fading out, though, a new kind of animal husbandry is coming in. Niche, hobby and artisanal farming is on the rise, often with perfect barns, manor houses and manicured lawns, places where Tolstoy would be perfectly at ease with his ledger books and progressive agricultural ideas. Instead of Herefords and Holsteins, we now have Belted Galloways and Scottish Highlanders, large, impressive beasts, carefully fed and bred as much for looks, in some cases, as for milk or beef. Instead of your regular old barnyard goat, there are now Nubians and Nigerian dwarves. In place of standard wool-bearing animals, there are the exotic English sheep, and, of course, Peruvian and Bolivian alpacas, whose fleece is often favorably compared to cashmere (especially by alpaca trade groups). 
 While a fair amount of corn and hay is still grown in the areas ringing New York City, the focus is shifting to organic produce, sustainable methods and exotic breeds. These small farms tend to be both preservationist in intent and capital-intensive in practice. They exist not only to preserve land, but to further a vanishing breed. Even in the best of circumstances, they often just break even. But the root of this type of farming is not money, meat or even ribbons at the agricultural fair. It is love of animals.
 On a recent June day, Mathias Kiefer surveyed his herd of goats -- Boers, Nubians and Nigerian dwarves -- which he raises on 190 acres outside Salisbury, Conn. ''As a group, they are the friendliest darn goats we know,'' said Mr. Kiefer, a full-time land surveyor and forestry consultant. ''They are almost canine. They'll come up to you and rub against you. If you are looking for a pet other than a dog or a cat, I would think, get a goat. They're so personable.'' 
 THE brown and white dwarf goats, perhaps two feet high at the withers, have beards and little cocoa dewlaps of fur dangling below their chins. (The females have beards, too.) They chew grass and pull on your clothes until you pet them. Mr. Kiefer sells them as pets and meat, and his goat cheese is sold at LaBonne's, down the road. He maintains that goat is the fastest-growing meat business. ''There's more goat eaten in the world than any other meat,'' said Mr. Kiefer, who spends a couple of hours a day tending his goats and the various fences and barns that shelter them.
 While exotic animal husbandry is typically a sideline or a hobby for the farmer, there is seldom anything dilettantish about it. ''We have always had livestock,'' said Mr. Kiefer, who also keeps cows and chickens. ''My parents always had livestock. My wife's family always had livestock. I grew up here.'' 
 Just across the road, Malcolm Maclaren, a Harvard-educated biology teacher who recently retired from raising Scottish Highlander cattle on his family farm, said that a prime motivation for exotic animal husbandry was the desire to raise animals in a free-range, organic environment. But that is only part of it. 
 ''The reason some people have them is they're pretty out in the field,'' he said. ''It's not an economic thing at all. There are people who prefer to sink money in a farm than give it to Uncle Sam.''
 Farmland typically is taxed at a lower rate than residential property, and many farmers put some acreage into conservation easements that further reduce their tax exposure. Raising prized cattle restores purpose to the land and helps preserve endangered breeds. The so-called ''heritage breeds'' movement is a form of genetic conservation. 
 This is particularly true in Westchester County, where only 13,000 acres of farmland remain. ''To farm here requires enormous careful planning because of the tax consequences and the value of the land,'' said Annie Farrell, a farm consultant in Katonah. A notable success, she said, is Rainbeau Ridge Farm, with a rare breed of cattle and Cotswold sheep, on 300 acres in Bedford Hills.
 In Connecticut, smaller, more exotic farms emphasize organic feeding and careful breeding. These are not just gentleman farms, with a few horses, but niche enterprises based on unusual products. Mr. Maclaren found a thriving niche market for his grass-fed beef at the Union Square farmers' market in New York.
 ''Niche farming is a very important part of agriculture in Connecticut,'' said F. Philip Prelli, Connecticut's agriculture commissioner, who added that there are only 100 or so dairy farms in the state, compared with 12,000 in the 1960's. ''The traditional agriculture of the dairy farmer and the vegetable farmer is still there. But the biggest growth is these niche farming operations. It is where agriculture is heading.'' 
 The rationale for llamas is somewhat different than for other types of livestock. Sheep ranchers acquire llamas as guard animals for their flocks. The sheep's natural predators, foxes and coyotes, generally will not tangle with a llama, which can be more than six feet tall. Llamas get along quite nicely with sheep, and when a llama senses danger, it emits a high-pitched whinny that alerts the farmer to bring the shotgun.
 In the town of Norfolk, hard by the Massachusetts border in northwestern Connecticut, Roy and Mary Alice Pilbin bought their first llamas to protect their flock. ''We had up to 25, 30 sheep, and the coyotes were coming in all the time,'' Mr. Pilbin said. ''One on one, llamas get the best of a coyote.'' 
 Originally dairy farmers who were having a tough time making a go of it, the Pilbins now have about 25 sheep and 30 llamas. They breed their stock and sell the wool to small mills. They also take their animals to the Goshen County Fair in the fall, where they sell llama- and sheep-wool-filled comforters.
 ''Llamas are gentle and respectful, and they won't hurt children,'' Mr. Pilbin said. ''A llama develops a sense of trust with you. The bond gets stronger, and the llama will do anything to please you.'' Of course, llamas have been known to spit when provoked. Since they have three stomachs -- one for grass and grain, one for water and one for digestive juices -- when they lob a load of juice at you, it is rather gross. ''First thing you do, take a shower,'' said James Mullen, who owns Southwind Farms in Watertown, Conn. 
 Spitting is mostly a matter of upbringing, says Bob Wolfe of Spruce Lane Llama farm in Stockton, N.J., about 20 miles north of Trenton. ''My llamas just plain don't spit at people,'' said Mr. Wolfe, a former professor of engineering at Rutgers University. ''If llamas are raised properly, they don't spit.'' Mr. Wolfe, who was raised on a dairy farm in Wisconsin, says llamas are exceptionally calm and clean (they use a litter box, just like house cats) and great to be around.
 As suburbs expand and subdivisions devour agricultural land, state and local governments are actively involved in promoting land conservation; 60 percent of the land in Connecticut, for example, is still agricultural, open space or forest, according to the state's Department of Agriculture. But with so much farmland being preserved, the remaining acreage is expensive. Llamas and alpacas need very little land to thrive.
 Down a narrow dirt track just beyond the supermarket in Salisbury, Conn., lies Moore Brook Farm, where Serena W. Granbery, a sculptor and former guitar maker, keeps approximately 60 alpacas on 13 acres. ''They are a joy to be around,'' said Ms. Granbery, who tends the herd with the help of her 14-year-old daughter, Samantha. ''You definitely get attached to them, and it becomes hard to sell them.'' Ms. Granbery has reared a national champion, Mulder, named for the character on ''The X-Files.'' 
 Ms. Granbery said she made ''good money'' from her alpaca farm. A prize-winning alpaca can sell for as much as $20,000. A regular alpaca sold as a pet can go for as little as $1,000. (Some skeptics suggest that the alpaca phenomenon is a kind of pyramidal venture, dependent on enough willing new alpaca farmers to sustain the pace of existing breeder operations.) Then there is the fleece. The silky coat of the alpaca has long been prized for garments, especially sweaters and shawls. Mr. Mullen and his wife, Penny, of Southwind Farms, have 50 alpacas, which they breed for sale and shear for fleece. ''The fleece is there, but it doesn't do anything for you moneywise,'' Mr. Mullen said. However, the cost of keeping alpacas is quite low. ''An alpaca eats about the same as a dog,'' Mr. Mullen said. 
 If alpacas are too demanding, there are always heirloom chickens. John Rosselli, a New York antiques dealer, and his wife, Bunny Williams, a New York interior decorator, keep heirloom chickens at their Falls Village, Conn., home. Regal-looking Rhode Island Reds and Plymouth Rocks strut and peck among bearded Cochins, Polonaise and other heirloom breeds that coexist happily with fan-tailed white doves in a well-carpentered octagonal coop.
 I JUST like to look at chickens,'' Mr. Rosselli said. ''I've had chickens all my life. I was born on a farm. I find them amusing.'' They also lay the green and blue eggs made famous by Martha Stewart.
 Farming exotic animals has drawbacks. Chickens have to be protected from predators. Alpacas can find an open gate in a heartbeat. Breeding livestock in general can be difficult and messy. Especially large, rare livestock. 
 Jay Gerli, a former bond trader on Wall Street, has been raising Belted and white Galloway cattle since the late 70's. His wife, Tiggie, who is from rural Georgia, was the livestock person. ''When I met her,'' Mr. Gerli said, ''the biggest animal I ever knew was a golden retriever.''
 Belted Galloways, named for the distinctive white band around their middles (the front and rear of the animals must be black or toffee colored and entirely free of white spots), come from Scotland. Mr. Gerli has about 100 head of Galloways, including some that are all white, grazing on 200 acres in the back country of Sharon, Conn. 
 Mr. Gerli and his wife first spotted Belted Galloways while hiking in Vermont. Initially, Mr. Gerli thought that Vermont farmers had painted the cows white around the middle so they would not get shot by hunters. ''My wife, who was raised on a dairy farm, thought so, too,'' Mr. Gerli said. Then they researched it and learned that the animal did not need to be grain fed and yielded superior beef.
 ''The daily routine is grueling, muddy and filled with bumps, nicks and bruises,'' Mr. Gerli said. ''We do most of the work ourselves. We probably get the most enjoyment from showing.'' The Gerli animals have won first place ribbons at agricultural fairs, including the Big E, or Eastern States Exposition, held in September in West Springfield, Mass. 
 Mr. Gerli says he is glad he chose a breed known for small-headed calves. Consequently, he is not up at all hours ''pulling calves'' when they give birth. For the occasional backward or breech birth, Mr. Gerli said, he employs a come-along, a winchlike tool ordinarily used for construction work. ''It's horrendous the amount of pressure they can take,'' Mr. Gerli added. 
 The Gerlis sell breeding stock, and the uniqueness of the cows generates a premium. Two-year-old heifers sell for $2,200 to $2,500, Mr. Gerli said, and show animals for $3,000 to $4,000. 
 But it's not really about the money. Consider the case of Cindy, an all-white Galloway heifer of which Mr. Gerli seems especially proud. Last fall the Gerlis discovered the newborn white calf had meningitis, so they put her into the back of their Jeep and drove all the way to the College of Veterinary Medicine at Cornell University. 
 The graduate student veterinarians who cared for her named her for the model Cindy Crawford, because she was so pretty. The Gerlis ended up spending more than $10,000 on medical care for her, considerably more than she is worth. Walking her around his barnyard recently at the end of a rope, Mr. Gerli noted that Cindy was more friendly and comfortable with people than she was with other cows, because she had spent more time with humans.
 ''Cindy Crawford doesn't realize she is a cow,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: FINDING A NICHE -- Llamas, like those at Spruce Lane Llama Farm in Stockton, N.J., are among the exotic livestock gaining popularity. They are prized in particular by sheep ranchers, who use them to guard their flocks. (Photo by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
NEW MCDONALD'S FARM -- Belted Galloways, above, at a farm in Sharon, and heirloom chickens, at a home in Falls Village, above right, are the specialty breeds favored by some Connecticut growers. Samantha Granbery, 14, right, cares for her mother's alpacas at Moore Brook Farm in Salisbury. Below right, Scottish Highlander cattle roam a farm in Roxbury. (Photographs by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. 8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAMMALS (90%); POULTRY (90%); ANIMALS (89%); FAMILY FARMS (89%); POULTRY & EGG PRODUCTION (78%); DAIRY FARMING (78%); LLAMA & ALPACA PRODUCTION (78%); SHEEP & GOAT FARMING (78%); SHEEP FARMING (78%); ORGANIC FOODS (74%); MISC POULTRY PRODUCTION (73%); FACTORY FARMS (72%); SUBURBS (66%); CITIES (65%); ANTIBIOTICS (52%); RETAILERS (50%) Livestock; Llamas; Alpacas; Peacocks; Poultry; Livestock

PERSON: Woody Hochswender

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); SCOTLAND (93%); ENGLAND (76%) New York City Metropolitan Area; Connecticut ; Long Island (NY); New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2006



364 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: Immigration Math: It's a Long Story 

BYLINE: By DANIEL ALTMAN

 BODY:
MUCH of today's debate about immigration revolves around the same old questions: How much do immigrants contribute to production? Do they take jobs away from people born in the United States? And what kinds of social services do they use? Yet every immigrant represents much more than just one worker or one potential citizen. To understand fully how immigration will shape the economy, you can't just look at one generation -- you have to look into the future.
 Sociologists and economists are just beginning to study the performance of second- and third-generation members of immigrant families. Because of the variety of experiences of people from different countries and cultures, it's not easy to generalize. But recent research has already uncovered some pertinent facts. 
Education is a good place to start, because it's strongly correlated with future earnings. Children of immigrants complete more years of education than their native-born counterparts of similar socioeconomic backgrounds. ''You can expect a child of immigrants whose parents have 10 years of education to do a lot better than a child of natives whose parents have 10 years of education,'' said David Card, a professor of economics at the University of California, Berkeley. Being a child of immigrants, he said, ''sort of boosts your drive.''
 As a whole, though, the second generation also tends to move toward the American average, Professor Card said. Some graduate from high school even though their parents didn't, but some whose parents have doctorates will earn only bachelor's degrees. 
 Still, it can take several generations for poor immigrant families to catch up to American norms. ''For the largest immigrant group -- that is Mexicans and Mexican-Americans -- the picture is progress, but still lagging behind other Americans,'' said Hans P. Johnson, a research fellow at the Public Policy Institute of California. ''They're doing much better than their parents, graduating from high school, but they still have very low graduation rates from college.''
 But despite the lag in education, Mr. Johnson said, Mexican immigrants and their families don't have much trouble finding jobs. ''One of the paradoxes of Mexican immigration is that you have these workers with low skills but incredibly high employment rates,'' he said. ''The second generation isn't able to maintain employment levels that are quite so high, but they're basically in the same ballpark.''
 Second generations of immigrant families are managing to climb the skills ladder, too. A recent survey by the Census Bureau reveals that 40 percent of the female workers and 37 percent of the male workers in the second generation took professional or management positions, up from 30 and 24 percent, respectively, in the first generation. The survey, taken in 2004, included many adults whose parents came to the United States decades ago, noted William H. Frey, a visiting fellow at the Brookings Institution in Washington who compiled data from the survey. With more recent immigrants, he said, it's possible that lower education rates may eventually lead to worse outcomes.
 Other factors could also make success more difficult for today's children of immigrants, compared with those of the past.
 One is increased competition. The children of Italians and Poles who came to the United States around the turn of the 20th century didn't face much of it, because the government imposed quotas on immigration after their parents arrived, said Roger Waldinger, a professor of sociology at the University of California, Los Angeles. By contrast, the children of recent arrivals face competition from successive waves of immigrants from numerous regions.
 Inequality of income and wealth is another factor that could affect opportunities. ''The second generation of Italians and Poles came of age in an era of historically low inequality,'' Professor Waldinger said. ''The second generation of Mexican immigrants is coming of age in an era of historically high inequality, and that has to work to the disadvantage of those with low levels of schooling.''
 But there are also forces working in the opposite direction. For one thing, the children of today's immigrants will have much better access to education and the labor market than those of a century ago. ''It almost certainly will be the case that tomorrow's third generation will have better outcomes than today's third generation,'' Mr. Johnson said. ''The conditions today are better in terms of educational opportunities.''
 Adding to that, members of several immigrant groups have often risen quickly to -- or even started at -- the top of the wage scale. Professor Waldinger said that ''the median for Indian immigrants is 16 years of schooling'' and that, on balance, ''the Indians, the Koreans, the Chinese -- they're already successful.'' One reason, he added, is that society is ''much more open to outsiders'' in top jobs and at elite colleges than it ever was before.
 EVEN if successive generations of immigrants manage to become as economically successful as native-born Americans, a big question will remain: How many people do we really want in the United States? From the standpoint of government fiscal policy, Professor Card said, you could argue that the only immigrants you'd want in the United States were those ''whose children are going to get Ph.D.'s'' and would therefore be economically productive.
 Some people might argue that a larger population raises housing prices and causes more pollution, he said. But there can be advantages to size, too. ''If you have population growth, you can finance intergenerational transfer systems'' like Social Security and Medicare, he said. And lest we forget, he said, ''big countries have more power.''
 Mr. Frey agreed that waves of immigration could help to solidify a country's position in the world. In that respect, he said, Europe and Japan have a problem. ''They have a very aging society because they don't like immigrants,'' he said. ''They're going to end up on the back burner of the global economy.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''The Next Generation''Jobs held by first- and second-generation male immigrants in 2004Farming, fishing and forestryFIRST GENERATION: 2.1%SECOND GENERATION: 0.4%Sales and officeFIRST GENERATION: 13.5SECOND GENERATION: 22.0ServiceFIRST GENERATION: 18.9SECOND GENERATION: 12.9Production, transportation and material movingFIRST GENERATION: 20.4SECOND GENERATION: 14.9Construction, mining and maintenanceFIRST GENERATION: 20.9SECOND GENERATION: 13.0Management, professional and relatedFIRST GENERATION: 24.1SECOND GENERATION: 36.8(Source by William H. Frey and U.S. Census analysis of 2004 Current Population Survey)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (95%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); FAMILY (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (88%); WOMEN WORKERS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); SOCIOLOGY (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); CHILDREN (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); GRADUATION RATES (73%); REFUGEES (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); MEN (69%); CENSUS (50%) Immigration and Refugees; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (55%)

PERSON: Daniel Altman

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2006



365 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; INSIDE THE NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1217 words

HEADLINE: Still Addicted To Options

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
THE list of executives receiving fortuitously timed option grants has grown so distressingly long that the motivations for the awards require shareholders and regulators to suspend disbelief. Fifty companies, according to Bloomberg News, are now fielding inquiries from securities regulators or prosecutors -- sometimes both -- into whether the timing of the grants was proper or designed to generate extra-lush gains for recipients.
 Unfortunately, investors can probably expect more where this came from. Options were the drug of choice in the 1990's, not only among Silicon Valley companies, but throughout corporate America. It is not a shock that some portion of these companies decided that too much of a good thing was, in fact, just great.
Options carry a strike price -- at which they can be converted into common shares -- equal to the market price of the underlying stock on the day of the grant. Any increase in the underlying stock, therefore, means a potential gain for the option holder. 
 Because holders can typically exercise stock options over a period of years, they are -- surprise, surprise -- extremely valuable. 
 What prosecutors end up doing with their inquiries is anybody's guess. But because options granted just ahead of good news are essentially discounted, the extra value attached to them should certainly be considered employee compensation. 
 Academics were the first to note that corporate executives have systematically received options at prices that do not reflect favorable nonpublic information. For example, an article in the North Carolina Law Review in March 2004 by Iman Anabtawi, acting professor at the School of Law at the University of California, Los Angeles, said that favorably timed option grants amounted to secret compensation. She likened the practice to insider trading. 
 An easy remedy to the problem that well-timed options pose to shareholders is for companies to award them on the same day -- or thereabouts -- each year. 
 Consider, for example, option grants made to three top executives at Take-Two Interactive Software, the video game maker most famous for the shoot-'em-up game series, Grand Theft Auto.
 In keeping with its policy, the company had no comment on whether it has been contacted by regulators about option grants. But an analysis of the company's options grants between 1997 and 2003 indicates that the game maker had excellent aim. Take-Two awarded 29 option grants covering almost three million shares during the period, but only 5 carried strike prices that were higher than the options' underlying stock price a month after they were issued. Most of the options -- covering 91 percent of those that Take-Two awarded to the three executives -- had strike prices well below the levels at which the company's shares traded a month later.
 To be sure, Take-Two executives did not enjoy an immediate options windfall from early gains in the company's stock price, because the options typically vested over a three-year period. But it is intriguing that so many of the grants came at prices that just one month later looked especially low. 
 Paul Eibeler wears many hats at Take-Two: he is the company's president, chief executive and a director. He has also been the recipient of well-timed options grants. Other lucky winners were Ryan A. Brant, who was the company's chairman from 1998 until 2004, and Kelly G. Sumner, who was president of Take-Two's international operations from 1997 to 2000 and its chief executive from 1998 to 2003.
 Take-Two awarded Mr. Eibeler 495,000 options between 2000 and 2002, according to regulatory filings. All but 15,000 of those had strike prices below the level at which Take-Two's shares traded one month later. The weighted average one-month increase in the stock price after he received each grant was 12.6 percent. 
 Mr. Sumner received 1.1 million options from 1997 to 2002, of which only 245,000 had strike prices above the level of Take-Two's shares one month after they were granted. The weighted average one-month increase in the shares after each grant to Mr. Sumner was 22.9 percent.
 As for Mr. Brant, none of his options granted between 1998 and 2003 had a strike price higher than where Take-Two's shares were trading a month later. The weighted average one-month gain in the stock price after his grants was 28 percent. 
 Edward Nebb, a spokesman for Take-Two and its executives, said that the company granted options in accordance with its compensation plans and that in most cases, the grants corresponded to ''a corporate event such as a new hire or promotion, annual meeting, quarter-end or year-end.'' 
 He added: ''Given that Take-Two's stock rose from $5 to $41 over this period, and the company, as well as the video game industry, experienced explosive growth, there is a high likelihood that stock options granted by Take-Two or any of our industry peers would have appreciated during this time frame.'' 
 Mr. Nebb said that Take-Two had changed its grant policy and now awarded options only on the first day of each quarter. 
 And the stock is no longer racing. (It's down 24 percent in 2006.) In its first half, Take-Two reported losses of $126 million. During the same period in 2005, the company earned $47 million. Among those hardest hit by Take-Two's woes are investors in mutual funds run by OppenheimerFunds and Fidelity. Those firms are the top two holders of Take-Two's shares. According to Oppenheimer's most recent regulatory filing, in April, it owned 18.8 million shares of Take-Two, about a 26 percent stake in the company. Fidelity Funds, as of February, owned 9.1 million shares, about a 13 percent stake. 
 It's worth noting that many companies that regulators are now examining were also among those with executives who decried the attempts a few years ago of accounting overseers to force them to deduct options costs from corporate income statements. 
 In April 2003, for instance, John F. Gifford, the chairman of Maxim Integrated Products, a maker of integrated circuits that has been questioned by the Securities and Exchange Commission on its options grants, spoke for technology executives everywhere when he opined that ''the potential damaging long-term effect on our nation's economy and our lifestyle that would result from the forced expensing of stock options should be taken seriously.''
 And some of the companies under scrutiny have also engaged in questionable activities against analysts who covered them. Last year, officials at both Altera, the semiconductor maker, and Mercury Interactive, a maker of software testing products, retaliated against Wall Street analysts by cutting off communications after they had questioned the companies' prospects. Altera's placement of an analyst into the penalty box was related to its options grants; he had questioned the company's use of shareholder money to buy back stock previously issued to employees as options carrying much lower strike prices. 
 Both companies later stopped retaliating against the straight-talking analysts.
 With options practices under the microscope, it has become clearer why the Silicon Valley protests grew so histrionic as the expensing requirement neared. Some of these executives, it appears, had far more to lose than investors could possibly know.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACCOUNTING (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); INSIDER TRADING (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); COMMON STOCK (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (75%); STOCK OPTIONS (73%); DEREGULATION (73%); BONDS (71%); LAW SCHOOLS (69%); COMPUTER GAMES (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (61%) Stocks and Bonds; Stock Options and Purchase Plans; Securities and Commodities Violations; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Accounting and Accountants

COMPANY: TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE INC (81%); BLOOMBERG LP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Take-Two Interactive Software Inc

TICKER: TTWO (NASDAQ) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (81%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (81%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%)

PERSON: Paul Eibeler; Ryan A Brant; Kelly G Sumner; Gretchen Morgenson

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (71%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (90%) Silicon Valley (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2006



366 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MARKET WEEK; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 487 words

HEADLINE: Profit Streak May Snap At Last

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
THE string of consecutive Federal Reserve interest-rate increases, 16 and counting, appears under no immediate threat, but another streak does. The 9 percent increase in second-quarter earnings that Standard & Poor's is predicting for its 500-stock index would be the first in 16 quarters that was less than a double-digit gain. 
 As the period ends and investors shift their focus from Fed policy to the bottom line, they will have to decide whether corporate coffers are half full or half empty. Sam Stovall, S.& P.'s chief investment strategist, suggested that the first view may be more reasonable.
Nine percent growth would be less than in previous quarters, he conceded, but expectations have been rising. Three months ago, S.& P.'s analysts were forecasting 7 percent growth for this quarter, he said, and predictions have since been climbing steadily.
 ''My first thought is that earnings estimates are going up, not down,'' Mr. Stovall said. He added, though, that ''the market might get worried because we think we're going to see single-digit changes.'' Wall Street, he said, ''would not be very happy about that.''
 In contrast to some other investors, shareholders in utility and energy stocks are enjoying an especially lucrative period. S.& P. analysts foresee earnings growth of 29 percent in utilities and 26 percent in energy, compared with the second quarter last year.
 Only two other groups are expected to record double-digit growth, and just barely. Earnings for industrials, which include military contractors and engineering companies, among other manufacturers, are predicted to rise 11 percent, the same as for producers of materials, including paper and chemicals.
 S.& P.'s analysts expect growth of 9 percent for telecommunication services and 8 percent for health care and consumer discretionary companies, which make big-ticket goods whose purchases are not usually urgent.
 The weakest earnings growth is expected in such sectors as financial services, technology and consumer staples -- items like food and household goods. Growth of 5 percent or less is expected.
 Investors will be cheering for the string of quarters with double-digit growth to remain intact, and Mr. Stovall held out hope that it could -- once all S.& P. 500 companies report results. That is what happened a year ago, he recalled.
 ''In the second quarter of 2005, we thought we'd be seeing single digits, but we ended up with 14 percent growth,'' he said.

DATA WATCH -- A light economic calendar includes several indicators of the health of the housing market, and continued sluggishness is expected. A Bloomberg News poll of economists foresees a climb in housing starts for May to an annual rate of 1.87 million units, up from nearly 1.85 million in April. But building permits, deemed a truer gauge of future activity, are estimated to have fallen last month to an annual rate of 1.950 million units from 1.973 million.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks seasonally adjusted annual rates for homes since 2005.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HOUSING STARTS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (86%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); BONDS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (72%); BUILDING PERMITS (64%); ENGINEERING (63%) United States Economy; Stocks and Bonds; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Housing ; Housing Starts; United States Economy

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Bloomberg Lp

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (50%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (50%)

PERSON: Conrad De Aenlle

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2006



367 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: Getting Help to See the Sunshine Through the Rain

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

 BODY:
INVESTMENT bankers are typically paid to be Pollyannas.
 So it may come as somewhat of a surprise -- and perhaps a telling economic indicator -- that Goldman Sachs recently hired one of the nation's most prominent bankruptcy lawyers, James H. M. Sprayregen, from Kirkland & Ellis to run its nascent restructuring practice.
Mr. Sprayregen, a slight man with a shaved head, is a corporate emergency room doctor and, when things go horribly wrong, a corporate mortician. He's the person companies like United Airlines, Trans World Airlines and W. R. Grace enlisted for help when the markets soured and creditors came calling. 
 For a firm like Goldman, known for its white hats, Mr. Sprayregen wears a decidedly black hat. Goldman denies it, but his hiring suggests that the firm is gearing up for a hailstorm of bankruptcies and what folks in the business politely like to call ''distressed situations.'' 
 If the market roller coaster last week is any indication, a Chapter 11 deluge may come sooner than you think. Considering the enormous amount of debt that corporate America and private-equity players have loaded up on -- some on the advice of Wall Street firms like, yes, Goldman -- a major blowup should hardly come as a shock. The default rate for corporate speculative-grade bonds is at its lowest level -- 1.09 percent -- in more than 20 years, according to Standard & Poor's. That just can't continue.
 Restructuring lawyers have gone the banking route before: Harvey R. Miller, for example, left Weil Gotshal & Manges in 2002 to establish Greenhill's restructuring business. But Mr. Sprayregen's hiring by Goldman may pose a new threat to Wall Street's restructuring boutique firms, like Lazard Ltd., the Blackstone Group, and Miller Buckfire & Company. 
 They have historically dominated the small but lucrative restructuring netherworld. Goldman and other firms are likely to shake up the old-boy network of bankruptcy specialists if and when the cycle turns gloomy.
 Historically, Goldman, Morgan Stanley and other big firms were disqualified from doing advisory work by the bankruptcy law. In a landmark case, a federal appeals court said in 1993 that Goldman could not advise Eagle-Picher, a maker of automobile components and industrial products in Cincinnati, on its bankruptcy reorganization because it was not a ''disinterested person.'' Goldman had been the lead underwriter of Eagle-Picher's $39.8 million initial public offering in 1986 and had been the company's investment adviser.
 The law, however, has changed. Last October, when Congress established the new bankruptcy code, lawmakers added a line to the bill at the last minute allowing major Wall Street firms to advise companies seeking bankruptcy protection even if they had done underwriting work for those companies in the past. 
 That should open up the market for firms like Goldman to play a larger role in the bankruptcy process, though it still faces a raft of potential conflicts that could keep it from eating the boutiques for lunch. The most glaring: While the law doesn't disqualify underwriters from restructuring work, it does disqualify debtors. That means Goldman's distressed-debt trading operation -- which makes more money than Mr. Sprayregen could ever imagine to bring in with advisory fees -- may keep the firm from helping the next WorldCom.
 THEN there's the fact that bankruptcy work is not nearly as lucrative as most other investment banking activities. It's based more on an hourly model than on outsized success fees. And the big firms could face another conflict: They would be competing with some of their clients, like Blackstone, whose private-equity arm uses Goldman for public offerings and other work.
 So what will Mr. Sprayregen do? ''Jamie will focus primarily on advising our pre-, during, and post-stressed and distressed clients,'' a Goldman spokesman said. 
 Mr. Sprayregen's hiring means that Goldman is taking a seat at the restructuring table. It will be getting in on the action earlier as it tries to keep clients out of bankruptcy and will no doubt use its influence to steer the bankruptcy process if rescue efforts fail.
 Of course, look for finger-pointing when Goldman profits from the next corporate illness.


CORRECTION-DATE: June 25, 2006

 CORRECTION:
The DealBook column last Sunday, about Goldman Sachs hiring a lawyer to advise its clients on bankruptcy and restructuring, referred incorrectly to one group that is normally disqualified from restructuring work. It is creditors, not debtors.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Michael Sloan)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (79%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (79%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (79%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (77%); LAWYERS (77%); AIRLINES (75%); CREDIT BUREAUS (75%); PRIVATE EQUITY (74%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (73%); APPEALS COURTS (50%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (50%); APPEALS (50%) Bankruptcies; Appointments and Executive Changes; Biographical Information; Legal Profession; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); LAZARD LTD (65%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (59%); WEIL GOTSHAL & MANGES LLP (58%); KIRKLAND & ELLIS LLP (58%); W R GRACE & CO (57%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (57%); EP MANAGEMENT CORP (52%); MORGAN STANLEY (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Goldman Sachs Group; Kirkland & Ellis

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); LAZ (NYSE) (65%); BX (NYSE) (59%); GRA (NYSE) (57%); MS (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (65%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (59%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (59%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (58%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (58%); NAICS325130 SYNTHETIC DYE & PIGMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2819 INDUSTRIAL INORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); NAICS336340 MOTOR VEHICLE BRAKE SYSTEM MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335911 STORAGE BATTERY MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3295 MINERALS & EARTHS, GROUND OR OTHERWISE TREATED (52%)

PERSON: James H M Sprayregan; Andrew Ross Sorkin

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2006



368 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2105 words

HEADLINE: No Retreat, No Surrender (They Hope) 

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD

DATELINE: Las Vegas 

 BODY:
Tonight I hear the neighborhood drummer sound
 I can feel my heart begin to pound
 You say you're tired and you just want to close your eyes
 And follow your dreams down.
 -- Bruce Springsteen
 AS ''No Surrender,'' Bruce Springsteen's anthem of defiance, blared inside the convention center of the MGM Grand hotel last Tuesday, Ron Gettelfinger, the president of the United Automobile Workers union, locked arms with the union's other leaders and led hundreds of delegates in a rousing march peppered with blue-and-gold protest signs.
The march was an impressive display of bravado, calling to mind the heady days of the late 1940's when the U.A.W.'s legendary leader, Walter Reuther, assumed the union's helm after directing years of strikes and canny organizational maneuvers against industry giants like General Motors and Ford. And the whoops, cheers and lyrics (''No retreat, baby, no surrender'') here made it seem that current union members were again ready to take on the auto companies anywhere, anytime. 
 But the signs that the delegates toted served only to reveal the tension and uncertainty that the boisterous demonstration was meant to conceal. ''Don't Agonize, Organize!'' declared one sign, reflecting the fact that the union's membership, once 1.5 million strong, is now just one-third that size, its lowest number since World War II. ''Protect Our Pensions,'' read another placard, recognizing the threat to union nest eggs at troubled companies. Another sign, ''Active and Retired, Standing Together'' gestured toward the reality that the U.A.W.'s dwindling active membership would soon be outnumbered by members earning retirement checks.
 So it is that Mr. Gettelfinger, 61, elected last week to a second and final four-year term as U.A.W. president, is forced to rally his members when the auto industry is mired in declining profits and tethered to a very uncertain future. And as his union confronts its most crucial economic juncture in decades, the question arises of what, exactly, he plans to do to ensure that the U.A.W. retains its influence and protects its members.
 Mr. Gettelfinger's short answer is twofold: he plans to step up the union's organizing drive, which in the past has not been enough to offset steep job losses at the auto companies, and to wield its political clout for broader changes in Washington. Neither, however, addresses the union's true quandary.
 ''He has an extremely difficult set of circumstances facing his members,'' said Bruce S. Raynor, general president of Unite Here, a union that represents hotel and other service workers. ''He is trying to walk a fine line. He is trying to safeguard what the U.A.W. has obtained for its members and he has to be intelligent and not to deny reality.''
 Like his members, Mr. Gettelfinger seems determined to prove wrong those who dare to count out the brawny U.A.W. of old. At the same time, he has signaled that the past cannot be a template for the future. His statements about possible solutions for the union are code, some industry analysts say, for wage and benefit cuts. Mr. Gettelfinger denies that this is what he means, and he has left an equally strong impression among U.A.W. members, analysts and auto executives that he is cut from Reutherian steel and would authorize a potentially crippling strike if it protected jobs.
 WHILE toeing this delicate line between flexibility and resolve, Mr. Gettelfinger addressed the current state of uncertainty here in a thundering speech, delivered in his southern Indiana twang. The powerful address reminded his audience of one of the reasons that he ascended to the U.A.W.'s top job: he knows how to motivate the membership.
 ''They think we've run out of gas intellectually and emotionally, that we've lost our will, our creativity and our nerve,'' he said, before pounding on the lectern amid cheers. ''We've got news for them. We're not going to surrender. We're not going to lower our sights, give up our dreams or give up our fight for a better world for our children and grandchildren.''
 The U.A.W., long the envy of the labor movement for its rich contracts and reputation for promoting large social and political changes, has a history of being adept at cagey, strategic confrontations.
 One such moment came in 1946, when Detroit began converting plants back to auto production after using them to build bombers and weaponry during World War II. Even though Americans were hungry for new cars, Mr. Reuther staged a 113-day strike at G.M. when the company refused the U.A.W.'s demand for a wage increase of 1 cent more an hour. Ultimately, the union got its way.
 The union won another key demand -- full retirement benefits after 30 years on the job -- after a 67-day strike at G.M. in 1970. The U.A.W.'s last major walkout occurred in 1998, when a strike in two plants in Flint, Mich., shut down much of G.M.
 But strikes on a national scale today have the potential to be much more explosive, given the auto industry's perilous state. If the union struck now, it could send G.M. into bankruptcy alongside the Delphi Corporation, its biggest parts supplier and a former subsidiary. In the process, the strike could also wipe out thousands of jobs on top of the 30,000 that G.M. already intends to cut under a restructuring plan.
 So a strike, the greatest weapon the U.A.W. can wield, holds the potential to cripple the union itself -- thereby undermining its goal of job creation. 
 But Mr. Gettelfinger has also shown a flexible side. Under his leadership, the U.A.W. has reached agreements with G.M. and Ford that reduced prized benefits like health care, and a pact with Chrysler that eliminated some of the elaborate work practices the union had long insisted were needed to protect jobs.
 ''He is so centered in what he considers to be right and wrong that nobody, not the company or others, can shake him in that conviction,'' said Joe W. Laymon, the executive vice president for human resources and labor relations at Ford. 
 Others, particularly workers themselves, say they think that Mr. Gettelfinger bends so far that he is in danger of appearing malleable.
 ''The only gains we've ever made at the bargaining table came through withholding our labor,'' said Brian Kerr, who has spent 29 years at Caterpillar, where the U.A.W. had two long strikes and he walked a picket line two nights a week for years. ''Words are words; actions are actions.''
 The U.A.W. oversees a contract the size of the Manhattan phone book, and it has spent years trying to protect its prerogatives. One of the most treasured was fully paid health coverage for active and retired workers, considered one of Mr. Reuther's landmark accomplishments when it was achieved in the early 1960's. Despite union members' long-held belief that health care coverage was sacred, Mr. Gettelfinger agreed last fall to plans at G.M. and Ford that required workers to pay for part of their coverage. Some 60 percent of the workers at G.M., which lost $10.6 billion last year, accepted the plan.
 But workers barely approved the plan at Ford, shocking union officials. Perhaps because of that -- and because Mr. Gettelfinger has been so busy negotiating a deal to avoid deep cuts at Delphi -- a similar health care agreement has yet to be reached at Chrysler. Bill Parker, president of a U.A.W. local at Chrysler, predicted that workers would vote down such a pact.
 Although Mr. Parker does not oppose Mr. Gettelfinger's efforts to help the weaker car companies, he questioned whether the same strategy was appropriate for Chrysler, which was profitable last year. ''Are we facing reality?'' he asked. ''The situation at Chrysler is substantially different than the situation at G.M. and Ford.''
 It was one thing for the U.A.W. to grant concessions to Chrysler in 1979, when the givebacks were a crucial part of clinching a federal bailout, Mr. Parker said. But he sees no need now to accept health care cuts.
 On Thursday, Mr. Gettelfinger refused to discuss the negotiations between the U.A.W. and Chrysler.
 BUT the union's relationship with Chrysler provides valuable clues to what the union's overall strategy with the major auto companies may look like in coming years.
 Outside Dundee, Mich., 60 miles south of Detroit, is the Global Engine Manufacturing Alliance plant, or GEMA, a venture of Chrysler, Mitsubishi of Japan and Hyundai of South Korea.
 Working under a streamlined contract the size of a pocket datebook, U.A.W. members there have just one job classification, versus the dozens found at more typical plants. Each worker has the training for a variety of jobs, in contrast to workers at traditional factories, who might toil at one task, like assembling instrument panels, for years on end.
 ''You can see Ron's willingness to take creative approaches to try to deal with complex issues,'' said John S. Franciosi, the senior vice president for labor relations at Chrysler.
 Indeed, the U.A.W. is willing to do such things if they will help guarantee jobs, said James Pedersen, one of Mr. Gettelfinger's political affairs directors. ''Our concerns are our jobs,'' he said. ''The question is, does our message get out, or the message of our adversaries?'' 
 Such uncertainties were heightened last fall after Delphi outmaneuvered the U.A.W. by filing for bankruptcy protection. Delphi's chief executive, Robert S. Miller Jr., went almost unchallenged in his attacks on U.A.W. wage and benefit rates and drew a wide audience for his insistence on deep cuts. Mr. Gettelfinger chose to reply to the critiques primarily in a press release, and the U.A.W. offered a more robust response only after workers at plants in Michigan and Ohio began protesting against any cuts.
 Ultimately, the U.A.W. joined with five other unions at Delphi to fight the cuts, which have yet to be imposed. Delphi has filed a motion in federal court seeking to void its current labor contracts, but the hearing has been postponed until August to give Delphi and the unions an opportunity to reach a settlement.
 Despite Mr. Miller's threats, workers are still earning the same wages they did when Delphi sought bankruptcy protection -- and will for at least a few more months. The union's tactics, Mr. Gettelfinger said, had put the U.A.W. in a position ''where we were able to hold our own.''
 In the meantime, Delphi, the U.A.W. and G.M. negotiated buyouts and retirement incentives that would allow Delphi workers to retire or leave with their pensions and, for some, their health care plans intact. 
 Retired union members, who are on the verge of outnumbering active workers, prize those benefits, and their influence within the U.A.W. has never been greater. While retirees cannot vote on U.A.W. contracts, they vote in local elections, serve as convention delegates and pay voluntary dues of $2 a month. They are also fiercely loyal. 
 ''The U.A.W. changed the culture for people in the world; it really did,'' said Clarice Squillace, a retired G.M. worker from Detroit. But Ms. Squillace said she would be happy if Mr. Gettelfinger could recruit enough new members to tip the balance in the other direction. 
 Yet organizing has been one of the union's biggest failings in the last quarter-century. Despite years of U.A.W. recruitment efforts, there are now 60,000 non-union workers at foreign-owned domestic plants, and that figure is likely to grow substantially as more foreign-owned plants come on line.
 BOB KING, a U.A.W. vice president who has overseen recruitment drives, says the union is changing tactics and will focus on new Hyundai and Nissan plants because they pay considerably lower wages than the other foreign-owned plants. That lower pay may provide the union with an opening, Mr. King said. 
 But such efforts can take years to pull off, and Mr. Gettelfinger has only four more left. Among his most important actions will be to groom the U.A.W.'s next president, give a clear picture of how to handle next year's negotiations at the Detroit companies and resolve the situation at Delphi, which Mr. Gettelfinger said was ''critical'' to the U.A.W.
 But he offers few concrete clues about his intentions. Publicly, Mr. Gettelfinger tends to be short on specifics and long on broad, macroeconomic themes like national health care and industrial policy. In that regard, he has as much in common with one of his predecessors from the 1970's, Leonard Woodcock, as he does with Mr. Reuther.
 Speaking to delegates here last week, Mr. Woodcock's widow, Sharon, reminded them of one of her late husband's favorite mottoes: ''What was not said was as important as what was said.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A monitor showed Ron Gettelfinger, president of the U.A.W., addressing its convention in Las Vegas. (Photo by Jae C. Hong/Associated Press)(pg. 1)
 Chris Hopkins, left, and Pat Dunlay of Iowa were at the U.A.W. convention. A top issue was how tough the union should be with car makers. (Photo by Jae C. Hong/Associated Press)(pg. 9)Chart: ''Strength in Smaller Numbers?''Membership in the U.A.W. has declined steadily since the late 1970's, but its strike fund, despite a stumble in the 1990's, maintains a healthy balance.Graph tracks average dues-paying membership from 1975 to 2005.Graph tracks strike insurance fund balance (in 2006 dollars and in nominal dollars) from 1975 to 2005.(Source by United Automobile Workers)(pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (91%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); HOTEL STAFF (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); WORLD WAR II (69%) Automobiles; Conventions and Conferences; Labor; Organized Labor; Finances

COMPANY: MGM GRAND HOTEL LLC (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (93%) United Automobile Workers

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (57%); NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (57%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: Ron Gettelfinger; Micheline Maynard

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (93%) NEVADA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Las Vegas

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2006



369 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 3; Book Review Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1127 words

HEADLINE: PAPERBACK BEST SELLERS: June 18, 2006

 BODY:


	 	 		Weeks		This	On		Week	List	FICTION		 	 	1	10	THE DA VINCI CODE, by Dan Brown. (Anchor, $14.95 and $7.99; Broadway special illustrated edition, $22.95.) A murder at the Louvre leads to a trail of clues found in the work of Leonardo and to the discovery of a secret society.		 	 	2	1	BLUE SMOKE, by Nora Roberts. (Jove, $7.99.) An arson investigator whose family suffered a fire when she was a child is menaced by a sociopath.		 	 	3	1	4TH OF JULY, by James Patterson and Maxine Paetro. (Warner Vision, $9.99.) Detective Lindsay Boxer, a member of the Women's Murder Club, looks into a series of killings while she herself is on trial.		 	 	4	1	THE JURY, by Fern Michaels. (Zebra, $6.99.) While one revenge mission is put off, the sisterhood takes on another: an abusive national security adviser.		 	 	5	141	ANGELS & DEMONS, by Dan Brown. (Pocket, $9.99 and $7.99.) A scholar tries to save the Vatican from the machinations of an underground society.		 	 	6	4	THE DEVIL WEARS PRADA, by Lauren Weisberger. (Broadway, $13.95; Anchor, $7.99.) A young woman gets a job at a fashion magazine, and a difficult boss. 		 	 	7*	1	CORDINA'S ROYAL FAMILY: Bennett & Camilla, by Nora Roberts. (Silhouette, $7.99.) Reprints of two romances involving a prince and princess from the House of Bisset.		 	 	8	1	MIRACLE, by Danielle Steel. (Dell, $7.50.) When a terrible storm hits Northern California, the lives of three people are changed forever.		 	 	9	1	SUMMER OF ROSES, by Luanne Rice. (Bantam, $7.50.) The past re-enters the lives of two women and their daughters who fled abusive homes and found refuge in Nova Scotia.		 	 	10	5	A WEDDING IN DECEMBER, by Anita Shreve. (Back Bay, $14.95.) Seven friends reunite for a wedding and remember the tragedy that drove them apart.		 	 	11	1	ALWAYS TIME TO DIE, by Elizabeth Lowell. (Avon, $7.99.) Political intrigue engulfs a genealogist after she is hired to research the history of a powerful New Mexican family.		 	 	12	88	THE KITE RUNNER, by Khaled Hosseini. (Riverhead, $15.95 and $14.) An Afghan-American returns to Kabul to learn how a friend has fared under the Taliban.		 	 	13*	6	VELOCITY, by Dean Koontz. (Bantam, $7.99.) A bartender becomes an unwitting accomplice in choosing a serial killer's next victim.		 	 	14	8	TRUE BELIEVER, by Nicholas Sparks. (Warner, $12.95.) A hip young New Yorker finds love with a beautiful librarian who lives in a North Carolina town.		 	 	15	2	GOODNIGHT NOBODY, by Jennifer Weiner. (Washington Square, $15.) An unhappy mother gains independence by investigating a murder. 		 	 		Weeks			 	 	This	On			 	 	Week	List	NONFICTION		 	 	1	20	NIGHT, by Elie Wiesel. (Hill & Wang, $9.) A new translation of an account of the horrors of Auschwitz and Buchenwald, first published in English in 1960.		 	 	2	68	IN COLD BLOOD, by Truman Capote. (Vintage, $14.) A murder in Kansas in 1959 and its consequences.		 	 	3	1	AN INCONVENIENT TRUTH, by Al Gore. (Rodale, $21.95.) The former vice president sounds an alarm about global warming in this companion volume to the movie of the same title.		 	 	4	38	HOLY BLOOD, HOLY GRAIL, by Michael Baigent, Richard Leigh and Henry Lincoln. (Delta, $15; Dell, $7.99.) Remarkable conclusions about Christ's lineage.		 	 	5	95	THE TIPPING POINT, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Back Bay/Little, Brown, $14.95.) A journalist's study of social epidemics, otherwise known as fads.		 	 	6	1	MY FRIEND LEONARD, by James Frey. (Riverhead, $15.) Both author and publisher acknowledge that this book about Frey's helpful mobster friend contains numerous fabrications.		 	 	7	21	THE GLASS CASTLE, by Jeannette Walls. (Scribner, $14.) The author recalls a childhood during which she and her siblings were constantly moved.		 	 	8	1	FLAGS OF OUR FATHERS, by James Bradley with Ron Powers. (Bantam, $14 and $7.99.) The story of the six men who raised the flag at Iwo Jima. 		 	 	9*	7	EATS, SHOOTS & LEAVES, by Lynne Truss. (Gotham, $11.) An Englishwoman expounds on the use and misuse of punctuation marks.		 	 	10*	120	THE DEVIL IN THE WHITE CITY, by Erik Larson. (Vintage, $14.95.) The tale of an architect and a killer, linked by the Chicago World's Fair of 1893.		 	 	11	13	THE COVENANT WITH BLACK AMERICA. (Third World, $12.) Essays aimed at improving life for African-Americans, introduced by Tavis Smiley.		 	 	12	20	THREE WEEKS WITH MY BROTHER, by Nicholas Sparks and Micah Sparks. (Warner, $13.95.) The novelist and his sibling describe their world trip. 		 	 	13	20	CONFESSIONS OF AN ECONOMIC HIT MAN, by John Perkins. (Plume, $15.) A former employee of an international consulting firm denounces the American global empire and its ''corporatocracy.''		 	 	14	106	NICKEL AND DIMED, by Barbara Ehrenreich. (Metropolitan/Owl/Holt, $13.) A report on what it's like to become a member of the working poor.		 	 	15	190	GUNS, GERMS, AND STEEL, by Jared Diamond. (Norton, $16.95.) An argument that Western dominance is due to geographical advantages.		 	 	16*	10	GARLIC AND SAPPHIRES, by Ruth Reichl. (Penguin, $15.) The editor of Gourmet relives her days as restaurant critic of The New York Times.		 	 		Weeks			 	 	This	On			 	 	Week	List	Advice, How-to and Miscellaneous: Hardcover		 	 	1	 9	CESAR'S WAY, by Cesar Millan with Melissa Jo Peltier. (Harmony, $24.95.) The star of the television show ''Dog Whisperer'' offers insight into canine psychology and help solving problems.		 	 	2	4	LIES AT THE ALTAR, by Robin L. Smith. (Hyperion, $24.95.) A psychologist advises couples on how to turn wedding vows into a successful marriage.		 	 	3	2	THE ALPHABET OF MANLINESS, by Maddox. (Citadel, $15.95.) Ribald humor for men, based on the author's Web site. ()		 	 	4	33	YOU: THE OWNER'S MANUAL, by Michael F. Roizen and Mehmet C. Oz. (HarperResource, $24.95.) A guide to how the body works.		 	 	5	176	THE PURPOSE-DRIVEN LIFE, by Rick Warren. (Zondervan, $19.99.) The meaning of life through God. ()		 	 		Weeks			 	 	This	On			 	 	Week	List	Advice, How-to and Miscellaneous: Paperback		 	 	1	7	EXPRESS LANE MEALS, by Rachael Ray. (Clarkson Potter, $18.95.) Quick and easy recipes, and what ingredients to shop for, from the Food Network host.		 	 	2	281	RICH DAD, POOR DAD, by Robert T. Kiyosaki with Sharon L. Lechter. (Warner, $16.95.) Teaching one's children how to get rich and stay rich. ()		 	 	3	268	WHAT TO EXPECT WHEN YOU'RE EXPECTING, by Heidi Murkoff, Arlene Eisenberg and Sandee Hathaway. (Workman, $13.95.) Advice for parents-to-be. ()		 	 	4	2	SOUL MIND BODY MEDICINE, by Zhi Gang Sha. (New World Library, $15.95.) A guide to healing that starts with the soul.		 	 	5	51	THE SOUTH BEACH DIET, by Arthur Agatston. (St. Martin's, $14.95 and $7.99.) A weight-loss plan.		 	 	

Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended June 3, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 60,000 other retailers (gift shops, department stores, newsstands, supermarkets), statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger () indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available at The New York Times on the Web: nytimes.com/books.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MURDER (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); BESTSELLERS (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); GENEALOGY (76%); ARSON (76%); FAMILY (76%); WOMEN (76%); HOMICIDE (72%); BRITISH ROYALTY (70%); RELIGION (67%); FASHION & APPAREL (66%); TALIBAN (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: DAN BROWN (88%); JAMES PATTERSON (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (72%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (73%); NEW MEXICO, USA (72%); NOVA SCOTIA, CANADA (53%) UNITED STATES (90%); AFGHANISTAN (72%); CANADA (53%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2006



370 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Paperback Row; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 744 words

BYLINE: By Ihsan Taylor

 BODY:
THE COAST OF AKRON, by Adrienne Miller. (Picador, $14.) This first novel, by a former literary editor of Esquire, is a tale of an eccentric family's meltdown. Lowell Haven is a charismatic self-portraitist who lives in a 65-room Tudor mansion in Akron, Ohio. When Lowell demands that his lover, Fergus, give a party in honor of his protege, Fergus devises a guest list that includes Lowell's estranged ex-wife (who may be the true creator of his work), their promiscuous daughter and a dogged reporter determined to find out why Lowell mysteriously stopped painting five years earlier. ''When Miller lights the narrative fuse, her readers wait for the fireworks with heart-pounding giddiness,'' Elissa Schappell wrote in the Book Review.
SOLDIERS AND SLAVES: American POWs Trapped by the Nazis' Final Gamble, by Roger Cohen. (Anchor, $15.) Cohen, a veteran reporter and former foreign editor for The New York Times, recreates an episode in the final months of World War II, when 350 American P.O.W.'s, alongside European Jews from the Buchenwald concentration camp, were starved, beaten and forced to work in appalling conditions before being sent on a death march. 
 LAST CALL FOR BLACKFORD OAKES, by William F. Buckley Jr. (Harvest/Harcourt, $14.) Buckley, who started his Blackford Oakes spy novels in 1976, ends it here, 11 offerings later. In the waning days of the cold war, Oakes, the intrepid C.I.A. agent, is back in Russia to thwart another assassination attempt against Mikhail Gorbachev and lock horns with the notorious British defector Kim Philby.
 AMERICAN PROMETHEUS: The Triumph and Tragedy of J. Robert Oppenheimer, by Kai Bird and Martin J. Sherwin. (Vintage, $17.95.) Bird and Sherwin deliver the first full-scale biography of J. Robert Oppenheimer (1904-67), the ''father of the atomic bomb'' who directed the secret laboratory at Los Alamos. The book, which won the Pulitzer Prize for biography this year, delves into Oppenheimer's personal, scientific and political life, which collapsed under accusations of Communism during the McCarthy era. Jennet Conant's 109 EAST PALACE: Robert Oppenheimer and the Secret City of Los Alamos (Simon & Schuster, $14) presents a lively overview of day-to-day life at Los Alamos.
 RULES FOR OLD MEN WAITING, by Peter Pouncey. (Random House, $13.95.) Pouncey is a former president of Amherst College; the old man in his deeply moving first novel is 80-year-old Robert MacIver, a retired historian who has lost his family and retreats to his home on Cape Cod to create a list of rules for his own final days.
 LIPSTICK JIHAD: A Memoir of Growing Up Iranian in America and American in Iran, by Azadeh Moaveni. (PublicAffairs, $13.) Moaveni, who was born in Palo Alto, Calif., worked in Iran for two years as a stringer for Time magazine before joining The Los Angeles Times to cover the war in Iraq. In her memoir she describes exploring the underground youth culture in Tehran and coping with the restrictions on women in Iranian society.
 THE WORLD'S BANKER: A Story of Failed States, Financial Crises, and the Wealth and Poverty of Nations, by Sebastian Mallaby. (Council on Foreign Relations/Penguin, $17.) This fascinating look at the World Bank's last decade of development efforts is also a profile of James D. Wolfensohn, the bank's president from 1995 to 2005. Mallaby, a Washington Post columnist, describes Wolfensohn's attempts to reach out to antiglobalization critics, and surveys the successes and failures of economic development. Our reviewer, Daniel W. Drezner, called this book $(3$)that rarest of treats -- an informed disquisition about public policy wrapped up in a fascinating narrative.''
 JOHNNY TOO BAD: Stories, by John Dufresne. (Norton, $13.95.) Many of the stories in this collection are about a fiction writer named Johnny, his girlfriend and his behaviorally challenged dog, Spot. There is also a stylish deep-South detective story that our reviewer, Mark Kamine, said is ''worth the price of admission.''
 THE LAST VOYAGE OF COLUMBUS: Being the Epic Tale of the Great Captain's Fourth Expedition, Including Accounts of Mutiny, Shipwreck, and Discovery, by Martin Dugard. (Back Bay/Little, Brown, $14.95.) Dugard offers both a gripping naval adventure and a revealing history of the competitive mercantile politics of the turn of the 16th century, and portrays Columbus as a star-crossed striver eager to legitimize his quest to find that elusive passage to India. Ihsan Taylor


GRAPHIC: Photos (Photographs by Greg Martin
 Julia Ewan)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); LITERATURE (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); HOLOCAUST (73%); WORLD WAR II (73%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (73%); COLD WAR (73%); HISTORY (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (72%); VISUAL ARTISTS (72%); STARVATION (71%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (69%); ASSASSINATION (65%); JEWS & JUDAISM (52%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AKRON, OH, USA (90%) NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2006



371 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1251 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: June 18, 2006

 BODY:


	 	 	 			Weeks		This	Last	On		Week	Week	List	FICTION		 	 	 	1		1	THE HUSBAND, by Dean Koontz. (Bantam, $27.) A man whose wife is kidnapped has 60 hours to come up with a huge ransom.		 	 	 	2	2	5	BEACH ROAD, by James Patterson and Peter de Jonge. (Little, Brown, $27.95.) An East Hampton lawyer becomes involved in a highly publicized trial that pits locals against the super-rich.		 	 	 	3	1	2	AT RISK, by Patricia Cornwell. (Putnam, $21.95.) A Massachusetts state investigator applies DNA and other forensic techniques to a cold murder case; written as a serial for The New York Times Magazine.		 	 	 	4		1	THE BOOK OF THE DEAD, by Douglas Preston and Lincoln Child. (Warner, $25.95.) The final volume of a trilogy involving Secret Agent Aloysius Pendergast of the F.B.I. and his criminal brother.		 	 	 	5		1	THE COLD MOON, by Jeffery Deaver. (Simon & Schuster, $26.) The forensic detective Lincoln Rhyme tracks a serial killer who calls himself the Watchmaker.		 	 	 	6	3	3	DEAD WATCH, by John Sandford. (Putnam, $26.95.) A political operative investigates the murder of a former senator.		 	 	 	7		1	DARK SIDE OF THE MOON, by Sherrilyn Kenyon. (St. Martin's, $19.95.) A reporter tries to expose a ring of vampires out to take over Seattle; a ''Dark-Hunter'' novel.		 	 	 	8		1	KILLER DREAMS, by Iris Johansen. (Bantam, $26.) A researcher battles the head of a pharmaceutical company who has perverted a technology she invented in order to turn people into zombies.		 	 	 	9	4	3	THE HARD WAY, by Lee Child. (Delacorte, $25.) When his wife is kidnapped, a man who deals in illegal soldiers turns to the former military cop Jack Reacher.		 	 	 	10		1	BETRAYAL, by Aaron Allston. (Lucas/Del Rey/Ballantine, $25.95.) In the era of Luke Skywalker's legacy, the Skywalker and Solo clans find themselves on opposing sides; a ''Star Wars'' novel.		 	 	 	11*	5	9	TWO LITTLE GIRLS IN BLUE, by Mary Higgins Clark. (Simon & Schuster, $25.95.) A small girl communicates telepathically with her kidnapped twin.		 	 	 	12	7	166	THE DA VINCI CODE, by Dan Brown. (Doubleday, $24.95; special illustrated edition, $35.) A murder at the Louvre leads to a trail of clues found in the work of Leonardo and to the discovery of a secret society.		 	 	 	13	6	5	DIGGING TO AMERICA, by Anne Tyler. (Knopf, $24.95.) Two families, one of them Iranian-American, become involved with each other when both adopt baby girls from Korea.		 	 	 	14		1	TELEGRAPH DAYS, by Larry McMurtry. (Simon & Schuster, $25.) A romantic spoof of the Old West from the author of ''Lonesome Dove.''		 	 	 	15		1	THE FOREIGN CORRESPONDENT, by Alan Furst. (Random House, $24.95.) In wartime Paris, Italian emigres plot against Mussolini.		 	 	 			Weeks			 	 	 	This	Last	On			 	 	 	Week	Week	List	NONFICTION		 	 	 	1	3	2	DISPATCHES FROM THE EDGE, by Anderson Cooper. (HarperCollins, $24.95.) The CNN correspondent describes covering the tsunami in Sri Lanka, the war in Iraq and Hurricane Katrina.		 	 	 	2	1	33	MARLEY & ME, by John Grogan. (Morrow, $21.95.) A newspaper columnist and his wife learn some life lessons from their neurotic dog.		 	 	 	3	2	2	WISDOM OF OUR FATHERS, by Tim Russert. (Random House, $22.95.) Readers' letters about their fathers in response to Russert's ''Big Russ and Me.''		 	 	 	4	5	61	THE WORLD IS FLAT, by Thomas L. Friedman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $30.) A columnist for The Times analyzes 21st-century economics and foreign policy. 		 	 	 	5	4	4	MAYFLOWER, by Nathaniel Philbrick. (Viking, $29.95.) How America began, from the author of ''In the Heart of the Sea.''		 	 	 	6	7	4	MYTHS, LIES, AND DOWNRIGHT STUPIDITY, by John Stossel. (Hyperion, $24.95.) The ''20/20'' anchor questions conventional wisdom.		 	 	 	7	6	60	FREAKONOMICS, by Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner. (Morrow, $25.95.) A maverick scholar and a journalist apply economic theory to almost everything.		 	 	 	8	8	4	MY LIFE IN & OUT OF THE ROUGH, by John Daly with Glen Waggoner. (HarperCollins, $25.95.) A memoir by the bad-boy golf champion.		 	 	 	9	9	8	DON'T MAKE A BLACK WOMAN TAKE OFF HER EARRINGS, by Tyler Perry. (Riverhead, $23.95.) The man behind ''Diary of a Mad Black Woman'' muses on life.		 	 	 	10		5	BEYOND BAND OF BROTHERS, by Dick Winters with Cole C. Kingseed. (Berkley, $24.95.) The war memoirs of the commander of Easy Company, made famous by Stephen Ambrose's ''Band of Brothers.''		 	 	 	11	10	5	BURNT TOAST, by Teri Hatcher. (Hyperion, $24.95.) The actress urges women to pursue their own satisfaction rather than continually sacrificing for others.		 	 	 	12		7	MY LIFE IN FRANCE, by Julia Child with Alex Prud'homme. (Knopf, $25.95.) How Julia Child mastered the art of French cooking: a memoir.		 	 	 	13	15	67	BLINK, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Little, Brown, $25.95.) The author of ''The Tipping Point'' explores the importance of hunch and instinct to the workings of the mind.		 	 	 	14		1	AMERICA: THE LAST BEST HOPE, VOL. I, by William J. Bennett. (Nelson Current/Thomas Nelson, $29.99.) A history from 1492 to 1914, by the former secretary of education.		 	 	 	15		1	WE ARE THEIR HEAVEN, by Allison DuBois. (Fireside/Simon & Schuster, $24.) How the dead communicate with us.		 	 	 	16*	12	5	THE MIGHTY AND THE ALMIGHTY, by Madeleine Albright with Bill Woodward. (HarperCollins, $25.95.) The former secretary of state reflects on America, God and world affairs.		 	 	 	

Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended June 3, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 50,000 other retailers, statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger () indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available at The New York Times on the Web: nytimes.com/books.

Editors' Choice
 Other recent books of particular interest

THE PLACES IN BETWEEN, by Rory Stewart. (Harvest/Harcourt, paper, $14.) The author recounts his walk across Afghanistan, in the dead of winter, through territory still under Taliban sway.
 MOCKINGBIRD: A Portrait of Harper Lee, by Charles J. Shields. (Henry Holt, $25.) The life of the woman who wrote ''To Kill a Mockingbird.'' 
 THE POSSIBILITY OF AN ISLAND, by Michel Houellebecq. (Knopf, $24.95.) In this new novel from the French author, a radical libertine becomes the progenitor of a line of clones.
 MOHR, by Frederick Reuss. (Unbridled, $25.95.) A novelistic examination of why Reuss's great-great-uncle abandoned his wife and daughter in Bavaria to work in Shanghai in the 1930's.
 THE GOOD FIGHT: Why Liberals -- and Only Liberals -- Can Win the War on Terror and
 MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN, by Peter Beinart. (HarperCollins, $25.95.) An attempt to resuscitate the fighting liberalism of the Truman era.
 MIDDLE PASSAGES: African American Journeys to Africa, 1787-2005, by James Campbell. (Penguin Press, $29.95.) Black Americans' travels ''home'' in search of cultural identity. 
 JUNK MAIL, by Will Self. (Black Cat, paper, $14.) Reviews, profiles and essays linked by food, God, the body, and personal and cultural addiction. 
 RAPIDS, by Tim Parks. (Arcade, $24.) Personalities clash among a group of British tourists as their kayaking trip descends into disaster.
 BEFORE THE DAWN: Recovering the Lost History of Our Ancestors, by Nicholas Wade (Penguin Press, $24.95) A New York Times reporter charts the genetic evidence for human evolution. 
 THE GIRLS WHO WENT AWAY: The Hidden History of Women Who Surrendered Children for Adoption in the Decades Before Roe v. Wade, by Ann Fessler. (Penguin Press, $24.95.) Disturbing oral histories of wounded birth mothers.
 THE WHOLE WORLD OVER, by Julia Glass. (Pantheon, $25.95.) An unhappily married pastry chef and other West Village characters inhabit this novel from the author of ''Three Junes.''
 The full reviews of these and other recent books are on the Web: nytimes.com/books. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MURDER (90%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); FORENSICS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); WRITERS (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (75%); FORENSIC DNA TESTING (75%); HOMICIDE (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); FAMILY (74%); ESPIONAGE (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (70%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (69%); CLOCK & WATCH MFG (67%); ARMED FORCES (63%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (51%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%)

PERSON: JAMES PATTERSON (57%); DAN BROWN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2006



372 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1069 words

HEADLINE: The View From His Window

BYLINE: By GEORGE SARRINIKOLAOU. 
George Sarrinikolaou is the author of ''Facing Athens: Encounters With the Modern City.''

 BODY:
AT dawn not long ago, I stood by the window of our sixth-floor apartment, holding my infant daughter in my arms and taking in a bluish stretch of Brooklyn. For her, the light outside contrasted sharply with our still-dark apartment and held her gaze. 
 My eyes focused on the vista to the east, where massive housing projects in Williamsburg and Bedford-Stuyvesant block the horizon. From my vantage point in Fort Greene, they looked bigger than, but just as ugly as, the ones in which I once lived in Astoria, Queens. 
Because I was born to working-class parents and have lived only in cities, the problems implicit in the landscape -- poverty, poor urban planning, sheer ugliness -- have always claimed my attention. But as I held my baby, these problems acquired an urgency that had me fantasizing about a way out of Brooklyn. 
 In my mind, I sought idyllic settings that would distance this little girl from the sharp class divisions of her neighborhood, settings where the air was clean, and where dawn arrived without sirens and car alarms. Suburban and rural fantasies flashed across my mind, though I knew in my heart that neither the suburbs nor the country was for me.
 The view from my window swam back into focus. This time my eyes fell on the jumble of silvery roofs, fire escapes and grimy walls that spread out just beyond the window. A liquor store on Myrtle Avenue was visible. The store's aged exterior and its neon ''Liquors'' sign, which lights up only partially at night, suggest a toughness and decay befitting a street once nicknamed Murder Avenue. 
 After living in the neighborhood for a year and a half, I had ventured inside the store for the first time only a few days earlier. A woman sitting behind a clear plexiglass barrier had asked me if I was shopping for wine. When I nodded, she opened a door in the protective barrier and let me approach the shelves. The old women waiting to play Lotto had to call their numbers through the barrier.
 From my vantage point at the window, my view of the rest of Myrtle Avenue was obstructed, but I had walked along the street often enough to know that it was a dividing line between rich and poor. To the north lay the Walt Whitman Houses, a housing project, and what seem to me like drug dens. To the south was a former ghetto now with million-dollar houses. And everywhere along Myrtle Avenue, there were signs that the rich were displacing the poor. Expensive residential buildings were rising next to 99-cent stores. Upscale restaurants were opening among the ubiquitous crummy delis.
 Such jarring differences were to be found everywhere in Fort Greene. Some of my neighbors waited in line in the cold to get free American cheese and peanut butter from a local food pantry. Others paid $24 a pound for Roquefort. Homeless people bundled in rags slept in the park; other people sat by fireplaces in renovated brownstones. 
 The numbers bear me out. The 2000 Census found that 11,970 residents of Fort Greene, or about one out of three, lived below the poverty level, which was $13,860 for a family of three. Our annual rent alone amounted to $24,530, and that is for an apartment in a building with city-mandated rent and income levels. Our building was once abandoned, a monument of urban decay. So I suppose the fact that we live here is a testament to progress.
 The Census data also showed that the majority of Fort Greene's residents were people of color, most of them -- 54 percent -- African-American. Race, though, did not necessarily determine class. Plenty of people of color in this neighborhood own expensive homes and cars. Indeed, prosperous African-Americans, homeowners and professionals, have long anchored Fort Greene, and now they, too, are benefiting from the rising property values and lower crime rate that have been part of the neighborhood's transformation. 
 Severe economic imbalances aren't unique to Fort Greene. In Chelsea, for example, the moneyed art world set up shop among blue-collar workers and residents of low-income housing. But that inequality existed elsewhere in the city offered little comfort.
 I asked myself what I would tell my daughter when she was old enough to perceive these differences. What might I tell her if she asked me what part she and I played in the life of the neighborhood?
 Before I became a father, I demanded of myself answers to similar questions. I wanted to understand my relationship to the injustice around me. I had no answers, but I tried to live my life in a way that, I hoped, would reduce my complicity. 
 IN my teens, I became a vegetarian because I found the meat industry cruel and environmentally destructive. I became a journalist and a writer to draw attention to the problems that troubled me. Whatever little effect these decisions have had, they let me feel as if I were doing as well as I could.
 But in the end, my choices simply revealed to me the limitations of what I was willing to do in the name of my convictions. When my wife and I were priced out of our old apartment in neighboring Park Slope, we set out in search of a large enough place that we could afford, in a neighborhood safe enough to start a family. When we found this modest apartment in Fort Greene, self-interest quickly trumped my misgivings about taking part in the neighborhood's gentrification. 
 Standing by that window, I realized that despite my high-mindedness, I, too, had come to tolerate the inequality that appalled me. On my way to work, I regularly walked past the people in line outside the food pantry. I ate in the local restaurants they couldn't afford. I was part of an expensive rental market that could eventually drive them out of Fort Greene. No, I had become no better or worse than anyone passing outside my window.
 Perhaps my desire to raise my daughter in a place that was as safe and comfortable as we could afford made everything else all right. But could I face the people in the food line, or those living in the projects, and tell them that my daughter's well-being was more important than their misery? 
 I held my daughter closer, and she rewarded me with a toothless smile. As I stood there, I began to realize that the choices that have defined my life might not withstand her scrutiny. Still, I would raise her, I wanted to tell her, to look about her with eyes open wide, even if it meant that she, one day, would direct her gaze at me and my life.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); CITY LIFE (74%); CITIES (74%); LAND USE PLANNING (72%); SUBURBS (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (69%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (69%); RESTAURANTS (69%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); CHEESE (67%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (64%); LOTTERIES (61%) 

PERSON: George Sarrinikolaou

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; Fort Greene (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2006



373 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; LIFE'S WORK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: Blueprints for Plugging a Brain Drain 

BYLINE: By Lisa Belkin. 
This column about the intersection of jobs and personal lives appears every other week. E-mail: Belkin@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
TOMORROW evening, representatives of 33 major companies will gather to play a game that is a cross between ''Show and Tell'' and ''Can You Top This?'' The occasion will be the Hidden Brain Drain Summit, the latest step by a task force whose work I have chronicled in this column over the last three years. 
 The hidden brain drain refers to what Sylvia Ann Hewlett calls ''the highly qualified women and minorities who are either leaving the work force or languishing on the sidelines.'' Or, to quote an article I wrote in 2003 for The New York Times Magazine -- one that helped spur the work of the task force in the first place -- it refers to workers who are ''opting out.'' 
By way of full disclosure, I was involved in the early meetings of the group when Ms. Hewlett, who runs the Center for Work-Life Policy in New York, first assembled it three years ago. But I have not been a member since those early months, and it is as an interested observer that I've been watching how the task force has translated amorphous discontent into concrete policy and practice. Ms. Hewlett, an economist trained at Cambridge University in England, knows corporations change through appeals not to their conscience but to their bottom line. 
 As Melinda Wolfe, managing director of the Office of Global Leadership and Diversity at Goldman Sachs, which will be making a presentation at the meeting, said: ''The business argument for doing this is sound. When we train an employee and then they leave, it is a loss of investment. And that will only be compounded in light of the overall shrinking of the work force, when retention will become even more important.''
 Joining the task force means pledging to develop ways to achieve retention, and over the next two days participating companies will present all they have invented. The assembled employers will represent 2.5 million employees operating in 150 countries and generating $3 trillion in market capitalization, making them ''a force to be reckoned with,'' Ms. Hewlett says. 
 Looked at through their lens, there are two keys to plugging the brain drain. First, companies have to persuade their employees to stay, which is why so many of the plans are aimed at showing women they have a bright future. 
 At Ernst & Young, for instance, the career paths of ''high potential'' female and minority employees are regularly reviewed by a ''career watch'' committee, to make sure these employees get the assignments that keep them on the partnership track. Billie Williamson, who oversees the firm's work on gender strategy, says that when the program was developed three years ago, turnover among women was 5 percent higher than among men, but is now on par. 
 Ernst & Young also has created a ''face book'' of its female executives, showing a family photo of each and describing her career path and hobbies, making the point that women with families can get to the top. ''I don't wear on my sleeve that I've got one daughter and two stepchildren,'' Ms. Williamson says. ''This is a way our young women can say, 'I'm kind of like Billie, so it's realistic that I can be a partner, too.' ''
 At Lehman Brothers, attention is being given to a common conundrum: flexible work arrangements are required to retain women, but many will not ask for them because there is a stigma associated with a benefit seen as applicable only to women. So the company is hoping to redefine flexible work not as a life versus work issue, but as a national security plan. 
 Lehman, which lost use of its Wall Street headquarters on 9/11, is running a pilot program in which a test group of both men and women are asked to work from home once a week, testing remote technologies to be used in a natural disaster, pandemic or terrorist attack. ''Given it's a gender-neutral exercise with a well-accepted business purpose, working remotely becomes less of a women's issue,'' says Anne R. Erni, chief diversity officer at Lehman. 
 Keeping women from opting out is only half the challenge, however, and that brings up the second key to halting the brain drain: helping smooth the re-entry for those who have left and want to return. Goldman Sachs is one of several companies with a plan to actively recruit such women. Its first daylong seminar last month attracted nearly 100 participants. 
 It is too soon to tell how many of those invited guests will become Goldman employees, says Elana Weinstein, vice president for global leadership and diversity, just as it is too soon to tell whether the number of female partners will continue to rise at Ernst & Young and the number of men who telecommute will increase at Lehman. 
 ''That will be the real test,'' Ms. Weinstein says, of whether plans like these are a true rethinking of the workplace or merely window dressing.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Randall Enos)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC MIGRATION (90%); LABOR FORCE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); WORKPLACE PROGRAMS (78%); WOMEN (76%); WORK-LIFE BALANCE (69%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (69%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (60%) Labor; Women; Minorities (US); Labor

COMPANY: ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (54%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (54%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (54%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: Lisa Belkin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); ENGLAND (55%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2006



374 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; COLLECTING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1419 words

HEADLINE: A Can't-Miss Investment That Missed: The Case of the 'Last Convertible'

BYLINE: By DAVE KINNEY

 BODY:
THIRTY years ago, amid a swirl of rumors that federal rollover rules would impose a death sentence on open-top cars, Americans lined up to buy what they believed would be the nation's last large convertible, the 1976 Cadillac Eldorado.
 The last of the mammoth, 5,153-pound Eldorados rolled off the assembly line on April 21, 1976. The cars quickly found buyers, even though production had been ratcheted up to 14,000 for the 1976 model year, from 8,950 for 1975. Certain that the Cadillac was destined to become a classic and expecting that its value would soar, collectors and speculators snapped up the cars and tucked them away like bags of Krugerrands.
Yet, even three decades later, many of the people who bought the ''can't miss'' collectible have never recouped their investments.
 The '76 Eldorado is an example of an ''instant collectible,'' a car that many people bought when it was new simply for its perceived future value. The car's checkered history as a collectible, however, provides a cautionary lesson for those buying some of today's new cars -- like the Ford GT, Pontiac Solstice and Corvette Z06 -- with the same profit-oriented goal. 
 For a time, the Cadillac was a hot commodity as a used car, selling for many times its base sticker price of $11,049 (almost $40,000 today, adjusted for inflation). In the late 1970's, Eldorados sometimes sold for $50,000 or more.
 Trading in the big Cadillacs resembled, in a way, the Dutch tulip mania of the 17th century. Some buyers bought multiple Eldorados so that they would be assured of having a fresh convertible for the rest of their lives -- or at least having an extra chip to play when prices ultimately hit the stratosphere. 
 The interest in '76 Eldorados was not entirely driven by buyers. General Motors, which did not miss a lot of marketing opportunities in the 1970's, did nothing to discourage the speculation. As sales of Eldorado convertibles jumped 64 percent in 1976, diluting the exclusivity of these ''last ever'' cars, Cadillac responded by marketing a more distinctive version. This car, the Bicentennial Edition, came only in white with red and blue pinstripes. Just 200 were built, making this a true limited edition in an era when such labels usually meant little.
 Ultimately, the biggest strike against the Eldorado convertible was the fact that the body style didn't disappear for long. The new rollover rules were not as draconian as anticipated, and by 1982 Chrysler was selling a regular-production convertible, the LeBaron, again.
 In the 1980's, J. P. Van De Bundt, owner of the Victory Cars dealership in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., bought more than a dozen 1976 Eldorados, many of them from the original owners. ''Some of them felt betrayed by G.M.,'' he said. ''They thought they had bought the last American convertible.'' 
 When he tried to resell the cars, Mr. Van De Bundt found willing buyers for low-mileage convertibles in Europe as well as North America. ''Most of the Eldorados I sold outside the U.S. went to Germany or to the Netherlands,'' his native country, he said. ''Most of the European owners would convert their cars to run on propane; they would have a switch under the dash to shift back and forth between the cheaper propane and gas.'' 
 Mr. Van De Bundt owned an Eldorado in the 1970's before leaving Europe for South Florida. ''I was a musician then, and I always drove big American cars,'' he said. ''I would get pulled over by the Dutch police, what with the big convertible and long hair.'' 
 Today, Eldorado convertibles are frequently seen at collector car auctions. At a February sale by RM Auctions in Boca Raton, Fla., a 1976 convertible showing just 13,928 miles brought $25,680 including commissions. According to the Black Book Cars of Particular Interest Value Guide, a 1976 Eldorado convertible in good ''weekend driver'' condition is worth $14,750, a slight increase from the sticker price when new (albeit in much less valuable 2006 dollars). 
 Other instant collectibles of the era include several Corvettes, notably two '78 models: the Silver Anniversary coupe, built to commemorate the 25th year of Corvette production, and the Pace Car coupe, a replica of that year's Indianapolis 500 pace car.
 In 1982, the first of the Collector Edition Corvettes appeared, followed by, among others, the 35th anniversary, 40th anniversary and 50th anniversary editions, and by pace cars for both 1995 and 1998.
 Donnie Gould, a partner in RM Classic Auctions, has seen a lot of Pace Car and Collector Editions cross the block. ''The majority are low-miles cars, parked when new and only used for special occasions like Sunday drives,'' he said. ''Lots of the first owners treated them more like art than cars.'' Prices of these Corvettes have only recently spiked, particularly the 1978 Pace Car and 1982 Collector Edition.
 ''Occasionally you can make some quick money by buying the right car and getting in -- and out -- quickly,'' Mr Gould said. But he warned: ''Don't assume that low production and the latest thing will last forever. The smart investors wait for the first owners to take the financial hit, and then buy the one they want when they are no longer this year's hot ticket.'' 
 Looking ahead, Mr. Gould singled out the 1987 Buick GNX as a car likely to rise in value -- in contrast to the 1988-91 Buick Reattas that were also tucked away, like Eldorados, as collectibles. The product of a collaboration between Buick and ASC/McLaren, the GNX had a sticker price of $29,290; only 547 were built. ''They were a true 1980's supercar,'' Mr. Gould said. ''Nearly every piece on those cars was unique to it.'' 
 Price guides currently estimate the value of a GNX in excellent condition at $55,000, which Mr. Gould says is low. ''Try more like $75,000 to $100,000,'' he said.
 Among recent production vehicles, Mr. Gould sees appreciation potential for the Ford GT, which has a list price of $150,000. ''They did sell for up to $50,000 over list when they first came out,'' he said, but added that GT's are now selling at sticker price or slightly above it. Prices are higher, he noted, for Heritage Edition cars painted orange and light blue -- the racing colors of Gulf Oil, which sponsored the Ford GT40's that famously raced at LeMans in the 1960's.
 As for other new cars that may seem to have investment potential, speculators would do well to remember the 1976 Eldorado and heed the lessons of the past. While a few limited-production models will appreciate in value, prices of most hot new cars quickly drop when the initial demand is sated -- or when that model is superseded by the next flavor of the month.

Sure-Fire Collectibles That Backfired
 FOR every Hemi 'Cuda or Shelby Cobra that was tucked away 35 years ago, only to resurface in the 21st century as a $1 million collectible, how many Continental Mark III's, Oldsmobile Cutlass pace cars or Fiat X1/9's collect dust in dark garages, their owners waiting for the payday that seemed certain?
 Aside from mid-70's Eldorados, many other Cadillacs were preserved, figuratively, in amber. When these cars appear at collector auctions -- except for very rare models or the outrageous 1959's with towering tailfins -- they bring respectable but not eye-popping prices.
 Some other General Motors models viewed when new as ''instant collectibles'' also ended up disappointing buyers. For instance, the Buick Reatta coupe of 1988-91 and the Reatta convertible of 1990-1 have yet to show much price appreciation. According to the Black Book Cars of Particular Interest Value Guide, Reatta coupes sell for less than $7,000 in excellent condition; convertibles bring less than $20,000. 
 The 1981-83 DeLorean DMC-12 is another ''sure-fire'' collectible whose day never came. Investors thought they saw gold in the sports cars with stainless-steel bodies. The 1981 list price was $26,175; today, values have inched toward $30,000, a negative return once maintenance is factored in.
 At least one automaker, Ferrari, has mastered the art of producing cars that seem guaranteed to hold their value. The company regularly offers distinctive models in limited numbers -- roughly defined as a handful less than it can handily sell. The formula has worked for the F40, F50 and Enzo, with demand always slightly ahead of supply. A 2003 Enzo ($652,000 when new) with no damage and less than 2,000 miles on the odometer will return $1 million or more, according to John Levy of Shelton Ferrari in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. DAVE KINNEY


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Buick Reatta hasn't clicked as a collectible.
The 1976 Cadillac Eldorado was expected to be the last big American convertible. When that proved false, the car's value as an investment dropped. (Photographs from the brochure collection of Steve Hayes)
 John Z. DeLorean and his dream with gullwing doors. (Photo by Camera Press/Retna)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); SPORTS CARS (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (74%) Automobiles; Collectors and Collections

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Cadillac Division of General Motors Corp

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: Dave Kinney

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (50%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2006



375 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; TECHNOLOGY; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1111 words

HEADLINE: Using Ceramics, Brakes Are Light but Cost Is Heavy

BYLINE: By KEVIN CAMERON

 BODY:
CHECKING boxes on an option list can quickly run up the price of a new car, but few add-ons are in the league of the ceramic brakes on a Ferrari F430: at $16,808, they cost about the same amount as a nicely equipped Honda Civic.
 The high-tech brakes, an option on the $172,505 F430 but standard on some other Ferraris, are an upgrade for iron discs that already deliver impressive stopping power. Only those drivers who spend weekends on the racetrack are likely to notice a big difference in performance. 
Car-savvy pedestrians may take note of the owner's selection, though. Instead of a metallic gleam visible through the spokes of the alloy wheels, they will see discs that look like patio stones.
 Porsche was the first automaker to use ceramic brakes on a production car; in 2001, it offered discs made of a novel ceramic composite material to reduce the weight of a special sport model. Several Porsches now offer them as an option; on the Cayman sports car they cost $8,150.
 Brake discs, also called rotors, of similar ceramic material are optional on the Audi S8 (although not yet in the United States). The $210,000 Bentley Continental GT Diamond Series will also be equipped with ceramic discs.
 Why replace metal discs, which have served well for many years and are easy to make? Using a ceramic composite takes advantage of a material with outstanding hardness (and potentially long life) and an ability to retain its strength and shape at temperatures that would melt conventional iron brake material into a glowing puddle. 
 Simple single-ingredient ceramics tend to be brittle like dinnerware, though some types work well in turbochargers or as bearings for jet engines. To make ceramics that are tough enough for a brake disc, the material is manufactured as a composite: strands of carbon fiber, which are highly resistant to stretching, are embedded in the material, using a process developed by the Mitsubishi Chemical Company. 
 Production begins with a disc-shaped ''preform'' of carbon fibers, essentially a bundle of woven cloth in the approximate shape of the finished disc. The preform is saturated with a liquid polymer containing carbon and silicon. It is then heated to convert the polymer into silicon carbide, an extremely hard ceramic. The finished surface looks like stone. 
 Today, ceramic brakes are of interest for their performance advantage -- maintaining their stopping power even when extremely hot. But because ceramic discs will last four times as long as iron ones, according to automakers, their use could increase.
 More important, ceramic discs weigh about half as much as iron discs -- a valuable benefit for handling and acceleration. 
 There are other good reasons to seek lighter, more durable brake disc materials. Since the introduction of CAFE -- the federally mandated corporate average fuel economy standards that an automaker's fleet of models must collectively meet-- there has been strong pressure to reduce the weight of automobiles. 
 As a vehicle accelerates, its rotating parts require more energy to accelerate than nonrotating parts like seats or engine blocks. This is because they gain energy from both their accelerating forward motion and from their increasingly rapid rotation. This gives brake discs a special importance in fuel economy.
 Because so much driving is stop-and-go, and because it takes more fuel to accelerate a heavy car than a light one, reducing weight can help automakers meet the CAFE standards. Heavy iron brake discs are a favorite target of weight-conscious auto engineers. 
 When a car is braked, friction between the disc and the pads that grip it converts the kinetic energy of forward motion to heat. The heat is absorbed mainly by the discs, and eventually dissipated to the surrounding air. The higher the speed, the more kinetic energy there is, and the hotter the brakes become. 
 As discs have been made lighter, their average operating temperature has risen, leading to more rapid pad and disc wear. Braking force increases with disc diameter, so any attempt to remove weight by reducing disc diameter also lengthens stopping distances. Carmakers sometimes compensate by installing higher-friction pads -- which in turn may wear more rapidly. 
 Discs from the pre-CAFE era included extra material that allowed worn discs to be machined one or more times and re-used. Today's lighter discs have little extra; often, they must be replaced when worn. 
 Brake pads designed for use with ceramic composite discs may contain ceramic powder along with metal in the form of wire or particles. The ceramic provides the hardness to resist wear while the metal forms a so-called ''transfer coating'' on both the pad and the disc surfaces during the break-in period. Much of the friction generated between the pad and the disc occurs between and within these metallic films.
 To permit safe brake operation at very high disc and pad temperatures, the hydraulic pistons, brake fluid and seals in the brake caliper must be insulated from the heat. This can be accomplished by installing heat shields, assuring good circulation of cooling air over the parts and blocking the path that the heat would travel. 
 Aircraft and Formula One racecars have the luxury of a more expensive solution: the carbon-carbon discs seen in dramatic racing photos, glowing red or even bright orange under hard braking. Discs and pads made of this material are able to operate routinely at temperatures that would melt most metals.
 The carbon-carbon name is engineer-speak for a material consisting of two forms of carbon; crystalline carbon fibers of immense strength, reinforcing a structure of amorphous carbon (like the solid black carbon found in the brushes that carry electrical current in a motor or generator). 
 The carbon-carbon manufacturing process is enormously expensive -- carbon-carbon discs cost thousands of dollars, but in racing their benefits are worth the price. Not only does braking improve, but the low weight of the disc mass lets the racecar accelerate slightly more quickly. 
 Such light discs can absorb large amounts of energy because their temperature can safely rise much higher than that of iron discs. Unfortunately, wear is fairly rapid and brake torque is limited at low disc temperature. Still, for aircraft, a pound of weight saved is a pound of payload (and revenue) gained, on every flight. 
 Ceramic composite disc materials are a big step in the right direction, costing only about one-fourth as much as carbon-carbon. 
 That may persuade more high-end automakers to offer ceramic brakes, which could help to reduce costs and make them available on more cars.


CORRECTION-DATE: July 2, 2006

 CORRECTION:
..
 Because of an editing error, an article on June 18 about ceramic materials in brakes misstated the price of the Bentley Continental GT Diamond Series. It is $189,900, not $210,000.
..

GRAPHIC: Photos: Top, a cutaway of Audi's ceramic brake disc, which is lightweight but very expensive. These brakes are available in Europe on Audi's S8 sport sedan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPOSITE MATERIALS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); SPORTS CARS (77%); CARBIDES MFG (73%); CHEMICALS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (73%); CHEMICALS MFG (73%); FABRICS (62%) Automobiles; Brakes

PERSON: Kevin Cameron

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2006



376 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1111 words

HEADLINE: Pencil It In Under 'Not Happening'

BYLINE: By ALEX WILLIAMS

 BODY:
LAST Monday was a typically overscheduled day for Michael Kubin, a top executive at marketing companies in Los Angeles and Princeton, N.J. He had a breakfast meeting, a lunch meeting and after work a date for drinks and then a dinner, all with clients or business associates. None of those engagements fell through, Mr. Kubin said. 
 Which was something of a surprise, because in the past three years he has seen a rise in the frequency with which social and professional obligations outside the office are being canceled -- or, more politely, ''rescheduled.''
He rarely feels snubbed when the other party cancels. In fact, he feels something closer to, well, joy. ''Very often I experience a feeling of mini-euphoria when I have something canceled,'' Mr. Kubin said. ''It's just a matter of finding the gift of free time. If it comes at the expense of a pleasant lunch with someone, then so be it.'' 
 In an overscheduled world, are there any words more lovely than, ''Can we reschedule?'' 
 Who among the harried professional class does not breathe a secret sigh of relief when drinks with an old friend, lunch with a potential client or a Saturday dinner party with college classmates falls through? Driven by 12-hour workdays, never-ending networking ''opportunities,'' work that follows us home on the Internet and the Treo, not to mention weekends crammed with kids' play dates and dinner parties, many people are admitting that one of modern life's most underappreciated joys is to be dropped by others, at least occasionally and when done in the right spirit. 
 The act of canceling a meeting or dinner date can constitute the most precious gift one busy professional can bestow on another. Both parties tacitly acknowledge that the empty calendar is the greatest luxury of all, one that even the rich -- especially the rich -- can't buy.
 ''Of course people love it,'' said Beth Rudin DeWoody, an art collector and busy supporter of the arts in New York. ''We're all overwhelmed.'' 
 In recent years, she said, invitations to fund-raisers seem to have quadrupled, as new charities pop up and old ones ramp up fund-raising efforts. More invitations mean more hope that something -- anything -- will be canceled, even commitments with friends who, one would hope, share the same feelings. ''There's no guilt involved,'' Ms. DeWoody said. ''So many times we all make commitments, then when the time comes we say, 'Oh, God, I'd really rather stay home and watch TV.' ''
 The desire for relief is arguably most pronounced among professionals who work in face-time-intensive industries like law, the media, public relations or sales -- really any industry where the reigning ethic seems to be network-or-perish, said Dr. Edward M. Hallowell, a psychiatrist in Sudbury, Mass., and the author of ''CrazyBusy: Overstretched, Overbooked, and About to Snap!'' (Ballantine, 2006). 
 ''With cellphones and BlackBerries, people are too reachable,'' Dr. Hallowell said. ''We sign up for too much. So when fate intervenes, it's better than found money. It's found time.'' 
 Work lunches may be the most vexing engagements. On the one hand, they are usually forgettable and can be canceled easily with a quick e-mail message. On the other hand, most people think they are subtly steering their career onto the soft shoulder of the road when they back out of business lunches. 
 But when it's the other person doing the canceling ''I personally love it when people cancel on me,'' Meredith Kahn Rollins, the executive editor of Lucky magazine, wrote in an e-mail message. ''It's like you're suddenly gifted with extra free time. But if they cancel on me more than once, I get really, really paranoid. So that's a downside.''
 With the tables turned and Ms. Rollins doing the canceling, she figures she gets one free pass; even a second cancellation is permissible. But there is no canceling a third time or a relationship will be over. 
 When work-related drinks or dinners cannot be broken, something has to give, and that something is usually time with friends. You hope they understand. For the most part, they do. 
 ''You send out a message saying, 'I have to cancel,' and you usually get a reply back that says, 'Thank God,' '' said Steve Alexander, 33, an executive with a data analysis company in Washington. 
 Mr. Alexander said his calendar of work-related social engagements is usually booked through the week by Monday, leading to the inevitable cancellation of social plans with buddies. It has become a weekly ritual. Still, feelings are fragile, even among old friends. ''Sometimes we have to put it on the calendar that we will commit not to cancel,'' Mr. Alexander said. He and his friends go so far as to buy tickets to a movie or concert weeks ahead, as a form of cancellation insurance, ''so you make a financial commitment,'' he said. Otherwise, ''chances are it will fall through.''
 The notion that lives are ruled by the tyranny of the electronic organizer is not necessarily a white-collar illusion, according to Jared Bernstein, a senior economist with the Economic Policy Institute in Washington. Between 1975 and 2004, middle-income married couples with children increased their annual number of hours of work in the paid labor market by 770 hours, almost five more months of full-time work (an increase in part due to more women joining the labor force). 
 According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics' American Time Use Survey, in 2002 more than 10 million Americans with college degrees reported bringing home extra work on nights and weekends, an average of three hours a week.
 This busy-ness leads to an ill-fated attempt to juggle it all, which inevitably leads to hard choices. What to cancel? 
 Ben Boyd, a senior vice president with Edelman public relations in Washington, recently committed accidentally to an oft-delayed drinks date with an old friend and a few other buddies on the night of an important board meeting at work. He had to make a tough call. 
 ''I thought, if I bail on this guy again, he's going to disown me,'' Mr. Boyd said. ''So in the etiquette of canceling, I had to send a groveling e-mail to the board members. I just owned it: 'I've double-booked, but this is a close friend of mine I haven't seen in a year.' '' 
 Good thing he was up front about it. Forty-five minutes later, he and his friends were drinking wine on the deck of his friend's condominium. On a deck a few condos away, out strode one of his fellow board members. The meeting had been cut short. 
 ''Had I not been honest, I would have been totally busted,'' Mr. Boyd said. ''Transparency is key -- unless you know you're not going to get caught.''


GRAPHIC: Photos (Photograph by Lars Klove for The New York Times
 illustration by The New York Times)(pg. 1)Drawing (Illustration by The New York Times)(pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUNDRAISING (88%); CHARITIES (68%); ART COLLECTING (60%) Leisure

PERSON: Alex Williams

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2006



377 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Q&A; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 449 words

BYLINE: By ROGER COLLIS

 BODY:

Can You Turn a Flight Into A B.Y.O.B. Affair?

Now that some airlines (especially United States carriers) are charging for drinks in economy, my wife suggests that on our next flight we take our own wine and sandwiches. Is this permitted? -- Brian Lewis, Stallikon, Switzerland
 
 While there is no formal recommendation by the International Air Transport Association against consuming your own alcoholic beverages on an aircraft, you may fall foul of national legislation and specific airline rules, according to William Gaillard, chief spokesman for the association in Geneva. Understandably, airlines want to monitor the consumption of alcohol onboard flights for reasons of safety and security.
Kevin Johnson, a spokesman for Air Canada and United Airlines, said that passengers would not be permitted to open their own bottles of beer, wine or liquor during a flight. A spokesman for British Airways in London, Jay Merritt, said that while it was not formally forbidden, ''We strongly discourage people from consuming their own alcoholic drinks on board. However, there might be special occasions when a party may want to bring a bottle of Champagne to celebrate. But they would have to make it known in advance to the purser and be served by cabin attendants.'' 
 Virgin Atlantic says that passengers might be allowed to drink their own wine, but never hard liquor, especially duty-free purchases, during a flight. Richard Hedges, American Airlines' director for corporate communications for Europe and the Pacific, said: ''We do not allow passengers to consume their own alcoholic beverages on board flights; this is so that the cabin staff can control the amount that people drink. On the other hand, we encourage people to bring their own food on board, especially on short flights in America.'' 
 It is a felony in many jurisdictions to board a plane under the influence of alcohol or to appear to be drunk onboard. How this is interpreted is likely to be a call by the captain or head of the cabin crew. 
 However, no one will object if you take food, and some hotels offer packed meals for departing guests. For example, Four Seasons Hotels sell Gourmet Meals to Go. In London the Four Seasons Park Lane's ''picnic in the sky'' ($:32, or $61 at $1.90 to the pound) includes asparagus salad with braised baby tomatoes and Parmesan; blackened chicken with mango in pita bread; seafood salad with glass noodles; and apple and almond pie. The Milestone Hotel in Kensington, London, offers ''airline picnics'' ($:25) with smoked salmon sandwiches, grilled vegetables in ciabatta, ham-filled croissants, sesame-seed-coated fried chicken and crudites with sour cream and chive dip. ROGER COLLIS

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (91%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (85%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (78%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (78%); BEER & ALE (78%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); SEAFOOD (75%); FELONIES (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (90%); FOUR SEASONS HOTELS INC (64%); VIRGIN ATLANTIC AIRWAYS LTD (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%); AIR CANADA (57%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT ASSOCIATION (57%)

TICKER: AC.A (TSX) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (90%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (64%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (64%)

PERSON: KEVIN JOHNSON (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (87%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2006



378 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 3; Society Desk; WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 181 words

HEADLINE: Emily Oster, Jesse Shapiro

 BODY:
Emily Fair Oster, the daughter of Sharon M. Oster and Ray C. Fair of New Haven, was married there at the Yale School of Management yesterday to Jesse Morgan Shapiro, the son of Joyce and Arvin L. Shapiro of Brooklyn. James A. Carmichael, a Universal Life minister and a friend of the couple, legally officiated, and Christopher L. Park, another friend of theirs, led a ceremony that included Jewish wedding traditions. 
 The bride and bridegroom, both 26, are fellows at the Becker Center on Chicago Price Theory, a research center at the University of Chicago. She is studying economic development and health, and he studies advertising and children's exposure to television. They met at Harvard, from which they graduated, she magna cum laude and he summa cum laude, and where each received a doctoral degree in economics.
Dr. Oster will keep her name. Her parents are professors of economics at Yale.
 Dr. Shapiro's mother is a special education teacher at Edward R. Murrow High School in Brooklyn. His father is a college counselor at Kew-Forest, a private school in Kew Gardens, Queens.


GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); CHILDREN (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (73%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (69%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); ILLINOIS, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2006



379 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 2; Travel Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2110 words

HEADLINE: The Ultimate Road Trip

BYLINE: By MARK SUNDEEN. 
MARK SUNDEEN has written for Outside and National Geographic Adventure.

 BODY:
WE lift off from J. F. K. at 9 in the evening, headed toward Reykjavik, and by the time the bars back in New York have closed, we are tucked in lava rock, submerged to the neck in a hot blue pool with sulfurous steam clouds bursting up around us. It's the summer solstice, the longest day of the year, and the sky surrounding us never darkens.
 The week ahead promises us 168 hours of uninterrupted daylight in which to drive the Ring Road around Iceland. Though it's not a particularly long distance, I already sense that seven days will be about half as long as I would have hoped for. And so we have bolted straight from the airport to the nearby Blue Lagoon. 
Here, the phosphorescent saltwater, the bright and flat Atlantic sky and the backdrop of industrial smokestacks give the place an otherworldly feel, which is as it should be: the lagoon is entirely man-made. Icelanders generate power geothermally, boring into the ground for the steam that spins the turbines as it blasts toward the surface; then they recapture that steam as water, pump it to a soaking pond, and charge 20 bucks a head. We are the first to arrive, in the early morning, and by noon the place is packed with Europeans, Japanese and Americans. We crawl between steam cave and hot pot, smeared in a gray silica mud bath. 
 On this trip last summer, I was traveling with my friends Mathew Gross and Melony Gilles. We lived for many years in a remote nook of the Utah desert where we developed a taste for isolated places and geological oddities. So Iceland was the perfect place for us.
 Speeding across the black rock desert in our rented Corolla, we would occasionally pull to the shoulder, running fingers across the bulbous lava figurines or testing the sponginess of the mossy tundra. Iceland's Highway 1 -- the roughly 830-mile Ring Road -- is the only route that circles the island, and it feels like someone put the American West in a blender: California's poetic central coast, the Nevada desert's barren expanses, Alaska's glaciers and Yellowstone's geysers. They're all crammed onto this island, and if you don't like one natural phenomenon you're just a few hours from the next.
 After an afternoon of poking around dirt roads and sulfur pits and making our way to a lonely lighthouse atop windy sea cliffs, we checked into a guesthouse in Reykjavik and went straight to bed. Two-thirds of the country's nearly 300,000 people live in and around this harbor city, and with its famous night life we figured we should rest up before our first drinking binge.
 I'd read somewhere -- the in-flight magazine perhaps -- that during the solstice partying lasts all night. After dinner we wound out way through the hilly cobblestone streets and settled into a bar filled with velvet couches, where a D.J. was mixing a combination of old soul and hypnotic space music. But after a few rounds of Viking -- Iceland's answer to Pabst Blue Ribbon, though in this soberingly expensive country it sells for $9 dollars a pint -- we realized that, forget about daybreak, on our budget we'd barely make it to sunset.
 Around midnight, as the sun settled into the horizon, the streets were still empty. The bar filled up, and cigarette smoke hung in the daylight streaming through the windows, but it still was nothing like the bacchanalia we were expecting. It felt like any other Monday night. Later we learned that the natives do indeed celebrate the solstice, but not until the nearest weekend.
 Nothing, we discovered, cures a hangover like an afternoon in Viking costume. Heading north from Reykjavik, the buildings fell away and we found ourselves crossing green farmland backed by flat-topped snow-covered mountains. After a few wrong turns through sheep-dotted valleys we bumped along a dirt road to Eriksstadir, home of Erik the Red, founder of Greenland and father of Leif Eriksson, believed to be the first European to set foot on America.
 As we got out of the car, a woman in Viking-period regalia -- a coarsely woven tunic, hair in braids and a container like a powder horn lashed to her waist -- emerged from a canvas tent where she had been sitting behind a laptop. She asked if we were there for the tour, and Mel could not contain herself: ''Do we get to dress in Viking clothes too?''
 THE woman considered the question, then smiled, inviting us to a little hut where her daughter was tending a fox pup. After producing a flowing yellow dress for Mel she led us up to a sod-roof hut, a historically accurate re-creation of Erik's home. Inside, a Viking hunkered over a fire, whittling at a spear with a long, gleaming knife. Draped around his shoulders was an entire wolf pelt, head and legs included. 
 Speaking perfect English, the Viking delivered a brief biography of Erik the Red while his mate fried a pancake on a cast-iron skillet. Shortly she and Mel coupled up and began cooking, weaving on the loom, and doting over the fox pup. We men talked of warfare and navigation, handled broadswords and donned battle helmets. ''If you're fighting British or Scandinavian, headshots are not allowed,'' the Viking said, explaining the rules for mock battles. ''But with the Poles or Russians, anything goes.''
 The Viking turned out to be an Englishman, who had lived for 15 years in Norway, teaching lore and technique to school groups and organizing Viking festivals. This summer he'd loaded his collapsible linen tent into his EuroVan and taken the ferry to Iceland. He is a professional Viking.
 This time travel seemed oddly in keeping with the drive itself. Driving in Iceland is not for the efficient. Highway 1 is a narrow affair that doubles back into the fiords, like driving up and down each tooth of a comb. Most bridges have just one lane, and many stretches are unpaved.
 We wound toward Lake Myvatn in the northeast, finally approaching a landscape straight from Middle Earth: a volcanic crater ringed in moss; outcroppings of lava dotted across the hills. Here we were even closer to the Arctic Circle, and the sun shone an extra hour. At a guesthouse in the tiny village of Vogar, we encountered the same sorts of pilgrims I've met in the American Southwest, drawn to a bizarre and inhospitable landscape.
 ''We've been here five days already,'' a Dutch woman said. ''We can't seem to leave.''
 A gray-haired German woman in the guesthouse said she had relocated full time to Iceland and spent much of her summers up in these geothermal badlands. 
 A short walk from the house is Grotagia, a giant fissure splitting the shelf of volcanic rock. I scrambled down into the chasm and found a clear pool steaming at about 120 degrees, then followed a footpath for a mile across a field of tundra and lava. The trail leads up one flank of a symmetrical volcanic crater called Hverfell before dropping off the other side into Dimmuborgir, a hobbit's paradise of towering lava castles, natural arches and countless unexplored grottos. Next we hurried to the gurgling purple and yellow sulfur cauldrons at Namafjall and to the steaming lava heap at Leirhnjukur, an active volcano itching to blow at any minute.
 Across the highway from our guesthouse was Vogar's single cafe, where breakfasters were granted the odd privilege of watching the proprietors milk the cows. Here on the rocky shores of Lake Myvatn, Olof Hallgrimsdottir and her brother, Leifur Hallgrimsson, run this dairy farm, settled by their family over a century before. Ms. Hallgrimsdottir is blonde and pretty with the high cheekbones and upturned nose that are the norm in this country, and when I met her at the cafe she was wearing a red-and-blue jumpsuit and rubber boots.
 While her teenage daughter poured coffee at the counter, Ms. Hallgrimsdottir was on the other side of a window, amid four cows and the hoses and tubes of a 16-udder milking contraption. Hanging on the cafe walls was a row of award certificates from the dairy board. Ms. Hallgrimsdottir invited me into the milking room and squirted a half-pint of warm, sweet milk directly from a cow into a glass, and I drank it down. Remarking that, ''Cows can't eat rocks,'' she told me that a few years back she converted the dairy shed into the cafe to increase revenue on their boulder-strewn acres. An old German couple took a seat by the window and, spooning up their yogurt, watched the milking spectacle through the glass. 
 After a long stretch through gray, barren desert, we regained the green hills on the approach to the western fiords. The road turned to dirt, and topped out over a pass into a stunning valley of tundra, yellow and purple wildflowers bursting from its flanks, waterfalls pouring off the rim and a stream at the floor draining toward the sea. At the coast, towering moss-covered cliffs crowded the sea, leaving room only for the narrow road and an occasional red-roofed farmhouse on a carpet of green grass where sheep grazed. Rain fell as a thick mist gathered over the Atlantic, and for many miles we snaked along between a wall of rock and a wall of ocean.
 I imagined this was how it felt to drive California's coast 75 years ago, downshifting on the sharp bends in the gravel road, idling before a one-lane bridge while an oncoming car made its crossing. Cold waves lapped over black beaches, lonely crags jutted up from the water, and with the sea fading from gray to green as the sun peeked through the clouds, the landscape was sublime and melancholy. 
 And just when I thought I'd traveled to Edward Weston's Big Sur, we hit the glaciers. A big chunk of southeastern Iceland lies beneath the vast ice field of Vatnajokull, which crept toward the ocean down a series of fingerlike canyons. Off in the distance the cracked sheets of ice were motionless and menacing. At Jokulsarlon a glacial snout calved into an aquamarine lagoon, and the icebergs drifted almost imperceptibly toward open water, penned in like zoo animals where the busloads of tourists could gawk at their beauty.
 Occasionally an iceberg floated beneath the highway bridge, was carried to sea, then was dashed on the beach by the windswept waves. We walked along the gray strand where the blocks of glacier rocked gently in the tide, and we gathered in our hands the cocktail-size ice cubes that had washed up on shore and flung them back to the sea. 
 On the final day around the Ring, we steered our rental car up the steep switchbacks near the coastal town of Vik. We wanted to reach the top of the seaside cliffs, overlooking a jumble of rock towers jutting from the sea, and then find a trail down to a beach. But the little car was scraping bottom before the first turn, so we left it on the shoulder and continued on foot.
 The rain clouds had passed, and as we topped out on the bluff, the sun was dazzling and the wind was fierce. The grass spread out far beyond a radio tower toward an abandoned building on the promontory. We walked along the cliff, leaning away from the edge, feeling that the wind could chuck you over. After an hour of forging against the headwind, we realized that there was no trail to the beach. We were treed, here on this towering bluff. 
 And that's when we saw the birds. Dozens, hundreds of little white gulls' heads poked out of the rock wall below. We belly-crawled to the edge and peer over.
 The gulls danced in the wind. They banked off a howling gust, almost bowled over backward, then straightened their wings and dived forward. They surfed back and forth, now and then catching an updraft and careening a hundred yards over the sea. The sun glistened on the whitecaps and waves surged in slow motion around the rock towers. A pair of puffins emerged from the rookery and braved the winds, looking a bit unsure of their skills, their goofy legs dangling below like parts of a puppet. We clutched the grass where we lay. The wind was going to blow like this all day long. I could have stayed there forever.

ICE AND STEAM
 Flights to Reykjavik from New York as of mid-June were as low as $880 (www.icelandair.com). At the airport, an economy car rents for about 400 euros ($530 at 1.32 euros to the dollar) a week, and a small S.U.V. is about 800 euros a week (www.geysir.is).
 Reykjavik has plenty of guesthouses that are less expensive and more charming than the hotels. Alfholl Guesthouse, the Friendly Elves House, is centrally located; a double room with a shared bathroom is 9,000 Icelandic kronur, about $127 at 71.2 kronur to the dollar (www.islandia.is/alf).
 The Vogar Guesthouse in the village of Vogar has rooms for 13,800 kronur (354-464-4344).
 The Blue Lagoon is 30 miles from the airport, and admission is 1,300 Icelandic kronur (www.bluelagoon.com). MARK SUNDEEN


CORRECTION-DATE: June 25, 2006

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption last Sunday with the continuation of the article about the Ring Road in Iceland incompletely described the scene shown. It was a warm pool near Lake Myvatn that is called Blue Lagoon. It was not the more famous Blue Lagoon, near Reykjavik, which was mentioned in the article.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A farmhouse near the Ring Road in Iceland. (Photo by Jehad Nga for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
Midnight bathing in the warm geothermal waters of the Blue Lagoon. A long flight of wooden stairs that leads to the waterfall at Gullfoss.
A tourist tries on Viking garb at a re-enactment site. Classic Icelandic architecture in Reykjavik.
A mixed fleet of pleasure and working craft at harbor near Reykjavik. On the Ring, an open road in open spaces.
 Passengers aboard an amphibious vehicle in a lagoon full of icebergs calved from a nearby glacier. A monument to Iceland's fishermen beneath a midnight sky. (Photographs by Jehad Nga for The New York Times)(pg. 8, 9)Map of Iceland highlighting Ring Road and surrounding areas. (pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GEOTHERMAL ENERGY (77%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (75%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (72%); DESERTS (69%) Travel and Vacations

PERSON: Mark Sundeen

GEOGRAPHIC: REYKJAVIK, ICELAND (93%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); WEST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) ICELAND (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (72%) Iceland

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2006



380 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Style Desk; MODERN LOVE; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1581 words

HEADLINE: Diary of a Soldier's Wife: Tie-Dye and Camo Don't Mix

BYLINE: By SOPHIA RADAY. 
Sophia Raday, who lives in Berkeley, Calif., is writing a memoir about her relationship with her husband.

 BODY:
MY husband is like the Lone Ranger: he leaves a trail of bullets in his wake. Not silver bullets, but gold 9 millimeters, orange ''simunitions'' and menacing hollow-points with bronze tips.
 I find them at the bottom of the washing machine, next to the pile of mail in our front hall or mixed in a heap of change. He is a police officer in nearby Oakland, Calif., a former SWAT team member, and a colonel in the Army Reserve. Sometimes when I gather the cool bullets in my palm, I stare at them and wonder: How did I, a Berkeley resident, a former peace activist, someone with a ''Bread, not bombs'' button, end up married to The Man?
I like to tell people we met because he pulled me over, and I avoided the ticket with my feminine wiles. It's not true, but our partnership is almost that unlikely. After all, I've been arrested several times in political protests and once for possession of marijuana. I've even trespassed onto a naval base to spray-paint protest messages over the sloganeering billboards. 
 My husband, on the other hand, subscribes to a magazine about wound ballistics, calls people he doesn't like ''communists'' and distrusts anyone with a beard. He gets his hair cut at least twice a month. He loves to rub my hand over his spiky scalp while bragging about how especially ''high and tight'' it is this time.
 The truth is, I met my husband on a blind date set up by a cousin who had gone to West Point with him. It amused me that on Tuesday night I was going out with a motorcycle-riding lesbian while on Wednesday I had a date with a soldier/cop. I wore a short skirt that showed off my long legs. When he arrived, I was charmed by his old-fashioned formality, how he called me ''Miss Sophia'' and pulled out my chair. 
 It was on our third date that I discovered he never left the house without a firearm. We went to see ''Heat,'' a crime drama with Al Pacino and Robert De Niro, and when we were driving home, I asked, ''So when you're off-duty, do you ever carry a gun?'' 
 He laughed. ''Always. Got one on my hip right now.''
 I was delighted. This was high adventure. I liked having covert awareness of hidden things under his clothes. Dangerous things. And I liked the idea that I would try to tame him, that I would be the one to put a daisy in his gun. 
 Of course, it wouldn't be so easy. It took three years of breakups and reunions before I even invited him to move in. Our typical pattern was weeks of easy camaraderie and lusty sex, abruptly punctuated by a conversation like the following:
 ME: Wow, it's been five years since they killed Rosebud. It seems like just yesterday.
 HIM: Who's Rosebud?
 ME: The political activist shot by the Berkeley campus police. I remember when it happened. I was in policy school.
 HIM: Are you talking about the gal with the machete in the chancellor's house? 
 ME: She had a machete?
 HIM: It wasn't the Berkeley police, it was Oakland.
 ME: No, I'm pretty sure it was campus police.
 HIM: No, I know. Because it was my buddy who did it.
 ME: Your buddy? Are you saying a friend of yours killed Rosebud?
 And down I'd plummet. What was I doing with someone who consorts with people who kill petite 20-year-old protesters? I had to put an end to it.
 I'd ask him to meet me at my office, and we'd sit outside together on a bench, me in my hemp shift, him in his cargo pants. He'd hold my hand as I talked in circles about how we were too different, how we shouldn't be together when we disagreed about so many fundamental issues.
 He'd hear me out and then calmly explain that he wanted to be with me anyway. He didn't care if we disagreed about anything or everything. The fact was he liked being with me. And, yes, I liked being with him.
 For one, he made me laugh. When I agonized over a dog's death, he said: ''Babe, your rucksack's heavy enough. You don't need to add to it.'' If I spilled a glass of water in bed, he'd shout in his mock drill-sergeant voice, ''You're screwing up, Troop!''
 In couples' therapy, we each learned to respect better what the other held sacred. He worked to control his impulse to vent by popping off with a comment like ''We should bomb the hell out of Libya,'' while I agreed not to request use of his uniforms for Halloween or for erotic photography projects. He said he would leave the Army to make time for a future family life, and I yielded to his desire to put up an American flag in front of the house.
 Finally we married. A year later our son was born. Four months after that, just before my husband planned to announce his retirement from the Army Reserve, 9/11 hit, and everything changed.
 ''I can't leave the Army now,'' he said. ''I have to do my duty. If they ask me, I'll go.''
 ''How can you say that without consulting me first?'' I asked. ''How can you say you'd leave us without even asking me?''
 ''Don't you see? I have to. Otherwise, I couldn't look at myself in the mirror.''
 ''What I see is that your commitment to the military is stronger than your commitment to us.'' 
 Tears formed in his eyes. ''Please try to understand,'' he said. ''I have to do my duty. Besides, it won't take that long. A year, tops.''
 Seeing how important it was to him, I went along. And that's how I mutated from Gandhi Girl to Army Wife.
 First he was mobilized to prepare soldiers to deploy to Iraq. I started attending family-readiness meetings to support the families of deployed soldiers. When he gave me a yellow ''Support the troops'' magnet for my car, I took a highlighter and scrawled ''Fire Rumsfeld'' on it. Then he was invited to the Army War College. (''Army War College?'' my friends asked incredulously. ''As in war? As in: What is it good for?'') 
 The War College is in Pennsylvania, so we packed what we'd need for a year, hauled ourselves across the country and moved to Carlisle Barracks. Despite being the only wife among 300 or so who didn't take her husband's name, I kept a pretty low profile. Until Election Day, that is, when I accidentally left a Kerry-Edwards sticker on a sweatshirt I'd worn while canvassing in Harrisburg that morning. On the barracks playground, a neighbor girl saw the sticker and shrieked with horror, drawing everyone's attention to my shocking political leanings. 
 Frankly, I found her ''outing'' of me liberating. I stopped trying to be like the other wives and returned to being me. And for some reason this allowed me to give up on changing my husband as well. I accepted that we were individual planets in a gentle orbit, each drawn to, and tempering, the other's more extreme impulses.
 Coincidentally, my surrender coincided with his entering a more contemplative and analytical phase that was tied to his leadership training at the War College. He'd always thought more about ''boots on the ground'' tactics than grand strategy, but now he devoured articles about national security policy and the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. 
 He read the work of foreign policy theorists as well as The Economist and Al Jazeera online. He discovered Thomas L. Friedman and read him in the wee hours of the morning, leaving the columns out on the breakfast table for me. We exchanged New Yorker articles and discussed them in depth. 
 At one point he wondered aloud if his next vehicle would have to be something more fuel-efficient than his Chevy two-ton and perked up when I said we could get a truck that ran on biodiesel. 
 Last summer we were both happy to return to Berkeley (O.K., me more than him, but still). We began fixing up our house, making room for an adopted baby daughter on the way. Yet any hope I harbored for more family time was quickly squashed. My husband returned to his civilian job, where he was promoted to chief of staff to the police chief. He was also given command of an Army Reserve brigade. 
 Gone are the days when we discussed New Yorker articles. Most of our communication now occurs through e-mail messages. With his two full-time jobs, he's not only gone weekdays but also spends many evenings on conference calls and travels for the Army most weekends. A Bluetooth headset permanently adorns his ear, and in midconversation with me or our son he's apt to shout into his mouthpiece, ''Sergeant-major? Have you nailed down that first sergeant for Alpha Company yet?''
 Recently came the news I've been dreading all along: next spring he is to deploy to Iraq for a year. 
 My friends all ask the same thing: ''Can't he get out?'' 
 It's a question that lays bare the divide between my husband and my friends, between my world and his. No, he can't get out. Even if they let him, he wouldn't let himself. When I think about his going to Iraq, my old doubts and resentments bubble up, surprisingly fresh and raw. 
 This isn't the life I wanted. I never signed up for the global war on terror. I never planned on raising my children alone. And although I'm proud of my husband's commitment, I worry that while he is away we will spin off into our original universes, each demonizing the other. And in the closet of my mind, there's that worry I can't even face: that something bad will happen to him over there.
 He says that when he returns, things will change, that he'll leave either the police or the Army so he can spend more time with our family. I just have to get through this deployment, I tell myself. It's one year. I'll take it day by day, and it will all be fine. But as I stare at the pile of bullets, now warm in my palm, I'm not sure I believe it.

E-mail: modernlove@nytimes.com


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by David Chelsea)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); FIREARMS (78%); ARMIES (77%); FORENSICS (76%); NAVIES (71%); ARRESTS (71%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (69%); SHOPLIFTING (69%); GAYS & LESBIANS (68%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (67%); CANNABIS (67%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%) United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations

PERSON: ROBERT DE NIRO (50%) Sophia Raday

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (88%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2006



381 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 4; Real Estate Desk; BIG DEAL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1382 words

HEADLINE: Dumbo Is Humble No More

BYLINE: By WILLIAM NEUMAN

 BODY:
A FORMER executive with Goldman Sachs and J. P. Morgan Chase paid $5.8 million this month for two adjoining apartments at 1 Main Street in Dumbo, Brooklyn. The two units, with a combined 4,790 square feet, have views of the East River and Manhattan. The buyers were Mino Capossela, the former executive, and his wife, Maura McDonnell.
 The building, a converted cardboard box factory between the Brooklyn and Manhattan Bridges, was the first in the area that the developer David Walentas converted to condominiums, about eight years ago. Since then the neighborhood has been completely transformed, with a binge of residential construction.
Mr. Walentas, who lives on one of the top floors of 1 Main Street, said that if the buyers of the two condos used them as a single residence, the total purchase price would be the highest paid for a home in the neighborhood. After the condos first went on sale in 1998, Mr. Walentas said, the two apartments sold to separate buyers for a total of $1.55 million. 
 ''That's a good return,'' Mr. Walentas said of the nearly fourfold increase in the value of the apartments. ''I made a lot of people rich. I'm happy for everybody. Dumbo has been a huge success for everybody.''
 One of the apartments was resold in 1999, and the new owner of that apartment then bought the second one in 2004. Karen Heyman, a broker at Century 21 Kevin B. Brown who represented Mr. Capossela and Ms. McDonnell, said the couple planned to combine the units eventually.
 Mr. Walentas said the $1,215 a square foot paid for the two apartments was at the very upper end of prices in the neighborhood. 
 He is now in the process of creating a 6,000-square-foot triplex penthouse within the 16-story building's clock tower. 
 ''That apartment, when complete, maybe we'll sell it for $25 million,'' Mr. Walentas said. ''It's very special, one of a kind in the world.''
 Mr. Capossela was a managing director of Goldman Sachs when, in 2001, he jumped to its rival J. P. Morgan Chase and was named head of that company's North American cash equities business. Less than two years later Mr. Capossela and J. P. Morgan parted ways. Mr. Capossela and Ms. McDonnell did not return phone calls seeking comment.

A Hedge in Harlem?
 WHAT if there were a different way to buy real estate? One that helped ease anxiety for buyers by helping to protect them against the risk of buying into a softening market? And one that provided potential benefits to the seller as well?
 Suppose the buyer and seller agree on two prices for a property: a maximum, and a minimum perhaps 5 or 10 percent lower. The buyer pays the minimum price at the closing, and the balance is put in escrow. 
 Next, they wait about six months and then consult the most recent quarterly sales figures for the local housing market. If the average sales price of a home in the area has risen by an agreed upon amount, measured on an annualized basis, then the seller gets the money in escrow. If prices haven't risen that much, then the buyer gets the escrow money back.
 In this way, the buyer creates a hedge, a kind of insurance policy against the market's softening after the purchase. And if prices continue to rise, the seller presumably achieves a higher price than he otherwise might for his property, in effect benefiting from the overall market appreciation after the sale.
 Sound implausible? 
 Well, something along those lines appears to have occurred in the sale of a Harlem town house in March, which set a record for a residence in Upper Manhattan. 
 The buyer of the five-story home on Convent Avenue was John Geanakoplos, a Yale economics professor and a managing director of an investment firm. The seller was Robert F. Van Lierop, a lawyer whose clients have included Halle Berry and Spike Lee. 
 When the sale was first reported in The New York Times on May 21, Professor Geanakoplos would say only that the $3.89 million price recorded on the deed was a ''maximum,'' and that the final, adjusted, sale price could be significantly lower. Beyond that, Professor Geanakoplos and Mr. Van Lierop have refused to disclose the full terms of their deal. 
 Since that article appeared, however, two people who discussed the deal with the principals while it was being negotiated said in interviews that its basic outlines were similar to the hypothetical transaction just described. According to one of those people, a minimum price was to be paid at the closing, and later in the year the two sides would base the ultimate price on sales figures, probably for the third quarter. 
 Robert J. Shiller, a colleague of Professor Geanakoplos at Yale and a noted expert on the behavior of stock and real estate markets, said Mr. Geanakoplos consulted him during his negotiations over the town house, when he was looking for a price index that would reflect the Harlem market. Professor Shiller said that he was not familiar with the final details of the deal, but that he believed it was intended to provide a hedge against prices' tapering off after the sale. ''People don't want to buy a house at the peak,'' Professor Shiller said. ''They feel bad about that.'' 
 He has proposed two types of products that could ease the anxiety of home buyers: home equity insurance, which would protect people against falling home values; and price warranties for home buyers, where ''if prices fall, you get some money back.'' 
 Such products would achieve the same aim as the deal worked out by Professor Geanakoplos. ''I think this is a future trend that he's just at the beginning of,'' he said. 

A Partnership Evolves
 THE Israeli billionaire Lev Leviev and the Brooklyn-based developer Shaya Boymelgreen have teamed up for some high-profile residential projects since they first became partners in 2002. 
 Now, acting through his holding company, Africa Israel, Mr. Leviev has made his first significant move here without Mr. Boymelgreen, buying 111 Fulton Street, a commercial building at the corner of William Street in Lower Manhattan, which he plans to convert to condominiums. 
 But Mr. Leviev said the venture did not indicate differences with Mr. Boymelgreen. ''Our relationship is very good with Mr. Boymelgreen,'' Mr. Leviev said last month during a visit to 20 Pine Street, one of the financial district buildings that he and Mr. Boymelgreen are converting to condos. 
 The partners have also worked together on the conversion of 15 Broad Street and 60 Spring Street, as well as in the construction of new condo buildings in TriBeCa, downtown Brooklyn and Dumbo. They also have ambitious projects under way in Miami and Las Vegas. 
 Mr. Leviev said he had other partners in the Fulton Street project but would not say who they were. Records filed with the Department of Buildings, however, give the names of two partners: Joseph Klaynberg, a developer, and Ricky Cohen, whose family owns the Conway Stores chain. 
 Those documents, filed on June 6 by the architect Karl Fischer, call for nine stories to be added to the existing eight-story building. But Dan Avidan, the head of finance for Africa Israel, said on Wednesday that plans had been scaled back and now only two stories would be added. 
 A deed filed with the city says the sale price of 111 Fulton Street was $21.8 million. But Mr. Avidan said the company had paid $59 million for the building and he was not sure why the deed showed a lower price.
 Mr. Boymelgreen said he and Mr. Leviev had been working under a five-year agreement that required him to offer any new projects exclusively to Africa Israel. That expires next year. ''The relationship is a beautiful relationship, but we're not married for life; we're married for five years,'' he said. He said they would continue to work together for several years on a number of projects, like a planned condo complex on the Gowanus Canal in Brooklyn. 
 He also sounded a note of caution on the New York market, saying he had been reluctant to start more new condo projects here. ''I didn't buy for a while, maybe more than a year and a half, anything in condos in New York because it's a little bit overbuilt.''
 Instead he has begun to focus on markets he considers undervalued, like Israel, where he is completing the $500 million acquisition of Azorim, a company that develops condos and houses.


GRAPHIC: Photos: 1 Main Street in Dumbo
 Lev Leviev, 111 Fulton Street in Lower Manhattan

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (73%); PAPER CONTAINER MFG (56%) Housing; Cohen, Ricky; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Condominiums; Housing

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (85%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (85%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (85%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (85%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (85%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (85%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%)

PERSON: William Neuman; Mino Capossela; Maura McDonnell; John (Prof) Geanakoplos; Lev Leviev; Joseph Klaynberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2006



382 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE NATION; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: The Superstar Athlete Is Paid to Take Risks, Right?

BYLINE: By JOHN LELAND

 BODY:
TWO paradoxes from the motorcycle crash of Ben Roethlisberger, the Pittsburgh Steelers quarterback who required seven hours of surgery on his face and put the team's 2006 season in jeopardy. 
 Paradox No. 1: As a champion N.F.L. quarterback, Roethlisberger is a brilliant risk/benefit analyst, making split-second decisions about probabilities and consequences even as linemen try to bury him. So how could a savvy risk manager ride without a helmet, a low-reward, high-risk activity that exposes a team, a city and untold corporate interests to its consequences?
Paradox No. 2: Roethlisberger became a football star and brought a championship to Pittsburgh by accepting physical risks that ordinary people would avoid. So how can these critics, who have benefited from his acceptance of physical risk, get all snippy that he took this one? 
 Team officials said last week that they hoped he would play in the Sept. 7 season opener, and Roethlisberger vowed to wear a helmet if he rode in the future. But in the public square that is sports fandom, his behavior raised higher questions about individual liberty and collective good.
 When Roethlisberger decided to ride without a helmet, what were his obligations to the larger society, in this case greater Steelerdom? And what mechanisms should there be for society -- or Steelerdom -- to impose those obligations? 
 In a democratic society, everybody benefits from other people's risk-taking. But must everyone pay for it as well? The question goes back to the founding of the country and continues to shape who Americans are as a society. 
 ''America more than European countries prizes entrepreneurial spirit and the freedom of individuals to run risks, even if they might not turn out well,'' said Cass R. Sunstein, a law professor at the University of Chicago. ''One reason the economy does so well is that people take gambles. And sometimes they work out badly.''
 But society -- or a football team -- has an interest in managing risk, trying to maximize individual liberty while minimizing the harm to others when one person's gamble doesn't pay off. Policy debates over seatbelt laws, cigarettes, gun locks, steroids, environmental safeguards, employee savings plans and storm evacuation orders all arise from this conflict of interest. 
 The policy debates pit competing schools of altruism, or concern for others, said James K. Hammitt, director of the Center for Risk Analysis at Harvard. 
 When weighing risks against personal liberties, ''a 'pure' altruist cares about others' well-being as whatever they define it to be,'' he said. ''A 'paternalistic' altruist cares only about some aspect of other people's well-being, like their health.''
 In the case of cigarette smokers, he said, a paternalistic altruist sees only irrational risk-taking and tries to change it. ''Whereas a pure altruist would say, 'If they understand what the risks are and get pleasure, I'm happy that they smoke,''' he said.
 In this script, ''pure'' Steeler fans would be happy that their quarterback rides a motorcycle without a helmet because he says it relaxes him, even though it has health consequences that could affect them.
 Yet this model assumes that we perceive risk consistently, as a rational calculation of odds. We don't, said Paul Slovic, president of Decision Research, a nonprofit organization that studies decision-making. 
 Instead we perceive it as a feeling of comfort or discomfort, shaped by our past experience, Dr. Slovic said. If we have ridden a motorcycle many times without an accident, we consider that a safe activity. Or if our athletic reflexes have protected us from defensive linemen, we expect them to protect us from turning cars. 
 Wearing a helmet is a cost, measured in comfort, and perhaps liberty, but provides a benefit only if there is a crash. After a number of safe rides, Dr. Slovic said, ''you feel you're rewarded for not wearing one and punished for wearing one.'' 
 Big-money sports, of course, exerts its own Darwinian pressures on behavior, selecting for athletes who accept outsize levels of physical risk. But the leagues and teams also pay for this risk-taking. In a rational economic system, teams could reduce risk by giving players monetary incentives to avoid activity that had low ratios of reward to liability, like riding without a helmet. Society could change behavior by changing incentives. 
 But people or organizations often don't assess risk in their best interests. They overestimate some risks and underestimate others, and give up their liberties where there is little payoff, said Julie S. Downs, director of the Center for Risk Perception and Communication at Carnegie Mellon University. 
 ''If you ask people the benefit of preventing a terrorist attack on a plane, they will pay a lot in terms of their liberties, but not for preventing a regular plane crash, even though that's more likely,'' she said.
 A football team might impose a penalty for riding a motorcycle while ignoring more likely risks. Roethlisberger's accident will likely push teams toward such contracts, said Kenneth L. Shropshire, director of the sports business initiative at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania.
 Many contracts already ban sky diving, skiing and motorcycling, he said. 
 But the biggest encroachments on player liberties often come from the coach. ''The coach says: 'I don't care what the union says, these are the rules. Don't ride a motorcycle, period, or don't go to certain bars,' '' Dr. Shropshire said. ''And who is it that decides how much you play, or how many passes are thrown to you?'' 
 This involves an assessment not of risk but of authority. In Roethlisberger's case, the Steelers' coach, Bill Cowher, had no influence. And so the Steel City is an unhappy place -- but one where debates about life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness fill the public square, if only on sports call-in shows.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Crash Dynamics -- Ben Roethlisberger's motorcycle on Second Avenue in Pittsburgh, after the accident that shook the city. (Photo by Steve Mellon/The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, via Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATHLETES (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); RISK MANAGEMENT (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (85%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (69%); SMOKING (67%); AUTOMOTIVE RESTRAINT REGULATIONS (62%); STEROIDS (60%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Football; Motorcycles, Motor Bikes and Motorscooters; Accidents and Safety; Helmets

ORGANIZATION: PITTSBURGH STEELERS (91%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (58%) Pittsburgh Steelers

PERSON: John Leland; Ben Roethlisberger

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (78%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2006



383 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 248 words

HEADLINE: The Unsettling of Upstate America

 BODY:
At first glance, North Dakota and upstate New York do not appear to have much in common. North Dakota is almost wholly rural and agricultural while the economy of upstate New York has traditionally been industrial. What unites the two regions is population growth -- or rather the lack of it. During the last decade the population of upstate New York grew more slowly than that of any state except North Dakota and West Virginia: 1.1 percent. What that number hides is something even more unsettling, a growing absence of young adults who have found no compelling reason to remain upstate. 
 This is a drearily familiar story, one that could be repeated with variations in far too many places in America. But the common denominator is nearly always the loss of jobs. When a young person moves, say, from Utica or Rochester to Los Angeles or Atlanta, it is easy to assume that the reason is climate or a more urbane way of life. But those factors weigh far less heavily when the local economy is exuberant enough to offer the prospect of a real future.
Like so many patterns of population movement, what looks like a matter of personal choice is at least partly a response to basic economic incentives -- or the lack of them. Young people living upstate seem to have many more choices available to them than their grandparents did. But nearly all those choices involve some other place. What is missing is the one fundamental possibility: to stay home and build a good life where you were raised.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POPULATION GROWTH (77%) Editorials; Population

GEOGRAPHIC: UTICA, NY, USA (58%) NORTH DAKOTA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State; North Dakota; West Virginia; New York State

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2006



384 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2263 words

HEADLINE: The New Face of Farming

BYLINE: By WOODY HOCHSWENDER

 BODY:
THE family farm is not dead in these parts. But it has been revised, perhaps by a well-to-do New Yorker or a land-rich Yankee. Nowadays, when you drive country roads, you are likely to spot strange and beautiful breeds, exotic livestock that exist, in some cases, as much for show as for consumption. 
 Llamas and alpacas, which look like miniature camels, crane their necks over split-rail fencing and chew their cuds thoughtfully. Cream-white sheep grazing on brilliant verdured hillsides seem to have stepped out of a scene from Thomas Hardy -- and they have! -- since they are Cotswold sheep, imported from exclusive breeding stock in England. Gaudy peacocks and heirloom chickens race into the road, testing your brakes and patience.
Around the next bend, if you were to see centaurs and unicorns frolicking in a field, you might not be surprised. 
 A cow is no longer just a black-and-white mottled animal that moos and supplies milk, but a large, horned and heroic beast, imported from the highlands of Scotland, with all kinds of beefy, antibiotic-free, grass-fed implications. 
 Life on the farm will never be the same, especially in the exurban areas 50 to 100 miles outside New York City. The once ubiquitous potato fields and duck farms of eastern Long Island now sprout luxury homes and strip malls. Northern Connecticut's stately tobacco barns now house lawn and garden centers. New Jersey poultry and truck farming businesses face increasing competition from corporate farming enterprises to the west. In Westchester, equestrian farms have largely replaced vegetable and dairy operations. 
 Even as real mud-splattered working farms are fading out, though, a new kind of animal husbandry is coming in. Niche, hobby and artisanal farming is on the rise, often with perfect barns, manor houses and manicured lawns, places where Tolstoy would be perfectly at ease with his ledger books and progressive agricultural ideas. Instead of Herefords and Holsteins, we now have Belted Galloways and Scottish Highlanders, large, impressive beasts, carefully fed and bred as much for looks, in some cases, as for milk or beef. Instead of your regular old barnyard goat, there are now Nubians and Nigerian dwarves. In place of standard wool-bearing animals, there are the exotic English sheep, and Peruvian and Bolivian alpacas, whose fleece is often favorably compared to cashmere (especially by alpaca trade groups). 
 While a fair amount of corn and hay is still grown in the areas ringing New York City, the focus is shifting to organic produce, sustainable methods and exotic breeds. These small farms tend to be both preservationist in intent and capital-intensive in practice. They exist not only to preserve land, but to further a vanishing breed. Even in the best of circumstances, they often just break even. But the root of this type of farming is not money, meat or even ribbons at the agricultural fair. It is love of animals.
 On a recent June day, Mathias Kiefer surveyed his herd of goats -- Boers, Nubians and Nigerian dwarves -- which he raises on 190 acres outside Salisbury, Conn. ''As a group, they are the friendliest darn goats we know,'' said Mr. Kiefer, a full-time land surveyor and forestry consultant. ''They are almost canine. They'll come up to you and rub against you. If you are looking for a pet other than a dog or a cat, I would think, get a goat. They're so personable.'' 
 THE brown and white dwarf goats, perhaps two feet high at the withers, have beards and little cocoa dewlaps of fur dangling below their chins. (The females have beards, too.) They chew grass and pull on your clothes until you pet them. Mr. Kiefer sells them as pets and meat, and his goat cheese is sold at LaBonne's, down the road. He maintains that goat is the fastest-growing meat business. ''There's more goat eaten in the world than any other meat,'' said Mr. Kiefer, who spends a couple of hours a day tending his goats and the various fences and barns that shelter them.
 While exotic animal husbandry is typically a sideline or a hobby for the farmer, there is seldom anything dilettantish about it. ''We have always had livestock,'' said Mr. Kiefer, who also keeps cows and chickens. ''My parents always had livestock. My wife's family always had livestock. I grew up here.'' 
 Just across the road, Malcolm Maclaren, a Harvard-educated biology teacher who recently retired from raising Scottish Highlander cattle on his family farm, said that a prime motivation for exotic animal husbandry was the desire to raise animals in a free-range, organic environment. But that is only part of it. 
 ''The reason some people have them is they're pretty out in the field,'' he said. ''It's not an economic thing at all. There are people who prefer to sink money in a farm than give it to Uncle Sam.''
 Farmland typically is taxed at a lower rate than residential property, and many farmers put some acreage into conservation easements that further reduce their tax exposure. Raising prized cattle restores purpose to the land and helps preserve endangered breeds. The so-called heritage breeds movement is a form of genetic conservation. 
 This is particularly true in Westchester County, where only 13,000 acres of farmland remain. ''To farm here requires enormous careful planning because of the tax consequences and the value of the land,'' said Annie Farrell, a farm consultant in Katonah. A notable success, she said, is Rainbeau Ridge Farm, with a rare breed of cattle and Cotswold sheep, on 300 acres in Bedford Hills.
 In Connecticut, smaller, more exotic farms emphasize organic feeding and careful breeding. These are not just gentleman farms, with a few horses, but niche enterprises based on unusual products. Mr. Maclaren found a thriving niche market for his grass-fed beef at the Union Square farmers' market in New York.
 ''Niche farming is a very important part of agriculture in Connecticut,'' said F. Philip Prelli, the state's agriculture commissioner, who said that there are only 100 or so dairy farms in the state, compared with 12,000 in the 60's. ''The traditional agriculture of the dairy farmer and the vegetable farmer is still there. But the biggest growth is these niche farming operations. It is where agriculture is heading.'' 
 The rationale for llamas is somewhat different than for other types of livestock. Sheep ranchers acquire llamas as guard animals for their flocks. The sheep's natural predators, foxes and coyotes, generally will not tangle with a llama, which can be more than six feet tall. Llamas get along quite nicely with sheep, and when a llama senses danger, it emits a high-pitched whinny that alerts the farmer to bring the shotgun.
 In the town of Norfolk, hard by the Massachusetts border in northwestern Connecticut, Roy and Mary Alice Pilbin bought llamas to protect their flock. ''We had up to 25, 30 sheep, and the coyotes were coming in all the time,'' Mr. Pilbin said. ''One on one, llamas get the best of a coyote.'' 
 Originally dairy farmers who were having a tough time, the Pilbins now have about 25 sheep and 30 llamas. They breed their stock and sell the wool to small mills. They also take their animals to the Goshen County Fair in the fall, where they sell llama- and sheep-wool-filled comforters.
 ''Llamas are gentle and respectful, and they won't hurt children,'' Mr. Pilbin said. ''A llama develops a sense of trust with you. The bond gets stronger, and the llama will do anything to please you.'' Of course, llamas have been known to spit when provoked. Since they have three stomachs -- one for grass and grain, one for water and one for digestive juices -- when they lob a loadof juice at you, it is rather gross. ''First thing you do, take a shower,'' said James Mullen, who owns Southwind Farms in Watertown, Conn. 
 Spitting is mostly a matter of upbringing, says Bob Wolfe of Spruce Lane Llama farm in Stockton, N.J., about 20 miles north of Trenton. ''My llamas just plain don't spit at people,'' said Mr. Wolfe, a former professor of engineering at Rutgers University. ''If llamas are raised properly, they don't spit.'' Mr. Wolfe, who was raised on a dairy farm in Wisconsin, says llamas are exceptionally calm and clean (they use a litter box, just like house cats) and great to be around.
 As suburbs expand and subdivisions devour agricultural land, state and local governments are actively involved in promoting land conservation; 60 percent of the land in Connecticut, for example, is still agricultural, open space or forest, according to the state's Department of Agriculture. But with so much farmland being preserved, the remaining acreage is expensive. Llamas and alpacas need very little land to thrive.
 Down a narrow dirt track just beyond the supermarket in Salisbury, Conn., lies Moore Brook Farm, where Serena W. Granbery, a sculptor and former guitar maker, keeps approximately 60 alpacas on 13 acres. ''They are a joy to be around,'' said Ms. Granbery, who tends the herd with the help of her 14-year-old daughter, Samantha. ''You definitely get attached to them, and it becomes hard to sell them.'' Ms. Granbery has reared a national champion, Mulder, named for the character on ''The X-Files.'' 
 Ms. Granbery said she made ''good money'' from her alpaca farm. A prize-winning alpaca can sell for as much as $20,000. A regular alpaca sold as a pet can go for as little as $1,000. (Some skeptics suggest that the alpaca phenomenon is a kind of pyramidal venture, dependent on enough willing new alpaca farmers to sustain the pace of existing breeder operations.) Then there is the fleece. The silky coat of the alpaca has long been prized for garments, especially sweaters and shawls. Mr. Mullen and his wife, Penny, of Southwind Farms, have 50 alpacas, which they breed for sale and shear for fleece. ''The fleece is there, but it doesn't do anything for you moneywise,'' Mr. Mullen said. However, the cost of keeping alpacas is low. ''An alpaca eats about the same as a dog,'' Mr. Mullen said. 
 If alpacas are too demanding, there are always heirloom chickens. John Rosselli, a New York antiques dealer, and his wife, Bunny Williams, an interior decorator, keep heirloom chickens at their Falls Village, Conn., home. Regal-looking Rhode Island Reds and Plymouth Rocks strut and peck among bearded Cochins, Polonaise and other heirloom breeds that coexist in a well-carpentered octagonal coop.
 I JUST like to look at chickens,'' Mr. Rosselli said. ''I've had chickens all my life. I was born on a farm. I find them amusing.'' They also lay the green and blue eggs made famous by Martha Stewart.
 Farming exotic animals has drawbacks. Chickens have to be protected from predators. Alpacas can find an open gate in a heartbeat. Breeding livestock in general can be difficult and messy. Especially large, rare livestock. 
 Jay Gerli, a former bond trader on Wall Street, has been raising Belted and white Galloway cattle since the late 70's. His wife, Tiggie, who is from rural Georgia, was the livestock person. ''When I met her,'' Mr. Gerli said, ''the biggest animal I ever knew was a golden retriever.''
 Belted Galloways, named for the distinctive white band around their middles (the front and rear of the animals must be black or toffee colored and entirely free of white spots), come from Scotland. Mr. Gerli has about 100 head of Galloways, including some that are all white, grazing on 200 acres in the back country of Sharon, Conn. 
 Mr. Gerli and his wife first spotted Belted Galloways while hiking in Vermont. Initially, Mr. Gerli thought that Vermont farmers had painted the cows white around the middle so they would not get shot by hunters. ''My wife, who was raised on a dairy farm, thought so, too,'' Mr. Gerli said. Then they researched it and learned that the animal did not need to be grain fed and yielded superior beef.
 ''The daily routine is grueling, muddy and filled with bumps, nicks and bruises,'' Mr. Gerli said. ''We do most of the work ourselves. We probably get the most enjoyment from showing.'' The Gerli animals have won first-place ribbons at agricultural fairs, including the Eastern States Exposition in West Springfield, Mass. 
 Mr. Gerli says he is glad he chose a breed known for small-headed calves. Consequently, he is not up at all hours ''pulling calves'' when they give birth. For the occasional backward or breech birth, Mr. Gerli said, he employs a come-along, a winchlike tool ordinarily used for construction work. ''It's horrendous the amount of pressure they can take,'' Mr. Gerli added. 
 The Gerlis sell breeding stock, and the uniqueness of the cows generates a premium. Two-year-old heifers sell for $2,200 to $2,500, Mr. Gerli said, and show animals for $3,000 to $4,000. 
 But it's not really about the money. Consider the case of Cindy, an all-white Galloway heifer of which Mr. Gerli seems especially proud. Last fall the Gerlis discovered the newborn white calf had meningitis, so they put her into the back of their Jeep and drove all the way to the College of Veterinary Medicine at Cornell University. 
 The graduate student veterinarians who cared for her named her for the model Cindy Crawford, because she was so pretty. The Gerlis ended up spending more than $10,000 on medical care for her, considerably more than she is worth. Walking her around his barnyard recently at the end of a rope, Mr. Gerli noted that Cindy was more friendly and comfortable with people than she was with other cows, because she had spent more time with humans.
 ''Cindy Crawford doesn't realize she is a cow,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: NEW MCDONALD'S FARM -- Belted Galloways, above, at a farm in Sharon, and heirloom chickens, at a home in Falls Village, above right, are the specialty breeds favored by some Connecticut growers. Samantha Granbery, 14, right, cares for her mother's alpacas at Moore Brook Farm in Salisbury. Below right, Scottish Highlander cattle roam a farm in Roxbury. (Photographs by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)
(Photo by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. 8)
 FINDING A NICHE -- Llamas, like those at Spruce Lane Llama Farm in Stockton, N.J., are among the exotic livestock gaining popularity. They are prized in particular by sheep ranchers, who use them to guard their flocks. (Photo by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAMMALS (90%); POULTRY (90%); ANIMALS (89%); FAMILY FARMS (89%); POULTRY & EGG PRODUCTION (78%); DAIRY FARMING (78%); LLAMA & ALPACA PRODUCTION (78%); SHEEP & GOAT FARMING (78%); SHEEP FARMING (78%); ORGANIC FOODS (74%); MISC POULTRY PRODUCTION (73%); FACTORY FARMS (72%); SUBURBS (66%); CITIES (65%); ANTIBIOTICS (52%); RETAILERS (50%) Livestock; Llamas; Alpacas; Peacocks; Poultry; Livestock

PERSON: Woody Hochswender

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); SCOTLAND (92%); ENGLAND (76%) New York City Metropolitan Area; New Jersey; Connecticut; Long Island (NY)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2006



385 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 2; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2263 words

HEADLINE: The New Face of Farming

BYLINE: By WOODY HOCHSWENDER

 BODY:
THE family farm is not dead in these parts. But it has been revised, perhaps by a well-to-do New Yorker or a land-rich Yankee. Nowadays, when you drive country roads, you are likely to spot strange and beautiful breeds, exotic livestock that exist, in some cases, as much for show as for consumption. 
 Llamas and alpacas, which look like miniature camels, crane their necks over split-rail fencing and chew their cuds thoughtfully. Cream-white sheep grazing on brilliant verdured hillsides seem to have stepped out of a scene from Thomas Hardy -- and they have! -- since they are Cotswold sheep, imported from exclusive breeding stock in England. Gaudy peacocks and heirloom chickens race into the road, testing your brakes and patience.
Around the next bend, if you were to see centaurs and unicorns frolicking in a field, you might not be surprised. 
 A cow is no longer just a black-and-white mottled animal that moos and supplies milk, but a large, horned and heroic beast, imported from the highlands of Scotland, with all kinds of beefy, antibiotic-free, grass-fed implications. 
 Life on the farm will never be the same, especially in the exurban areas 50 to 100 miles outside New York City. The once ubiquitous potato fields and duck farms of eastern Long Island now sprout luxury homes and strip malls. Northern Connecticut's stately tobacco barns now house lawn and garden centers. New Jersey poultry and truck farming businesses face increasing competition from corporate farming enterprises to the west. In Westchester, equestrian farms have largely replaced vegetable and dairy operations. 
 Even as real mud-splattered working farms are fading out, though, a new kind of animal husbandry is coming in. Niche, hobby and artisanal farming is on the rise, often with perfect barns, manor houses and manicured lawns, places where Tolstoy would be perfectly at ease with his ledger books and progressive agricultural ideas. Instead of Herefords and Holsteins, we now have Belted Galloways and Scottish Highlanders, large, impressive beasts, carefully fed and bred as much for looks, in some cases, as for milk or beef. Instead of your regular old barnyard goat, there are now Nubians and Nigerian dwarves. In place of standard wool-bearing animals, there are the exotic English sheep, and Peruvian and Bolivian alpacas, whose fleece is often favorably compared to cashmere (especially by alpaca trade groups). 
 While a fair amount of corn and hay is still grown in the areas ringing New York City, the focus is shifting to organic produce, sustainable methods and exotic breeds. These small farms tend to be both preservationist in intent and capital-intensive in practice. They exist not only to preserve land, but to further a vanishing breed. Even in the best of circumstances, they often just break even. But the root of this type of farming is not money, meat or even ribbons at the agricultural fair. It is love of animals.
 On a recent June day, Mathias Kiefer surveyed his herd of goats -- Boers, Nubians and Nigerian dwarves -- which he raises on 190 acres outside Salisbury, Conn. ''As a group, they are the friendliest darn goats we know,'' said Mr. Kiefer, a full-time land surveyor and forestry consultant. ''They are almost canine. They'll come up to you and rub against you. If you are looking for a pet other than a dog or a cat, I would think, get a goat. They're so personable.'' 
 THE brown and white dwarf goats, perhaps two feet high at the withers, have beards and little cocoa dewlaps of fur dangling below their chins. (The females have beards, too.) They chew grass and pull on your clothes until you pet them. Mr. Kiefer sells them as pets and meat, and his goat cheese is sold at LaBonne's, down the road. He maintains that goat is the fastest-growing meat business. ''There's more goat eaten in the world than any other meat,'' said Mr. Kiefer, who spends a couple of hours a day tending his goats and the various fences and barns that shelter them.
 While exotic animal husbandry is typically a sideline or a hobby for the farmer, there is seldom anything dilettantish about it. ''We have always had livestock,'' said Mr. Kiefer, who also keeps cows and chickens. ''My parents always had livestock. My wife's family always had livestock. I grew up here.'' 
 Just across the road, Malcolm Maclaren, a Harvard-educated biology teacher who recently retired from raising Scottish Highlander cattle on his family farm, said that a prime motivation for exotic animal husbandry was the desire to raise animals in a free-range, organic environment. But that is only part of it. 
 ''The reason some people have them is they're pretty out in the field,'' he said. ''It's not an economic thing at all. There are people who prefer to sink money in a farm than give it to Uncle Sam.''
 Farmland typically is taxed at a lower rate than residential property, and many farmers put some acreage into conservation easements that further reduce their tax exposure. Raising prized cattle restores purpose to the land and helps preserve endangered breeds. The so-called heritage breeds movement is a form of genetic conservation. 
 This is particularly true in Westchester County, where only 13,000 acres of farmland remain. ''To farm here requires enormous careful planning because of the tax consequences and the value of the land,'' said Annie Farrell, a farm consultant in Katonah. A notable success, she said, is Rainbeau Ridge Farm, with a rare breed of cattle and Cotswold sheep, on 300 acres in Bedford Hills.
 In Connecticut, smaller, more exotic farms emphasize organic feeding and careful breeding. These are not just gentleman farms, with a few horses, but niche enterprises based on unusual products. Mr. Maclaren found a thriving niche market for his grass-fed beef at the Union Square farmers' market in New York.
 ''Niche farming is a very important part of agriculture in Connecticut,'' said F. Philip Prelli, the state's agriculture commissioner, who said that there are only 100 or so dairy farms in the state, compared with 12,000 in the 60's. ''The traditional agriculture of the dairy farmer and the vegetable farmer is still there. But the biggest growth is these niche farming operations. It is where agriculture is heading.'' 
 The rationale for llamas is somewhat different than for other types of livestock. Sheep ranchers acquire llamas as guard animals for their flocks. The sheep's natural predators, foxes and coyotes, generally will not tangle with a llama, which can be more than six feet tall. Llamas get along quite nicely with sheep, and when a llama senses danger, it emits a high-pitched whinny that alerts the farmer to bring the shotgun.
 In the town of Norfolk, hard by the Massachusetts border in northwestern Connecticut, Roy and Mary Alice Pilbin bought llamas to protect their flock. ''We had up to 25, 30 sheep, and the coyotes were coming in all the time,'' Mr. Pilbin said. ''One on one, llamas get the best of a coyote.'' 
 Originally dairy farmers who were having a tough time, the Pilbins now have about 25 sheep and 30 llamas. They breed their stock and sell the wool to small mills. They also take their animals to the Goshen County Fair in the fall, where they sell llama- and sheep-wool-filled comforters.
 ''Llamas are gentle and respectful, and they won't hurt children,'' Mr. Pilbin said. ''A llama develops a sense of trust with you. The bond gets stronger, and the llama will do anything to please you.'' Of course, llamas have been known to spit when provoked. Since they have three stomachs -- one for grass and grain, one for water and one for digestive juices -- when they lob a load of juice at you, it is rather gross. ''First thing you do, take a shower,'' said James Mullen, who owns Southwind Farms in Watertown, Conn. 
 Spitting is mostly a matter of upbringing, says Bob Wolfe of Spruce Lane Llama farm in Stockton, N.J., about 20 miles north of Trenton. ''My llamas just plain don't spit at people,'' said Mr. Wolfe, a former professor of engineering at Rutgers University. ''If llamas are raised properly, they don't spit.'' Mr. Wolfe, who was raised on a dairy farm in Wisconsin, says llamas are exceptionally calm and clean (they use a litter box, just like house cats) and great to be around.
 As suburbs expand and subdivisions devour agricultural land, state and local governments are actively involved in promoting land conservation; 60 percent of the land in Connecticut, for example, is still agricultural, open space or forest, according to the state's Department of Agriculture. But with so much farmland being preserved, the remaining acreage is expensive. Llamas and alpacas need very little land to thrive.
 Down a narrow dirt track just beyond the supermarket in Salisbury, Conn., lies Moore Brook Farm, where Serena W. Granbery, a sculptor and former guitar maker, keeps approximately 60 alpacas on 13 acres. ''They are a joy to be around,'' said Ms. Granbery, who tends the herd with the help of her 14-year-old daughter, Samantha. ''You definitely get attached to them, and it becomes hard to sell them.'' Ms. Granbery has reared a national champion, Mulder, named for the character on ''The X-Files.'' 
 Ms. Granbery said she made ''good money'' from her alpaca farm. A prize-winning alpaca can sell for as much as $20,000. A regular alpaca sold as a pet can go for as little as $1,000. (Some skeptics suggest that the alpaca phenomenon is a kind of pyramidal venture, dependent on enough willing new alpaca farmers to sustain the pace of existing breeder operations.) Then there is the fleece. The silky coat of the alpaca has long been prized for garments, especially sweaters and shawls. Mr. Mullen and his wife, Penny, of Southwind Farms, have 50 alpacas, which they breed for sale and shear for fleece. ''The fleece is there, but it doesn't do anything for you moneywise,'' Mr. Mullen said. However, the cost of keeping alpacas is low. ''An alpaca eats about the same as a dog,'' Mr. Mullen said. 
 If alpacas are too demanding, there are always heirloom chickens. John Rosselli, a New York antiques dealer, and his wife, Bunny Williams, an interior decorator, keep heirloom chickens at their Falls Village, Conn., home. Regal-looking Rhode Island Reds and Plymouth Rocks strut and peck among bearded Cochins, Polonaise and other heirloom breeds that coexist in a well-carpentered octagonal coop.
 I JUST like to look at chickens,'' Mr. Rosselli said. ''I've had chickens all my life. I was born on a farm. I find them amusing.'' They also lay the green and blue eggs made famous by Martha Stewart.
 Farming exotic animals has drawbacks. Chickens have to be protected from predators. Alpacas can find an open gate in a heartbeat. Breeding livestock in general can be difficult and messy. Especially large, rare livestock. 
 Jay Gerli, a former bond trader on Wall Street, has been raising Belted and white Galloway cattle since the late 70's. His wife, Tiggie, who is from rural Georgia, was the livestock person. ''When I met her,'' Mr. Gerli said, ''the biggest animal I ever knew was a golden retriever.''
 Belted Galloways, named for the distinctive white band around their middles (the front and rear of the animals must be black or toffee colored and entirely free of white spots), come from Scotland. Mr. Gerli has about 100 head of Galloways, including some that are all white, grazing on 200 acres in the back country of Sharon, Conn. 
 Mr. Gerli and his wife first spotted Belted Galloways while hiking in Vermont. Initially, Mr. Gerli thought that Vermont farmers had painted the cows white around the middle so they would not get shot by hunters. ''My wife, who was raised on a dairy farm, thought so, too,'' Mr. Gerli said. Then they researched it and learned that the animal did not need to be grain fed and yielded superior beef.
 ''The daily routine is grueling, muddy and filled with bumps, nicks and bruises,'' Mr. Gerli said. ''We do most of the work ourselves. We probably get the most enjoyment from showing.'' The Gerli animals have won first-place ribbons at agricultural fairs, including the Eastern States Exposition in West Springfield, Mass. 
 Mr. Gerli says he is glad he chose a breed known for small-headed calves. Consequently, he is not up at all hours ''pulling calves'' when they give birth. For the occasional backward or breech birth, Mr. Gerli said, he employs a come-along, a winchlike tool ordinarily used for construction work. ''It's horrendous the amount of pressure they can take,'' Mr. Gerli added. 
 The Gerlis sell breeding stock, and the uniqueness of the cows generates a premium. Two-year-old heifers sell for $2,200 to $2,500, Mr. Gerli said, and show animals for $3,000 to $4,000. 
 But it's not really about the money. Consider the case of Cindy, an all-white Galloway heifer of which Mr. Gerli seems especially proud. Last fall the Gerlis discovered the newborn white calf had meningitis, so they put her into the back of their Jeep and drove all the way to the College of Veterinary Medicine at Cornell University. 
 The graduate student veterinarians who cared for her named her for the model Cindy Crawford, because she was so pretty. The Gerlis ended up spending more than $10,000 on medical care for her, considerably more than she is worth. Walking her around his barnyard recently at the end of a rope, Mr. Gerli noted that Cindy was more friendly and comfortable with people than she was with other cows, because she had spent more time with humans.
 ''Cindy Crawford doesn't realize she is a cow,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: FINDING A NICHE -- Llamas, like those at Spruce Lane Llama Farm in Stockton, N.J., are among the exotic livestock gaining popularity. They are prized in particular by sheep ranchers, who use them to guard their flocks. (Photo by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
NEW MCDONALD'S FARM -- Belted Galloways, above, at a farm in Sharon, and heirloom chickens, at a home in Falls Village, above right, are the specialty breeds favored by some Connecticut growers. Samantha Granbery, 14, right, cares for her mother's alpacas at Moore Brook Farm in Salisbury. Below right, Scottish Highlander cattle roam a farm in Roxbury. (Photographs by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)
(Photo by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAMMALS (90%); POULTRY (90%); ANIMALS (89%); FAMILY FARMS (89%); POULTRY & EGG PRODUCTION (78%); DAIRY FARMING (78%); LLAMA & ALPACA PRODUCTION (78%); SHEEP & GOAT FARMING (78%); SHEEP FARMING (78%); ORGANIC FOODS (74%); MISC POULTRY PRODUCTION (73%); FACTORY FARMS (72%); SUBURBS (66%); CITIES (65%); ANTIBIOTICS (52%); RETAILERS (50%) Livestock; Llamas; Alpacas; Peacocks; Poultry; Livestock

PERSON: Woody Hochswender

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); SCOTLAND (92%); ENGLAND (76%) New York City Metropolitan Area; Connecticut ; New Jersey; Long Island (NY)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2006



386 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk; CONNECTICUT JOURNAL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: A Kinder, Gentler, More Kosher Greenwich

BYLINE: By Joseph Berger. 
E-mail: joeberg@nytimes.com

DATELINE: Greenwich, Conn. 

 BODY:
COME September, a Jewish day school will be moving into its own home in Greenwich.
 That will probably not surprise the residents of Greenwich, who have long been accustomed to a splashy mix of faiths in town. But it is worth recording as another small milestone in America's advancing tolerance. Greenwich, one of the nation's most patrician towns, was a place where by many accounts Jews were not always made to feel welcome as late as the 1950's. While Greenwich has long had synagogues, a day school is a more emphatic statement of Jewish arrival, because a school will perpetuate the teaching of Judaism for generations.
''There's something about a Jewish school that plants a flag and that says when you come to Greenwich, there's a Jewish community,'' said Rick Lund, a member of the school's board. 
 The school, the Westchester Fairfield Hebrew Academy, is a small one, with just 110 students, and still wet behind the ears, having been around just the eight years needed to graduate its first class tomorrow. But it has rustled up the $20 million to buy a symbolic trophy -- the former campus of Rosemary Hall, the exclusive girls' boarding school that three decades ago merged with its male cousin, Choate, in Wallingford. Alumni at those schools include John F. Kennedy, Paul Mellon and Mary French Rockefeller. 
 The academy is taking more than 18 leafy acres with roughly 15 historic buildings. It may be the only yeshiva in the world with its own Christian chapel, St. Bede's, complete with an organ and stained glass windows. 
 As a once quintessentially urban people continue to metamorphosis into a suburban tribe, the Jewish population outside New York has soared; lower Fairfield County has 40,000 Jews and Westchester 129,000, by day school estimates. Marc Schulman, the school's founding president, guesses that a leafy campus will raise the school's profile in the competition to attract those wandering Jews. 
 To appreciate the significance of a Jewish school in Greenwich, it helps to talk with Mr. Lund, a 58-year-old consultant to nonprofits. His father, Theodore Lund, was born Lieberman, and in 1940's America he had to change his name to Lund to have a shot at a civil engineer's job in the Department of the Navy.
 The son moved to Greenwich in the late 1980's, when it had several hundred Jewish families, he said. He immediately felt that his living there did not cause the same reaction it would have in the 1950's, when most Jews lived above the downtown stores they owned.
 At the bat mitzvah of his daughter, Tamara, half the youngsters were gentile. That is no surprise -- across the suburbs, non-Jewish teenagers are laying out fortunes for glad rags and gifts to attend the parties of their 13-year-old Jewish friends. Once restrictive country clubs are happy to have the bar mitzvah business, even offering kosher food. ''Today bar and bat mitzvahs are part of community life, not just Jewish life,'' Mr. Lund said.
 When Jews started becoming corporate executives, white-shoe lawyers and Ivy League presidents, the message spread: discriminate, even subtly, and polite society will brand you a boor. Greenwich now has, by Mr. Lund's estimate, 1,800 Jewish families, and they felt comfortable enough to stage their first Israel Independence Day parade this spring down swellegant Greenwich Avenue.
 The Hebrew Academy was cobbled together in 1998 by parents shut out of the saturated Solomon Schechter School in White Plains. They also wanted some new approaches -- organizing the Torah around themes rather than chronologically, mingling Jewish with world history. Its headmaster, Nora Anderson, is a history lesson all by herself. A descendant of Jews who fled Spain during the Inquisition, she was born in Gibraltar, and her father is a leading rabbi in Peru.
 ''We want Hebrew to be alive,'' she says of the school's stress on conversation. ''We don't want it to be a language they learned long ago.''
 The school has been in Greenwich since 2001, borrowing cramped quarters from Temple Sholom, Greenwich's largest synagogue. In that setting, the athletic program has consisted of a hoop in the temple parking lot and a weekly visit to a Y.W.C.A. 
 When the school's chieftains scouted around for new quarters, they learned of the availability of the Greenwich Japanese School, which had occupied the Rosemary Hall campus since 1992, but was hemorrhaging students as a result of a sluggish Japanese economy that was posting fewer families overseas. 
 The Hebrew academy will lease several buildings to the Japanese school for up to eight years. Jewish and Japanese students will study in separate buildings, but all will make use of the fieldstone gymnasium. Meantime, Rosemary alumni can return to hold weddings at St. Bede's Chapel. How's that for a statement about the ethnic hodge-podge the new Greenwich has become.


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Janet Durrans for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JEWS & JUDAISM (94%); RELIGION (91%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (90%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); BOARDING SCHOOLS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); SUBURBS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (68%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (64%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (64%) Education and Schools; Jews; Private and Sectarian Schools

ORGANIZATION: Westchester Fairfield Hebrew Academy

PERSON: Joseph Berger

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) Greenwich (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2006



387 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 2; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2263 words

HEADLINE: The New Face of Farming

BYLINE: By WOODY HOCHSWENDER

 BODY:
THE family farm is not dead in these parts. But it has been revised, perhaps by a well-to-do New Yorker or a land-rich Yankee. Nowadays, when you drive country roads, you are likely to spot strange and beautiful breeds, exotic livestock that exist, in some cases, as much for show as for consumption. 
 Llamas and alpacas, which look like miniature camels, crane their necks over split-rail fencing and chew their cuds thoughtfully. Cream-white sheep grazing on brilliant verdured hillsides seem to have stepped out of a scene from Thomas Hardy -- and they have! -- since they are Cotswold sheep, imported from exclusive breeding stock in England. Gaudy peacocks and heirloom chickens race into the road, testing your brakes and patience.
Around the next bend, if you were to see centaurs and unicorns frolicking in a field, you might not be surprised. 
 A cow is no longer just a black-and-white mottled animal that moos and supplies milk, but a large, horned and heroic beast, imported from the highlands of Scotland, with all kinds of beefy, antibiotic-free, grass-fed implications. 
 Life on the farm will never be the same, especially in the exurban areas 50 to 100 miles outside New York City. The once ubiquitous potato fields and duck farms of eastern Long Island now sprout luxury homes and strip malls. Northern Connecticut's stately tobacco barns now house lawn and garden centers. New Jersey poultry and truck farming businesses face increasing competition from corporate farming enterprises to the west. In Westchester, equestrian farms have largely replaced vegetable and dairy operations. 
 Even as real mud-splattered working farms are fading out, though, a new kind of animal husbandry is coming in. Niche, hobby and artisanal farming is on the rise, often with perfect barns, manor houses and manicured lawns, places where Tolstoy would be perfectly at ease with his ledger books and progressive agricultural ideas. Instead of Herefords and Holsteins, we now have Belted Galloways and Scottish Highlanders, large, impressive beasts, carefully fed and bred as much for looks, in some cases, as for milk or beef. Instead of your regular old barnyard goat, there are now Nubians and Nigerian dwarves. In place of standard wool-bearing animals, there are the exotic English sheep, and Peruvian and Bolivian alpacas, whose fleece is often favorably compared to cashmere (especially by alpaca trade groups). 
 While a fair amount of corn and hay is still grown in the areas ringing New York City, the focus is shifting to organic produce, sustainable methods and exotic breeds. These small farms tend to be both preservationist in intent and capital-intensive in practice. They exist not only to preserve land, but to further a vanishing breed. Even in the best of circumstances, they often just break even. But the root of this type of farming is not money, meat or even ribbons at the agricultural fair. It is love of animals.
 On a recent June day, Mathias Kiefer surveyed his herd of goats -- Boers, Nubians and Nigerian dwarves -- which he raises on 190 acres outside Salisbury, Conn. ''As a group, they are the friendliest darn goats we know,'' said Mr. Kiefer, a full-time land surveyor and forestry consultant. ''They are almost canine. They'll come up to you and rub against you. If you are looking for a pet other than a dog or a cat, I would think, get a goat. They're so personable.'' 
 THE brown and white dwarf goats, perhaps two feet high at the withers, have beards and little cocoa dewlaps of fur dangling below their chins. (The females have beards, too.) They chew grass and pull on your clothes until you pet them. Mr. Kiefer sells them as pets and meat, and his goat cheese is sold at LaBonne's, down the road. He maintains that goat is the fastest-growing meat business. ''There's more goat eaten in the world than any other meat,'' said Mr. Kiefer, who spends a couple of hours a day tending his goats and the various fences and barns that shelter them.
 While exotic animal husbandry is typically a sideline or a hobby for the farmer, there is seldom anything dilettantish about it. ''We have always had livestock,'' said Mr. Kiefer, who also keeps cows and chickens. ''My parents always had livestock. My wife's family always had livestock. I grew up here.'' 
 Just across the road, Malcolm Maclaren, a Harvard-educated biology teacher who recently retired from raising Scottish Highlander cattle on his family farm, said that a prime motivation for exotic animal husbandry was the desire to raise animals in a free-range, organic environment. But that is only part of it. 
 ''The reason some people have them is they're pretty out in the field,'' he said. ''It's not an economic thing at all. There are people who prefer to sink money in a farm than give it to Uncle Sam.''
 Farmland typically is taxed at a lower rate than residential property, and many farmers put some acreage into conservation easements that further reduce their tax exposure. Raising prized cattle restores purpose to the land and helps preserve endangered breeds. The so-called heritage breeds movement is a form of genetic conservation. 
 This is particularly true in Westchester County, where only 13,000 acres of farmland remain. ''To farm here requires enormous careful planning because of the tax consequences and the value of the land,'' said Annie Farrell, a farm consultant in Katonah. A notable success, she said, is Rainbeau Ridge Farm, with a rare breed of cattle and Cotswold sheep, on 300 acres in Bedford Hills.
 In Connecticut, smaller, more exotic farms emphasize organic feeding and careful breeding. These are not just gentleman farms, with a few horses, but niche enterprises based on unusual products. Mr. Maclaren found a thriving niche market for his grass-fed beef at the Union Square farmers' market in New York.
 ''Niche farming is a very important part of agriculture in Connecticut,'' said F. Philip Prelli, the state's agriculture commissioner, who said that there are only 100 or so dairy farms in the state, compared with 12,000 in the 60's. ''The traditional agriculture of the dairy farmer and the vegetable farmer is still there. But the biggest growth is these niche farming operations. It is where agriculture is heading.'' 
 The rationale for llamas is somewhat different than for other types of livestock. Sheep ranchers acquire llamas as guard animals for their flocks. The sheep's natural predators, foxes and coyotes, generally will not tangle with a llama, which can be more than six feet tall. Llamas get along quite nicely with sheep, and when a llama senses danger, it emits a high-pitched whinny that alerts the farmer to bring the shotgun.
 In the town of Norfolk, hard by the Massachusetts border in northwestern Connecticut, Roy and Mary Alice Pilbin bought llamas to protect their flock. ''We had up to 25, 30 sheep, and the coyotes were coming in all the time,'' Mr. Pilbin said. ''One on one, llamas get the best of a coyote.'' 
 Originally dairy farmers who were having a tough time, the Pilbins now have about 25 sheep and 30 llamas. They breed their stock and sell the wool to small mills. They also take their animals to the Goshen County Fair in the fall, where they sell llama- and sheep-wool-filled comforters.
 ''Llamas are gentle and respectful, and they won't hurt children,'' Mr. Pilbin said. ''A llama develops a sense of trust with you. The bond gets stronger, and the llama will do anything to please you.'' Of course, llamas have been known to spit when provoked. Since they have three stomachs -- one for grass and grain, one for water and one for digestive juices -- when they lob a load of juice at you, it is rather gross. ''First thing you do, take a shower,'' said James Mullen, who owns Southwind Farms in Watertown, Conn. 
 Spitting is mostly a matter of upbringing, says Bob Wolfe of Spruce Lane Llama farm in Stockton, N.J., about 20 miles north of Trenton. ''My llamas just plain don't spit at people,'' said Mr. Wolfe, a former professor of engineering at Rutgers University. ''If llamas are raised properly, they don't spit.'' Mr. Wolfe, who was raised on a dairy farm in Wisconsin, says llamas are exceptionally calm and clean (they use a litter box, just like house cats) and great to be around.
 As suburbs expand and subdivisions devour agricultural land, state and local governments are actively involved in promoting land conservation; 60 percent of the land in Connecticut, for example, is still agricultural, open space or forest, according to the state's Department of Agriculture. But with so much farmland being preserved, the remaining acreage is expensive. Llamas and alpacas need very little land to thrive.
 Down a narrow dirt track just beyond the supermarket in Salisbury, Conn., lies Moore Brook Farm, where Serena W. Granbery, a sculptor and former guitar maker, keeps approximately 60 alpacas on 13 acres. ''They are a joy to be around,'' said Ms. Granbery, who tends the herd with the help of her 14-year-old daughter, Samantha. ''You definitely get attached to them, and it becomes hard to sell them.'' Ms. Granbery has reared a national champion, Mulder, named for the character on ''The X-Files.'' 
 Ms. Granbery said she made ''good money'' from her alpaca farm. A prize-winning alpaca can sell for as much as $20,000. A regular alpaca sold as a pet can go for as little as $1,000. (Some skeptics suggest that the alpaca phenomenon is a kind of pyramidal venture, dependent on enough willing new alpaca farmers to sustain the pace of existing breeder operations.) Then there is the fleece. The silky coat of the alpaca has long been prized for garments, especially sweaters and shawls. Mr. Mullen and his wife, Penny, of Southwind Farms, have 50 alpacas, which they breed for sale and shear for fleece. ''The fleece is there, but it doesn't do anything for you moneywise,'' Mr. Mullen said. However, the cost of keeping alpacas is low. ''An alpaca eats about the same as a dog,'' Mr. Mullen said. 
 If alpacas are too demanding, there are always heirloom chickens. John Rosselli, a New York antiques dealer, and his wife, Bunny Williams, an interior decorator, keep heirloom chickens at their Falls Village, Conn., home. Regal-looking Rhode Island Reds and Plymouth Rocks strut and peck among bearded Cochins, Polonaise and other heirloom breeds that coexist in a well-carpentered octagonal coop.
 I JUST like to look at chickens,'' Mr. Rosselli said. ''I've had chickens all my life. I was born on a farm. I find them amusing.'' They also lay the green and blue eggs made famous by Martha Stewart.
 Farming exotic animals has drawbacks. Chickens have to be protected from predators. Alpacas can find an open gate in a heartbeat. Breeding livestock in general can be difficult and messy. Especially large, rare livestock. 
 Jay Gerli, a former bond trader on Wall Street, has been raising Belted and white Galloway cattle since the late 70's. His wife, Tiggie, who is from rural Georgia, was the livestock person. ''When I met her,'' Mr. Gerli said, ''the biggest animal I ever knew was a golden retriever.''
 Belted Galloways, named for the distinctive white band around their middles (the front and rear of the animals must be black or toffee colored and entirely free of white spots), come from Scotland. Mr. Gerli has about 100 head of Galloways, including some that are all white, grazing on 200 acres in the back country of Sharon, Conn. 
 Mr. Gerli and his wife first spotted Belted Galloways while hiking in Vermont. Initially, Mr. Gerli thought that Vermont farmers had painted the cows white around the middle so they would not get shot by hunters. ''My wife, who was raised on a dairy farm, thought so, too,'' Mr. Gerli said. Then they researched it and learned that the animal did not need to be grain fed and yielded superior beef.
 ''The daily routine is grueling, muddy and filled with bumps, nicks and bruises,'' Mr. Gerli said. ''We do most of the work ourselves. We probably get the most enjoyment from showing.'' The Gerli animals have won first-place ribbons at agricultural fairs, including the Eastern States Exposition in West Springfield, Mass. 
 Mr. Gerli says he is glad he chose a breed known for small-headed calves. Consequently, he is not up at all hours ''pulling calves'' when they give birth. For the occasional backward or breech birth, Mr. Gerli said, he employs a come-along, a winchlike tool ordinarily used for construction work. ''It's horrendous the amount of pressure they can take,'' Mr. Gerli added. 
 The Gerlis sell breeding stock, and the uniqueness of the cows generates a premium. Two-year-old heifers sell for $2,200 to $2,500, Mr. Gerli said, and show animals for $3,000 to $4,000. 
 But it's not really about the money. Consider the case of Cindy, an all-white Galloway heifer of which Mr. Gerli seems especially proud. Last fall the Gerlis discovered the newborn white calf had meningitis, so they put her into the back of their Jeep and drove all the way to the College of Veterinary Medicine at Cornell University. 
 The graduate student veterinarians who cared for her named her for the model Cindy Crawford, because she was so pretty. The Gerlis ended up spending more than $10,000 on medical care for her, considerably more than she is worth. Walking her around his barnyard recently at the end of a rope, Mr. Gerli noted that Cindy was more friendly and comfortable with people than she was with other cows, because she had spent more time with humans.
 ''Cindy Crawford doesn't realize she is a cow,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: FINDING A NICHE -- Llamas, like those at Spruce Lane Llama Farm in Stockton, N.J., are among the exotic livestock gaining popularity. They are prized in particular by sheep ranchers, who use them to guard their flocks. (Photo by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
NEW MCDONALD'S FARM -- Belted Galloways, above, at a farm in Sharon, and heirloom chickens, at a home in Falls Village, above right, are the specialty breeds favored by some Connecticut growers. Samantha Granbery, 14, right, cares for her mother's alpacas at Moore Brook Farm in Salisbury. Below right, Scottish Highlander cattle roam a farm in Roxbury. (Photographs by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAMMALS (90%); POULTRY (90%); ANIMALS (89%); FAMILY FARMS (89%); POULTRY & EGG PRODUCTION (78%); DAIRY FARMING (78%); LLAMA & ALPACA PRODUCTION (78%); SHEEP & GOAT FARMING (78%); SHEEP FARMING (78%); ORGANIC FOODS (74%); MISC POULTRY PRODUCTION (73%); FACTORY FARMS (72%); SUBURBS (66%); CITIES (65%); ANTIBIOTICS (52%); RETAILERS (50%) Livestock; Llamas; Alpacas; Peacocks; Poultry; Livestock

PERSON: Woody Hochswender

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); SCOTLAND (92%); ENGLAND (76%) New York City Metropolitan Area; New Jersey; Long Island (NY); Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2006



388 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2863 words

HEADLINE: American Muslim Clerics Seek a Modern Middle Ground

BYLINE: By LAURIE GOODSTEIN

 BODY:
Every seat in the auditorium at the University of Houston was taken, and the crowd was standing in the back and spilling out into the lobby, straining to hear. The two men onstage began to speak to the crowd in Arabic, with such flawless accents and rarefied Koranic grammar that some audience members gaped when they heard the Arabic equivalent of the king's English coming from the mouths of two Americans. 
 Sheik Hamza Yusuf, in a groomed goatee and sports jacket, looked more like a hip white college professor than a Middle Eastern sheik. Imam Zaid Shakir, a lanky African-American in a long brown tunic, looked as if he would fit in just fine on the streets of Damascus.
Both men are converts to Islam who spent years in the Middle East and North Africa being mentored by formidable Muslim scholars. They have since become leading intellectual lights for a new generation of American Muslims looking for homegrown leaders who can help them learn how to live their faith without succumbing to American materialism or Islamic extremism. 
 ''This is the wealthiest Muslim community on earth,'' Mr. Shakir told the crowd, quickly adding that ''the wealth here has been earned'' -- unlike, he said, in the oil-rich Middle East. As the audience laughed at Mr. Shakir's flattery, he chided them for buying Lexuses -- with heated leather seats they would never need in Houston -- and Jaguars, and made them laugh again by pronouncing it ''Jaguoooaah,'' like a stuffy Anglophile. 
 And then he issued a challenge: ''Where are the Muslim Doctors Without Borders? Spend six months here, six months in the Congo. Form it!''
 Most American mosques import their clerics from overseas -- some who preach extremism, some who cannot speak English, and most who cannot begin to speak to young American Muslims growing up on hip-hop and in mixed-sex chat rooms. Mr. Yusuf, 48, and Mr. Shakir, 50, are using their clout to create the first Islamic seminary in the United States, where they hope to train a new generation of imams and scholars who can reconcile Islam and American culture.
 The seminary is still in its fledgling stages, but Mr. Yusuf and Mr. Shakir have gained a large following by being equally at home in Islamic tradition and modern American culture. Mr. Yusuf dazzles his audiences by weaving into one of his typical half-hour talks quotations from St. Augustine, Patton, Eric Erikson, Jung, Solzhenitsyn, Auden, Robert Bly, Gen. William C. Westmoreland and the Bible. He is the host of a TV reality show that is popular in the Middle East, in which he takes a vanload of Arabs on a road trip across the United States to visit people who might challenge Arab stereotypes about Americans, like the antiwar protesters demonstrating outside the Republican National Convention.
 Mr. Shakir mixes passages from the Koran with a few lines of rap, and channels accents from ghetto to Valley Girl. Some of his students call him the next Malcolm X -- out of his earshot, because he so often preaches the importance of humility. 
 Both men draw overflow crowds in theaters, mosques and university auditoriums that seat thousands. Their books and CD's are pored over by young Muslims in study groups. As scholars and proselytizers of the faith, they have a much higher profile than most imams, as Muslim clerics who are usually in charge of mosques are known. Their message is that both Islam and America have gone seriously astray, and that American Muslims have a responsibility to harness their growing numbers and economic power to help set them straight. 
 They say that Islam must be rescued from extremists who selectively cite Islamic scripture to justify terrorism. Though Mr. Yusuf and Mr. Shakir do not denounce particular scholars or schools of thought, their students say the two are challenging the influence of Islam's more reactionary sects, like Wahhabism and Salafism, which has been spread to American mosques and schools by clerics trained in Saudi Arabia. Where Wahhabism and Salafism are often intolerant of other religions -- even of other streams within Islam -- Mr. Yusuf and Mr. Shakir teach that Islam is open to a diversity of interpretations honed by centuries of scholars. 
 Mr. Yusuf told the audience in Houston to beware of ''fanatics'' who pluck Islamic scripture out of context and say, ''We're going to tell you what God says on every single issue.''
 ''That's not Islam,'' Mr. Yusuf said. ''That's psychopathy.''
 He asked the audience to pray for the victims of kidnappers in Iraq, saying that kidnapping is just as bad as American bombings in which the military dismisses the civilians killed as ''collateral damage.''
 ''They're both sinister, as far as I'm concerned,'' he said. ''One is efficient, the other is pathetic.''
 Both Mr. Shakir and Mr. Yusuf have a history of anti-American rhetoric, but with age, they have tempered their views. Mr. Shakir told the Houston audience that they are blessed to live in a country that is stable and safe, and in which they have thrived.
 When it came time for questions, one young man stepped to the microphone and asked: ''You said we have an obligation to humanity. Did you mean to Muslims, or to everyone?'' 
 Mr. Shakir responded: ''The obligation is to everyone. All of the people are the dependents of Allah.''
 When Mr. Shakir and Mr. Yusuf stepped off the stage, they were mobbed by a crowd that personified the breadth of their following. There were students in college sweatshirts, doctors and limousine drivers in suits. There were immigrants from Asia, the Middle East and Africa, and the grown children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren of the immigrant generation. There were plenty of African-Americans (as many as a third of American Muslims are black), and a sprinkling of white and Hispanic converts. There were women in all kinds of head scarves, and women without.
 Mr. Yusuf and Mr. Shakir posed for pictures and signed their CD's, books and DVD's -- the two men combined have more than 80 items on the market. A young couple thanked Mr. Yusuf for his CD set on Muslim marriage, saying it had saved theirs. A family from Indonesia asked him to interpret a dream. An older woman from Iraq begged him to contact Muslim scholars in her homeland and correct their misguided teaching. 
 After waiting for more than an hour to greet the scholars, Sohail Ansari, an information technology specialist originally from India, marveled, ''I was born a Muslim, and these guys are so far ahead of us.'' 

Encouraging Tolerance
 Mr. Yusuf lives on a cul-de-sac in Danville, a Northern California suburb, in a house with a three-car garage. The living room is spread with Persian rugs; it is mostly bare of furniture. He held a dinner with guests in traditional Arab style -- on the floor, while the smallest of his five sons curled up in the rugs and fell asleep. His wife, Liliana, tired from a day of home-schooling and driving the boys to karate lessons, passed around take-out curry. She converted to Islam after meeting Mr. Yusuf in college, to the chagrin of her Catholic Hispanic parents. The couple married outdoors, in a redwood grove. 
 Mr. Yusuf received the Arabic title of sheik from his teachers in Mauritania, in West Africa. There the honorific is usually given to old men with a deep knowledge of Islam who serve their communities as wise oracles, but Mr. Yusuf was only 28. His given name was Mark Hanson, and he was raised Greek Orthodox in a bohemian but affluent part of Marin County, just north of San Francisco. 
 He converted to Islam after a near-fatal car accident in high school sent him on an existential journey. He said that the simplicity of ''no God but Allah'' made far more sense to him than the Trinity, and he found the five daily prayers a constant call to awe about everything from the sun to his capillaries. 
 The American seminary was Mr. Yusuf's idea. His diagnosis of the problem with Islam today is that its followers lack ''religious knowledge.'' Islam, like Judaism, is based in scripture and law that has been interpreted, reinterpreted and debated for centuries by scholars who inspired four schools of Islamic jurisprudence. Mr. Yusuf laments that many of the seminaries that once flourished in the Muslim world are now either gone or intellectually dead. Now, he said, the sharpest Muslim students go into technical fields like engineering, not religion. 
 He said he believed that if more Muslims were schooled in their faith's diverse intellectual streams and had a holistic understanding of their religion, they would not be so susceptible to the Osama bin Ladens who tell them that suicide bombers are martyrs.
 ''Where you don't have people who have strong intellectual capacity, you get demagoguery,'' he said.
 Mr. Yusuf once was a source of the kind of zealous rhetoric he now denounces. He said in 1995 that Judaism was based on the belief that ''God has this bias to this small little tribe in the middle of the desert,'' which makes it ''a most racist religion.'' On Sept. 9, 2001, he said the United States ''stands condemned'' for invading Muslim lands. 
 He has since changed his tune -- not for spin, he says, but on principle. ''Our community has failed, and I include myself in that,'' he told an audience in a downtown theater in Elizabeth, N.J., this year. ''When I started speaking in the early 90's, our discourse was not balanced.
 ''We were focused so often on what was negative about this country,'' he said. ''We ended up alienating some people. I've said some things about other religions that I regret now. I think they were incorrect.'' 
 He added: ''A tree grows. If you're staying the same, something is wrong. You're not alive.''

An Enthusiastic Following
 Mr. Yusuf named his school the Zaytuna Institute -- Arabic for olive tree, and also the name of a renowned Islamic university in Tunisia. The site, adjacent to a busy boulevard in Hayward, Calif., is an unlikely oasis, the air scented by jasmine bushes and flowering vines. 
 Five times a day, starting around 5 a.m., a teacher or a student stands outside the prayer hall and warbles the call to prayer. In the mornings, few respond, but by evening, the hall is filled with the rustling of men and women dropping to their knees, divided by a wooden screen. 
 The prayer hall was once a church. There is also a yurt and a high backboard used as a target for archery, because the Prophet Muhammad recommended it as an athletic activity. (The backboard will soon come down to avoid alarming neighbors who might balk at seeing Muslims with bows and arrows). 
 On a sunny day, one student, Ousmane Bah, sat outside the yurt, washing the ink off a polished wooden slate on which he had written his lesson for the past week, which he had committed to memory. The lesson, written in Arabic poetry, was about what makes a fair trade. Near the yurt, BART trains sped by. 
 ''The United States is the capital of modernity,'' Mr. Bah said, ''and you have this very traditional Islam, which is 1,400 years old, being taught in this modern world.'' 
 Many American universities have Islamic studies departments, and a program at Hartford Seminary accredits Muslim chaplains. But there is no program in the United States like Zaytuna.
 Hundreds of Muslims come to Zaytuna for evening and weekend classes on the Prophet Muhammad, the Koran and the Arabic language. The institute's full-time seminary program is in the pilot phase, with only six students. It is expected to double its enrollment next fall.
 Besides Mr. Bah, there are two women -- one a former software engineer, the other a former prenatal genetic counselor -- and three men -- a former jazz musician from Maryland, a motorcycle mechanic from Atlanta and a son of Bangladeshi immigrants in New York City who chose Zaytuna over the Ivy League.
 ''Sheik Hamza and Imam Zaid have grown up here after having studied abroad, and you can really connect with them,'' said the New Yorker, Ebadur Rahman, who is 19. ''The scholars who come from abroad, they can't connect with the people. They're ignorant of life here.''
 Islamic studies experts say that what Mr. Yusuf and Mr. Shakir are teaching is traditional orthodox Islam, and that it is impossible to characterize their theology as either conservative or liberal. They encourage but do not require women in class to cover their heads. They have hired a female scholar, who teaches only women. Last year, Mr. Shakir published a rebuttal to a group of progressive American Muslims who argue that Islamic law allows women to lead men in prayer. 
 Mr. Yusuf says he has become too busy to teach regularly at his own school. He writes books, translates Arabic poetry, records CD's, tapes his television show. He meets with rabbis, ministers and the Dalai Lama, and travels annually to the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. 
 Mr. Yusuf's fame grew after he was invited to the White House nine days after the Sept. 11 attacks, making him the only Muslim leader along with five other religious leaders who were called to meet with President Bush. He suggested that Mr. Bush change the name of the military's impending operation in Afghanistan, ''Infinite Justice,'' because it would offend Muslims, who believe the only source of infinite justice is God. Mr. Bush responded by changing the operation's name to ''Operation Enduring Freedom,'' and in the news media Mr. Yusuf gained a title other than sheik: ''adviser to the president.'' 
 Mr. Yusuf, however, said that Mr. Bush since then ''hasn't taken any of my advice.'' 

Persuasion Over Violence
 Three years ago, Mr. Yusuf invited Mr. Shakir to teach at Zaytuna as a scholar in residence. Mr. Shakir had recently returned from his second stint of studying Islam abroad -- a total of seven years in Syria and Morocco. 
 One recent Sunday afternoon, Mr. Shakir had 50 students in his Zaytuna class on marriage and family. The women brought their babies and their knitting, and everyone munched on homemade cookies brought for a cookie-baking contest. 
 ''It's going to be hard to beat this oatmeal raisin,'' Mr. Shakir said between swigs of organic milk. 
 The real topic at hand was whether polygamy, which is permitted in Islam, is appropriate in the modern context. Mr. Shakir mediated a heated debate between the men and women who sparred across the wooden divider that separated them. 
 One man said that having more than one wife was good because some women are so ''career orientated'' that ''they don't want to be cleaning up all the time behind the man.'' At that, one woman shouted out, ''Get a maid!'' and everyone dissolved in laughter. 
 Mr. Shakir told the students that Islam allows polygamy because it was a ''practical'' and ''compassionate'' solution in some cases, as when women are widowed in war. But in the modern context, he said, ''a lot of harm ensues.''
 Mr. Shakir said afterward that he still had trouble believing how a boy from the projects could have become an Islamic scholar with students who are willing to move across the country to study with him.
 He and his wife, Saliha, became Muslims in the Air Force. He had joined the military as a teenager in the lull after Vietnam because his mother had died and he had no means. His name was Ricky Mitchell, and his mother had raised him and his siblings in housing projects in Georgia -- where he remembers going to his grandparents' farm and picking cotton -- and in New Britain, Conn.

A Goal for America
 While leading a mosque in New Haven in 1992, Mr. Shakir wrote a pamphlet that cautioned Muslims not to be co-opted by American politics. He wrote, ''Islam presents an absolutist political agenda, or one which doesn't lend itself to compromise, nor to coalition building.'' 
 While he did not denounce Muslims who take part in politics, he pointed out the effectiveness of ''extrasystemic political action'' -- like the ''armed struggle'' that brought about the rule of the Taliban in Afghanistan. A copy of the pamphlet was found in the apartment of a suspect in the first World Trade Center bombing, in 1993. Mr. Shakir says he was questioned by the F.B.I., but had no link to the man, and that was the end of it. 
 While studying in Syria a few years later, he visited Hama, a city that had tried to revolt against the Syrian ruler, Hafez al-Assad. Mr. Shakir said he saw mass graves and bulldozed neighborhoods, and talked with widows of those killed. He gave up on the idea of armed struggle, he said, ''just seeing the reality of where revolution can end.''
 Asked now about his past, he said, ''To be perfectly honest, I don't regret anything I've done or said.''
 He added, ''I had to go through that stage to become the person that I am, and I'm not willing to negate my past.'' 
 He said he still hoped that one day the United States would be a Muslim country ruled by Islamic law, ''not by violent means, but by persuasion.'' 
 ''Every Muslim who is honest would say, I would like to see America become a Muslim country,'' he said. ''I think it would help people, and if I didn't believe that, I wouldn't be a Muslim. Because Islam helped me as a person, and it's helped a lot of people in my community.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Imam Zaid Shakir, left, tutoring a student. Sheik Hamza Yusuf spoke at a symposium in New Jersey. (Photo by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)
(Photo by Jim Wilson/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
In March, a crowd lined up outside a theater in Elizabeth, N.J., for admission to a hear Imam Zaid Shakir and Sheik Hamza Yusuf, founder of the first Muslim seminary in the United States. (Photo by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)
 The Zaytuna Institute -- named for a renowned seminary in Tunisia -- has only six students, but expects to double enrollment this fall. (Photo by Jim Wilson/The New York Times)(pg. 22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (95%); RELIGION (95%); MUSLIM AMERICANS (91%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); QURAN & ISLAMIC TEXTS (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); HIP HOP CULTURE (61%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (60%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (60%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (50%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (50%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (50%); REALITY TELEVISION (50%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (50%) Islam; Mosques; Islam

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF HOUSTON (84%) zaytuna institute

PERSON: Laurie Goodstein; zaid (Imam) shakir; Hamza (Sheik) Yusuf

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); SYRIA (79%); TUNISIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2006



389 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: In World Cup Surprise, Flags Fly With German Pride 

BYLINE: By RICHARD BERNSTEIN

DATELINE: BERLIN, June 17 

 BODY:
It is everywhere, hanging from windows, sticking out from cars, forming moving seas of black, red and gold in the stadiums whenever the German team, a top contender in World Cup 2006, plays. 
 The German flag, long weighted by the country's postwar reluctance about open displays of national pride, is flying again, an expression of exuberance as Germany plays host to the World Cup.
''When you see so many German flags flying from windows, that's a development that was long overdue, while not forgetting what happened in this country before,'' said Christoph Metzelder, a defender on the German team. 
 Indeed, the chief indicator of the national mood is that almost overnight, once the World Cup began and all those people from other countries arrived with flags and T-shirts in their national colors, it became almost mandatory, certainly desirable, to respond in kind. 
 Children were shown on television the other day standing under black, red and gold umbrellas; grown-ups are painting their faces in the national colors, either their whole faces or showing a discreet removable tattoo on one cheek. Even underwear is being printed with the colors of Germany.
 The display of the flag is topic No. 2 in this country these days -- No. 1 is the World Cup itself -- talked about in editorials and on talk radio, with people calling in to say that, finally, they feel proud to be German. 
 This represents a change, ''a cathartic moment for Germany,'' as one longtime foreign observer, Gary Smith, director of the American Academy in Berlin, put it. 
 For most of the years since World War II, the Germans have not really been sure whether it was appropriate to display emblems showing that they loved their country.
 For decades patriotism was associated with nationalism, and that most terrible manifestation of nationalism, blind obedience to an evil leader. If Germans loved Germany, it still seemed bad form to express that love in symbols like the flag.
 ''One and a half centuries after 1848, we have learned to value and show the colors of our flag as a sign of our democratic nation,'' the daily Die Welt editorialized after the abrupt ubiquity of the flag became a news story. 
 The reference in Die Welt was to the emergence of the black, red and gold horizontal bars as the insignia of the failed democratic revolution of 1848. 
 Its origins, though, go back decades before that, to the Napoleonic Wars, when groups that wanted independence from France began to use those colors to represent their political aspirations. 
 The design has always represented democratic forces, and was therefore never adopted by the dictatorial ones, whether the monarchy, Bismarck or the Nazis.
 The present flag became the official national flag after the country's first democratic republic was created after World War I, but the Nazis did away with it, substituting the swastika.
 In the years after World War II, the black, red and gold could certainly be seen in official contexts -- fluttering proudly over the glass dome of the restored German Parliament in Berlin, for example. But until the World Cup, the flag was never a ubiquitous public symbol, avidly displayed as the flags of other countries are. 
 So why, just now, has public sentiment moved toward flag-waving? 
 Many factors could be involved. Germany has a new president, Angela Merkel, who has emerged as possibly the most effective leader among the big countries of Europe. The economy is on a modest upswing, and consumer confidence is higher than it has been in years. Pope Benedict XVI is a German, which has instilled a certain pride even in this most nonreligious of nations. 
 And then there is the simple passage of time, the change of the generations.
 ''To the old generation, the flag symbolized aggressive nationalism, or even some continuity with the Third Reich, even if the Third Reich didn't use that flag,'' said Paul Nolte, a professor of contemporary history at Berlin's Free University. ''Now perhaps there's been a chance to reattach the original democratic, liberal values to the flag that come from the 19th century when it was invented.''
 The new display of pride is almost strenuously nonnationalistic. There are even German cars that show the German flag on one side and some other flag -- the Brazilian one seems popular, perhaps because Brazil is a likely opponent if the German team makes it to the finals -- on the other side.
 Some commentators on the flag phenomenon deny that it has anything to do with patriotism, saying that flying it is not some expression of national feelings: it is simply fun. Or, as one commentator in Die Welt put it, it is just being in a good mood.
 Mr. Smith, with the American Academy in Berlin, said the Germans, who are a homogeneous people, are finding it enjoyable suddenly to be host to so many people from so many countries, many of them wearing national colors of their own.
 Mr. Nolte, responding to questions about whether the flag displays have something to do with global political aspirations, was quick to discount that idea. ''It doesn't mean that people are thinking in a positive way about Germany's role in the world, or its engagement in Afghanistan or elsewhere,'' he said. 
 ''A majority of Germans still probably feel uneasy about that,'' Mr. Nolte continued, referring to Germany's dispatch of troops to Afghanistan, ''although it is an important question, what the meaning of the flag is, and that to a certain degree is unanswered yet.
 ''When all the sporting events are over, what will it stand for: a democratic society, a certain role in the world?'' he asked. 
 ''There's the adoption of the symbol, but sometimes the symbol is adopted before it has content,'' Mr. Nolte said. ''But maybe we are on the right way, toward being a friendly, open, democratic and tolerant society.''


CORRECTION-DATE: June 19, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about the increased pride in the German flag demonstrated during the World Cup competition in Germany gave the wrong title for Angela Merkel. She is the country's chancellor, not the president. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: As foreigners arrived for the World Cup with their own flags and symbols, German flags also began to appear, and suddenly were everywhere. (Photo by Gero Breloer/European Pressphoto Agency)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS AWARDS (90%); SOCCER (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); WORLD WAR II (68%); WORLD WAR I (63%) Soccer; Flags, Emblems and Insignia; World Cup (Soccer)

PERSON: Richard Bernstein

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (91%) GERMANY (99%); UNITED STATES (79%) Germany

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2006



390 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 911 words

HEADLINE: 7 Years Into Self-Rule, Inuit Are Struggling 

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

DATELINE: IQALUIT, Nunavut 

 BODY:
The Inuit of the Canadian Arctic have forsaken their sod houses and dog sleds for satellite television and snowmobiles in less than two generations. Assembling a smoothly functioning government and a solid educational system has been another matter entirely. 
 The initiative to grant Nunavut, a land of frozen fjords, desolate tundra and roaming herds of caribou, self-rule seven years ago was heralded worldwide as an enlightened attempt to right past wrongs against a suffering aboriginal people.
But two recent federal government reports tell a disheartening story of frustrated hopes and local failures that do not bode well for Nunavut's exceptionally young population (38 percent of its people are under 14), one still plagued by widespread drug abuse, alcoholism, suicide and family abuse. 
 One report found that only 25 percent of Inuit students graduate from high school. The lack of basic skills means that the territorial government has filled only 45 percent of its 3,200 public positions with Inuit, once known as Eskimos, although Inuit are 85 percent of the population. Meanwhile, unemployment for the territory is at 30 percent, with some communities suffering 70 percent unemployment. 
 ''Nunavut faces a moment of change, a moment of crisis,'' wrote Thomas R. Berger, a former British Columbia Supreme Court judge, in his report to the federal minister of Indian affairs and northern development. Noting that 75 percent of Nunavut's 30,000 people speak Inuktitut as their first language while the principal language of the government remains English, Judge Berger added, ''the people of the new territory speak a language which is an impediment to obtaining employment in their own public service.''
 A second report, by Sheila Fraser, the auditor general of Canada, disclosed widespread public financial mismanagement that was responsible for errors, bad decisions, waste and fraud in the spending of nearly $1 billion in annual federal and other financing.
 She noted that the territorial government's efforts to decentralize operations to spread public jobs beyond the capital, Iqaluit, had spread accounting talent too thinly. She recommended ''recentralizing'' government accounting operations so senior staff members could more closely supervise less experienced public workers.
 ''Probably we need more time,'' said Levi Barnabas, a member of the Nunavut Legislative Assembly, acknowledging in an interview the central conclusions of the two reports. ''Education in southern Canada is 200 years old, and our education system is only 60 years old.'' 
 Few sociologists are surprised by the lack of significant improvement since the establishment of the territory despite the highest per capita federal aid budget for any jurisdiction in the country.
 The Inuit are a traditionally nomadic people who migrated about 1,000 years ago from western Alaska toward what is today Arctic Canada. Until very recently, they had no formal political organization. Nuclear families lived together and occasionally joined other families to compose small, fluid bands to share their hunt.
 Since World War II, the Inuit have been forced by the federal government to abandon their nomadic lives for remote settlements approachable only by airplane. The federal police killed their sled dogs, saying they were sickly. Young Inuit were required to leave their parents and sent to residential schools, where they were routinely abused physically and sexually.
 Modern life has its benefits, but the Inuit diet of hunted game has largely been replaced by sugary and fatty packaged foods. Welfare has become a way of life, and 30-year-old grandparents are not uncommon. Housing is scarce, so crowding only exacerbates social ills.
 The new Conservative government of Prime Minister Stephen Harper has earmarked nearly $200 million for new housing in the territory in its budget, but that fell short of what the previous Liberal government had promised.
 Judge Berger recommended in his report that a good way to start fixing Nunavut would be to restructure its bilingual educational system in which children are taught in Inuktitut through fourth or fifth grade and then introduced to English as the sole language of instruction.
 ''This reintroduces the colonial message of inferiority,'' he wrote. ''The Inuit student mentally withdraws.'' He recommended that both languages be used through elementary and secondary schools.
 Territorial and federal officials say they are studying the recommendation.
 Daniel Iqaluk, 22, whose main employment is washing dishes in the hamlet of Resolute, said he quit school after 11th grade because his classes were boring and confusing. He said his problems started early: while his parents spoke to him at home in English, his classes in early elementary school were in Inuktitut.
 ''I couldn't understand what they were talking about so all I did was watch and I never learned,'' he added while taking a break from cleaning an oil slick from a leaky snowmobile. 
 He said he did not think the establishment of self-government for the territory made a difference, ''but I don't know why.''
 Many others here say they do like self-rule, and think it will bear fruit with time.
 ''Job-wise we're not better off,'' said Mayor Susan Salluviniq of Resolute, who was unraveling a ball of yarn for a worker who knits on the floor of an office equipped with high-speed Internet, maps and a fax machine. ''But it's slowly coming along.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A poster in Resolute addresses the high suicide rate among the Inuit.
 Children play at a sign in Resolute that directs bear hunters from the United States who hire Inuit guides. (Photographs by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times) Map of Nunavut highlighting Iqaluit: Modernity has come to Iqaluit, but social problems abound.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); FAMILY (88%); BUDGETS (86%); MAMMALS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (77%); STUDENT SUBSTANCE ABUSE (74%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (74%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (69%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (69%); GRADUATION RATES (68%); SOCIOLOGY (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (65%); SUPREME COURTS (65%); JUDGES (65%) Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Frauds and Swindling; Inuit Indians; Indians, American

PERSON: Clifford Krauss

GEOGRAPHIC: NUNAVUT, CANADA (97%); ALASKA, USA (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (58%) CANADA (97%); ARCTIC (93%); UNITED STATES (92%) Canada; Nunavut (Canada); Canada

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2006



391 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Classified; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 184 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
ZUCKER, DR. WILLIAM

 BODY:
 ZUCKER--Dr. William. Died at his home in Philadelphia of renal failure on May 13, 2006. He was 88 years old. Dr. William Zucker was the Meshulam Riklis Professor Emeritus of Creative Management at the Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania, and the founder and director of the Wharton Real Estate Center. Previously, he was the President of the Southeastern Pennsylvania Economic Development Corp., 1964-1973; VP, Downtown Lower Manhattan Association, 1959-64; and, Secretary, Commerce and Industry Association of New York, 1944-59. Born in Bridgeport, CT, on July 21, 1917, he received his A.B from Johns Hopkins in 1938; his A.M. from Harvard in 1940, and his Ph.D. from Harvard in 1951. Dr. Zucker is survived by his wife, Kathlyn Saltman Zucker, and children: Peter Zucker; Alison Broadbent; Jeremy Zucker, David Zucker; and four grandchildren. A memorial service will be held at Cathedral Village, 600 E. Cathedral Rd., Philadelphia, PA 19128, on Saturday, June 24th, at 2 PM. In lieu of flowers, donations may be sent to Habitat for Humanity-Philadelphia, 1829 N. 19th Street, Phila., PA 19121. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); CHILDREN (90%); REAL ESTATE (88%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (78%); VOLUNTEER HOUSE BUILDING & REPAIR (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); GRANDCHILDREN (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: COMMERCE & INDUSTRY INSURANCE CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (58%); HABITAT FOR HUMANITY INTERNATIONAL (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (54%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2006



392 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; IDEAS & TRENDS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 642 words

HEADLINE: A Fence With More Beauty, Fewer Barbs

BYLINE: By WILLIAM L. HAMILTON

 BODY:
HAVING trouble with the neighbors? Put up a fence. If things go well, you hang out at the fence and talk. 
 That's not generally the thinking for fences between nations; such barriers can't easily mask their harsh purpose. Now a fence is proposed for the 2,000-mile border between the United States and Mexico in an effort to improve national security and stem illegal immigration. The Senate wants 370 miles of it; the House, 698. And President Bush has invited military contractors to devise a ''virtual'' fence that would seal the existing stopgap fencing with high-technology tools like motion sensors, drones and satellites.
But maybe some form of backyard diplomacy is in order -- Mexico is no enemy -- and there are obvious suspects for the job: professional designers, whose duty it is to come up with welcome solutions that defy ugly problems; to create appeal where there might be none. 
 As a classic design challenge, The New York Times asked 13 architects and urban planners to devise the ''fence.'' Several declined because they felt it was purely a political issue. ''It's a silly thing to design, a conundrum,'' said Ricardo Scofidio of Diller Scofidio & Renfro in New York. ''You might as well leave it to security and engineers.''
 Four of the five who submitted designs proposed making the boundary a point of innovative integration, not traditional division -- something that could be seen, from both sides, as a horizon of opportunity, not as a barrier.
 James Corner of Field Operations, a New York urban planning and landscape architecture firm, suggested that any monumental fortifications have a second purpose, like a solar energy-collecting strip that would produce what he described as a ''productive, sustainable enterprise zone'' that attracted industry from the north and created employment for the south -- in the same no-man's median that people now cross in search of work. Mr. Corner called his partnership of 20th-century territorial power and 21st-century green, global interconnectedness ''a kind of Bush meets Gore hybrid.''
 Calvin Tsao, director of the Architectural League of New York and a partner in Tsao & McKown, also proposed an enterprise zone that, in re-creating the border as a series of small, developing cities, would become a border of light that could be seen from space at night. Eric Owen Moss, an architect in Los Angeles, was more specific with his border as beacon of light. In his design, a strolling, landscaped arcade of lighted glass columns would invite a social exchange in the evening, much like the ''paseo,'' popular in Hispanic culture.
 ''Make something between cultures, which leads to a third,'' Mr. Moss said. ''Celebrate the amalgamation of the two.''
 Enrique Norten, an architect born in Mexico who has offices now in Mexico City and New York with his firm TEN Arquitectos, proposed using the fence budget to build infrastructures like highways instead.
 ''The future is about embracing the economy of Mexico,'' he said, of a long-term plan for the area, not a literal stopgap measure like a fence. Mr. Norten was speaking from Germany, where he was attending the World Cup. ''Look at Europe, where this is happening. Spain was a border country 10 years ago. Now it's part of a greater community.''
 Antoine Predock, based in Albuquerque, ''dematerialized'' the fence, he explained, with a physical wall designed as a mirage. An earthwork of rammed, tilted dirt would be pushed into place by Mexican day laborers. Crushed rock scattered before it, and heated from below, would appear to lift it off the ground, in the way that heat in the desert appears to make objects hover, like mirages.
 ''There would be confusion about the materiality of the wall,'' Mr. Predock explained. ''It would discourage you from crossing, but the message from both sides would be one of good will.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Glass Forest -- In Eric Owen Moss's design, imagined in the two renderings above, transparent columns rise to light the night sky. Below ground, the columns light tunnels lined with cultural exhibits and art suggestive of the Mexican muralist David Alfaro Siqueiros. A meeting of two cultures creates a third, Mr. Moss says. (Photo by Eric Owen Moss Architects)
The Mirage -- The intent of Antoine Predock's concept is more functional than the ethereal sketch suggests. Though it is seen through a shimmery desertscape created by a heating system, there is a hard-packed dirt wall rising from the ground. Mr. Predock, recipient of the American Institute of Architects' Gold Medal for 2006, sees the wall as being built by Mexican day laborers. (Photo by Karole Mazeika/Antoine Predock Architect)
The Expressway -- Enrique Norten looks over the ''fence'' and into the future, when barriers are gone or forgotten, and the unobstructed border becomes a series of vital arteries that allow lifeblood to pour into Mexico. (Photo by Zoe Small, Sol Camacho/TEN Arquitectos)
The Cities of Light -- Calvin Tsao's design suggests vibrant little border cities. Mr. Tsao, born in Hong Kong, said his model was the fast-growing city Shenzhen in mainland China, at the border with Hong Kong. He said his concept incorporated the idea that ''as development along the border matures, the need to cross the border diminishes.'' (Photo by Tsao & McKown Architects)
 The Energy Source -- The sunny border has ''a massive green energy-producing potential,'' says James Corner, who sees a ''sustainable enterprise zone'' with cargo terminals, automated assembly plants and the like. Mr. Corner, chairman of the University of Pennsylvania School of Design, is in charge of turning New York's Fresh Kills landfill into a park. (Photo by James Corner/Field Operations)Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (87%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (85%); REFUGEES (77%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (76%); MOTION DETECTORS (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE SERVICES (74%); LAND USE PLANNING (73%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (73%); JOB CREATION (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (70%); CITY LIFE (67%); CITIES (67%); SOLAR ENERGY (63%); CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY (62%) Immigration and Refugees; Fences; Architecture

COMPANY: DILLER SCOFIDIO & RENFRO (83%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (59%); AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF ARCHITECTS (59%) New York Times

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%) William L Hamilton; James Corner; Calvin Tsao; Enrique Norten; Antoine Predock

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (57%) MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); HONG KONG (92%); CHINA (79%) Mexico

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2006



393 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2099 words

HEADLINE: Taking Another Look at Auctions

BYLINE: By TERI KARUSH ROGERS

 BODY:
IT took three years for John F. Welch Jr., the former chairman of General Electric, to sell the house he bought in 1990 in Fairfield, Conn. Initially on the market for $13 million, the property twisted in the wind like the corporate kingpin's scandal-laced divorce proceedings, which were settled in 2003. The 10,700-square-foot Georgian-style estate finally sold this April for about half its original asking price. 
 Apparently determined not to get burned again -- at least not slow-roasted, rotisserie style -- Mr. Welch has decided to auction a second property that he also got as part of the divorce settlement: a three-year-old, 16-room waterfront mansion in Southport, Conn., which is expected to bring in at least as much as the Fairfield house. Sealed bids and certified or cashier's checks for 5 percent of the price offered are due on this 9,100-square-foot trophy house by 4 p.m. on Tuesday, according to Sheldon Good & Company Auctions, the national auction firm hired by Mr. Welch, who would not agree to an interview for this article. 
 His surprise maneuver could help raise the visibility of residential real estate auctions. But whether the business-savvy Mr. Welch is in the forefront of the latest trend in real estate depends upon where you live, what the terms of engagement are, whom you ask -- and how many slings and arrows sellers have taken (or expect to take) in a turning market.
 Like Mr. Welch, whose other Connecticut house lingered so long unsold, many sellers who are now dipping their toes into auctions have first thrashed about in the riptide of what is increasingly a buyers' market. They have suffered the emotional distress of an extended listing, and if they have already bought their next house, they are battered by double mortgages. 
 To them, an auction's speed (often 45 to 60 days from first showing to closing) and finality (no further negotiations may occur after the gavel comes down or a sealed bid is accepted) outweigh the negatives: marketing costs ranging from several thousand dollars for a four-bedroom tract house to $100,000 for a Welch-sized estate, usually paid by the seller whether or not the auction succeeds; negotiable commissions as high as 10 percent; and a selling price that typically lags 10 percent below the last listing. 
 Still, the concept is intriguing enough that at least one major Manhattan company, Prudential Douglas Elliman, is considering opening an auction division. ''It's an art, it's a skill, it's really a lot more complicated than anybody thinks,'' said Dottie Herman, the company's chief executive and one of the city's few real estate brokers who appear to favor the concept. ''And if it's done right, it's great.''
 Still, David R. Kaplan, a financial service adviser from Huntington, N.Y., on Long Island, is fully conversant with the muted joys of auctioning. He and his wife, Ilene, listed their four-bedroom Cape Cod a year ago with a big-name brokerage for $465,000. Expecting a third child, the couple bought a center-hall colonial about a mile away for $525,000.
 They spent six months shackled to one brokerage by an exclusive listing agreement. ''For some reason, this particular house had some type of stigma, and no one seemed to know what to do,'' Mr. Kaplan said. ''The market had begun to turn downward and inventory upward, and there were just other choices in the same price point, homes that suited people better. We lowered the price three times, to $339,000.'' 
 Through an acquaintance, Mr. Kaplan heard about Robert H. Baker, the owner of 1,2,3 Realty Auctions in Bellport, N.Y. Mr. Baker was having some success auctioning houses from Brooklyn to Eastern Long Island in the $300,000-to-$500,000 range and the $800,000-and-up range. (The $500,000-to-$800,000 category accounted for most of his company's 30 percent failure rate, which he attributed to a glut in inventory.) 
 The first auction on the Kaplan house was scheduled just after the New Year's holiday.
 ''It was a bad time -- nobody showed up,'' Mr. Kaplan said. ''It was a severe disappointment, obviously. Emotionally, we'd been a wreck for a year. Owning two houses was not supposed to happen. It dragged us down terribly financially.''
 At the second auction a few weeks later, four or five bidders materialized with the $10,000 bank checks required to participate. 
 The Kaplans walked away with just $375,000 -- ''nowhere near'' what they needed to pry themselves out of their financial tar pit, Mr. Kaplan said. 
 On the other hand, the house was sold. ''I think if the economy had been a little different -- if we had gone to auction immediately instead of taking the traditional Realtor route, I'm positive we would have gotten our price,'' Mr. Kaplan said.
 Indeed, as inventory continues to bloat (there are more Manhattan listings than at any time since Miller Samuel, the appraisal and consulting firm, began tracking them in 1999), wallflowers are left wondering whether it would have been better to have gone directly to auction.
 Auctioneers say yes and add that they are seeing more fresh listings as people assess growing competition in the traditional market. 
 ''We'd prefer there to be an environment where there hasn't been an asking price on the property,'' said Michael A. Fine, the executive vice president of Sheldon Good & Company Auctions, which is handling the bids on the Welch mansion. Otherwise, he explained, the buyer might not ''pay more than the last asking price on the property.''
 Mr. Fine and other high-end national auctioneers like the J. P. King Auction Company of Gadsden, Ala., say that trophy homes are particularly well suited to auctions, fresh or not. 
 They argue that comparables can be more difficult to obtain for highly individual homes and that even in good markets, their time on the market can range from months to years. They contend that their meticulous attention paid to glossy and detailed marketing materials can attract a wider range of asset-soaked buyers than traditional brokerage firms.
 The last argument convinced one pair of Sheldon Good clients, Lynn Krominga and Amnon Shiboleth of Manhattan, that their traditional brokerage firm, which had listed their Hamptons weekend home unsuccessfully at $18.5 million last fall, wasn't attracting the right sort of buyer.
 Built in 1904, the Arts and Crafts-style house, designed by Wilson Eyre, on seven waterfront acres in Quiogue, just isn't the sort of place to quicken the pulse of the usual big-ticket Hamptons buyer, Ms. Krominga said. 
 ''Most of the buyers here are looking for something big and new,'' she said. Ms. Krominga and her husband, both lawyers, decided to sell last fall because the hectic schedule of their 13-year-old daughter, Karen, kept them from using the house. It has a new 57-foot swimming pool, spa, tennis court and backup generator for the entire property. (The home can be purchased furnished, with the option of including a 1987 Bentley and a pair of Jet Skis.)
 Ms. Krominga said that the marketing fees she will be expected to pay were less than $120,000. But she expressed confidence that the auctioneers ''can deal with the uniqueness of the house and structure the sale in a way that we can reach those people quickly'' who would be interested in this sort of property. 
 The bid package, which costs prospective buyers $100 apiece, entitles them to attend the seven public viewings from June 3 to July 8, during which they can bring their inspectors, architects, decorators and advice-spewing relatives. Sealed bids and a deposit of $250,000 (refundable to losers) are due on July 13. 
 Manhattan and certainly its brokers aren't embracing auctions to the same extent as, say, Long Island or virtually the entire Midwest, where auctions have a long history in every category. 
 As for the auction of Mr. Welch's house in Southport, the owner's notoriety is everything, in one broker's view. ''To me, that's a ticket for immediate excitement,'' said Diane M. Ramirez, the president of Halstead Property in Manhattan. ''But for anything short of that, you're not going to get the kind of press this particular auction might get. I don't think it's going to make auctions a viable option in general.''
 Explanations diverge for Manhattan's longstanding resistance to auctions. One is that 75 percent of the city's housing stock under individual ownership is co-ops, and this negates the major asset of an auction: its certainty. When auctioning a co-op, auctioneers have some idea about the financial pedigree necessary for the winning bidder to win board approval, but approval is in no way guaranteed. The bidding populace is still weighted more toward investors, but co-op boards favor owners who will actually occupy their apartments and usually limit subleases. 
 That still leaves condos and town houses. But their owners may still not be willing to price the properties low enough to incite bidding. 
 ''When people call me and say, 'We want to sell it at auction because we're not getting our price,' I say, 'Your price is too high, no doubt,' '' said William Mannion, the president of the JP&R Advertising Agency, which specializes in auctioning off distressed properties in the New York area.
 And then there's a sort of rivalry between brokers and auctioneers, a ''kind of an us-versus-them mentality that we're trying to shake,'' said Jan Hope, the managing director for business specialties at the National Association of Realtors. The association has operated an auction division since 1990, a de facto endorsement of the real estate auction market, put at $14.2 billion a year in a 2005 survey by the National Auctioneers' Association. 
 Some New York area brokers say they conduct ''sealed bid'' auctions similar to those auctioneers hold. And they tend to dispute the idea that auctioneers use more structured bid documents that leave less to quibble about after a bid is accepted. Auctioneers, meanwhile, cite their broad marketing reach and their ability to stage a live ''open outcry'' auction when sealed bids are close.
 Brokers here also contend that a historic predisposition toward auctions for distressed properties has produced bottom-feeding bidders, and traditional sellers are still more likely to get the best price when they aim for the ceiling instead of the floor.
 ''For a really good auction dynamic, you start low to get people interested, and if the marketing is done well, you work up to the eventual sales price,'' said Stuart N. Siegel, the president and chief executive of Sotheby's International Realty. It is by design that this affiliate of the fine arts auction house has only auctioned six houses in its 30-year history, most of them historically or architecturally significant. 
 ''Unfortunately, in this country, auction does have a taste or a scent of distress,'' Mr. Siegel said, echoing a commonly held notion. 
 A decade ago, in a bottomed-out market, Dr. Gayle Grenadier, a former oral surgeon who is now the president of Gayle Grenadier Design, a Manhattan jewelry company, and her husband, Kenneth Richman, the chief executive of Threadtex in Manhattan, decided to auction their town house on East 62nd Street. It had been on the market for two months and had an offer of $2.9 million, but ''the buyers seemed sketchy,'' Dr. Grenadier recalled. She decided to hire Sheldon Good to auction the property after attending one of the firm's auctions in the Hamptons.
 ''Everybody tried to talk me out of it,'' Dr. Grenadier said. She went ahead and paid a $40,000 marketing fee, which brought ''a world of exposure,'' she said. There were 10 active buyers competing. in the auction, and the property sold for $3.5 million. She paid the auctioneer a 6 percent commission. 
 Now, another seller is betting on making a splash. 
 Thomas Leli, a hospital engineer, has had his four-bedroom, 2,200-square-foot Cape Cod in East Quogue, on eastern Long Island, listed for a year, cutting the price from $699,000 to $649,000. 
 ''They showed it millions of times,'' he said. ''I never even had an insulting offer.''
 Then a colleague told Mr. Leli how 1,2,3 Realty auctioned her house in Southampton for $450,000, which was $75,000 higher than her minimum. Mr. Leli and his wife, Deborah, are closing on a new home in Florida, and they will auction off their house in East Quogue on Wednesday. 
 ''Right now I think people think it's a novelty because it's so new around here,'' he said, referring to auctions rippling through what he views as an increasingly listless market. ''I think people who get in early will do well.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: CALLING IN THE BIDS -- John F. Welch Jr., the former chairman of General Electric, hired Sheldon Good & Company Auctions to seek sealed bids, due on Tuesday, for his 16-room waterfront mansion in Southport, Conn. (Photos by Tony Cenicola/The New York Times [gavel]
Steve and Gil Amiaga [above])(pg. 1)
TWO APPROACHES -- Robert H. Baker, above left, plans to auction Thomas and Deborah Leli's house, left, on Wednesday. Lynn Krominga and Amnon Shiboleth are seeking sealed bids for their 1904 Arts and Crafts-style house, below. (Photo by Erik Jacobs/The New York Times)
 (Photographs by Kirk Condyles for The New York Times)(pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOME PRICES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE AUCTIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); TRENDS (72%); FAMILY LAW (72%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%) Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Auctions; Cooperatives; Housing

COMPANY: SHELDON GOOD & CO (69%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%); DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (51%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (69%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (69%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: JACK WELCH (91%) Teri Karush Rogers; John F Jr Welch

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (65%) CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (88%) New York City; Southport (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2006



394 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: China's 'Justice' System

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
With President Bush on the ropes, the most important person in the world right now may well be President Hu Jintao, as he presides over 1.3 billion people and the rise of China.
 But while China is one of the great successes on the world scene, Mr. Hu increasingly looks like a loser.
He has disappointed many Chinese intellectuals and Communist Party officials with his Brezhnevian approach to political reform. Former President Jiang Zemin and former Prime Minister Zhu Rongji are among the party officials who are said by insiders to be unhappy with Mr. Hu's reign. 
 Mr. Hu has a brilliant mind and is pragmatic in economics and diplomacy, managing both well. But in politics he has been a throwback to the ideologues of the past (like his own patron, Song Ping), and he has attempted to tug China backward by clamping down on the news media, law, religion and the Internet. 
 China now imprisons some 32 journalists, more than any country in the world. A religious crackdown has led to underground Christians being arrested and sometimes tortured, particularly in rural areas. And China has tried harder than almost any country to neuter the Internet by filtering out obscene words like ''human rights.''
 And yes, it is personal. I spent Friday outside the Beijing No. 2 Intermediate People's Court, as a New York Times colleague, Zhao Yan, was enduring a farcical secret trial on Mr. Hu's orders. Mr. Zhao, a researcher in The Times's Beijing bureau, has already been imprisoned virtually incommunicado for the last 22 months, and he may now face a decade or more in prison.
 I was allowed into the courthouse by mistake -- I drove through the gate with two colleagues, and nobody stopped us when we walked in -- and it's a gorgeous building with more magnificent courtrooms than I've ever seen in the U.S. But the courthouse was mostly empty, and finally we found out why: people aren't allowed in the People's Court. A group of indignant plainclothes police officers swarmed in and herded us outside.
 The courthouse is a perfect symbol of Mr. Hu's vision of China today: a dazzling building with lavish facilities, but empty in every sense. It's all infrastructure, no software. It's as if Mr. Hu thinks that building a modern judicial system is about high ceilings and padded seats rather than about laws and justice.
 The trial was conducted in secret, and we didn't even get a glimpse of Mr. Zhao. The trial ended in one day without a single witness giving testimony for either side. The verdict will be handed down soon, and it's almost a foregone conclusion that Mr. Zhao will be sent to prison for a long sentence. 
 This case originally arose after Mr. Hu was irritated by a scoop by The Times's Beijing bureau chief, Joseph Kahn, and ordered that the leaker be punished. The State Security authorities couldn't find the real source, so they arrested Mr. Zhao instead because they didn't like his reporting about rural unrest. 
 I'm still a believer in China, partly because Mr. Hu and his aides have managed the economy so well. Mr. Hu has also done well in canceling the agriculture tax and taking other measures to try to address the destabilizing income gaps in China (there, 1 percent of the population now controls 60 percent of the wealth, whereas in the U.S., 5 percent controls 60 percent of the wealth). 
 Yet ultimately, Mr. Hu's efforts to create stability by clamping down just risk more instability. Most Chinese don't want upheavals, but they are fed up with corruption and lies, with being blocked from Google and Wikipedia, with having to waste time studying political drivel like Mr. Hu's ''Eight Honorables and Eight Shames'' campaign. Wags call it ''Hu shuo ba dao,'' a clever pun that translates as ''utter nonsense.'' 
 Indeed, Mr. Hu's crackdown has been singularly ineffective, annoying people more than scaring them. Many Communist Party officials worry that crackdowns just anger and alienate the public; that is why some have talked of allowing people to let off steam through greater freedom of the press and more elections. In one province, a poll found that 85 percent of officials themselves wanted to speed up political reform.
 But Mr. Hu seems paralyzed, altogether the weakest Chinese leader since Hua Guofeng in the 1970's. The result? Brace yourself for turbulence ahead in China. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (88%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); JOURNALISM (73%); TRENDS (72%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); TESTIMONY (70%); WITNESSES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (68%); CHURCH & STATE (68%); ARRESTS (67%); VERDICTS (65%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Politics and Government; News and News Media; Church-State Relations; Computers and the Internet

PERSON: HU JINTAO (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%) Nicholas D Kristof; Hu Jintao (Pres)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (88%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%) China; China

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2006



395 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1418 words

HEADLINE: In New Orleans, Money Is Ready But a Plan Isn't

BYLINE: By ADAM NOSSITER

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, June 17 

 BODY:
Billions of federal dollars are about to start flowing into this city after President Bush on Thursday signed the emergency relief bill the region has long awaited. But, with the anniversary of Hurricane Katrina approaching, local officials have yet to come up with a redevelopment plan showing what kind of city will emerge from the storm's ruins. 
 No neighborhoods have been ruled out for rebuilding, no matter how damaged or dangerous. No decisions have been made on what kind of housing, if any, will replace the mold-ridden empty hulks that stretch endlessly in many areas. No one really knows exactly how the $10.4 billion in federal housing aid will be spent, and guidance for residents in vulnerable areas has been minimal.
A month into his second term, Mayor C. Ray Nagin has said little about his vision for a profoundly different city. In an interview on Friday, he said it would be six months before a ''master planning document'' was issued to address questions like which areas should be rebuilt, although he suggested that thousands of residents were making that decision on their own. 
 Caution should be the watchword, Mr. Nagin said, months after the apparent demise of a planning committee he set up. ''New Orleans is a very historic city,'' he said. ''We can't come out and just do something quickly.'' 
 But a close collaborator of Mr. Nagin acknowledged that the process has lagged. ''Let's just admit something straight out: we're late,'' said David Voelker, a board member of the Louisiana Recovery Authority. 
 Mr. Voelker, who is in charge of the state authority's efforts to coordinate with neighborhood planning, sounded uncertain even about the nature of the master plan.
 ''I don't know what this master plan is going to say, because I'm not a master planner,'' Mr. Voelker said.
 The lack of a redevelopment plan and the state of the city's ruined neighborhoods have some worried that the city government has lapsed into the pattern of inactivity for which Mr. Nagin was criticized before last month's election. 
 ''The city desperately needs leadership on planning and housing issues,'' an editorial in The Times-Picayune said last week. ''Without strong guidance from City Hall, crucial decisions about the future of New Orleans will be made by default. Or they won't be made at all.''
 In occasional public appearances, the mayor has voiced characteristic optimism. ''Today is another great day in the city of New Orleans,'' he said Wednesday after the A.F.L.-C.I.O. announced a $700 million housing and economic development grant. He called the grant ''an incredible tipping point,'' but offered no specifics about which neighborhoods he was committed to rebuilding. 
 The mayor's flurry of appearances before the election has been sharply curtailed. Streets remain abandoned, sometimes for miles, and blocks are carpeted with trash. 
 ''We do need to have a clear vision from the mayor,'' said Oliver Thomas, the president of the New Orleans City Council. ''Tell us what you're for, or not for. We don't know exactly what neighborhoods he's committed to, kind of committed to, and not committed to.''
 Mr. Thomas added, ''We don't know specifically what the roles of the neighborhoods are going to be in the new New Orleans. Can people build anywhere? Can they live anywhere? Are they going to be funded? We don't know that.'' 
 In the absence of a redevelopment vision from the city, residents are pushing ahead on their own, a process likely to be accelerated late this summer when washed-out homeowners begin receiving checks from the federal housing money appropriated by Congress. Whether homeowners who are rebuilding in ruined areas will remain isolated pioneers or will receive city services is still unclear. 
 A few badly damaged neighborhoods have undertaken their own planning efforts. ''The initiatives for planning and rebuilding are coming from the neighborhoods themselves,'' said Pam Dashiell, a member of the Holy Cross Neighborhood Association, in the city's Ninth Ward. 
 The Broadmoor district, with a mix of incomes and races, has plans for converting abandoned dwellings to community use and wants to provide housing incentives for police officers and firefighters. 
 But few neighborhoods are as far along, and none of the efforts are being centrally coordinated. 
 During the recent election campaign, Mr. Nagin and most of his rivals carefully avoided pronouncements on the fate of specific neighborhoods, tiptoeing through a volatile issue that had many residents on edge. But now, critics say, the mayor does not have politics to use as an excuse. 
 ''The election is over, and it's time for governing,'' said State Representative Karen Carter, Democrat of New Orleans. ''He's the mayor, and he has to show that level of leadership and engagement.'' 
 Within a week of his re-election on May 20, Mr. Nagin announced that two ex-rivals from the campaign -- both lawyers, one a Republican and the other a Democrat -- would be aiding him in urgent planning for the city's future. In 100 days, there would be a plan, it was announced. 
 Since then nothing has been heard from either lawyer. One was traveling outside the country this week, and the other did not return calls. 
 In the interview on Friday, Mr. Nagin indicated that the entire city west of the Industrial Canal would be rebuilt, a more optimistic projection than some urban planners had given. 
 As for areas east of the canal, the mayor said that the prosperous New Orleans East area would probably come back and that the flattened homes of the Lower Ninth Ward would probably be replaced by what he called ''multilevel living facilities,'' presumably apartment buildings.
 Success, he said, is more likely to be defined by what residents do than what the editorial board of The Times-Picayune says. The city's current population of 220,000 is ahead of most projections, he said, and was made possible by his administration's willingness to provide building permits to almost all who asked, in any neighborhood. 
 ''I think that most citizens can make intelligent decisions,'' Mr. Nagin said. ''This city will be rebuilt. Most areas will come back. There are people who are rebuilding.''
 Mr. Nagin appears to be counting on a strategy that involves large-scale economic development projects, like one unveiled two weeks ago that called for demolishing a decrepit downtown shopping center and the city's frayed municipal complex and replacing them with a National Jazz Center set in a 20-acre park. Such development promises, largely unfulfilled, were a feature of Mr. Nagin's first term in office. 
 As for the planning body created after the hurricane, the Bring New Orleans Back Commission, little has been heard of it for months. The commission's tough plan, unveiled in January and now apparently dead, called for a four-month building moratorium in the hardest-hit neighborhoods while they proved their ''viability.'' Ultimately a new public agency would have been empowered to seize land in areas that failed the challenge, and the city's footprint was to shrink.
 Mr. Nagin, in the face of a public outcry, almost immediately rejected the plan.
 Ray Manning, a local architect who played a key role in early planning efforts after the storm and who was a co-chairman of the mayor's neighborhood planning committee, said this week that he had withdrawn from the process.
 ''I said I would not speak about this issue any longer,'' he said. 
 At a conference at Tulane University this month, Mr. Manning had harsh criticism for the lack of guidance from City Hall. 
 For his part, the mayor in a brief appearance before reporters this week said of the neighborhood planning process, ''That's just about completed.'' 
 Naming Mr. Thomas, the City Council president, as a collaborator, Mr. Nagin said, ''There's a structure we'll be announcing in the next day or so, and we'll move that forward.'' But Mr. Thomas responded: ''I don't know what the structure is. We've talked about some possibilities, but nothing definitively.''
 Now, 10 weeks before the one-year anniversary of Hurricane Katrina, some residents are losing patience. 
 ''We are entitled to hear something now,'' said LaToya Cantrell, head of the Broadmoor Improvement Association. ''We've been waiting. It's nine months out. We need to know what's going on. We need to know what the process is. The center of my community has yet to return, and this is nine months out. This is ridiculous. This is frustrating.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: It is unclear which areas of New Orleans will get city services. Adam Hutton, 11, on Friday added to piles of garbage in Central City. (Photo by Cheryl Gerber for The New York Times)(pg. 20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); WEATHER (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); BUDGETS (79%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (65%); GRANTS & GIFTS (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Katrina (Storm); Floods; Area Planning and Renewal; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Elections; Election Issues

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) Adam Nossiter; C Ray (Mayor) Nagin; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (97%) LOUISIANA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) New Orleans (La); United States

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2006



396 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1289 words

HEADLINE: In Berkeley, a Store's End Clouds a Street's Future

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

DATELINE: BERKELEY, Calif., June 13 

 BODY:
Depending on whom you ask, the reason Cody's Books is going out of business is either because of the City of Berkeley, the homeless, the University of California, the war in Iraq, Ronald Reagan, the Internet or the lack of short-term parking. 
 Or, of course, all of the above.
What is certain is that come next month, Cody's -- the famed independent bookseller where Allen Ginsberg once howled, Mario Savio once clerked and Salman Rushdie defied a fatwa -- will close its doors after a half century. The store's owner, Andy Ross, said his decision was painfully simple. 
 ''We've been losing money for a number of years,'' said Mr. Ross, who bought the store from Fred and Pat Cody in 1977. ''We just didn't have any other choice.'' 
 In recent years, independent bookstores nationwide have struggled in the wake of superstores like Barnes & Noble and Web outlets like Amazon.com, and Mr. Ross said that type of competition played a large part in the decline of Cody's. But this being Berkeley, home of the Free Speech Movement and countless doctoral candidates, almost everyone in town has a thesis (or a conspiracy thesis) about what really happened to Cody's and what it means for a city where bookstores are more common than banks. 
 In particular, Berkeley city officials are especially worried about Telegraph Avenue, which has long been the city's main commercial drag, a stretch of quirky shops and cheap restaurants and bars that has drawn generations of students, tourists and tie-dye aficionados. Nearly $100 million is spent every year along Telegraph, a figure that Mayor Tom Bates said ''most places in the United States would be delighted with.'' 
 Over the last decade, however, sales have slipped and several small businesses have closed, a development that has alarmed city officials also distressed over deteriorating conditions on Telegraph Avenue. That concern blossomed into full-blown panic with the news of Cody's closing. 
 ''There's fear and horror at the thought of Cody's not being there,'' said Kriss Worthington, a city councilman who called a ''Save Telegraph'' town hall meeting on June 8 to address concerns about safety and sales along the avenue. ''And unless the city reverses course, you can expect a deluge of other small stores leaving.''
 Indeed, just days after Cody's announced that it would close on July 10, the city hurriedly put together a supplementary budget package to pay for more police, a mental health worker and a general cleanup campaign for the strip. 
 ''I think it was a shock that an institution like Cody's was closing,'' Mr. Bates said. ''But as terrible and horrible as it is, I think it gives us the impetus to make these changes.''
 Part of Telegraph's appeal has always been its mix of freedom and unpredictable grit, and much of that spirit is still in evidence, with the homeless with worn eyes and dingy bedrolls regularly begging for change. In front of Cody's, some locals openly drink and smoke what is more than likely marijuana in the middle of the day. 
 But even in this famously liberal enclave, locals say that sort of behavior gets tired fast. 
 ''You've got the homeless, derelicts and drunks and other behavior that wouldn't be permitted anywhere else,'' said Gene Barone, a manager at Moe's Books, a store next door to Cody's that has also seen its sales dip. 
 Other merchants say there has also been a demographic shift as baby boomers and free-lovers abandon the 1960's and head into their actual 60's. 
 ''There's all kind of factors, including the extent to which the entire community has changed over the last 10 years,'' said Marc Weinstein, a co-owner of Amoeba Music, a store across the street from Cody's that has lost a third of its business in recent years. ''I mean, you can't buy a house for less than $1 million near the university. And if you're rich, you don't want to be on Telegraph.'' 
 Still, the rich and the poor are not the only ones getting blamed. Mr. Weinstein said the attitudes of the university and its students had also changed.
 ''We have a completely different kind of student body than used to go to Berkeley,'' he said. ''What used to be a much more kind of social and politically orientated and active group is now much more business-orientated. There really isn't a passion for art and music the way there used to be.'' 
 University officials agree that as college admissions -- and the waiting job market -- have gotten more competitive, so have the students. But they also say that nostalgia has its limits.
 ''Students have changed over the years, and some of the shops haven't kept up,'' said Irene Hegarty, the university's director of community relations. ''I mean, how many tattoo shops can one street have?''
 Mr. Ross admits that students' tastes may have changed. ''If people are not interested in reading Kant's 'Critique of Pure Reason,' I can't make them do it,'' he said, adding that two other smaller branches of Cody's Books -- one in Berkeley and another in San Francisco -- have adapted their catalogs to make them more reader-friendly. 
 The original Cody's, which was founded in 1956, was considered a business innovator for years, adding readings, talkbacks and kaffeeklatschen to the book-buying experience long before Barnes & Noble supersized the concept. In the 1960's, the Free Speech Movement leader Mario Savio worked behind the counter at Cody's, and tear gas was known to waft in occasionally when Vietnam War protesters clashed with police. With a mix of obscure and scholarly texts and superstar writers -- Mr. Rushdie dropped in unannounced in the mid-1990's, as did Mr. Ginsberg -- Cody's was a must-see stop on college tours and in guide books. 
 That symbiotic relationship between the university and the street, however, is showing signs of strain. At the town hall meeting called by Mr. Worthington, there seemed to be palpable anger at the university for diverting business away from local merchants to large companies like OfficeMax, which recently secured a contract to supply the school with paper. Students were also not especially popular at the meeting, particularly after Mr. Worthington invited all of the school's student senators to speak and only one -- 19-year-old Van Nguyen -- showed up. (In their defense, school's out for summer.) 
 Mr. Nguyen said students did care. ''I think that there's something to be done to revitalize the economic vitality of Telegraph,'' he said. ''And students should play a big part in the process.''
 The city does not seem to want to wait, however, and it is pushing forward with its plan to add money to the budget and crack down on drug-dealing in People's Park, the university-owned civic green near Telegraph where the homeless and diploma-bound share space.
 Mr. Bates said he was also looking to add parking, which has been a constant complaint in the city. ''The irony is that before Cody's went under, we were addressing all these problems,'' he said. ''It's too valuable a street not to thrive.'' 
 But as much as things may have changed along Berkeley's main street, the song often remains the same, including its denizens' penchant for finding larger plots (and often larger conservative plots) in local affairs. 
 Take Steven David Lewis (a k a Screwy Lewie), a longtime Berkeley resident and guitar player who busks in front of Cody's. A Vietnam veteran, Mr. Lewis lays the blame for the store's closing on Ronald Reagan (for adding to the homeless problem) and the current President Bush. 
 ''The war in Iraq is sapping all the little economies across the country, and Cody's was hit by that, too,'' Mr. Lewis said. ''It's sad. This corner was part of the Free Speech Movement. I just hope they don't take that away, too.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Left, musicians often play for passers-by outside Cody's. Right, an employee of Fat Slice, a pizza parlor on Telegraph Avenue, takes a break.
Cody's owner, Andy Ross, said he had been losing money for years.
 Customers browsing Cody's Books, a store on Telegraph Avenue in Berkeley, Calif., known for visitors like Salman Rushdie and Allen Ginsberg. (Photographs by Jim Wilson/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOKSTORES (92%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (90%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); MAYORS (77%); RESTAURANTS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); BUDGETS (69%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (51%) Books and Literature; Shutdowns (Institutional); Book Trade

COMPANY: AMAZON.COM INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (84%) cody's (Berkely, Calif, Bookstore)

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (55%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (55%)

PERSON: Jesse Mckinley

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (91%) Berkeley (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2006



397 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 6-18-06: RECONSIDERATION; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1217 words

HEADLINE: The Submerging Republican Majority 

BYLINE: By James Traub. 
James Traub, a contributing writer, last wrote for the magazine about the French politician Segolene Royal.

 BODY:
During the 2000 presidential campaign, Karl Rove, the political mastermind George W. Bush called Boy Genius, was wont to draw an analogy with the election of 1896, in which the Republican William McKinley drubbed William Jennings Bryan. McKinley's election ushered in a 35-year era chiefly characterized by G.O.P. dominance; so, too, Rove argued, would Bush's hasten the progress toward an era of virtual one-party rule. And Rove's bold prediction seemed plausible. Over time, the Republicans have increased their margin in Congress and reversed years of Democratic dominance in statehouses and State Legislatures. The conservative columnist Fred Barnes declared in 2003 that Republicans had attained a state of dominance last seen in the 1920's, the end of the period McKinley ushered in. Realignment, he wrote, ''has reached its entrenchment phase.'' 
Or has it? President Bush is now more unpopular than Bill Clinton was at any time in his tenure, while public approval of the G.O.P.-dominated Congress has plummeted to 23 percent, a level last seen in October 1994, the month before the Democrats suffered one of the most humiliating wipeouts in the history of Congressional elections. Many political analysts now say that the Democrats have a real shot at retaking the House of Representatives and an outside chance of winning the Senate too. A great deal can happen between now and November, not to mention between now and 2008, but the Boy Genius certainly looks a lot less brilliant than he did a few years back.
 It is not hard to see why Rove fastened on McKinley as Bush's precursor. McKinley was an amiable governor around whom Mark Hanna, the Karl Rove of the day, could raise enormous sums of money from industrial and financial circles. But Rove also insisted on a more far-reaching parallel: with the Civil War a fading memory, the Republicans of 1896 could no longer run as the party of the Union and needed to forge a new politics. McKinley, ''the advance agent of prosperity,'' as he was known, offered himself as a tribune not only of the new business class but also of an emerging industrial society, as against Bryan's appeal to agrarian values and to the dispossessed. McKinley made Republicans the party of the future. And he brought new voting blocs to the Grand Old Party. Rove noted in a 2002 speech that McKinley ''attempted deliberately to break with the Gilded Age politics'' he had inherited by appealing to ''Portuguese fishermen and Slovak coal miners and Serbian ironworkers,'' all of whom he made a very public point of receiving at his Ohio home in the course of his ''front-porch campaign.''
 Rove postulated that Bush, like McKinley, had arrived at a moment when the old politics no longer applied and the new had yet to be formed. By offering himself as a pro-immigrant, pro-growth, ''compassionate'' conservative, he would attract the new voters of the day, including Hispanic immigrants, as well as workers in the postindustrial economy, while at the same time mobilizing the party's conservative Christian base. He would be the candidate of growth and the future while casting his rival, Al Gore, as the embodiment of an exhausted big-government credo. And this strategy worked: in 2000, Bush made gains among Hispanics and carried 97 of the country's 100 fastest-growing counties. Of course, Gore won the popular vote and, by some accounts, the election. And yet since that time, the Democrats have come to look like the party of the underprivileged and the highly educated and scarcely anyone else.
 So why doesn't 2006 recall the G.O.P.'s glory years? First of all, McKinley was facing a particularly hapless generation of Democrats. A long period of deadlock had come to an end in the off-year election of 1894, when the failure of the incumbent Democrats to stem a financial panic led to a colossal electoral rout. In a shambles, the party took a decisive turn to the left in 1896 by choosing the populist Bryan, who ran again in 1900 and 1908. Today's Democrats are much closer to the mainstream, and the realignment has been correspondingly shallower. Over the last decade, as the political analyst Michael Barone observes, the national vote for president and for Congress has divided almost down the middle. Second, while McKinley had the good fortune to arrive at the dawn of a new era, Bush came along three decades after Republicans broke into the Democrats' solid South to establish a new majority. The historic tide may have already been ebbing.
 And finally, George W. Bush is no William McKinley. The figure we meet in the biography by Lewis Gould, McKinley's great champion and Rove's teacher at the University of Texas, is a canny political veteran, more pragmatist than dogmatist. McKinley governed from the center the Democrats began to vacate in the Bryan era. The president not only made a show of mingling with workers but also appointed labor leaders to his cabinet and publicly supported the call for an eight-hour day for government employees. And for all his reputation as an imperialist who provoked a war with Spain, McKinley appears to have held out as long as he could against the rabid jingoism of the public and Congress, especially after the sinking of the Maine in Havana's harbor in February 1898. ''What is remarkable,'' Gould concludes after reviewing the evidence, ''is how long the president was able to obtain time for the conducting of peaceful diplomacy.''
 George W. Bush is, by contrast, a radical figure, a profoundly self-confident leader willing to stake all on his unshakable inner convictions -- which is to say that this president made himself a hostage to fortune in a way that the coldly calculating McKinley never would have done. Thanks in no small part to the supreme self-assurance, the disdain for more cautious points of view, of the president and his inner circle, the administration has run aground on Iraq. 
 The war in Iraq is the biggest, but not the only, reason for the growing crisis. It is instructive that only one-third of mainline Protestants now say they approve of President Bush's performance (as opposed to one-half two years ago), according to a recent poll by the Pew Research Center for the People and the Press. A Congress that spends days arguing over the body of Terry Schiavo or the merits of a constitutional amendment to prohibit same-sex marriage does not feel like the embodiment of the future to more moderate or more secular Republicans. Rove and Bush have driven an already conservative party to the right. ''The McKinley party was still plausibly the party of Lincoln,'' as the historian Sean Wilentz observes. ''But Bush and Rove are the culmination of 30 years of realignment in which the Republicans became the party of the South the way the Democrats were in McKinley's day.''
 John McCain could reinvigorate the party should he succeed Bush, just as the equally magnetic Teddy Roosevelt did when he took office following McKinley's assassination in 1901. But even if that happens, McCain's party is likely to be very different from George W. Bush's. Walter Dean Burnham, the political scientist, defined political realignments as America's ''surrogate for revolution.'' It may be that Karl Rove's revolution was one Americans did not want and have now begun to reject.


GRAPHIC: Drawing: Mark Hanna, the Karl Rove of his day, with McKinley firmly in hand. (Drawing from the Granger Collection

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (93%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (72%); WRITERS (69%); COAL MINING (50%) United States Politics and Government; Elections; Presidential Election of 2000; Presidential Election of 1896; United States Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives (US); Senate (US) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); KARL ROVE (90%); BILL CLINTON (79%) James Traub; William (1843-1901) Mckinley; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: MOUNT MCKINLEY (58%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2006



398 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; DataBank; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 198 words

HEADLINE: Markets Seesaw on Dueling Words on Inflation 

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
The stock market surged on Thursday after Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, said that rising energy prices had not had a major effect on inflation. But on Friday, after another Fed official said that inflation was a real concern, the market dropped again. 
 As a result, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index had a losing week, although the Dow Jones industrial average managed a gain of more than 1 percent.
Markets around the world have plunged in recent weeks on concerns about inflation, so Mr. Bernanke's calming words on Thursday acted as a tonic, propelling stocks upward. But on Friday, William Poole, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, warned that inflation had moved above his ''comfort zone'' -- a comment that clearly discomfited many investors. 
 For the week, the Dow Jones industrial average gained 122.63 points, or 1.1 percent, to close at 11,014.55. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 0.76 point, or 0.01 percent, to close at 1,251.54. The Nasdaq composite index fell 5.11 points, or 0.2 percent, to close at 2,129.95. 
 The yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose to 5.13 percent from 4.97 percent the previous week. JEFF SOMMER


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''STOCKS IN THE NEWS''Note: Graphs are scaled so that percentage changes are comparable.Casey'sGeneral StoresNNM: CASYThe convenience store chain reported a 42 percent jump in its fourth-quarter net income, beating Wall Street earnings estimates. The company also raised its dividend payout.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $24.88WEEK'S CHANGE: +16.64%EST. '06 P/E: 18.19Bear StearnsNYSE: BSCThe investment bank said its profit soared 81 percent in its second quarter on strong sales and trading in its fixed-income business. The results surpassed its record first quarter in profit, earnings per share and revenue.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $131.44WEEK'S CHANGE: -3.60%EST. '06 P/E: 10.41World Wrestling EntertainmentNYSE: WWEThe media and entertainment company said its fourth-quarter profit tumbled 35 percent, as revenue from television advertising fell along with sales of live and televised entertainment.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $16.77WEEK'S CHANGE: -4.50%EST. '06 P/E: 24.20Texas Regional BancsharesNNM: TRBSBanco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria, a large Spanish bank, said it had agreed to pay about $2.16 billion for Texas Regional Bancshares, the operator of Texas State Bank in McAllen.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $37.96WEEK'S CHANGE: +10.99%EST. '06 P/E: 21.85Monster WorldwideNNM: MNSTThe parent of the job search site Monster.com said that it was subpoenaed by the United States attorney for the Southern District of New York over the timing of stock option grants to executives.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $41.17WEEK'S CHANGE: -1.98%EST. '06 P/E: 32.01Pier 1 ImportsNYSE: PIRThe home furnishings retailer said that its first-quarter loss nearly doubled on weak customer traffic and that it will close more stores than previously announced. Sales in the period slipped 3.6 percent.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $8.00WEEK'S CHANGE: -8.99%EST. '06 P/E: --BoeingNYSE: BAThe aerospace company said Singapore Airlines had agreed to buy 20 Boeing 787-9 aircraft for $4.52 billion, hours after the airline expressed unhappiness about delays in the delivery of the A380 jet from Airbus.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $85.54WEEK'S CHANGE: +6.26%EST. '06 P/E: 24.18Tuesday MorningNNM: TUESThe home accessory retailer gave a weak forecast for the second quarter. The company said it was predicting earnings of 7 to 10 cents a share in the period. Wall Street had been expecting profit of 21 cents a share.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $13.91WEEK'S CHANGE: -15.18%EST. '06 P/E: 11.88(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); BONDS (77%) Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ST LOUIS (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (70%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (70%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MCALLEN, TX, USA (59%) TEXAS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); SINGAPORE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2006



399 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 18, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 2; Society Desk; WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 226 words

HEADLINE: Alexandra Doan, David Drucker

 BODY:
Alexandra Anne Alden Doan, the daughter of Anna Junia Doan of Midland, Mich., and the late Herbert Dow Doan, was married last evening to David Jason Drucker, a son of Dr. and Mrs. Charles R. Drucker of Potomac, Md. Rabbi Renee Feller officiated at the home of the bride's mother. 
 Mrs. Drucker, 27, received a master's degree in modern art and arts management from Christie's Education, a division of Christie's, the auction house in New York. She graduated from Tulane.
Her mother is the host and executive producer of ''Uncommon Sense,'' a weekly interview program on WDCQ-TV, a PBS station in University Center, Mich. The bride's father retired as the president and chief executive of the Dow Chemical Company in Midland and was from 1976 to 1982 a member of the National Science Board, which oversees the National Science Foundation. He was also the chairman of the Herbert H. and Grace A. Dow Foundation. The bride's great-grandfather Herbert Henry Dow founded the Dow Chemical Company in 1897.
 Mr. Drucker, also 27, is a management consultant at Cambridge Pharma Consultancy, the strategic consulting unit of IMS Health in New York. He graduated from Tufts and received a master's degree from the London School of Economics. 
 His mother is a guidance counselor at North Bethesda Middle School in Maryland. His father is a dentist in Chevy Chase, Md.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); ART DEALERS (90%); CHEMICALS (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (72%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (71%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: DOW CHEMICAL CO (91%); IMS HEALTH INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SCIENCE BOARD (56%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (56%)

TICKER: DOW (SWX) (91%); DOW (NYSE) (91%); DOW (LSE) (91%); 4850 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (90%); MARYLAND, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2006



400 of 618 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 19, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: Class War Politics

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
In case you haven't noticed, modern American politics is marked by vicious partisanship, with the great bulk of the viciousness coming from the right. It's clear that the Republican plan for the 2006 election is, once again, to question Democrats' patriotism.
 But do Republican leaders truly believe that they are serious about fighting terrorism, while Democrats aren't? When the speaker of the House declares that ''we in this Congress must show the same steely resolve as those men and women on United Flight 93,'' is that really the way he sees himself? (Dennis Hastert, Man of Steel!) Of course not. 
So what's our bitter partisan divide really about? In two words: class warfare. That's the lesson of an important new book, ''Polarized America: The Dance of Ideology and Unequal Riches,'' by Nolan McCarty of Princeton University, Keith Poole of the University of California, San Diego, and Howard Rosenthal of New York University.
 ''Polarized America'' is a technical book written for political scientists. But it's essential reading for anyone who wants to understand what's happening to America. 
 What the book shows, using a sophisticated analysis of Congressional votes and other data, is that for the past century, political polarization and economic inequality have moved hand in hand. Politics during the Gilded Age, an era of huge income gaps, was a nasty business -- as nasty as it is today. The era of bipartisanship, which lasted for roughly a generation after World War II, corresponded to the high tide of America's middle class. That high tide began receding in the late 1970's, as middle-class incomes grew slowly at best while incomes at the top soared; and as income gaps widened, a deep partisan divide re-emerged. 
 Both the decline of partisanship after World War II and its return in recent decades mainly reflected the changing position of the Republican Party on economic issues.
 Before the 1940's, the Republican Party relied financially on the support of a wealthy elite, and most Republican politicians firmly defended that elite's privileges. But the rich became a lot poorer during and after World War II, while the middle class prospered. And many Republicans accommodated themselves to the new situation, accepting the legitimacy and desirability of institutions that helped limit economic inequality, such as a strongly progressive tax system. (The top rate during the Eisenhower years was 91 percent.) 
 When the elite once again pulled away from the middle class, however, Republicans turned their back on the legacy of Dwight Eisenhower and returned to a focus on the interests of the wealthy. Tax cuts at the top -- including repeal of the estate tax -- became the party's highest priority.
 But if the real source of today's bitter partisanship is a Republican move to the right on economic issues, why have the last three elections been dominated by talk of terrorism, with a bit of religion on the side? Because a party whose economic policies favor a narrow elite needs to focus the public's attention elsewhere. And there's no better way to do that than accusing the other party of being unpatriotic and godless.
 Thus in 2004, President Bush basically ran as America's defender against gay married terrorists. He waited until after the election to reveal that what he really wanted to do was privatize Social Security.
 Pre-New Deal G.O.P. operatives followed the same strategy. Republican politicians won elections by ''waving the bloody shirt'' -- invoking the memory of the Civil War -- long after the G.O.P. had ceased to be the party of Lincoln and become the party of robber barons instead. Al Smith, the 1928 Democratic presidential candidate, was defeated in part by a smear campaign -- burning crosses and all -- that exploited the heartland's prejudice against Catholics.
 So what should we do about all this? I won't offer the Democrats advice right now, except to say that tough talk on national security and affirmations of personal faith won't help: the other side will smear you anyway.
 But I would like to offer some advice to my fellow pundits: face reality. There are some commentators who long for the bipartisan days of yore, and flock eagerly to any politician who looks ''centrist.'' But there isn't any center in modern American politics. And the center won't return until we have a new New Deal, and rebuild our middle class. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); WORLD WAR II (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (88%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (86%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); ESTATE TAX (67%); TAX RELIEF (63%); TERRORISM (56%) United States Economy; Election Issues; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (52%) Paul Krugman

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2006

 
