

1 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1191 words

HEADLINE: Amid Ghosts of the Red Guard, The Avant-Garde Now Blooms

BYLINE: By CRAIG SIMONS

DATELINE: BEIJING, Aug. 31 

 BODY:
In his gray fleece jacket and pressed khaki pants, Xu Yong looks more like a department store manager than a maverick who is one of the most successful promoters of avant-garde art in China and a protector of its historic architecture. Standing in 798 Space, his contemporary art gallery in northeastern Beijing, next to a row of faded photographs of a woman firing a handgun, Mr. Xu carefully thanks the city government for supporting the Dashanzi International Art Festival, a collaboration among 74 galleries and private art studios in a refurbished 1950's-era weapons factory. 
 It is perhaps his mild demeanor, coupled with his fondness for making art and old architecture profitable cultural enterprises, that has helped push the Communist leadership here toward aiding the arts and protecting the past. Two years ago Factory 798 was largely abandoned and physically crumbling, a forlorn complex of warehouses and workshops built by East German architects using World War II reparations money. It was given a number rather than a name, in the old-fashioned Communist manner. 
 Like many of China's state-owned enterprises, it was seemingly doomed, with only a few of its structures still in use. And, as with most of the oldest buildings here, there were demolition plans; in this case the mammoth work areas would be knocked down to make room for a business-development park. 
 Then artists began to move in, attracted by cheap rents and stunning spaces. By the time a friend took Mr. Xu to see the factory, a handful of musicians and painters had renovated studios. He was immediately attracted to the architecture. ''It was obvious that the place had great cultural and historic value,'' he said.
 That realization prompted him to lease a workshop of about 13,000 square feet, clean away a decade of disrepair and open his gallery, 798 Space, the complex's largest. In April 2003 the gallery attracted about 5,000 visitors and international news media attention with a show of avant-garde art appropriately titled ''798 Reconstruction.'' This was followed by an influx to the area of artists, as well as the opening of galleries from Germany, Britain, the United States, Singapore and Japan.
 For Mr. Xu, 50, part of the factory's value is intrinsic. The compound was active in the 1960's and 70's and many Maoist slogans (like ''Chairman Mao is the red sun in our hearts'') painted on the walls during the Cultural Revolution remain visible. Such propaganda, once ubiquitous, is now rare, and the building is a powerful reminder. ''The Cultural Revolution was terrible, so most people would rather simply forget it,'' Mr. Xu said in an interview, ''but we need to take stock of the past.'' 
 In October 798 Space sponsored a show of works by 48 Chinese and German artists that included haunting references to the Mao years: the video artist Wang Wei filmed children eerily repeating Maoist slogans; the installation artist Gu Dexin presented two containers of frozen animal brains and hearts; a mammoth Mao Zedong arm (obvious to anyone who has seen the statues of Mao that still stand all over China) rose out of a doorway. 
 Other artists showed more incendiary works. The photographer and installation artist Chen Guang exhibited an erotic video on a large screen on the factory grounds. ''He showed the work at 2 in the afternoon,'' recalled Robert Bernell, the owner of an art publishing house and bookstore in the factory. ''It created a big stir.''
 Such exhibits (one artist ripped up a Communist Party flag during a performance piece) have upset some Chinese leaders and, Mr. Xu said, there has been debate about whether to allow such a free art space in the capital. Another issue has been property rights. The city granted Seven Stars, the company that owns the land, the right to create an industrial park, but the artists, including Mr. Xu, want the buildings protected as an arts center similar to the Tate Modern in London, which is in a renovated power station. 
 The artists were supported by officials who said that a flourishing art scene would help Beijing become a vibrant city. Long Xingmin, the assistant party secretary of development and planning ministry for Beijing, visited the galleries in April, and the vice mayor of Beijing has weighed in to support the artists. Visiting dignitaries, including the president of Switzerland, have also stopped by the complex to offer support. 
 For now, the scales seem tipped in favor of the art. When the developer moved to shut down the Dashanzi International Art Festival in late April, citing violations of parking and fire regulations, the government rejected the complaints and sent word that the show should proceed. ''Even a year ago that would not have happened,'' Mr. Xu said, adding that he was told by ''a reliable source'' that the government planned to protect the area so it could establish an art district similar to SoHo in New York in time for the 2008 Olympics. 
 Such a center might become a major tourist draw. In the last decade Chinese contemporary art has found an overseas market, with recent shows of Chinese avant-garde art at the Pompidou Center in Paris and the Venice Biennale as well as a show titled ''Between Past and Present: New Photography and Video From China,'' which opened at International Center of Photography in New York on June 11 and will run through Sept. 5. ''The 798 Factory could become the top location for cutting-edge avant-garde art, not only in Beijing and China, but in all of Asia,'' Mr. Xu said. 
 He has been equally successful at protecting China's ancient architecture after an early interest in photography. He said that after the Cultural Revolution ended in 1976 and the artistic climate began to loosen, he became interested in photographing hutongs, the twisting residential alleyways clustered around the Forbidden City in Beijing and once home to the emperor's relatives and courtiers. 
 ''Too much valuable architecture has been destroyed,'' he said. ''Largely the destruction grew from a common perception that the hutongs were reminders of China's economic stagnation as the rest of the world surged ahead. When foreigners wandered into the lanes, locals were embarrassed. They thought the buildings were backward.''
 In 1990 he published ''Beijing's Hutong: 101 Images,'' a collection of black-and-white photographs. Two years later he opened Hutong Tours, a travel agency that in 2002 took 140,000 tourists through the lanes. Foreigners willing to pay $12 for guided glimpses of the alleys proved to city officials that history has more than just sentimental value. ''In China, if you're going to protect historic architecture, you have to show that it has practical use,'' he said.
 The Beijing architect Du Dong said, ''Had it not been for the attention of tourists, the destruction of the hutongs would have been more thorough.'' The government has now set aside several hundred lanes for preservation.
 Mr. Xu said that he hoped to help China find value where most Chinese see only decay, and to prove that culture is not, as Mao believed, merely an instrument of the state but a vital part of the nation's life.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Xu Young at 798 Space in northeastern Beijing. ''It was obvious that the place had great cultural and historic value,'' he said.
 Mr. Xu hopes to protect Chinese architecture, like this traditional rooftop. (Photographs by Natalie Behring-Chisholm) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); HISTORY (77%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (77%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (77%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (77%); SPONSORSHIP (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); FESTIVALS (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (73%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (69%); INTERVIEWS (63%); CITIES (56%); WORLD WAR II (53%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (50%) Art; Dashanzi International Arts Festival

PERSON: Xu Yong; Craig Simons

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%) CHINA (94%); GERMANY (91%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) China; Beijing (China)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2004



2 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1128 words

HEADLINE: Casting Europe as a Virtuous Upstart

BYLINE: By RICHARD BERNSTEIN

 BODY:

THE EUROPEAN DREAM
How Europe's Vision of the Future Is Quietly Eclipsing the American Dream
By Jeremy Rifkin
435 pages. Jeremy P. Tarcher/Penguin $25.95
 It would be foolish, especially after the recent report of an increase in poverty in the United States, for even the most committed proponent of the American way not to admire much in Europe these days: its reduction of grinding poverty almost to a vestige, its low levels of violent crime, the quality of its culture. And then there is the European Union, now 25 countries strong and, in fits and starts, becoming a peaceful global superpower, a breathtaking development given the blood-soaked history of Europe.
 Jeremy Rifkin, the president of the Foundation on Economic Trends in Washington, rightfully calls these achievements to attention in ''The European Dream,'' a book in which he unabashedly proclaims the superiority of the European model over the American one as a guide for the future. But Mr. Rifkin's book, ponderous in style and pretentiously theoretical, is unpersuasive, flawed as it is by two mirror-image exaggerations: one of the European virtue, the other the American fault.
 Here is the overall idea: ''While the American Spirit is tiring and languishing in the past, a new European Dream is being born,'' he writes. That dream ''emphasizes community relationships over individual autonomy, cultural diversity over assimilation, quality of life over the accumulation of wealth, sustainable development over unlimited material growth, deep play over unrelenting toil, universal human rights and the rights of nature over property rights, and global cooperation over the unilateral exercise of power.'' 
 That would seem to be quite a place, Mr. Rifkin's Europe, and some aspects are real enough, at least in some of the many variable countries that make up what Mr. Rifkin calls Europe. But this imputation of a unified and homogeneous Europe is an initial conceptual problem. The European Union includes Poland and Portugal, Britain and Greece, which are as different from each other as each is from the United States. Those differences call into sharp question many of Mr. Rifkin's assertions, like this one: ''The U.S. foreign policy is light-years away from the foreign policy orientation of the 25 member states that make up the European Union.'' 
 Surely, there are some ways in which the international orientation of a collection of small and medium-sized countries will be substantially different from that of a superpower. But that phrase ''light-years away'' is a typical Rifkinian overstatement, even when applied to countries like France and Germany, which vigorously opposed the United States on Iraq. These same countries, after all, cooperated with Washington during the last decade or so in Kuwait, Bosnia, Kosovo and Afghanistan, including regarding the use of force in every instance. Beyond that, a solid majority of the 25 members of the European Union supported the United States on Iraq and contributed troops, wisely or not, to the coalition. 
 Some of what Mr. Rifkin describes as important European-American differences have been shrinking even in recent weeks. Powerful German labor unions have agreed to work longer hours without additional pay, a recognition that Germany, Europe's economic engine, may be in for more ''unrelenting toil'' and less ''deep play'' (what Mr. Rifkin means by that profound-sounding concept remains vague) if it is to restore its damaged competitiveness. German unemployment has been more than 10 percent for several years, even as unemployment benefits have been shrinking; that country's budget deficits have exceeded the levels allowed by the European Union for three consecutive years; and its leftist government has been cutting back on social welfare. 
 Meanwhile, Germany, like the rest of Europe, has an aging population and a low birth rate, which, unless something is done, mean, as Mr. Rifkin puts it, that ''the European project will die.'' And, as Mr. Rifkin notes, the remedy for the looming demographic crisis, namely large-scale immigration from non-European countries, is powerfully opposed by majorities in Europe and by important minorities whose members have grouped themselves into numerous right-wing political formations with racist and nationalist appeal.
 Mr. Rifkin by no means conceals these facts. He writes accurately about anti-immigrant sentiment in Europe even as he describes recent gestures, like the French banning of Muslim head scarves in school, a product, Mr. Rifkin says, of ''the French assimilationist ideal.'' What is strange is that in one breath Mr. Rifkin can identify an assimilationist ideal in France even while characterizing the United States as assimilationist and Europe as culturally diverse. Europeans, he writes, ''seek to establish a politics based on inclusivity -- that is, honoring everyone's individual dream equally.'' A nice sentiment, but there is nothing indicating that Europe is doing better in this area of life than the United States and a good deal to suggest that it is doing worse.
 Mr. Rifkin's reply is, essentially, that, yes, there is always a difference between dream and reality; what is important is the evolution of attitudes, values and the conscious formation of ideals to live by, and European values, attitudes and ideals are more suited for the interdependent world of the future than the American ones. Here Mr. Rifkin devotes several chapters to describing the formation of those attitudes and values on the two sides of the Atlantic. He demonstrates a great deal of reading and thought on these subjects, invoking an astonishing array of people and things, from the contribution of Descartes to the invention of bourgeois rationality to the role of clocks in altering the human consciousness. 
 But here too there is a dreamy, abstract quality to his book, which is replete with highly arguable assertions founded, it would seem, mostly on Mr. Rifkin's authority. ''Europeans tend to be less expedient and driven in their personal relationships than Americans,'' he writes in one of many examples of this tendency. Or, ''More and more emigrants are choosing Europe over America than ever before,'' a notion he advances to support his claim that, actually, there is more opportunity and upward mobility in Europe than in the United States.
 Having seen the visa lines in places like Beijing and Karachi, I don't believe that Europe has replaced the United States as the first choice of emigrants. Moreover, Mr. Rifkin's arguments on the mobility front are a long way from definitive. As frequently happens in this book, Mr. Rifkin sticks to his thesis even when the cold facts, including many that he himself adduces, seem powerfully to undermine his argument. 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Jeremy Rifkin (Photo by Jenny Warburg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EUROPEAN UNION (89%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); TRENDS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); VIOLENT CRIME (71%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (69%); LITERATURE (68%); FOREIGN POLICY (60%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (50%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (50%)

PERSON: Richard Bernstein; Jeremy Rifkin

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); POLAND (79%); KOSOVO (79%); KUWAIT (79%); IRAQ (79%); FRANCE (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); PORTUGAL (73%); GREECE (58%); GERMANY (58%); AFGHANISTAN (50%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2004



3 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 543 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Hollinger Report Says Ex-Officials Diverted Cash
A special committee of the publishing company Hollinger International concluded in a report that the former officials Conrad M. Black and F. David Radler ran a ''corporate kleptocracy,'' diverting to themselves virtually all the company's $400 million in earnings over seven years. The report also criticized certain directors for being ''ineffective and careless'' in stopping the ''systematic looting'' of the company.
 In a statement, the holding company of Lord Black and Mr. Radler that effectively controls Hollinger International dismissed the report as trafficking in recycled ''exaggerated claims laced with outright lies.'' [Page A1.]

F.D.A. Approves Stent by Guidant
Guidant received approval from the Food and Drug Administration to sell stents that are inserted into the main neck artery to reduce the risk of strokes, making it the first manufacturer cleared to sell that version of the device in the United States. Guidant and several rivals have been applying stent technology in Europe to blockages in the carotid artery, the main highway for blood flow from the heart to the brain. [C4.]

Glaxo Set to Start Posting Trials
GlaxoSmithKline is expected to start the process today of publicly posting the results of clinical trials for its marketed drugs with the release of 65 tests about a diabetes medication, a company executive said. [C2.]

Consumer Confidence Declines
Consumers' confidence fell more than expected in August. [C2.]

Major Stock Indicators Show Gains
Stocks rose. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index climbed 5.09 points, to 1,104.24. The Dow Jones industrial average added 51.40 points, to 10,173.92. The Nasdaq composite index gained 1.61 points, to 1,838.10. [C9.]

Crude oil futures prices fell amid increased confidence in Iraqi exports, extending a decline that has cut more than $7 from the price in eight sessions. [C7.]

Judge Rules Against Regulator
The former chief executive of Freddie Mac, Leland C. Brendsel, may recover more than $50 million in compensation that the company's regulator froze during an inquiry into a profit restatement, a judge has ruled. [C2.]

Ex-Fund Executives Settle Case
Three former executives of the Invesco Funds Group were barred from the mutual fund industry and agreed to pay a total of $340,000 in fines. [C8.]

Advertisers Join the '04 Campaign
Madison Avenue is gearing up early for the election. Stuart Elliott: Advertising [C7.]

I.M.F. Reaches Deal With Argentina
The International Monetary Fund agreed with Argentina to put aside an I.M.F. loan program while the government seeks to work out one of the largest sovereign debt restructurings in history. Rodrigo de Rato, the I.M.F.'s new managing director, said that the fund would not oppose the government's decision to suspend the loan program, but that it also hoped Argentina would resume the agreement soon. [World Business, Section W.]

Cambodia Agrees to Join W.T.O.
Cambodia's legislature voted to approve the nation's entry into the World Trade Organization. [World Business, Section W.]

Making Downtown a Destination
Gallery Place is a milestone in Washington's efforts to transform its once-abandoned downtown into a lively shopping and entertainment district. Commercial Real Estate. [C8.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,173.92 up 51.40Nasdaq composite -- 1,838.10 up 1.6110-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.11% down 0.07The euro -- $1.2174 up 0.0116The dollar -- 109.25 yen down 0.68Graph: ''TODAY'' shows Construction Spending since Jan.July figures due at 10 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +0.4%Graph tracks Guidant's share price for last week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAL DEVICES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CLINICAL TRIALS (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); CARDIOVASCULAR DEVICES (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (87%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (87%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (85%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); US FDA APPROVALS (75%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (74%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (74%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (73%); PUBLISHING (73%); FINANCIAL RESTATEMENTS (72%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (71%); JUDGES (71%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (69%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (69%); FUTURES (69%); STROKES (68%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (68%); OIL & GAS PRICES (67%); EXTERNAL DEBT (62%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (62%); ENERGY MARKETS (62%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (62%); FINES & PENALTIES (61%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (60%); MUTUAL FUNDS (60%); DIABETES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (81%); SUN-TIMES MEDIA GROUP INC (58%); GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (55%); INVESCO LTD (52%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (83%)

TICKER: GSK (NYSE) (55%); GSK (LSE) (55%); BIOC (EGX) (55%); IVZ (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (81%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (81%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (81%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARGENTINA (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2004



4 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 943 words

HEADLINE: Trying to Stay Competitive, Cambodia Joins W.T.O.

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Aug. 31 

 BODY:
Cambodia's legislature voted Tuesday to approve the nation's entry into the World Trade Organization, a step forced by new rules for international textile and apparel trade that could otherwise have smothered the country's garment industry.
 Economists said that although Cambodia's economy was small, the decision to join the trade group could still increase commerce, prosperity and perhaps political stability in Southeast Asia.
 ''Finally seeing Indochina integrate into the rest of the world has to be good for the region,'' said William Belchere, an economist for J.P. Morgan.
 Cambodia's ratification increases the pressure on Vietnam in particular to join the W.T.O. Vietnam could otherwise risk losing much of its garment industry to countries that are members, notably China, which joined the organization along with Taiwan in November 2001. 
 Large garment factories are springing up in the Pearl River Delta region of China, near Hong Kong, and existing factories are expanding. The construction is under way in preparation for a surge in exports next year to other countries that are members of the W.T.O., after changes take effect on Jan. 1 in the international rules for trade in textiles and apparel. 
 Cambodia is joining the W.T.O. even though it lacks many laws usually regarded as the underpinnings of a modern economy, like bankruptcy and incorporation statutes. Some critics of free trade have complained that negotiators from more affluent countries compelled Cambodia, one of the world's poorest countries, to open too many markets too wide before allowing it to join the W.T.O.
 But business leaders have welcomed Cambodia's entry as helping guide the country to the creation of a modern legal framework for commerce.
 ''It has forced the pace of legislative change and reform,'' said Bretton Sciaroni, a lawyer in Phnom Penh who is the chairman of the American-Cambodian Business Council. ''There is a whole laundry list of laws they have to pass in pretty rapid succession in the future.''
 Four-fifths of Cambodia's exports are garments, and the rules for the international garment trade could have shut down much of these exports if Cambodia had not joined the trade group.
 For more than three decades, countries like the United States and many members of the European Union have been using quotas to limit imports of textiles and apparel. These limit in detail the number of T-shirts, blouses and other items that may be imported from a country, prompting apparel manufacturers to set up factories in different countries so they can ship enough garments to meet demand.
 Under the same agreement that created the W.T.O. in December 1993, wealthy countries will cease imposing quotas on textile and apparel imports from other organization members at the end of the year. The quotas, however, will remain for countries not in the trade organization.
 Despite dropping the quotas on the W.T.O. members, rich countries will still be allowed to collect tariffs on such imports, even after the end of this year. But international trade rules limit the level of the tariffs.
 Countries will also be allowed to impose so-called safeguard quotas at higher levels than the quotas that are expiring, if imports soar in particular categories of garments or textiles. 
 China's combination of new highways, excellent communications, well-organized logistics networks and cheap labor make it the likely target of such restrictions, although the imposition of them by Washington and other countries is likely to increase tensions with Beijing.
 Cass Johnson, the president of the National Council of Textile Organizations, a Washington-based trade association, said that American textile producers would file dozens of requests this autumn with American trade officials for safeguard quotas on Chinese exports in many categories. If the limits are not imposed, Mr. Johnson said, China is so competitive that few companies will want to do business in a more difficult place like Cambodia.
 ''If something is not done about China, it doesn't matter whether they're in W.T.O. or not,'' he said of Cambodia.
 Cambodia became the second country to enter the World Trade Organization under procedures approved to help ''least developed countries'' join more quickly. The first entrant was Nepal, which joined the W.T.O. last April.
 The W.T.O. spokesman, Keith Rockwell, said Cambodia's entry was ''an indication that new negotiating procedures for least developed countries have proven effective.''
 Some critics of the move have contended that the streamlined negotiating procedures actually resulted in Cambodia's having to go further than many other countries in promising to respect pharmaceutical patents and limit tariffs on agricultural imports.
 The Associated Press reported from Phnom Penh that 106 of the 107 members attending a session of the National Assembly on Tuesday approved the ratification. W.T.O. membership still requires the approval of the Cambodian Senate, but that is a less important body under the country's Constitution, and it quickly gives its assent to measures passed by the National Assembly.
 The W.T.O. actually approved Cambodia's entry almost a year ago at a meeting in Cancun, Mexico. Cambodia was supposed to ratify the agreement by the end of March, but was granted an extension to Sept. 30 because of difficulties in forming a new government after elections in July 2003.
 Once Cambodia officially notifies the W.T.O. of the ratification, it will automatically become a member 30 days later. That will bring the group's membership to 148 countries, with 25 more seeking membership, including Russia, Saudi Arabia and Vietnam.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Four-fifths of Cambodia's exports are garments, from factories like this one southeast of Phnom Penh. (Photo by Isabelle Lesser/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); APPAREL MFG (90%); TEXTILES (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); APPROVALS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); IMPORT CONTROLS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); COMMERCIAL LAW (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (71%) International Trade and World Market; Textiles; Apparel; Legislatures and Parliaments; Law and Legislation

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%) World Trade Organization

PERSON: Keith Bradsher

GEOGRAPHIC: PHNOM PENH, CAMBODIA (90%) CAMBODIA (99%); VIET NAM (92%); CHINA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (92%); ASIA (92%); TAIWAN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) Cambodia

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2004



5 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 5; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: World's Caviar Faces a Ban

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER PALA and FLORENCE FABRICANT

 BODY:
THE United Nations agency that controls trade in endangered species has halted exports of caviar until the countries where it is produced comply with an agreement to protect sturgeon, an official of the agency said yesterday.
 The main exporting countries, those that border the Caspian Sea, have failed to provide an accurate measurement of how much much sturgeon is illegally harvested, the official, Jim Armstrong, deputy secretary general of the Convention on the International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora, said in an interview at the agency's headquarters in Geneva. The countries had not complied with a conservation agreement signed in 2001. It took affect this year, and the agency has not issued new permits since January. 
 As a result of the ban, the legal supply of Caspian caviar in the United States -- the osetra, beluga and sevruga that sells for up to $3,000 a pound in the West -- is likely to dry up once the 2003 harvest is consumed. Prices are already rising.
 International trade in the world's 20-odd varieties of sturgeon has been regulated by the agency since 1998, after a drastic rise in poaching. Last year, Iran, Russia, Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan exported 150 tons of beluga, osetra and sevruga caviar from the Caspian, which sells in the West for between $1,500 and $3,000 a pound.
 The agency has also frozen much smaller exports of those species from the Black Sea; of Amur River sturgeon from China and Russia; of Canadian sales of four Great Lakes varieties to the United States and even of American exports of paddlefish roe to Japan.
 The agreement, which was signed in 2001 and came into force this year, does not affect the international trade in caviar taken from farmed sturgeon, a tiny but fast-growing industry in California, France and Italy. Nor does it affect domestic markets, including that in Russia, where most illegal caviar is consumed.
 Exporters cannot legally ship caviar without a permit from the agency. In the United States, the Customs Service and the Fish and Wildlife Service check incoming shipments for the necessary export permits and other paperwork.
 Officials of the United Nations agency do not believe that there is much illegal sturgeon fishing in Iran, the other major exporter of Caspian caviar, but as a signer of the 2001 agreement it is subject to the ban.
 Dr. Armstrong said the illegal trade in Russia may be so great that there might not be any legal quotas issued in the foreseeable future if the total catch was counted accurately.
 He also said the reasons for denying the export quotas outside the Caspian Sea varied. For the Great Lakes sturgeon, he said it was because the United States and Canada had failed to submit a joint management proposal.
 All the high-quality fresh beluga, osetra and sevruga in importers' warehouses is from the 2003 catch. Paramount Caviar in Long Island City, Queens, received some 2003 Iranian two weeks ago and Hossein Aimani, the owner of Paramount, said he has enough caviar on hand to tide him over through the holiday season.
 Fresh caviar, when properly cured and then shipped under refrigeration and stored at about 29 degrees Fahrenheit, has a shelf life of about 18 months. The expiration date on tins of 2003 Iranian osetra that Rod Mitchell of Browne Trading in Portland, Me., received last week is May 2005.
 But plenty of black-market caviar is available in this country, as well as caviar that may has been frozen or is two or even three years old. Caviar listings on eBay show unbelievably low prices, like $34 for four ounces, for Russian caviar that is best avoided.
 Reliable wholesalers who also sell caviar to consumers -- like Browne Trading, Petrossian and Paramount, to name a few -- are probably the safest sources, in terms of quality and dependability.
 Fresh caviar can vary in color from jet to pale gray to gold and even to ivory. The individual eggs can also vary in size, but should be consistent within an individual tin. 
 They should be glistening and moist, but not soupy or broken, which might indicate that they have been stored poorly or frozen. They should also not be excessively hard or dry, which means they may have been pasteurized or may simply be too old. 
 A mild sea-breeze aroma is typical, but a strong odor or any offensive smell is reason to reject the caviar.
 Chefs say they will make do. ''If we couldn't get imported caviar in the restaurant,'' said Jonathan Benno, the executive chef at Per Se in the Time Warner Center, ''we'd probaby use American farmed sturgeon caviar from California.''
 Some chefs, including Rick Moonen of RM, already rely on farmed American sturgeon roe and roe from other kinds of fish. 
 Some dealers are trying to be optimistic, saying sources, especially in Iran, expect the agency may soon allow exports of the 2004 catch, and that the delay is due mainly to bureaucratic problems in Russia. But Dr. Armstrong held out little hope for that.
 ''We had a similar case in Jamaica,'' he said about poaching. ''They had a quota of 1,200 tons of queen conch. When we asked them to take into consideration the poaching by fishermen from Haiti and the Dominican Republic, they estimated that was worth 800 tons. So we cut their quota from 1,200 tons to 400 tons, and that gave them the incentive to crack down on the poachers. This year we increased them to 550 tons.''
 But cutting down on poaching in Russia and Kazakhstan will not be as easy as chasing off foreign fishermen from coastal waters.
 In both these countries, according to fishermen, traders and local officials, poaching, negligible during the Soviet period, has become a way of life in the past 15 years of economic upheaval and widespread corruption. Most estimate the illegal catch at many times the legal one.


GRAPHIC: Photos: DWINDLING? -- Beluga roe. (pg. F1)
 TO PROTECT THE STURGEON -- Next year, sales of Caspian Sea caviar like this beluga will not be legal in the United States. (Photo by Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)(pg. F2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (90%); SMUGGLING (90%); FISHES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); WILDLIFE (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); EXPORT CONTROLS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); ANIMALS (78%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (78%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); ANIMAL POACHING & TRAFFICKING (75%); LICENSES & PERMITS (74%); PRICE INCREASES (67%) Fish and Other Marine Life; Sturgeon (Fish); Endangered and Extinct Species; Caviar; Fish and Other Marine Life

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%) United Nations

PERSON: Christopher Pala; Florence Fabricant

GEOGRAPHIC: CASPIAN SEA (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); AZERBAIJAN (92%); CANADA (92%); KAZAKHSTAN (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CHINA (79%); SWITZERLAND (73%); FRANCE (58%) Caspian Sea; Russia; Iran; Azerbaijan; Kazakhstan

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2004



6 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1124 words

HEADLINE: With Scraggly Habitat Vanishing, So Is a Rabbit

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

DATELINE: DURHAM, N.H., Aug. 27 

 BODY:
Developers and farmers in the Northeast hoping to unload overgrown parcels of land may come to rue the day that John Litvaitis dropped his study of bears and took up with the New England cottontail.
 Mr. Litvaitis, a professor of wildlife ecology at the University of New Hampshire, has conducted several studies suggesting that the rabbit's prospects for long-term survival are waning. As land covered with scraggly second-growth turns into subdivisions or even into forests without scrub for cover, the near-sighted cottontail is increasingly forced into the open, where it often sees predators too late to escape, he says. 
 Relying in large part on Mr. Litvaitis's research, the United States Fish and Wildlife Service is methodically moving toward designating the rabbit as an endangered or threatened species. With it would come a host of protections, mandatory field surveys and areas identified as critical habitats from southern Maine to western Connecticut.
 Despite occasional headlines in local newspapers (''Bunny on the Brink,'' declared The Sunday Citizen of Dover and Laconia, N.H.), the potential listing and its economic implications have not yet sunk in, said Michael Amaral, a biologist with the wildlife agency. Comments on the first public notice that the New England cottontail is being considered for the endangered list -- known as a ''90-day finding'' -- have been sparse, Mr. Amaral said. [The comment period ended Aug. 30.] Two things may explain why most New Englanders, even state planning officials in New Hampshire and Rhode Island, remain largely oblivious. First, the endangered species list and its constraints have touched New England only lightly over the years. Most vertebrate species listed in the region are whales, fish and shorebirds, whose protections involve little inconvenience, like a ban on raking seaweed off the beach during the Piping plover's nesting season. 
 It is also possible that, given the general reputation of rabbits for fecundity, the notion of the cottontail's extinction seems fodder for David Letterman or Jon Stewart, not the Federal Register.
 (Local gardeners who may assert that their lettuce, not the rabbits eating it, is endangered should know that the Eastern cottontail, a transplanted Plains-bred, big-eyed, New England cottontail look-alike, is flourishing in most of the range of its northeastern cousin. Only the Eastern cottontail, which can see predators at roughly twice the distance its cousin can, dares to venture into the open for snacks.)
 By Mr. Litvaitis's estimate -- which he emphasizes is very rough, the rabbits being short-lived, multilittered and hard to spot -- 2,500 New England cottontails are left in shrinking patches of their former range. ''We've got them peppered through the landscape,'' he said, saying that their patchwork habitats were anywhere from an acre or 3 to 100 or more.
 ''We see one here, two there, five there,'' he added. ''Then we have to go 20 miles to repeat the pattern. Long term, that's a matter of great concern. We've been hemming and hawing for a decade, and it's done nothing but decline. Hem and haw for another decade, and we're talking about very large declines.''
 But Mr. Litvaitis is not sure that people will get worked up over the cottontail. In the case of the spotted owl, which kept the logging industry in the Northwest out of the remaining old-growth timber, he said: ''It was, 'See these majestic trees. And here's an animal that's dependent on them.' Here, it's, 'See this brush. And here's an animal that's dependent on it.''' And that brush covers land whose value is skyrocketing as the population around Boston continues to push northward; the two New Hampshire counties with the most cottontail habitat are adding more than 4,000 people a year.
 Mr. Amaral, speaking from his office in Concord, says he is pretty sure that some people will take an interest in the cottontails if they see a Wal-Mart store or subdivision headed their way.
 ''Every project that comes along that's the least bit controversial with local residents,'' he predicted, ''the first thing any community group will do will look and see if there's a listed species in the area.''
 So if the New England cottontail makes the list, ''the greatest effect will not be on small-game hunters but on local land use,'' Mr. Amaral predicted. The rabbit could become a deus ex machina in zoning disputes across six states.
 There is another possibility, said Walter Jakubas, the mammal group leader at Maine's Inland Fisheries and Wildlife Office. A spirit of cooperation could emerge, fostered by federal financial incentives for landowners who keep cottontail habitat in its scruffy state.
 ''When a landowner that doesn't have immediate designs to sell his lot to Wal-Mart and wants to keep it undeveloped, he may have some incentives to do so,'' Mr. Jakubas said.
 Mr. Jakubas is particularly attuned to the cottontail's plight. He spearheaded $50,000 in state grant money for Mr. Litvaitis's research. Maine recently banned cottontail hunting. (The snowshoe hare is still fair game.) In Cape Elizabeth on the coast, the town planner, Maureen O'Meara, is mapping out a plan to turn a vacant 60-acre parcel with no obvious purpose into designated cottontail habitat.
 Keeping it that way, however, is easier said than done. Like the four-day beards of Hollywood stars, scrub growth is hard to maintain. As Mr. Jakubas said: ''It's not simply a matter of setting it aside and saying that's fine. In 10 or 15 years that habitat might revert to a forest.''
 Representative Richard W. Pombo, the California Republican who is chairman of the House Resources Committee, watches the unfolding story of the cottontail from a distinct regional perspective. Choosing his words carefully, Mr. Pombo said, ''Historically, the law has been implemented differently in the West than in the East.''
 ''In the West,'' he added, ''the Endangered Species Act has become a major land-use law.''
 Mr. Pombo, who backs legislation that modifies -- environmentalists say severely weakens -- the process of determining critical habitat, comes from a state that has 300 listed species, compared with fewer than two dozen in New England. Federal officials are now considering whether 4.1 million acres, an area roughly two-thirds the size of Vermont, should be designated as critical habitat for the California red-legged frog.
 Meanwhile, Mr. Litvaitis can almost see the rabbit population dwindling before his eyes. When he began studying them, having abandoned the bears for a less popular animal, there were New England cottontails across the southern part of his state. Now, he said, ''all of western New Hampshire no longer has them.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: John Litvaitis, a wildlife ecology professor, has documented the threat to the survival of the New England cottontail. He held a branch of a sumac bush, the rabbit's favorite food source, in Durham, N.H. (Photo by Robert Spencer for The New York Times
 (Photo by Anne Brown) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENDANGERED SPECIES (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); WILDLIFE (90%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (90%); MAMMALS (90%); BIOLOGY (89%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); THREATENED & SENSITIVE SPECIES (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); SEAWEED & ALGAE (77%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); BEACHES (62%) Rabbits; Land Use Policies; Endangered and Extinct Species

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NEW HAMPSHIRE (84%); US FISH & WILDLIFE SERVICE (56%) University of New Hampshire; Fish and Wildlife Service

PERSON: DAVID LETTERMAN (52%) Felicity Barringer; John (Prof) Litvaitis

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (95%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); MAINE, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) New England States (US)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2004



7 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; ON EDUCATION; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: Behind Top Student's Heartbreak, Illegal Immigrants' Nightmare

BYLINE: By Samuel G. Freedman. 
E-mail: sgfreedman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
ANGELA PEREZ looked up from her desk at International High School in Queens one morning last April to behold a most uncommon sight. Her best friend, Lydia, the one who shuffled into homeroom late every day, had scampered in ahead of the bell. ''Guess what?'' she called to Angela, and from her backpack she pulled a thick envelope. It held the letter admitting her to Tufts University.
 How could Angela feel anything but joy? She and Lydia had been close since they entered International High in the fall of 2000 as immigrants new to America and English; together they grew to love reading and talking about the same books, like Alice Walker's novel ''The Color Purple.'' They whispered their aspirations to one another like prayers: Lydia hoped to become a physicist; Angela, a political journalist. 
 Still, Angela's vicarious celebration left a bitter aftertaste. The fourth-ranking student in a senior class of 150, the possessor of a 3.8 grade-point average, the girl voted ''most intelligent'' in the yearbook poll, she had not even applied to college. Unlike Lydia, her soul mate in so many other ways, Angela is an undocumented immigrant, and under federal law, state university systems have been financially pressured not to provide affordable resident tuition to such applicants. In addition, under separate federal rules, they cannot receive federal grants, loans or work-study jobs from any college, public or private. Nor, for that matter, can they legally work. 
 ''It feels awful,'' Angela had written of the dilemma in an essay during her sophomore year. ''I feel frustrated. I try hard until I accomplish something and I do not want all my accomplishments to be a waste of time. I want them to be valuable. I want to be able to pay my parents back after all their support and the difficulties they have lived in order to bring me here.''
 The legal ceiling holds down an estimated 65,000 high school graduates each year -- undocumented immigrants who have spent most of the educational lives in American schools and yet are effectively denied in-state tuition at their respective public colleges. A provision of the Illegal Immigration and Responsibility Act of 1996 required state universities that gave in-state tuition to undocumented immigrants to do the same for all comparable students from other states -- creating a punitive cost few of those institutions chose to bear. 
 Only eight states, New York among them, subsequently passed laws that attempted in various ways to preserve in-state tuition for most state residents, regardless of immigration status. And even in those states, immigrant students, educators and advocates often were ignorant of the loophole or assumed the federal law overrode it. Others feared exposing themselves or their families to deportation by admitting their illegal residence in the college-application process. 
 Now a bipartisan coalition of legislators has recognized that students like Angela are, in fact, among the most responsible of Americans, those who carry the burden of parents' sacrifices and who seize upon public education as their route to productive citizenship. In both the Senate and the House of Representatives, lawmakers have introduced bills to permit these immigrant students to regain resident status in their home states and, even more important, to earn citizenship in part by graduating from college, allowing them to enter the workforce legally.
 Yet nearly a year after the Senate Judiciary Committee approved the bill, by a 16-3 vote, and amid a Republican convention that intends to highlight President Bush's credentials as a ''compassionate conservative,'' the measure, colloquially known as the ''Dream Act,'' has yet to be brought to a floor vote by the majority party.
 It has fallen victim to the Republicans' internal split on immigration, which pits cultural nativists against free-marketeers, as well as the overall shift in federal immigration policy toward border control and internal surveillance since Sept. 11 attacks. Trent Duffy, a deputy press secretary to the president, said yesterday that ''certain parts'' of the Dream Act deserve ''serious consideration'' as part of a ''better, more humane, and open immigration system.''
 What unites the coalition supporting the Dream Act is a belief that American economic and intellectual might both suffer when the brainpower of immigrants is left untapped. Thus the legislation has brought together as sponsors three Democrats from states with large immigrant populations (Senator Richard Durbin of Illinois and Representatives Howard Berman and Lucille Roybal-Allard, both of California) and two Utah Republicans (Senator Orrin Hatch and Representative Chris Cannon) whose globalism reflects the Mormon tradition of missionary work overseas.
 ''Immigration is one of the great sources of strength to our economy,'' said Mr. Cannon in a telephone interview. ''You get people who come here with the right ambition, the right motivation, the desire to give their children education. If those children are locked out of the chance for higher education, that's destructive.''
 Angela Perez's family fled their native Colombia in early 1999 using tourist visas after several relatives had been murdered by left-wing guerillas. Her father, an industrial engineer, found work in New York in a factory making printing equipment, and so impressed his boss that the company petitioned the Immigration and Naturalization Service to have him classified as a legal resident. A few months later, Al Qaeda attacked, and the application remains in limbo.
 TO Senator Durbin, such a situation points to the necessity of moving immigration policy beyond the border checks, detentions and deportations undertaken in the name of homeland security. ''In the aftermath of 9/11, it is vitally important that we fix our immigration system, which is fundamentally broken,'' he wrote in an e-mail message. ''It harms our national security and our economy and it treats hard-working immigrants, especially immigrant children, unfairly. We have to distinguish between those who would do us harm and those who came to our country to pursue the American dream and are contributing members of our society.''
 Meanwhile, as the college semester begins, Angela Perez watches her former classmates head off to campuses -- Lydia to Tufts, others to Columbia and New York University. In her family's apartment, in Queens, she keeps a loose-leaf binder filled with academic awards and a stack of framed certificates for scholarship and community service. And she has her high school yearbook, with an aphorism from Gandhi: ''Live as if you were to die tomorrow. Learn as if you were to live forever.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by David Suter) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); TUITION FEES (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (78%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (76%); US STATE IMMIGRATION LAW (75%); IMMIGRATION LAW (75%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (74%); WRITERS (74%); GRADES & GRADING (72%); REFUGEES (71%); DEPORTATION (70%); FAMILY (69%); GRANTS & GIFTS (66%) Colleges and Universities; Law and Legislation; Immigration and Refugees; Illegal Aliens; Tuition; States (US); Colleges and Universities

PERSON: Samuel G Freedman; Angela Perez

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%) United States

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2004



8 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; MARKET PLACE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: A Heavyweight Board, Light on the Supervision 

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
Was there ever a board as irresponsible as the one at Hollinger International?
 A special report of a committee of that board -- a panel made up of new directors who were not around when Conrad M. Black and his associates were running the company as a ''corporate kleptocracy,'' according to the report -- certainly weighs that case. 
 The report, released yesterday, harshly criticizes some directors but essentially clears others, saying they were entitled to assume that others were paying attention to what was going on.
 The Hollinger board was studded with political heavyweights chosen by Lord Black, a Canadian who became a British peer after Hollinger took control of the Telegraph newspapers in London. 
 Among them were Henry A. Kissinger, the former secretary of state, and Richard N. Perle, who was assistant secretary of defense under President Ronald Reagan and is the former chairman of a Pentagon advisory board. Democrats were not left out, with the board including Robert S. Strauss, a former chairman of the Democratic National Committee and ambassador to the Soviet Union, and Richard R. Burt, a former United States ambassador to Germany.
 The report lets most of the directors off with little more than a mild rebuke for not having shown much curiosity in how the business was run. The members of the audit committee during the years when Lord Black was taking out hundreds of millions of dollars in cash draw harsher criticism for their passiveness, but the director who is excoriated in the strongest terms is Mr. Perle.
 His many and varied roles at Hollinger seem to have aroused questions even from Lord Black -- a man who knew conflicts of interest if anyone did. In one case, Lord Black is said to have sent a letter to Mr. Perle, questioning the conflicts. There is no record of whether Mr. Perle answered the letter, the report says, and nothing seems to have been done about the issue.
 Mr. Perle was chairman of Hollinger's Internet investing subsidiary, which lost lots of money. But he and other insiders had an unusual deal that gave them a share of profits from good investments without requiring those amounts to be offset by losses from bad investments.
 Mr. Perle collected $3.1 million through that deal -- payments that the committee said were not fully disclosed to shareholders, as they should have been. By the committee's account, Mr. Perle was responsible for $63.6 million in Hollinger investments, on which the company lost a net $49 million.
 After the Internet boom collapsed, Mr. Perle persuaded Hollinger to invest in Trireme Partners, a venture capital firm that he helped found. He even signed, on Hollinger's behalf, the commitment letter for the investment.
 The committee said that such an investment should have been approved by the audit committee or by independent directors, but no such approval was sought. It was Mr. Perle's dual status as an employee of Trireme and a Hollinger director that led to Lord Black's questions.
 Both Lord Black and Mr. Kissinger sat on a strategic advisory board for Trireme.
 Mr. Perle was one of three members of Hollinger's executive committee, and the closest thing to an outsider on that committee. The other two members were Lord Black and F. David Radler, Hollinger's chief operating officer at the time.
 ''Perle's own description of his performance on the executive committee was stunning,'' the report states. For example, he said the committee never met but that from time to time he would get a package of documents to sign. He also said he never discussed the documents with the other committee members and often did not bother to read them before signing.
 ''It is difficult to imagine a more flagrant abdication of duty than a director rubber-stamping transactions that directly benefit a controlling shareholder without any thought, comprehension or analysis,'' the committee report says. ''In fact, many of the consents that Perle signed as an executive committee member approved related-party transactions that unfairly benefited Black and Radler, and cost Hollinger millions.''
 It appears that the directors viewed Hollinger as Lord Black's company to do with as he pleased. They never asked for information on such basic issues as how much he was being paid. Lord Black did control the company through holding companies and supervoting stock, but his economic interest was just 18 percent. That fact did not stop him and Mr. Radler from taking $400 million, or 95 percent of what the report concludes were the company's real profits from 1997 through 2003.
 Now the courts have effectively stripped Lord Black of the power of a controlling shareholder. His effort to block the sale of the Telegraph papers failed, and Hollinger is suing him and his associates for $1.25 billion. The report says Mr. Perle has stopped talking to the board committee that drew it up. It says he should repay the $5.4 million he received from the company and says he may be liable for more. Mr. Perle could not be reached for comment.
 The abuses described in the Hollinger report should have been impossible. But they should be even harder now. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which passed in 2002, requires that auditors review the internal controls of companies and report to shareholders if there are serious problems. That has aroused hostility from companies that fear the review, known as a 404 after the section of the law that requires it, will be too expensive.
 This case provides evidence that such measures are needed.
 But Section 404 depends on the independent auditor, and the report raises questions about the performance of KPMG, Hollinger's auditor.
 In some cases, KPMG appears not to have noticed things the committee finds significant and outrageous. In others, it knew of them but did not warn the board or its audit committee.
 The report says that KPMG initially resisted the special committee's requests for information but later cooperated, although its Canadian affiliate would not let the committee copy documents in its possession. KPMG issued a statement yesterday saying it had fully cooperated with the committee, but did not elaborate.
 So was this the worst board ever? The report says there are ''few parallels to Black and Radler's self-righteous and aggressive looting of Hollinger,'' but there have been other boards, like Enron's, that looked the other way when outrageous things were happening.
 But few boards have had as many Washington heavyweights. For foreign policy discussions, the Hollinger board may have had no equals. But the directors evidently did not think their duties extended to actually paying attention to what Lord Black was doing.


CORRECTION-DATE: September 8, 2004

 CORRECTION:
The Market Place column in Business Day last Wednesday, about the board of Hollinger International, misstated the political affiliation of a director, Richard R. Burt. He was an official during a Republican administration, that of Ronald Reagan, not a Democratic one.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Richard N. Perle, a director, persuaded Hollinger to invest in his company. (Photo by CBS News)(pg. C1)
 F. David Radler, the former chief operating officer, benefited from ''rubber-stamping'' directors. (Photo by Chuck Stoody/Canadian Press)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (90%); AUDITS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); ONLINE TRADING (66%); ETHICS (63%); VENTURE CAPITAL (61%); SHAREHOLDERS (60%) Ethics; Boards of Directors

COMPANY: HOLLINGER INC (92%); SUN-TIMES MEDIA GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%) Hollinger International Inc

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (92%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (69%) Floyd Norris; Conrad M Black; F David Radler

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (57%) UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (55%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2004



9 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; PUBLIC LIVES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 921 words

PERSON: John B. Mattingly

HEADLINE: Working to End the Stories of Abuse and Neglect

BYLINE: By LYNDA RICHARDSON

 BODY:
JOHN B. MATTINGLY, New York City's new commissioner of children's services, is recalling when child welfare became his life's work. It began with outrage over a little boy who turned up chained to a bed, frozen to death in the middle of a Cleveland winter more than two decades ago.
 Mr. Mattingly was running a settlement house on Cleveland's west side, and had alerted the local child-welfare agency that the boy was in danger. Angered when the child died, Mr. Mattingly and other community leaders told the news media about the referrals they had made to the agency. 
 A task force, which included him, was formed. Money was pumped into the understaffed system, though it did not take long, with layoffs and hiring freezes, before chronic problems resurfaced.
 ''It occurred to me I wanted to get inside this work, the child welfare system, to see if we could do better,'' he said on a recent morning.
 Mr. Mattingly is 59 and gray-haired, with a neatly trimmed goatee and a professorial air. After the Cleveland experience, he was hired as executive director of the public child-welfare agency serving the Toledo area, then went to the Annie E. Casey Foundation, a Baltimore-based philanthropy devoted to child welfare, where he developed a national reputation.
 Here he sat in his first week as commissioner of the Administration for Children's Services, which oversees foster care and low-income day care, with a budget of $2.1 billion and a staff of 6,300 people. His office on William Street in Lower Manhattan is large and austere, with an imposing, gleaming desk. He said he wanted to make the office less formal, more down-to-earth, like him. He was raised in a rural southern Maryland town, the son of a farm equipment salesman and a nurse.
 Mr. Mattingly is the third commissioner of an agency that was spun out of the unwieldy Human Resources Administration in 1996 in response to the beating death of a 6-year-old, Elisa Izquierdo, by her mother. The girl had repeatedly come to the attention of child-welfare workers.
 Yet even as Mr. Mattingly talks of building on reforms that have transformed the agency -- since 1996 the number of children in foster care has plummeted by more than half, to 21,000 -- he finds himself answering to more grim news. A mother recently confessed to killing her 1-year-old son in February 2000 and disposing of his body in a trash bin, a disappearance that for four years went unnoticed by several city agencies, including the Administration for Children's Services, which were supposed to keep tabs on the boy.
 Mr. Mattingly said the agency's investigation did not find clear-cut abuse or neglect. ''We acted as best as we could at the time to get them the help they needed,'' he said. ''In situations like this where there may be an interplay of substance abuse and domestic violence, it can be particularly difficult to help the family turn their lives around. This is one of those cases where you do the very best and it doesn't turn out the way you want.''
 Mr. Mattingly is low-key and modest, somewhat solemn when he speaks. It is not a shock to learn that he nearly became a Roman Catholic priest. He studied for eight years in seminary, following his parents' wishes. They were convinced that their prayers had been miraculously answered when a missing bone in his foot appeared 18 months after his birth.
 At age 22, he abandoned priestly studies, deciding to serve the public good through social work. He received a doctorate in community development from Pennsylvania State University.
 INSIDE and outside New York's child-welfare system, Mr. Mattingly's hiring was seen as a coup for the Bloomberg administration. At the Casey Foundation, he directed reform programs and pioneered a foster-care method that is used in New York and many other parts of the country.
 The method, called Family-to-Family, emphasizes placing children with foster families in their own communities, and trying to keep them in touch with birth parents. Mr. Mattingly was also a member of the city's child-welfare advisory panel from 1998 to 2001.
 Child-welfare advocates praised his selection. At a time when many city departments are threatened with budget cuts, one advocate even questioned publicly whether Mr. Mattingly had been given a guarantee on agency spending before he would agree to come here. Not at all, he says.
 ''There are no guarantees in this world,'' he said, shaking his head. ''I told them I'm not interested in an eviscerated child-welfare agency at the end of my years. That's not what I am about, but I'm not averse to getting more efficient.''
 Among his priorities is improving front-line operations. For instance, he wants to see placement and preventive services in the agency's field offices throughout the city. ''This agency now is very centralized,'' he said. ''I'd like to see the full range of services closer to the kids and families.''
 His goal is that families served by the agency be treated as he would have his family treated. (His wife, Linda, is a nutritionist for a federally financed program in Baltimore County, and they have two grown children.)
 So how have his first days been? Demanding, intense, he said. But that does nothing to change his high hopes for what he calls the nation's premier child-welfare agency. ''If we can do excellent work routinely, the rest of the country will no longer have an excuse,'' he said. ''I believe we are poised to be able to do that, and that means the field will get stronger because they won't have any excuses.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: JOHN B. MATTINGLY (Photo by G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILD WELFARE (97%); CHILD PROTECTIVE SERVICES (92%); CHILD ABUSE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); FOSTER CARE (89%); BUDGETS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (76%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (75%); HUMAN RESOURCES (74%); CHARITIES (74%); RETAILERS (74%); ELECTIONS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); TRENDS (72%); FOUNDATIONS (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); LAYOFFS (69%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (69%); PHILANTHROPY (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Presidential Election of 2004; Madison Square Garden; Conventions, National (US); Retail Stores and Trade; Economic Conditions and Trends; Retail Stores and Trade; Child Abuse and Neglect

ORGANIZATION: Administration for Children's Services (NYC)

Lydia Polgreen; Lynda Richardson; John B (Comr) Mattingly

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); MARYLAND, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City; New York City; New York City

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2004



10 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1549 words

HEADLINE: Washington Makes Downtown a Destination Again

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
With its eye-catching display windows, 35-foot-high ceilings, exposed pipes and a facade that echoes the Victorian row houses across the street, the new 12,500-square-foot Urban Outfitters store on Seventh and H Streets almost looks as if it had been scooped up from SoHo in Manhattan and replanted here.
 The trendy store, which sells casual clothing and furniture aimed at young shoppers, is part of Gallery Place, a residential, office and retail development that will officially open in October. Many years in the making, the heavily subsidized $275 million project represents an important milestone in the city's longstanding efforts to transform its once-abandoned downtown into something that is in short supply here in the capital: a lively shopping and entertainment district.
 Situated in the dwindling Chinatown district, Gallery Place will have 220,000 square feet of office space, 192 condominiums and 270,000 square feet of retail stores, including a 14-screen United Artists movie theater and a $17 million Clyde's restaurant, part of a popular local chain. Other tenants include two other clothing stores, Ann Taylor and Benetton; City Sports, an athletic wear and sporting goods store; Washington Sports Club, a fitness club; and an Aveda salon. Next door is the MCI Center, the home of the Washington Wizards basketball team and the Washington Capitals hockey team, which opened in 1997. 
 Seventh Street's role as a retail corridor is consistent with Pierre L'Enfant's original plans for this city, and as far back as 1800 there was a market a few blocks south of Gallery Place, said Gail Redmann, a vice president of the Historical Society of Washington, D.C. ''From the earliest time, that was the magnet of commercial activity,'' she said. Downtown had several department stores, which attracted suburban shoppers as well as local residents.
 But after the riots of the 1960's, those stores began to vanish as consumers flocked to the new suburban shopping malls and downtown emptied. ''There was a time,'' said Eric W. Price, the deputy mayor for planning and economic development, ''when you didn't walk past 11th Street.''
 These days, residents of this metropolitan area have plenty of stores to choose from -- 21.3 square feet of retail space a person, compared with a national average of 18 square feet for metropolitan areas, said Nancy D. Veatch, the president of the National Research Bureau in Chicago. But most shopping still takes place in the suburbs, draining sales tax dollars from the city. The bureau does not compare retail space among cities, but the District of Columbia itself has only 17.6 square feet of retail area per person, while the average for states is 20.1 square feet, Ms. Veatch said.
 The development of Gallery Place has been managed by Herbert S. Miller, who was chairman of a task force on downtown development in the mid-1990's. ''There is a pent-up urban demand for retail.'' he said. ''The city is understored.'' 
 Mr. Miller is a founder and former chairman of the publicly traded Mills Corporation, a developer of gigantic malls like Potomac Mills in Prince William, Va., that combine manufacturers' outlet stores and off-price retailers with food and entertainment sections. Gallery Place is being developed by his current company, the Western Development Corporation, which is based here, and Akridge Real Estate Services, a private local company that has built 6.3 million square feet of office space in the city.
 From the outset, Mr. Miller said, he wanted the store facades of Gallery Place to jut out unevenly from the building and look as if the retail portion of the shopping center consisted of separate structures, each differentiated from the other. So while Arquitectonica, the Miami architectural firm, was responsible for the overall building design and HKS of Dallas was the architect of record, a third company, Kaplan McLaughlin Diaz of San Francisco, was brought in to consult on the retail portion. KMD, as the firm is known, created 2 Rodeo Drive, an innovative shopping center in Beverly Hills that opens onto a cobblestone street.
 Juan-Diego Perez-Vargas, a principal at KMD, said the aim was to relate the facades at Gallery Place to the Victorian row houses directly opposite on Seventh Street but not to copy them. ''To pick up on the historical reference,'' he said, ''it had to be executed in a way that was contemporary, so people would feel that it belongs to this time, and was not just a rip-off.'' The round Benetton store on the corner of Seventh and H Streets ''pays respect'' to the adjacent multicolored structure that is known as the Chinatown Gate, Mr. Perez-Vargas said.
 The resurgence of the neighborhood east of 15th Street, sometimes known as the East End, began in the early 1980's, when big law firms slowly began migrating there. Developers could offer them larger spaces, higher ceilings and more up-to-date technology than they could find near Connecticut Avenue and K Street.
 Today, the office market in the original downtown area rivals Midtown Manhattan, with new buildings fetching annual rents as high as $60 a square foot, said Mark W. Peterson, a market analyst at Cassidy & Pinkard, a real estate services company based in Washington. His company defines the neighborhood as extending from P Street on the north to Constitution Avenue on the south, and from 15th Street on the west to 4th Street on the east. 
 For years, civic leaders have envisioned a downtown where people lived and shopped as well as worked, and where tourists who visit the Mall and the Smithsonian free of charge could be induced to spend money. The city's decision to require all new projects in the downtown to have arts components served as an important catalyst for development, Mr. Miller said. Institutions like the Shakespeare Theater and, more recently, the International Spy Museum, helped draw fashionable restaurants to the neighborhood.
 Attracting residential developers, however, proved harder and required generous incentives. But those efforts are paying off. According to the Downtown Business Improvement District, a nonprofit organization, some 5,600 people will live in the neighborhood by next year, up from only 1,300 in 1990. This increase is more significant than it seems because the city's 12-story height restriction limits population density. 
 The new residential units are part of a downtown construction boom. In 2003, 14 projects were completed, representing a total investment of $1.7 billion, and 16 others, totaling $466 million, broke ground, according to the business improvement district. Another $2 billion worth of projects are under construction, with $2.7 billion in the pipeline.
 Douglas Jemal, the founder of the Douglas Development Corporation, is redeveloping the former Woodward & Lothrop department store at 10th Street between F and G Streets for office and retail use. Mr. Jemal is a retailer turned developer who restored eight commercial buildings, constructed from 1866 to 1881, across Seventh Street from Gallery Place; they house a Legal Seafood and other restaurants. 
 Also, a former Hecht's department store is one of three buildings that make up Terrell Place, which is the new 476,000-square-foot office and retail complex by the CarrAmerica Realty Corporation at Seventh and F Streets.
 Even with all this new development, the influx of new residents and the presence of the MCI sports arena, getting retail chains to open up downtown remains a considerable challenge. For retailers, said John A. Asadoorian, the president of Asadoorian Retail Solutions, a brokerage firm here, ''the rule of thumb is, 'I don't want to be a pioneer.'''
 Illustrating the point, Steven B. Greenberg, the president of the Greenberg Group, a retail real estate consulting company based in Hewlett, N.Y., said two clients, both national retailers, were looking for space in Washington. ''When you take them to Georgetown, they see 75 or 80 retailers like Polo or Banana Republic,'' he said. ''So which is easier for me to sell?'' Mr. Greenberg said retailers were seldom influenced by interesting design. ''Architecture is the last thing we look at,'' he said.
 In 2002, the city sold $73.6 million in tax-increment-financing bonds -- to be repaid mainly through future sales tax revenue -- to help finance Gallery Place. Mr. Miller said he had to agree to spend $28 million for allowances and incentives to get the tenant mix he wanted. Along the way, there were several setbacks. Plans for a larger multiplex had to be scrapped when AMC backed out of the project. Jillian's, a chain of restaurants offering billiards and other entertainment, withdrew when its parent company filed for bankruptcy protection this year.
 Richard H. Bradley, the executive director of the business improvement district, said retailers had begun to show an interest in downtown only in the last year. Now there is even talk that a department store might open up at the site of the old convention center at I and 10th Streets, which will be torn down later this year to make way for a mixed-use development by Hines Interests Limited Partnership, Archstone Smith Residential and the Georgetown Development Corporation.
 ''We're at the turning point,'' Mr. Bradley said. ''We haven't crossed it yet.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photo: John Akridge, left, and Herbert Miller built Gallery Place, a residential, office, entertainment and retail complex in the city's Chinatown district. (Photo by Matthew Cavanaugh for The New York Times)Chart: ''Data Update''New privately owned housing units authorized by building permits, not seasonally adjusted, through July.Graph tracks housing units authorized since 2000.NATIONAL -- IN THOUSANDSJULY '03 -- 165.7MAY '04 -- 184.8JUNE '04 -- 191.0JULY '04 -- 181.7(Source by U.S. Census Bureau)Map of Downtown shows the location of the Gallery Place Mall: City officials hope Gallery Place will lure tourists from the Mall. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); RETAILERS (89%); CITIES (89%); RETAIL PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); SUBURBS (85%); REAL ESTATE (78%); SPORTING GOODS STORES (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (76%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); RIOTS (73%); FILM (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); ICE HOCKEY (71%); SPORTS (71%); BASKETBALL (71%); SPORTS & RECREATION (71%); SALES TAX (70%); HISTORY (68%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%) Gallery Place (Washington, DC); Area Planning and Renewal

COMPANY: URBAN OUTFITTERS INC (58%); NATIONAL RESEARCH BUREAU (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); WASHINGTON CAPITALS (54%); WASHINGTON WIZARDS (54%)

TICKER: URBN (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (58%); SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (51%)

PERSON: Terry Pristin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%) Washington (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2004



11 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; THE REPUBLICANS: THE CONVENTION IN NEW YORK -- DEMONSTRATIONS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1177 words

HEADLINE: At Least 900 Arrested in City As Protesters Clash With Police

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL and MARC SANTORA; Reporting for this article was contributed by Randal C. Archibold , Michael Wilson, Mary Spicuzza, William K. Rashbaum and Colin Moynihan.

 BODY:
A series of demonstrations rippled across Manhattan last night when protesters tried to converge on the Republican National Convention, as a day of planned civil disobedience erupted into clashes with police officers and led to the arrest of more than 900 people.
 The wave of confrontations -- which included a brawl with the police at the New York Public Library, marauding crowds cursing at delegates in Midtown and the detention of hundreds of protesters near ground zero -- created a day of disorder in a convention week already marked by sustained protests against the Bush administration and the war in Iraq.
 Yesterday's incidents stood in contrast to the enormous, mostly orderly antiwar march that drew hundreds of thousands of people to Manhattan on Sunday. Many of those protesting yesterday had purposefully avoided seeking permits for their rallies but had publicized their plans well in advance, leading hordes of police officers in cars, bikes, scooters and vans to flood various parts of the city primed to pre-empt disorder before it could occur. The day's arrests brought the convention-related total to more than 1,460. 
 The protesters gathered at various locations, many with the goal of descending on the convention site at Madison Square Garden. But at the various staging areas -- near ground zero, in Union Square, in Herald Square near Macy's, and outside the New York Public Library -- the police began making arrests, sending the crowds into a frenzy. These confrontations followed several other events, some of which went off without incident, and the police said their aggressive actions prevented even more widespread disruptions.
 ''Today a number of anti-R.N.C. activities failed to materialize, including a takeover of the lobby of the Warwick Hotel, perhaps because of the police presence there,'' Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly told reporters at an early evening news conference.
 Protesters and civil liberties lawyers expressed concerns over what they said had been unfair and overzealous tactics in dealing with demonstrators who may not have had permits but were not violent.
 ''It's an example of the police suckering the protesters,'' said Donna Lieberman, executive director of the New York Civil Liberties Union, referring to the arrest of some 200 protesters who said they thought they were abiding by an agreement they had negotiated with the police as they marched from ground zero on Fulton Street.
 ''It was a bait-and-switch tactic,'' she added, ''where they approved a demonstration and the protesters kept up their end of the bargain. They undermined people's confidence in the police, and that's a serious problem as we go forward.''
 The day, loosely organized by an anarchist collective called the A31 Action Coalition, began slowly, with highly anticipated events proving less than fractious. Indeed, the cat-and-mouse between the protesters and the police started early. 
 Responding to word that anarchists planned to somehow disrupt the morning's trading, hundreds of police officers flooded the blocks surrounding the New York Stock Exchange before 8 a.m. 
 Roughly an hour later, dozens of officers responded to an obscure corner near the exchange at South William Street and Mill Lane, where protesters had stretched a ball of yarn across the street.
 Within minutes, 14 young people sat handcuffed and seated with their backs to a wall near the short pedestrian mall, surrounded by three or four times as many police officers. Several balls of red and yellow yarn were strewn about the street, and a boom box sat nearby with a sign on a bedsheet reading ''Celebrate the Power of Money.'' One of the protesters wore a pinstriped suit and a beret. 
 Paul J. Browne, a police spokesman, said of the protesters, ''A lot of them are from out of town, and I think it was reflected in the choice of intersections.''
 But the protests gained intensity throughout the day, and by late afternoon, the tenor had clearly changed as the police appeared to adjust their tactics to deal with the spontaneous eruptions throughout the city and the crowds of demonstrators grew increasingly volatile as the arrests mounted.
 Indeed, the turning point appeared to come as several hundred protesters with the War Resisters League tried to begin a march up Fulton Street that organizers had negotiated with police, although they did not have a permit. 
 Ed Hedemann, one of the organizers, said their understanding was that if they stayed on the sidewalk and did not block foot traffic or vehicles, they could proceed toward Madison Square Garden. 
 But within minutes, the protesters were confronted by a line of police officers who told demonstrators they were blocking the sidewalk and would be arrested, although they did not appear to be blocking pedestrian traffic at that point. 
 A commanding officer, telling the crowd of about 200 ''you're all under arrest,'' ordered other officers to bring the ''prison van'' and the ''orange netting'' with which to enmesh the protesters. 
 ''We don't know why we are being arrested, we were just crossing the street,'' said Lambert Rochfort, who was among the protesters. ''We were told if we don't do anything illegal we would be allowed to march on the sidewalk and we did just that. Then they arrested us for no apparent reason.''
 Later in the afternoon, a clash erupted on the steps of the New York Public Library after two women tried to hang a protest banner over one of the lions atop the library steps. After the police pinned the women to the ground, a crowd of protesters struggled with police, answering requests to move with chants of ''Oink, oink, oink.'' 
 People coming off the subways were thrown to the ground and the steps of the library were left littered with chairs and debris.
 As protesters converged on Herald Square in the evening, the police tried to contain the increasingly raucous crowds. Hundreds of protesters seemed to get too close to the buses of delegates and the crowd became unruly as the police moved in metal barricades and used scooters to try to push the crowd back.
 Those who would not move were arrested, and each time the police moved in to make an arrest, they were swarmed by protesters. 
 The demonstrators at Herald Square, frustrated by their lack of ability to move closer to Madison Square Garden, began breaking off in clusters of hundreds or so and storming the streets and avenues in Midtown, throwing cones and other objects at cars and windows as they ran. 
 As police drew close, they tried to scatter. Police tackled them in streets, corners and in front of stores. Innocent bystanders were also caught up in the maelstrom.
 In one instance, about 200 people broke away from the larger group in a chase that went all the way from 33rd Street and Broadway to 27th Street and Park Avenue, before being tackled by police. At 27th Street and Madison Avenue, protesters set fire to a large pile of trash near the Carlton Hotel as delegates and other guests made their way to the convention. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Protesters were held at the New York Public Library after two women tried to hang a banner outside. (Photo by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. A1)
 A protester was photographed by the police as members of the War Resisters League lay in the street for a ''die-in'' at 28th Street and Broadway. (Photo by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. P7)Chart/Map: ''Arrests on the Rise''Many protesters did not have permits and publicized their plans well in advance, leading police to pre-empt much of the action before it could occur.Graph tracks daily cumulative arrests since Thursday.Yesterday: More than 900 (as of 11 p.m.)New York Public LibraryAt 5:45 p.m., a few of the protesters are arrested. About 10 minutes later, police in hard helmets separate the protesters into two groups.Union SquareJust before 7 p.m., a group of several hundred begin to march east on 16th Street. They are stopped by police who fence in more than 50 of them.World Trade Center siteAbout 500 people set off across Church Street at 3:50 p.m. About 200 are arrested when they march into the street.Maps of Manhattan highlight the following:Use of plastic fencingArrests todaySome of yesterdays arrestsPrevious arrestsMovement of protestors and policeYesterdayARRESTS (As of 7 p.m.)Financial District, bicyclists and others arrested.Near Times Square, three arrested for blocking traffic.Union Square, at least five arrested by 7 p.m.New York Public Library, more than 50 arrested.,World Trade Center site, about 200 arrested.Today's Protests4 p.m. Eighth Ave. and W. 30th St.9:30 p.m. 11th Ave. and W. 34th St.Broadway and Wall St.8 a.m. Symbolic Unemployment Line10 a.m. Union Square Park6 p.m. Robert F. Wagner Park7 p.m. Ave. of the Americas and W. 52nd St.(pg. P7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); ARRESTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (85%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); CIVIL DISOBEDIENCE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); IRAQ WAR (75%); LOBBYING (73%); RIOTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (62%); TERRORISM (59%) Presidential Election of 2004; Demonstrations and Riots; Conventions, National (US); Police; Terrorism; Presidential Election of 2004

COMPANY: WARWICK HOTEL (53%)

ORGANIZATION: WAR RESISTERS LEAGUE (59%); AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (59%) New York Public Library; American Civil Liberties Union; Madison Square Garden

PERSON: Diane Cardwell; Marc Santora; Donna Lieberman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (79%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2004



12 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1278 words

HEADLINE: Too Scary for the Classroom?

BYLINE: By Tariq Ramadan. 
Tariq Ramadan is the author, most recently, of ''Western Muslims and the Future of Islam.''

DATELINE: GENEVA 

 BODY:
Right now, I am supposed to be in South Bend, Ind., beginning my term as a professor of Islamic studies at the University of Notre Dame. After all, my petition for a work/residence visa in the United States was granted in May, after meticulous clearance procedures. But nine days before I was to move, I received an urgent message from the American Embassy: my visa had been revoked. If I wished to reapply, I was told, I was welcome to do so; but no reasons for the revocation were given. Classes have now begun at Notre Dame, while my wife and children and I wait here in a barren apartment.
 The State Department's reasoning remains a mystery. For some time I have been considered a controversial figure in France; but this was well known by the American government when I received the visa in the spring. I have been accused of engaging in ''double talk'' -- that is, of delivering a gentle message in French and English, and a radical, violent one in Arabic. 
 My detractors have tried to demonstrate that I have links with extremists, that I am an anti-Semite and that I despise women. Repeatedly I have denied these assertions, and asked my critics to show evidence from my writings and public comments. Their failure to do so has had little effect: I am repeatedly confronted with magazine articles and Web postings repeating these accusations as facts and fabricating new ones. 
 And now the web of lies has spread across the Atlantic Ocean. The most damaging accusations were in an article in Vanity Fair claiming that I had written the preface to a volume of essays that endorsed the stoning of women caught in adultery. Actually, the book condemned the practice as un-Islamic. 
 I admit that my intellectual project is inherently controversial. My goal is to foster communities within the Islamic world that are seeking a path between their often bitter experience with some American and European policies on the one hand, and the unacceptable violence of Islamic extremists on the other. I understand, share and publicly discuss many of the Muslim criticisms of ''Western'' governments, including the deleterious worldwide effects of unregulated American consumerism.
 I find current American policies toward the Middle East misguided and counterproductive, a position I believe I share with millions of Americans and Europeans. Yet I have also criticized many so-called Islamic governments, including that of Saudi Arabia, for their human rights violations and offenses against human dignity, personal freedom and pluralism.
 My more specific stances have also raised hackles in France. For example, I strongly oppose France's new law banning female students from wearing head scarves, although on general human rights grounds rather than because I am a Muslim. (I condemn the kidnapping of two French journalists in Iraq and think the French government should not submit to the blackmail of the kidnappers, who say they will kill the captives unless the ban is overturned.) 
 I was also accused of anti-Semitism after I criticized some leading French intellectuals -- including Bernard-Henri Levy and Alain Finkielkraut -- for abandoning France's noble traditions of universalism and personal freedom because of their anxiety over Muslim immigration and their support for Israel. 
 The fact is, in the more than 20 books, 700 articles and 170 audio tapes I have produced, one will find no double talk, but a consistent set of themes, and an insistence that my fellow Muslims unequivocally condemn radical views and acts of extremism. 
 Just days after 9/11, I gave an interview calling on Muslims to condemn the attacks and to acknowledge that the terrorists betrayed the Islamic message. I have denounced anti-Semitism, criticizing Muslims who do not differentiate between the Israeli-Palestinian conflict as a political issue and the unacceptable rejection of individual Jews because of their religion and heritage. I have called for a spiritual reformation that will lead to an Islamic feminism. I reject every kind of mistreatment of women, including domestic violence, forced marriage and female circumcision.
 My opponents also accuse me of being the grandson of Hassan al-Banna, the founder of the radical Muslim Brotherhood movement in Egypt. I plead guilty to this charge. My response is: am I to be judged by the words and deeds of an ancestor?
 Those critics obsessed with my genealogy ought to examine my intellectual pedigree, which includes advanced study of Descartes, Kant and Nietzsche, among others. They should examine the time I have spent working in poverty-stricken areas with the Dalai Lama, Mother Teresa and the Brazilian human-rights leader Dom Helder Camara, as well as with countless other Christians and Jews, agnostics and atheists. 
 For 20 years, I have dedicated myself to studying Islamic scripture, Western and Eastern philosophies and societies, and built an identity that is truly Western and truly Muslim. I make no apologies for taking a critical look at both Islam and the West; in doing so I am being true to my faith and to the ethics of my Swiss citizenship. I believe Muslims can remain faithful to their religion and be able, from within pluralistic and democratic societies, to oppose all injustices.
 I also feel it is vital that Muslims stop blaming others and indulging in victimization. We are responsible for reforming our societies. On the other hand, blindly supporting American or European policies should not be the only acceptable political stance for Muslims who seek to be considered progressive and moderate.
 In the Arab and Islamic world, one hears a great deal of legitimate criticism of American foreign policy. This is not to be confused with a rejection of American values. Rather, the misgivings are rooted in five specific grievances: the feeling that the United States role in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is unbalanced; the longstanding American support of authoritarian regimes in Islamic states and indifference to genuine democratic movements (particularly those that have a religious bent); the belief that Washington's policies are driven by short-term economic and geostrategic interests; the willingness of some prominent Americans to tolerate Islam-bashing at home; and the use of military force as the primary means of establishing democracy. 
 Instead of war, the Arab and Muslim worlds seek evidence of a lasting and substantive commitment by the United States to policies that would advance public education, equitable trade and mutually profitable economic and cultural partnerships. For this to occur, America first has to trust Muslims, genuinely listen to their hopes and grievances, and allow them to develop their own models of pluralism and democracy.
 Simply sponsoring a few Arabic TV and radio channels will not lead to real changes in Muslims' perceptions. Instead, America's only chance of making peace with the Islamic world depends on consistency between words and actions, and the development of cross-cultural trust over time. 
 I believe Western Muslims can make a critical difference in the Muslim majority world. To do this, we must become full, independent Western citizens, working with others to address social, economic and political problems. However, we can succeed only if Westerners do not cast doubt on our loyalty every time we criticize Western governments. Not only do our independent voices enrich Western societies, they are the only way for Western Muslims to be credible in Arab and Islamic countries so that we can help bring about freedom and democracy. That is the message I advocate. I do not understand how it can be judged as a threat to America.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Janusz Kapusta) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (90%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); RELIGION IN SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (77%); JOURNALISM (69%); WRITERS (65%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (63%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (60%) Colleges and Universities; Islam; Foreign Study, Teaching and Travel; Travel Restrictions; Teachers and School Employees

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (91%) University of Notre Dame

PERSON: Tariq Ramadan

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH BEND, IN, USA (90%) INDIANA, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (68%) UNITED STATES (96%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPE (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2004



13 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1418 words

HEADLINE: It's 1968 in Kentucky: Two Days of Political Theater in the Original Settings

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO

DATELINE: WHITESBURG, Ky. 

 BODY:
When John Malpede, a performance artist from Los Angeles, asked a small-town Kentucky lawyer named Jack Faust to play the lead role in his latest project, ''RFK in EKY,'' Mr. Faust was flattered but perplexed. 
 There was, first off, the matter of his appearance. Mr. Faust, an amiable 55-year-old with silvery hair and a paunch, looks nothing like the man he was to play: the fiery, athletically trim, 43-year-old Robert F. Kennedy of 1968.
 ''I told him I thought I could play Teddy Kennedy,'' Mr. Faust said. 
 More significantly, Mr. Faust was struggling to understand ''RFK in EKY,'' Mr. Malpede's attempt to recreate Kennedy's two-day War on Poverty tour of eastern Kentucky in February 1968, just a month before he declared his candidacy for president and four months before he was assassinated. 
 If it was drama, it seemed nothing like the roles that Mr. Faust had performed in community theater in nearby Hazard. But Mr. Malpede liked Mr. Faust's style and encouraged him to read transcripts of Mr. Kennedy's speeches and hearings from 36 years ago. As he did, Mr. Faust experienced a breakthrough: the issues that people worried about in 1968 -- war, poverty and the environment -- still weigh heavily on peoples' minds today. 
 ''There were so many parallels between what was going on in Vietnam and Iraq today, it was almost eerie,'' Mr. Faust said.
 Mr. Malpede could not have summed up the purpose of his project any better. From its beginnings three years ago, Mr. Malpede, whose work often focuses on the poor, wanted to encourage local people to think about their socioeconomic conditions, and ways they could improve them. Recreating Mr. Kennedy's trip, which many people remember fondly, seemed an ideal way to stimulate that kind of discussion, Mr. Malpede said.
 ''Kennedy's visit provided a platform for local people to talk about issues like poverty and economic development,'' Mr. Malpede, 59, said. ''Our program has provided a trigger for people to express what that moment means to them. It has engendered conversations without our having to pull teeth.''
 He offers this example: A woman was rehearsing a scene in which she plays a nurse concerned about hunger when she suddenly exclaimed, ''But this still goes on today!''
 Though the presidential campaign might make his project seem more topical, Mr. Malpede said he did not plan it that way. He conceived the re-enactment before the invasion of Iraq. But the parallels that the actors are drawing between Kennedy's Vietnam context and today's fighting have added a rich new vein of historical relevance to the performance, he said. 
 ''Reality has been accommodating to us,'' Mr. Malpede said.
 He is producing the project with his wife, Henriette Brouwers, in conjunction with Appalshop, an arts and media organization here in Whitesburg, a town of 1,600 in the heart of the eastern Kentucky coal country. It will be staged from Sept. 8 to 11 at locations from Vortex to Prestonsburg. A schedule events is available on the group's Web site, www.appalshop.org.
 Mr. Kennedy, then a Democratic senator from New York and chairman of a subcommittee with jurisdiction over employment and poverty programs, had come to eastern Kentucky to study how President Lyndon B. Johnson's War on Poverty was faring.
 But in his two field hearings, in Vortex and Neon, witnesses veered off into an array of regional problems, from environmental degradation to unsafe working conditions to inadequate schools. Between hearings, Kennedy stopped at a one-room schoolhouse, spoke to college students, visited a strip mine and chatted with clumps of people on street corners. 
 All the way, he was trailed by a caravan of news reporters who saw the trip as a prelude to a presidential campaign. They captured Kennedy's encounters with regular Kentuckians and, almost inadvertently, gave national voice to Appalachia's woes. 
 Mr. Malpede has tried to exploit the cache of historical material from Kennedy's tour -- photographs, news articles, oral histories, letters and hearing transcripts -- in a variety of ways. First, he is restaging several of the stops, including two hearings, a speech at Alice Lloyd College and visits to a schoolhouse and a strip mine.
 There were will also be a film presentation, an exhibition of Kennedy memorabilia and talks on Kennedy and the War on Poverty by Loyal Jones, the former director of the Appalachian Center at Berea College, and Peter Edelman, a former Kennedy aide who is now a law professor at Georgetown University.
 Portions of the four-day event will also be broadcast on Appalshop's FM radio station, which is available on the Internet at www.appalshop.org, will be featuring period music to help set the atmosphere. Mr. Malpede also plans to archive much of the memorabilia on his Web site. 
 This is not, Mr. Malpede is the first to acknowledge, a big-budget re-enactment with details honed to every narrow tie and beehive bouffant. (It will cost about $300,000, raised by Mr. Malpede and Michael Hunt, formerly of Appalshop, from foundations.) The actors are amateurs, and some have never performed before. The costumes come from churches, rummage sales and attics. A few 1968-vintage cars may be provided by participants in a classic car show. Daily pancake breakfasts will serve as makeup and coiffure calls.
 One intriguing question is just who will be in the audience. Mr. Malpede says he expects several dozen people, including some former Kennedy aides, to fly into Kentucky to see the production. There will also be crowds of students at the college and high school where scenes will be re-enacted.
 But will people come off the street to hear Kennedy's speech at the Floyd County courthouse in Prestonsburg? And will anyone actually drive to the ridgetop where performers will tour an active strip mine?
 Mr. Malpede does not really know, since he is not selling tickets. (All the events are free.) But if the performances turn into a chaotic jumble, with cars chasing the performers down narrow mountain roads, that would at least be historically accurate.
 In 1968, ''it never occurred to us that there would be that many reporters,'' said Mr. Edelman, who helped plan Kennedy's trip. ''We had a caravan of what seemed like 50 cars that was following us through rural roads snaking through the hills.''
 Almost as intriguing are the diverse motives of the actors who are devoting so many hours to this extravaganza, all for no pay. 
 Samuel P. Chandler, a 53-year-old lawyer from Jenkins, was attracted to the project because he vividly remembers skipping school -- and being suspended for it -- to see Kennedy. He was moved by the testimony he heard that day in Neon, and now will read the part of Judge George Wooton, who gave an impassioned speech about the paradox of poverty in the coal-rich region.
 John Childers, a 17-year-old high school senior, was captivated by the testimony of a student named Tommy Duff, whom he will play on Sept. 10. 
 Mr. Duff had been expelled for documenting decrepit high school conditions in his muckraking school newsletter. ''If I do continue to fight for better education,'' Mr. Duff told Kennedy, ''will you fight with me?''
 ''He was a very powerful figure,'' Mr. Childers said after a recent rehearsal. ''His anger just seeped into the crowd.''
 Roy Crawford, 52, whose family owns a mineral holding company, is no great fan of Kennedy-style liberalism. But he wanted to play the part of David A. Zegeer, a mine superintendent who testified about the good things that mining companies had done, from opening hospitals to financing pension plans.
 ''I thought no one else would do justice to the part,'' said Mr. Crawford, who like Mr. Faust performs in local community theater. ''Zegeer told a part of the story that was being forgotten.''
 Mr. Malpede said he was thrilled by the mixed motivations. Though he said he tried not to impose his political leanings on his performers, his views seem clear from his choices of materials. 
 He founded the Los Angeles Poverty Department, a performance group that mainly features homeless people. Its current production is ''Agents and Assets,'' based on Congressional hearings into assertions, later discredited, that the C.I.A. had helped take crack to Southern California. 
 ''This is one of the few re-enactments I know of that does not involve war or conflict,'' Mr. Malpede said of ''RFK in EKY.'' ''That is the conventional notion of theater. This is about ideas. It is like putting worms in your garden so it can breathe.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Robert F. Kennedy talking with schoolchildren in eastern Kentucky on Feb. 14, 1968. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. E1)
Above, recording a rehearsal at the Appalshop Theater in Whitesburg, Ky., earlier this month. Below, Robert F. Kennedy conducting a hearing in the Fleming-Neon High School gymnasium on Feb. 14, 1968. (Photo by Shawn Poynter for The New York Times)
(Photo by Steve Cawood)
 John Malpede directing actors during a rehearsal. (Photo by Shawn Poynter for The New York Times)(pg. E5)Map of Kentucky highlighting Whitesburg and other cities. (pg. E5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (88%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); TRANSCRIPTS (66%) Theater

ORGANIZATION: Appalshop (Orgn)

PERSON: John Malpede; Robert Francis (1925-68) Kennedy; James Dao

GEOGRAPHIC: KENTUCKY, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (92%); VIET NAM (69%) Kentucky

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2004



14 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 1; National Desk; THE REPUBLICANS: THE CONVENTION IN NEW YORK -- REVIEW; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 585 words

HEADLINE: With Voices, Drums and Even Silence, Artists Take a Stand

BYLINE: By ALLAN KOZINN

 BODY:
Entering Washington Square Church for ''The Republic in Ruins,'' a collaborative performance piece that opened last evening as an angry counterpoint to the Republican National Convention, a visitor passes two pillars of television monitors showing people of all ages and races reciting the Pledge of Allegiance, and banners with quotations about protest and citizenship by, among others, James Madison and Gunter Grass.
 The program, assembled by Mouths Wide Open, a group that encourages artistic responses to current affairs, included performances by classical musicians, avant-gardists, jazz players, folk singers and performers who touch with several of those styles, at least peripherally. Together with a handful of speeches, their contributions were offered as a deliberately nonhomogenous statement of opposition to the Bush administration. 
 This protest included a series of silent tableaus, staged by the Collateral Damage Ensemble. In ''Child's Play,'' young boys digging in the sand find spent shell casings. In ''Loss,'' two women prepare a body for a funeral. These sketches were accompanied by a slow-moving, dark-hued electronic work, ''Dismal Ambience for the Times,'' by Bruce Odland.
 Electronics figured into several other pieces as well. Vijay Iyer's ''Refugees of the Republic,'' a New Agey piano score, was accompanied by a tape of colorful electronic sounds. Jerome Kitzke, a pianist and vocalist, used amplification effectively in the opening scat section of his ''Mad Coyote Madly Sings,'' a spiky piano work during which he also recited fragments of works by several poets. 
 ''Resignation to Alarm,'' a chamber piece by Derek Bermel, was essentially as its title suggests -- a slow, moody work that grows increasingly tense until the clarinet, violin and cello lines virtually shriek. That afforded a perfect segue into a pounding percussion piece by Kenny Wollesen and Live Human Subjects, and another Collateral Damage sketch that was both scary and a little silly: four actors in skull masks galloped slowly across the church on toy broomstick horses (as the four horsemen of the apocalypse) labeled Bush, Cheney, Rumsfeld and Ashcroft. 
 In purely artistic terms, the most affecting performance was the Roerich String Quartet's incandescent reading of the slow movement from Beethoven's Quartet No. 15 (Op. 132), a work written at a time and place far from the current troubles. But Beethoven was an idealist who opposed tyranny, and in the context of a discussion about curtailed civil liberties, elective war and a striving toward empire -- the subjects of several of the speeches -- it seemed entirely at home. 
 The speakers included the author Jonathan Schell, who touched on environmental and economic issues, but mainly criticized the Republican Party's amassing of power in recent years, and maintained that creating a global empire will erode democracy both abroad and at home. Two Columbia University professors spoke as well. Patricia J. Williams offered personal reflections on the curtailment of liberty, including racial and ethnic profiling and open-ended incarceration. And Hamid Dabashi delivered an incendiary diatribe, propelled by hatred of Israel and the United States -- not just the current government, but the culture in general -- that seemed out of place in this program. Yet it drew a standing ovation. The finale, in which Dominic Veconi, a boy soprano, sang ''How Can I Keep from Singing?'' seemed even stranger coming immediately after Mr. Dabashi's speech. 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Members of the Collateral Damage Ensemble last night in ''Loss.'' (Photo by Hiroyuki Ito for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (89%); THEATER (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); JAZZ & BLUES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (75%); MUSIC (75%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (75%); PERCUSSION INSTRUMENTS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); ELECTIONS (72%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (70%); WRITERS (69%); REFUGEES (67%); POETRY (64%) Theater; Reviews; Presidential Election of 2004; Conventions, National (US)

PERSON: Allan Kozinn

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2004



15 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1088 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Loses Trade Cases and Faces Penalties

BYLINE: By PAUL MELLER and ELIZABETH BECKER; Paul Meller reported from Brussels for this article and Elizabeth Becker from Washington.

DATELINE: BRUSSELS, Aug. 31 

 BODY:
The World Trade Organization on Tuesday authorized the European Union and seven other leading American trading partners to impose more than $150 million in retaliatory sanctions on exports from the United States. The ruling comes after Congress refused for two years to repeal a tariff subsidy for American companies that the W.T.O. found to be in violation of global trade laws.
 The decision by the trade organization, based in Geneva, is the latest example of several cases where Washington has been found to be in breach of international trade rules. The United States lost a battle on a complaint by Brazil and other developing countries over $3 billion in cotton subsidies and Congress has declined to rewrite legislation that provided what the W.T.O. found to be an unfair tax giveaway to companies doing business abroad. 
 Adding to the problems for American companies, the W.T.O. ruled on Monday and Tuesday against the United States and in favor of Canada in cases involving Canadian wheat and lumber. 
 The measure found to be illegal under global trade rules, known in Washington shorthand as the Byrd amendment, allows American companies rather than the government to receive the duties that Washington imposed on foreign companies deemed to be unfairly dumping products in the United States. 
 Tuesday's ruling gives the 25-nation European Union -- along with Canada, Japan, Brazil, Chile, India, South Korea and Mexico -- the right to impose higher tariffs on their choice of products. The tariffs could be worth slightly more than 70 percent of the value of the money received by American companies.
 It is not clear how soon the trading partners may move to carry out countermeasures against the United States. ''The aim is to get the United States to comply with the rules,'' said Arancha Gonzalez, a spokeswoman for Pascal Lamy, the European Union's trade commissioner, ''not to impose sanctions.''
 Similarly, Japan's economy and trade minister, Shoichi Nakagawa, told reporters in Tokyo on Tuesday that Japan would wait until at least the fall before seeking approval of specific actions. 
 ''Japan strongly hopes the United States will repeal the Byrd amendment at an early date,'' Mr. Nakagawa said, ''so that we can avoid invoking our right to take countermeasures.''
 Coming as the presidential campaign is gathering force, the various setbacks for the Bush administration were seized upon by Democrats as proof of what they see as the White House's poor record on trade.
 ''These decisions reflect the failure of the Bush administration to stand strong and tall on trade remedies,'' said Representative Sander M. Levin of Michigan, the ranking Democrat on the House Ways and Means trade subcommittee. 
 The administration, which supports repeal of the Byrd amendment, argues that it has initiated more anti-dumping cases through the Commerce Department than the administration of President Bill Clinton and has also done more to help American exporters by other means. 
 ''Anyone can count up lawsuits at the W.T.O.,'' said Christopher Padilla, a spokesman for the United States trade representative, ''but we prefer to look at results.''
 Trade, a persistent issue in American politics, weighs particularly heavy this year in swing states, where manufacturing job losses have convinced some that outsourcing to foreign countries with cheap labor threatens to undermine the nation's economic health.
 Global competition has also fueled questions about trade policies and whether international trade laws are helping or hurting American companies and workers.
 The dispute over who receives dumping tariffs is modest compared with a broader fight with other countries over politically motivated steel tariffs imposed early in President Bush's tenure and the still-unresolved battle over tax breaks for American companies overseas.
 The steel tariffs are at the center of the tariff dispute, since they represent the bulk of the money given to American companies.
 But the amounts involved in Tuesday's ruling could substantially increase because the United States has collected billions of dollars in duties on other products -- including lumber from Canada, shrimp from Thailand, and bedroom furniture from China -- that have not yet been passed on to American companies. 
 In the even larger dispute over corporate tax breaks, the W.T.O. permitted the European Union to impose more than $2 billion in penalties on American companies. Only about $315 million of that has been imposed so far.
 In that case, the Europeans aimed the sanctions at American products that could easily be replaced by imports from another country.
 Like the offending United States tax law, a repeal of the Byrd amendment would require the assent of Congress.
 Global trade rules permit countries to defend their domestic markets against imported goods sold at what is deemed to be unfairly low prices. But the W.T.O. concluded that the Byrd amendment punished importers twice by handing over the punitive duties -- mostly imposed so far against foreign makers of ball bearings and other steel products -- to local companies making the same products.
 ''Trade defense instruments are a legitimate tool,'' Mr. Lamy said, ''but they have to follow W.T.O. rules.''
 But American officials say that giving the tariff payments to the companies affected made sense because they were the ones most directly hurt by the unfair trade practices.
 Mr. Padilla of the trade representative's office said the United States would comply with the W.T.O. ruling. The Bush administration, he said, ''will work closely with Congress to do so in a way that supports American jobs and American workers.''
 ''It's important to remember that this decision will have zero effect on our ability to apply trade laws and impose duties on countries that unfairly dump products in the U.S.,'' Mr. Padilla continued. ''It only affects what we do with the duties.''
 In a related case decided Tuesday, the United States lost its appeal of a ruling on how it imposes dumping duties on Canadian softwood lumber.
 On Monday, the W.T.O. ruled against the United States in a separate dispute with Canada over farm subsidies. Washington had argued that Canadian wheat farmers are indirectly and unfairly subsidized by the Canadian government through boards that buy and sell wheat and barley produced in Canada's western provinces at fixed prices.
 The Bush administration said in a statement that it had won an earlier W.T.O. decision against Canada on the way it distributes its grain. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Trade relations with Canada, covering a wide range of competingproducts, have been unusually strained. Above, steel exports on a ship at Cleveland. Below, logs are cut up at a lumberyard in Canal Flats, British Columbia. In the last two days, the World Trade Organization has ruled in Canada's favor in cases involving wheat and lumber. (Photo by Norm Betts/Bloomberg News)
(Photo by John Quinn/Bloomberg News)(pg. C1)
Cargo containers with export goods piled high at the port of Yokohama, Japan. Last month, Japanese Finance Ministry officials said both exports and imports had risen to record levels in the first half of 2004. (Photo by Everett Kennedy Brown/European Pressphoto Agency)
 The European trade chief, Pascal Lamy, in Brussels yesterday. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. C9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ANTIDUMPING LAWS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (70%); APPROVALS (67%) International Trade and World Market; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Law and Legislation ; Grain; International Trade and World Market; Wheat; Wood and Wood Products; Customs (Tariff)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (93%) World Trade Organization; European Union

PERSON: PASCAL LAMY (58%); SANDER M LEVIN (57%) Paul Meller; Elizabeth Becker

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (88%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (54%) KANTO, JAPAN (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (56%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (96%); JAPAN (95%); CANADA (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); BRAZIL (93%); BELGIUM (92%); SWITZERLAND (92%); INDIA (79%) Europe; United States; Canada; Japan; Brazil; Chile; India; South Korea; Mexico

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2004



16 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: Late Rally for Many Shares; Intel Limits Nasdaq's Rise

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks rose yesterday as a late rally lifted the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index for the fifth day in six. 
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index climbed 5.09 points, or 0.5 percent, to 1,104.24. The Dow Jones industrial average added 51.40 points, or 0.5 percent, to 10,173.92. The Nasdaq composite index gained 1.61 points, or 0.1 percent, to 1,838.10 as a decline in Intel limited the advance. 
 The S.&P. 500 finished August with a gain of 0.2 percent, its third advance in four months; the Dow average rose 0.3 percent and the Nasdaq lost 2.6 percent. 
 Benchmark indexes reached their 2004 lows in August as surging oil prices and bearish comments from technology companies raised concerns about slowing economic growth. Still, the S.&P. 500 has climbed 3.9 percent from its 2004 low on Aug. 12, as oil prices have fallen. 
 ''There's all the room in the world to be optimistic about the market,'' said Joseph Zock, who helps manage $1.2 billion as president of Capital Management Associates in New York. ''You have low interest rates, good corporate earnings and solid employment.''
 Seven stocks advanced for every three that declined on the New York Stock Exchange. More than 1.1 billion shares changed hands on the Big Board, 13 percent below average for the last three months.
 Activity on the New York Stock Exchange in the last two trading days has been the slowest of the year as the Republican National Convention came to New York and investors went on vacation before the Labor Day holiday on Monday.
 Stocks initially slumped after the Conference Board said its consumer sentiment index dropped to 98.2 in August from a revised 105.7 in July. The S.&P. 500 began rising in the final two hours of trading. Some investors submitted computer-guided orders to purchase shares, said Keith Keenan, head of trading at Wall Street Access, which trades for 60 mutual funds and hedge funds in New York.
 ''It takes just a very small buy program to essentially move the market because you don't have many participants,'' he said. ''I'm not hearing any fundamental reason for this rally.''
 An index of 27 energy-related companies had the largest gain among the S.&P. 500's two dozen industry groups, rising 1.9 percent.
 Intel, which will give a midquarter update tomorrow after the market closes, slid 31 cents, to $21.29. Mark Edelstone of Morgan Stanley reduced his revenue prediction for the third quarter to $8.7 billion from $8.8 billion. He also cut his full-year profit estimate by 4.2 percent, to $1.15 a share.
 Christopher Danely, an analyst with J.P. Morgan Securities, reduced Intel's revenue estimate for the quarter to $8.8 billion from $8.9 billion and wrote in a note to clients: ''We remain most concerned with the inventory bubble at Intel as inventory has risen to 90 days, the highest level since 1995.''
 An index of semiconductor stocks had the biggest drop among the S.&P. 500 industry groups, losing 0.9 percent.
 Prices of Treasury securities rose yesterday, helping them post their biggest monthly gain in almost a year, after indexes measuring consumer confidence and Chicago-area manufacturing fell more than forecast.
 Yields, which move inversely to their prices, are at the lowest since the beginning of April. Signs that a second-quarter slowdown may last longer than anticipated are leading to speculation that the Federal Reserve will slow the pace of increases in its interest-rate target, now at 1.5 percent.
 By late in the day, the price of the benchmark 10-year note rose 17/32, to 101 3/32. The yield fell to 4.11 percent, from 4.18 percent on Monday.

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.889
High Rate: 1.425
Coupon Yield: 1.449
Low Rate: 1.400
Median Rate: 1.410
Total applied for: $48,220,599
Accepted: $25,212,819
Noncompetitive: $46,238

The four-week bills mature Sept. 30, 2004.

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.942
Investment Rate: 1.513
High Rate: 1.480
Low Rate: 1.400
Median Rate: 1.470
Total applied for: $38,794,000
Accepted: $16,000,407
Noncompetitive: $-0-

The 14-day cash management bills mature July 15, 2004.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)Graph: ''Treasury Yield Curve''Yields of selected Treasury securities. Short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale.Graph tracks Treasury Securities for yesterday and one month ago. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (74%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); COMPANY EARNINGS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); PUBLIC DEBT (68%); INTEREST RATES (66%); MUTUAL FUNDS (66%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (63%); US LABOR DAY (63%); HEDGE FUNDS (60%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (50%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates

COMPANY: STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (92%); INTEL CORP (84%); CAPITAL MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATES INC (55%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (50%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (84%); JPM (NYSE) (50%); JPM (LSE) (50%); 8634 (TSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (92%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (92%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (55%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2004



17 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1907 words

HEADLINE: Gray Kunz: Out of the Fire, Into the Frying Pan

BYLINE: By FLORENCE FABRICANT

 BODY:
GRAY KUNZ surveyed the most theatrical kitchen in the city. Sleek Molteni burners, ovens and cornflower-blue lava stone counters stretched more than 60 feet before a panorama of Central Park. 
 In two weeks, if all goes well, this will become the backdrop for Mr. Kunz's long-awaited culinary performance, when Cafe Gray opens on the third floor of the Time Warner Center. 
 ''I look at this kitchen and scratch my head,'' Mr. Kunz said. 
 ''How,'' he added, ''did I finally do this?''
 He was supremely confident about his future when he left Lespinasse in 1998 after earning a four-star rating in The New York Times and a reputation as a brilliant technician, a demanding perfectionist who infused his cutting-edge French food with Asian flavors. But as the years wore on with no Gray Kunz restaurant, many in the food world thought he would never open his own place, stymied perhaps by his own unreasonable expectations. Their predictions almost proved true. Now 49, he stumbled from one dead-end to the next for more than five years, an exile from the kitchen longer than any other top New York chef.
 If Mr. Kunz, burly and still cherubic looking despite rimless granny glasses and years of emotional wear and tear, is back in the limelight, it is without the four-star ambitions. 
 At Cafe Gray, the etched glass partitions have been installed, the leafy brown and cream carpeting is being laid, the staff has been hired and trained. But there will be no tablecloths, no tasting menus, no intricate creations with elaborate garnishes. He has simplified his classic dishes and will be serving breakfast, lunch and dinner (as well as snack food from a kiosk in the third-floor lobby). 
 The size of Cafe Gray, a European-style grand cafe designed by David Rockwell that cost more than $6 million, is a step down from Lespinasse. There are 225 seats, at capacity, and 25 cooks. At Lespinasse, Mr. Kunz led a team of 40 cooks and the dining room had just 88 seats. 
 Still, Mr. Kunz says he's back where he belongs. ''I'm in my element now,'' he said as he brushed his hand lovingly across the edge of the stove top and talked about the cost-cutting that let him afford it. ''It has been bittersweet for me to arrive here, having learned that it's not a fairyland. I think that's why it took me so long.''
 The setting is spectacular. The dining room sweeps gently down to the kitchen, which is placed with a vast expanse of windows beyond it. It was Mr. Kunz's idea to put an open kitchen in front of the windows facing the dining room. ''Rockwell thought I was nuts at first,'' Mr. Kunz said.
 The stainless steel workplace is as much a part of the design as the beveled mirrors and graceful lavender floral motif that is repeated on the tile floor in the bar and on the backs of banquettes.
 The menu will be revised seasonally, and, typical for Mr. Kunz, will include Asian influences. A blanquette de veau planned for the fall menu will be simmered in coconut milk, not cream. Shrimp will be dressed with a kaffir lime remoulade. The restaurants in Vienna and in Eastern Europe he visited last year will also have an impact. Diners will find pumpkin oil, elderflower essence and house-cured sauerkraut on the menu, and the house white wine will be a gruner veltliner. 
 Mr. Kunz is also nostalgic for some of the more elaborate dishes he prepared in the past, like scallops with complex curry flavorings. Now, despite the lack of formality, he does not plan to compromise his standards. ''Maintaining consistency when you're doing volume is the hardest part,'' Mr. Kunz said. ''I worry about overreaching to do this volume.''
 Even during the practice cooking leading up to the opening, Mr. Kunz has been a demanding master. He is the first one there in the morning, patrolling the kitchen restlessly. He prods lamb sizzling on the plancha, insists that the shallots be sliced just so, checks just exactly how much jasmine sauce his chefs have spooned onto the cured yellowtail, and quietly admonishes a young pastry cook who has dipped a silver spoon into raspberry coulis. ''Never use tableware in the kitchen,'' he instructs. The last to leave at night, he makes sure the garbage receptacles are tucked away. Throughout the construction he managed to keep the kitchen area impeccable. 
 From the moment he left Lespinasse, at the St. Regis Hotel, until about a year ago, when he secured new backers and the Time Warner lease was signed, his income was sporadic at best. His wife, Nicole Kunz, an administrator at the United Nations International School, did not earn enough to support them and their two teenage children. Gradually, he said, 20 years of savings evaporated.
 The income from the book he and Peter Kaminsky wrote, ''The Elements of Taste'' (Little, Brown, 2001), helped a little, as did some catering projects. Mr. Kunz also became a consultant for Spice Market, participating in its development and opening, all the while taming his vision of the Next Big Restaurant.
 Mr. Kunz said he left Lespinasse after nearly eight years because he felt that he had reached a plateau. He said he began to be frustrated by the expense of running a restaurant in a hotel, and, with the union pay scale and the complexity of four-star cooking, never feeling in control of the costs. In October 1997 there was a well-publicized dispute with Local 6 of the Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees Union over the alleged verbal abuse of a hostess, which contributed to his decision. ''I was spending too much time in the human resources department instead of in the kitchen,'' he said.
 With other former four-star hotel chefs, including Daniel Boulud and Jean-Georges Vongerichten, opening their own places, he felt there was no reason he couldn't do the same. ''It was a dream I always had, going back 15, 20 years,'' he said.
 Mr. Kunz, who is Swiss, was born in Singapore, trained with Fredy Girardet in Crissier, Switzerland, and then returned to Asia. He spent most of his career working in hotel restaurants, at Plume in the former Regent hotel in Hong Kong and in New York at the Peninsula, before he was tapped to open Lespinasse. 
 When he left Lespinasse, he had eager backers and a good lease on Gansevoort Street, which would have made him a meatpacking district pioneer at a time when Keith McNally was just starting to build Pastis. But before the papers were signed, the landlord, William Gottlieb, suddenly died, the property became tied up in court -- it remains vacant -- and the chef's dream spiraled into nightmare.
 Over the next five years, Mr. Kunz and an ever-changing collection of investors considered and rejected Lever House, a place on North Moore Street in TriBeCa, a former restaurant on West Broadway in SoHo, a brownstone on the Upper East Side, the Time Hotel, the Carlton, and the former Broadway Diner on 55th Street.
 ''I raised a red flag on a few of the projects because they were too expensive, the economics didn't make sense and I could see that the costs would get out of hand,'' said Richard Bloch, the architect who designed Masa in the Time Warner Center and who started working with Mr. Kunz after Lespinasse. ''Then, a few times, Gray got cold feet.''
 Tony Fortuna, an owner of Lenox, who was the manager of Lespinasse when it opened, and remains a close friend, said that at Lespinasse a million dollar kitchen was built for Mr. Kunz, the first of its kind in New York, which helps to explain the chef's aspirations. 
 ''Gray is Swiss, so he wants everything to be perfect but this business doesn't work like that,'' Mr. Fortuna said. ''Sometimes you have to take a risk. I kept telling him to do something, like Jean-Georges did with Jo Jo when he left Lafayette.'' 
 Mr. Kunz admits that frequently his expectations did not match the reality of the marketplace: ''It was my own naivete. You can't have a sense of reality in the cocoon of a high-end hotel restaurant.''
 Gradually, Mr. Kunz began to lower his sights.
 At one point, Larry Finn, the executive chef at Cafe Gray, who has worked with Mr. Kunz on and off since 1999 on the book and on catering jobs, said he suggested opening a little place in Brooklyn. ''He thought about it, but he wasn't ready to do something like that,'' Mr. Finn said.
 ''I never gave up,'' Mr. Kunz said. ''But until the Time Warner project came about, it was a terrible, painful and frustrating process.'' 
 About a year ago, Mr. Kunz was offered the opportunity to open a restaurant on the third floor of the Time Warner Center, in a space that was originally intended as a store. With the financial support of Moshe Lax, an investor who is in the diamond business and who owns the Box Tree, and some other partners, he decided to go ahead. Mr. Kunz said he has put a little of his own money into the project. 
 Because the third floor of the building was intended to house more informal restaurants than those on the fourth floor like Per Se, Mr. Kunz decided to create a grand cafe on the Austrian model, more tailored than a French brasserie.
 Like four other restaurants in the Time Warner Center, Cafe Gray, which got a later start than most of the others, missed the building's opening date in February. It then zoomed over its budget, and securing additional financing stalled the work for many weeks. But Kenneth A. Himmel, president of Related Urban Development, which leases all the restaurant and retail space in the Time Warner Center, said the building is more expensive to build in than any other free-standing building in the city. 
 Mr. Kunz is monitoring the bottom line as carefully as he watches a cook drizzle hazelnut vinaigrette on a vegetable mille-feuille. ''I'm not going to have a dozen guys putting garnishes on the plates,'' Mr. Kunz insisted, ''especially now that I care which cleaning fluid may cost a penny less.'' 
 Still, the pastry chef, Chris Broberg, who was the pastry chef at Lespinasse and who turned down a number of job offers while waiting for Mr. Kunz to open something, will be stenciling the Cafe Gray logo onto the creamy bone china dessert plates with raspberry and cocoa powders. 
 Mr. Kunz said he plans to open with an Indian summer menu, after having to scrap the spring and summer menus, and to change his offerings quarterly. Certain ingredients, like walleyed pike, his celebrated short ribs and warm lobster salad will remain, but how they are presented will vary according to the seasons. 
 He estimated that a three-course dinner would cost around $65 per person, just for the food. Next year, Cafe Gray will also run a pair of food and wine kiosks, serving small composite plates of light food, in the third-floor lobby.
 Frannie Rabin, the manager of Cafe Gray, said that it is taking reservations for the main room's 120 seats once the restaurant opens. ''We have a data base with more than 1,000 names of people who have called, and we'll contact them,'' she said. 
 There will be about 30 seats at the bar for which reservations will not be accepted. A private dining room that will seat 70 may also be used for regular dining if needed. Mr. Kunz said the restaurant will begin serving lunch by early October, perhaps on a first-come-first-served basis. Breakfast would be added soon after.
 So Mr. Kunz will have concerns nearly every waking hour. ''His whole reputation is on the line,'' Mr. Himmel said. ''He's dealing with a lot of self-inflicted pressure. His single mission in life now is to make this a success.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A MAN WITH A MISSION -- Gray Kunz, left, in the kitchen of Cafe Gray at Columbus Circle. From left above, his skewered shrimp salad with pineapple and green mango remoulade
puffed-rice-crusted fluke with spinach
maple-syrup-simmered pork shank. (Photographs by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)
(Photo by Paxton for The New York Times)(pg. F1)
INSPIRED BY AUSTRIA -- Gray Kunz, left, in the beveled-glass dining room of Cafe Gray in the Time Warner Center. Above, baked pear with vanilla and fromage blanc sorbet. Right, chefs preparing yellow snapper. (Photographs by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)
 (Photo by Paxton for The New York Times)(pg. F6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (91%) Restaurants; Time Warner Center (NYC); Biographical Information

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (91%)

ORGANIZATION: Cafe Gray (NYC)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (91%)

PERSON: Florence Fabricant; Gray Kunz; David Rockwell

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2004



18 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 6; National Desk; THE REPUBLICANS: THE CONVENTION IN NEW YORK -- FAMILY MATTERS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1439 words

HEADLINE: Bush Family Reunites, Including The Asterisks

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET; Courtney Radsch contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
The quadrennial Bush family reunion known as the Republican National Convention is on again, and my how they've grown. 
 It seems like just yesterday that skinny George P. Bush, at 12, was reciting the Pledge of Allegiance at the 1988 convention, when his grandfather was nominated for president. After his turn as heartthrob on the 2000 campaign, there he was yesterday, newly married and a lawyer, exhorting the delegates -- in English and Spanish -- to rally behind his Uncle George.
 And after their volley of gently mocking one-liners at the convention last night, the days when Jenna and Barbara Bush, the president's 22-year-old twins, hid their light under a bushel seem like a distant memory, if for some delegates not an entirely unpleasant one.
 Now that there have been half a dozen such reunions, there is much that returns as warm and familiar: Ganny -- Barbara Bush -- still rolling her eyes at a women's gathering over those parachute jumps by Gampy, the 41st president; Doro Bush Koch delivering Maryland's delegates to her brother, George W. Bush, as she once did to her father; and those little things handed from generation to generation -- the squared jaws and beaked mouths, the stiff aristocratic hug, the Republican nomination, the interchangeable last and middle names, the hostility to any tax, including syntax. 
 Sprinkled through delegations from across the country, some 90 Bush relatives are here, the core of an unsurpassed vote-getting and fund-raising family machine. All these Bushes also broadcast a potent message: Through images of the family, this convention, like conventions past, is a testament to continuity and stability, to family values, to love. 
 It is largely by omission -- by faces missing from the convention hall, by things unsaid from the podium -- that the convention exposes the gaping differences in foreign and fiscal policy between the two most recent Republican presidents, between father and son.
 James A. Baker III, the 41st president's indispensable man, had ''traveling commitments'' and could not make it to New York, his office said. Richard G. Darman, an architect of that administration's fiscal restraint and tax increase, is on vacation in Martha's Vineyard. Richard N. Bond, the Republican chairman under the elder Mr. Bush, is settling a son in at college. 
 ''Been there,'' Mr. Bond said by telephone. ''Done that.''
 Brent Scowcroft, who helped the first President Bush conduct the first Persian Gulf war, is at work in his office in Washington. No one here talks much about that Wall Street Journal opinion column he wrote in August 2002 warning that a new war in Iraq did not seem to be justified by the threat posed by Saddam Hussein; would most likely be followed by a ''large-scale, long-term occupation''; and would ''seriously jeopardize, if not destroy, the global counterterrorist campaign we have undertaken.''
 Colin L. Powell, who has worked with both presidents and has evinced a leaning toward the multilateralism of the first, is also staying away, pleading the nonpolitical nature of his role as secretary of state. That consideration did not stop then-Secretary Baker from attending in 1992, though he was preparing to give up his post to manage the campaign.
 Condoleezza Rice, the national security adviser, also worked for the first President Bush and, like Mr. Powell, addressed the 2000 Republican National Convention. She is not scheduled to speak, but her spokesman said she may sit in the hall for the president's speech. 
 Though scorned at times as a weak-kneed moderate by the party faithful, the first President Bush was rapturously greeted when he arrived Monday evening in his box. 
 Yet neither of the prime-time speakers on the convention's first night -- Senator John McCain and former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani -- even recognized him in their speeches, let alone mentioned him in recalling their heroes or presidents past. . 
 The Presidents Bush ''are very different political leaders with different temperaments, different philosophies,'' said Peter Schweitzer, a research fellow at the Hoover Institution who is the author, with his wife, Rochelle, of ''The Bushes: Portrait of a Dynasty'' (Doubleday). 
 But, he said, family trumps policy. ''The Bushes are certainly a dynasty in the sense that the Kennedys are, but it's better to think of them as a brand name,'' he said, adding that the Bushes defined their brand not in terms of content but in terms of character traits like reliability.
 He said that in striking out in his own direction, George W. Bush was in fact following a family tradition, established when his father, himself the son of a Connecticut senator, departed for Texas and his own Congressional career. 
 ''One reason they are such a successful dynasty is that they are cooperative,'' Mr. Schweitzer said, ''but they are also competitive, and that goes not just between siblings but between father and son.''
 George W. Bush has repeatedly said he does not turn to his father for counsel, saying almost ritualistically in interviews that his father is simply not as informed as advisers to the president. 
 ''It doesn't hurt his feelings because he knows they're more up to speed than he is,'' Mr. Bush told Fox News last year. Similarly, he said he spoke to his brother Jeb, the governor of Florida, ''maybe once a month.'' 
 Pressed as to why he would not speak more often to the governor of such an important state, Mr. Bush noted that he was busy and said of his family, ''We are not, you know, pick-up-the-phone, chit-chat people.''
 Jeb Bush is notably not here. The official reason is that he is coping with Hurricane Charley, but his absence also keeps him out of his brother's footlights and dampens speculation during the convention about a dynastic succession in 2008.
 Former President Bush is not scheduled to speak at the convention, in keeping with a practice he established in 1992. ''He doesn't believe that former presidents should speak at the convention,'' said his spokeswoman, Jean Becker. ''He believes it should be about the current generation and future generations.''
 Former President Bush is speaking on the margins and granting television interviews, playing a role less as statesman or policy maker than as paterfamilias. It is the elder Mr. and Mrs. Bush -- ''the 41's,'' as family members call them -- who are the hosts of a private dinner on Wednesday evening at a Manhattan hotel for the relatives at the convention. 
 John Ellis, a cousin of George W. Bush and a partner in the New York venture capital firm GH Venture Partners, distinguished the elder Mr. Bush by referring to him as ''big George.'' He said family members sometimes referred to the men by their single differing initial -- H. or W. But he said he always addressed both men by the same name, ''Mr. President.''
 Referring to the family compound in Kennebunkport, Me., Mr. Ellis said, ''If you go up to Maine in the summer you see a lot of the family, and the ones that you miss, it's good to see at something like this.'' 
 He added, ''George Herbert Walker Bush was nominated by four conventions, and W. has been nominated by two, and this might be the last one, so I guess it's special in that way.'' Asked if Jeb Bush might not be nominated in 2008, he said, ''I don't know if he wants to run, and I don't know how many Bushes can run for President.''
 Former President Bush has said he is less interested in big issues these days than in the success of his sons. Asked by CNN if, given his own defeat in 1992 after one term in office, he had any advice for George W. Bush, Mr. Bush replied, ''No, but I keep reading in the papers that his staff has gained a lot from my defeat, which is good.''
 As president, George H.W. Bush kept his extended family in the spotlight, roughhousing with his grandchildren, chucking horseshoes with his four sons and daughter or fishing with his siblings. The present President Bush has not been seen as much with his extended family.
 But the spotlight has, inevitably, found his immediate family -- and they appear increasingly to seek it out. Like Barbara Bush before her, Laura Bush has taken an assertive, public role. 
 The Bushes' daughters have been making daily, brief appearances at the convention. Like George P. Bush, they have stepped into the family role of outreach to the particular constituency they might appeal to. 
 It is working, at least to judge by the unsolicited declaration of one volunteer at the convention, Steven Szaronos, a 21-year-old senior and a member of the Miami University of Ohio College Republicans. ''Barbara Bush is the hotter twin,'' he confided.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Seated together yesterday, from left, Jenna and Barbara Bush, Bob Dole, and George and Barbara Bush. (Photo by Vincent Laforet/The New York Times)(pg. P6)
 Barbara, left, and Jenna Bush introducing their mother last night. (Photo by Vincent Laforet/The New York Times)(pg. P1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); BONDS (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (74%); IRAQ WAR (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); TAX LAW (64%); DESERT STORM (62%); ECONOMIC POLICY (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%) Presidential Election of 2004; Conventions, National (US)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (56%) James Bennet; Courtney C Radsch; George W (Pres) Bush; James A III Baker; Richard Darman; Brent Scowcroft

GEOGRAPHIC: MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (69%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%); GULF STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2004



19 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1218 words

HEADLINE: Mexico's Leader to Pursue Genocide Case

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Aug. 31 

 BODY:
President Vicente Fox said in an interview on Tuesday that if Mexico's Supreme Court would not hear the genocide charges his government had filed against former President Luis Echeverria, he would call for the creation of a truth commission to investigate abuses committed by the Institutional Revolutionary Party, which used fraud and corruption to rule the country for more than seven decades.
 In July, a special prosecutor appointed by Mr. Fox made history in asking a court to order the arrest of Mr. Echeverria, two of Mr. Echeverria's former aides and three military generals for the killings of student protesters in 1971. It was the first time such a case had been brought against a former president in Mexico, and was considered a test of Mr. Fox's resolve to punish those responsible for the old government's worst abuses and to establish the rule of law.
 The court threw out the charges the next day, and with them threw one of Mr. Fox's most important political projects into disarray. The government then sent the case for review by the Supreme Court. 
 ''I expect that the opinion of the court will establish who is responsible and determine whether the statute of limitations has passed,'' said Mr. Fox, the first president elected from an opposition party. ''If the court does not get to the bottom of the matter, I will convene those civic groups working with the special prosecutor, who have a full understanding of the case, to issue their own verdict, a historic verdict in the form of a truth commission.''
 He added, ''It would not be a judicial body, but a citizen's group that would conduct a trial and make clear for history who was responsible.''
 Mr. Fox spoke on the eve of his annual state of the union address, which symbolically marks the end of the fourth year of his six-year term. His stunning election in July 2000, ending the PRI's hold on the presidency, was fueled by a national tidal wave of optimism and hope for broad changes. Since then, however, political and economic forces have hit hard against him. A recession in the United States cost Mexico hundreds of thousands of jobs. A bitterly divided Congress, led by the PRI, rejected important tax and energy reforms.
 His critics charge that the Fox government has failed to dismantle the political system that robbed and repressed this country for most of the last century. Rather than change, they say, it has delivered more of the same.
 Optimism has turned to scathing disappointment. Some 50,000 union members and farmers marched against Mr. Fox on Tuesday. Organizers said that on Wednesday demonstrators plan to block roads and border crossings, walk off their jobs and march on Congress, where Mr. Fox is scheduled to give his speech. 
 With the press and political classes focused on 2006, there are many who see Mr. Fox as a lame duck struggling to secure his legacy.
 In the interview on Tuesday, President Fox rejected that image, with upbeat, at times defiant, responses.
 ''Certainly there is a disparity between the perceptions of the people, the expectations they have of change and the progress we have made,'' Mr. Fox said. Asked if there was anything that had disappointed him, he replied: ''No. Absolutely nothing.''
 ''If anyone understands clearly what can be accomplished in six years, it is me,'' he said. ''There is no gap between my expectations and achievements. I am at peace and very satisfied.''
 President Fox said that in his address on Wednesday he would tell Mexico that times had been hard, but there was reason to be optimistic. He said that the once stagnant economy would grow by 4 percent this year and that the country had begun to recover lost jobs. He said that in the last two years the number of people living in poverty had begun to decline and that the government had built about 1.4 million houses for low-income families.
 Mr. Fox said he still hoped to get some kind of tax and energy reforms through Congress. But he said the priorities for his last two years in office would be to maintain economic growth, expand basic medical insurance to all Mexicans and install blackboards and computers in all fifth- and sixth-grade classrooms. 
 ''I believe that would be a real education revolution,'' he said.
 Four years ago, however, Mr. Fox helped set this country's sights much higher and Mexicans say they want more from him than new roads and houses. 
 Voters had expected that the Fox government would tear apart Mexico's corrupt and authoritarian political system and rebuild it from scratch, said Peter Hakim of the Inter-American Dialogue in Washington. ''He got over the hurdle of getting into office on the presumption that there would be no backsliding, that the old system was dead and gone, that he had slain the dragon,'' Mr. Hakim said. ''But he did not establish the ways and mechanisms of managing a democratic society.''
 Meanwhile, the PRI seems headed toward a political comeback. In addition to the Congress, the party controls 17 of the country's 32 states. The PRI removed Mr. Fox's National Action Party, or PAN, from power in its former strongholds in the states of Nuevo Leon and Chihuahua. And it won important mayoral victories in the cities of Tijuana and Ciudad Juarez. 
 Offering a rebuttal of Mr. Fox's speech Wednesday night will be a PRI congressman, Manlio Fabio Beltrones, a former governor of Sonora whom American officials once accused of having links to drug-trafficking.
 In the 40-minute interview Tuesday, Mr. Fox discussed his decision to invite the PRI to join him in a so-called ''joint transition.'' It is a strategy, critics charge, that helped revive the PRI, rather than weaken it.
 ''I did not contemplate in this joint transition the destruction of anyone, much less attacks against political parties, but the start of a process of change toward a new democratic culture,'' Mr. Fox said.
 The president said that his was a minority government and that he had little choice but to work with his adversaries to win support for reforms. Clearly that strategy failed. The PRI has used its seats in Congress to regain national power. Mr. Fox did not disagree. Nor did he apologize. 
 ''There are many people in Mexico and in the world that still long for, or feel nostalgia, for authoritarian government,'' he said. Referring to the Aztecs, he said, ''Mexico, in particular, that was the culture -- the culture of the Tlatoani, the culture of authoritarian acts.''
 Breaking with those traditions, Mr. Fox said, ''is exactly the cause I lead.''
 When asked why he had forced no changes in the leadership of the nation's largest unions, which uphold the PRI's vast systems of patronage, he said: ''That is not my responsibility. They will have to look inside their own organizations and determine their own process of change and democratization.''
 Lorenzo Meyer, a historian, lamented in an interview that Mr. Fox will probably go down in history as the man who defeated one of the world's longest ruling political parties, then helped it return to power.
 Again, no apologies from the president. 
 ''The people will elect those who they believe should be the president of the republic, and there is no reason to make predictions,'' he said. ''The election will be democratic and Mexicans will chose who they want to continue governing the country.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: President Vicente Fox will give his state of the union address today. Critics say he has not dismantled the nation's corrupt political system. (Photo by German Romero/European Pressphoto Agency)
 Former President Luis Echeverria, who was accused of genocide. (Photo by Daniel Aguilar/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GENOCIDE (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); WAR CRIMES (78%); STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS (78%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); ETHICS (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (75%); ARREST WARRANTS (73%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (70%); LABOR UNIONS (62%) Freedom and Human Rights; Politics and Government; War Crimes, Genocide and Crimes Against Humanity; Frauds and Swindling; Ethics

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (93%) Vicente (Pres) Fox Quesada; Ginger Thompson; Luis Echeverria

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%) MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%) Mexico; Mexico

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2004



20 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 1; National Desk; THE REPUBLICANS: THE CONVENTION IN NEW YORK -- PERSONALITIES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 509 words

HEADLINE: Young, Passionate, Republican: What Some Say About the Issues

BYLINE: By DYLAN LOEB McCLAIN

 BODY:
Many delegates to the Republican convention are first timers, but for some, their vote to nominate President Bush will be the first ballot they have cast. Among the 4,853 delegates and alternates, 221, or almost 5 percent, are under 30. Here are what some of the young delegates had to say about why they are Republicans and what issues matter to them. DYLAN LOEB McCLAIN

''I am very interested in tax relief. I think that the Republican Party puts a lot of emphasis on taking personal responsibility instead of relying on the government. I don't agree in punishing hard work and success and high taxes do that.''

Kelley Beaman
Tennessee, 28

Self-described homemaker from Nashville; married with two step-daughters. Founder of Tennessee Institute for Governmental Ethics, a group that wants stricter rules for legislators and lobbyists.

Isaiah McGee
Iowa, 25

''My mom was single and she and my brother are strongly Democrats. My mom also brought me up religiously. . . . I don't feel that Democrats are as religious. I am not saying God is Republican, but the Republican Party embodies a sense of values a lot better than the Democratic side does.''

Grew up in California, but now lives in Des Moines. Is a married teacher and high school football coach. Is working toward a master's degree in education at Drake University.

Igor Birman
California, 22

''It's their commitment to freedom. Having heard stories from my parents and grandparents about what it was like in the Soviet Union, that is very important to me. They stand for freedom from taxation and freedom from an overly intrusive government. ''

Emigrated with his family from Russia in 1994. They live in Oakland and he is a second year law student at Emory Law School in Atlanta. He is studying to get a pilot's license.

Ryan Stevens
Pennsylvania, 21

''My parents have a lot to do with it. I also agree with Republicans' handling of the economy and lowering taxes and wanting smaller government. I am fully pro-life. That is a big issue where I come from.''

Senior at William and Mary College in Viriginia, majoring in mathematics and art history. A native of Hazleton. His mother was a Republican delegate in 1984 and his brother was a Republican delegate in 2000.

Ashlee Hasselman
Washington, 18

''Everything that they stand for, I believe in. The war on terror, no abortions, no gay marriages, the economy, public education, civil rights versus civil liberties. . . . I say if some people want to read my e-mail, then go ahead. I will give that up to be safe.''

From Pacific, Wash. Starting Green River Community College in the fall. She was captain of the swimming and water polo teams in high school.
''Competing really lets me get my aggression out.''

Mary Pauline Jones
Viriginia, 18

''Their commitment to education and defense. On defense, I don't see how we can do everything inside our country if our country is not safe.''

From Vienna, Va. Freshman at Christopher Newport University. Has been involved in politics since she was 6. Her father worked on Col. Oliver North's unsuccessful Senate campaign in 1994.


GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo by Scott Eells for The New York Times)
(Photo by Frances Roberts for The New York Times)
(Photo by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)
(Photo by Frances Roberts for The New York Times)
(Photo by Diane Bondareff for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Monika Graff for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); ETHICS (76%); TAX LAW (76%); TAX RELIEF (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (74%); MARRIAGE (74%); CIVIL RIGHTS (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (70%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (70%); CHILDREN (70%); LAW SCHOOLS (70%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (70%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (70%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (69%); RELIGION (67%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (65%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (64%); GRANDPARENTS (64%); LAWYERS (64%); HISTORY (62%); ART HISTORY (62%); WATER SPORTS (60%); WATER POLO (60%); GAYS & LESBIANS (60%); ABORTION (60%) Presidential Election of 2004; Conventions, National (US); Election Issues; Children and Youth

ORGANIZATION: DRAKE UNIVERSITY (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%) Dylan Loeb Mcclain

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (55%) TENNESSEE, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2004



21 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; THE REPUBLICANS: THE CONVENTION IN NEW YORK -- THE OVERVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1652 words

HEADLINE: Upbeat Republicans Revive Bush Theme of Compassion

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

 BODY:
Facing perhaps three times the television audience that saw its sharp-edged speakers on Monday, the Republican National Convention circled back last night to President Bush's winning 2000 campaign theme of ''compassionate conservatism,'' portraying him as not only hardheaded but also bighearted enough to lead ''the most historic struggle my generation has ever known,'' as his wife, Laura, put it in a prime-time speech.
 On the first night the major broadcast networks carried live coverage of the proceedings, the party offered up glowing testimonials from Arnold Schwarzenegger, the Terminator turned popular Republican governor of California; prominent black Republicans like Education Secretary Rod Paige and Lt. Gov. Michael S. Steele of Maryland; the president's telegenic nephew George P. Bush, who is Hispanic; and a variety of Republican women, chief among them Mrs. Bush herself.
 ''No American president ever wants to go to war,'' said Mrs. Bush, who was presented to the delegates via satellite by her husband from the campaign trail in Pennsylvania, after their twin 22-year-old daughters introduced him to the hall in a goofily affectionate tribute that amounted to their national political debut. 
 ''Abraham Lincoln didn't want to go to war,'' Mrs. Bush said, ''but he knew that saving the union required it. Franklin Roosevelt didn't want to go to war, but he knew that defeating tyranny demanded it. And my husband didn't want to go to war, but he knew the safety and security of America and the world depended on it.''
 Mrs. Bush, who told Mr. Bush she would marry him almost 27 years ago so long as she never had to make a political speech, proceeded last night to make a heartfelt and articulate one, describing her husband in terms he seldom if ever applies to himself as ''wrestling with these agonizing decisions'' about war in Iraq.
 She delivered a ringing endorsement of ''George's work to protect our country and defeat terror, so that all children can grow up in a more peaceful world.''
 Mr. Schwarzenegger, whose victory in a recall election last year upended normal partisan politics in the most populous state, offered the delegates a twist on his signature cinematic line, declaring: ''Ladies and gentlemen, America is back. Back from the attack on our homeland, back from the attack on our economy and back from the attack on our way of life. We are back because of the perseverance, character and leadership of the 43rd president of the United States, George W. Bush.''
 And, to deafening applause and cheers, he said: ''To those critics who are so pessimistic about our economy, I say, Don't be economic girlie men! The U.S. economy remains the envy of the world.''
 If Monday was a tribute to Mr. Bush's battle against terrorism, the second day of the convention focused more on the domestic issues Mr. Bush campaigned on in 2000. Speaker after speaker testified that he had made great headway in delivering on his promises, and had gone to war only to project the same compassionate American values overseas.
 There were repeated appeals to the aspirations and dreams of immigrants and minorities, and repeated assertions that the Republicans remain the party of free enterprise and individual achievement, yet not insensitive to those in need. Lest the upbeat theme be lost on anyone, delegates waved signs proclaiming themselves ''people of compassion.'' 
 George P. Bush, long one of his uncle's most popular surrogate campaigners, especially among Latinos and immigrant groups, spoke in English and Spanish, telling delegates: ''Our party has always represented the interests of all people seeking opportunity. We are the home of entrepreneurs, men and women who want to know the pride of accomplishment, the honor of self-sufficiency.'' 
 But the night was not without some more passionate -- and confrontational -- words. Several speakers defended Mr. Bush's decision to place limits on federal stem-cell research as a sign of the party's stance regarding human life. Senator Elizabeth Dole of North Carolina, one of Mr. Bush's rivals for the nomination in 2000, offered a blunt defense of the party's stance against same-sex marriage, abortion and secularism. 
 ''Two thousand years ago a man said, 'I have come to give life and to give it in full,''' Mrs. Dole said. ''In America, I have the freedom to call that man Lord, and I do. In the United States of America, we are free to worship without discrimination, without intervention and even without activist judges trying to strip the name of God from the Pledge of Allegiance, from the money in our pockets and from the walls of our courthouses. The Constitution guarantees freedom of religion, not freedom from religion. The right to worship God isn't something Republicans invented, but it is something Republicans will defend.''
 Senator Bill Frist of Tennessee described the Democratic nominee, John Kerry, as ''the personal injury lawyers' best friend'' and promoted the Republicans' effort to expand access to health care, saying, ''I'll tell you what Senator Kerry's prescription will be: Take a handful of tax increases and don't call me in the morning.''
 And Mr. Steele, the first African-American elected to statewide office in Maryland, styled himself as the Republican answer to the Democrats' black keynote speaker, Barack Obama of Illinois, and unleashed some tough words about Mr. Kerry, who he noted ''recently said he doesn't want to use the word 'war' to describe our efforts to fight terrorism.'' 
 ''Well, I don't want to use the words 'commander in chief' to describe John Kerry,'' Mr. Steele said.
 Mr. Paige offered a tribute to Mr. Bush's education policy, declaring: ''This election may be multiple choice, but there's only one correct choice. To go forward, not back. To choose compassion, not cynicism. To set high standards, not settle for second best. To elect a true reformer with proven results, not a Johnny-come-lately with more promises.''
 Just before 7:30 p.m., Pennsylvania, the swing state that Mr. Bush has visited more than 30 times -- more often than any other as president -- cast all its 75 votes for Mr. Bush, officially putting him over the top of the 1,255 votes needed for nomination. 
 A couple hours later, Mr. Schwarzenegger recalled his youth in Austria, which was still partly Soviet-occupied, and the fear he felt at a Soviet checkpoint. ''I was a little boy; I wasn't an action-hero back then,'' he said. ''But I remember how scared I was that the soldiers would pull my father or my uncle out of the car and I'd never see him again.'' 
 By contrast, he said, ''in this country, it doesn't make any difference where you were born. It doesn't make any difference who your parents were. It doesn't make any difference if, like me, you couldn't even speak English until you were in your 20's. America gave me opportunities, and my immigrant dreams came true. I want other people to get the same chances I did, the same opportunities. And I believe they can. That's why I believe in this party and why I believe in this president.''
 As a large part of the California delegation donned Terminator sunglasses in tribute, he described the United States as a nation that sends Peace Corps volunteers to ''teach village children,'' that ''gives more than any other country to fight AIDS in Africa and the developing world,'' and that ''fights not for imperialism, but for human rights and democracy.''
 He recalled his recent visits with wounded American troops to rebut the trademark reference of Senator John Edwards, the Democratic vice-presidential contender, to two Americas, one rich and one poor. ''I tell you this: Our young men and women in uniform do not believe there are two Americas,'' Mr. Schwarzenegger said. ''They believe there's one America, and they're fighting for it.''
 On the convention floor, Gov. George E. Pataki of New York summed up the crowd's response and his own: ''All I can say is, 'Wow.'''
 Polls show that Mr. Schwarzenegger and Mrs. Bush are far more popular with voters across the country than the president is, and it was no accident that they were chosen to head the bill on the night the convention first reached a broad national audience in prime time. 
 Mrs. Bush seemed eager to offer a life partner's loving explanation of a man who always seems to shrink from explaining himself.
 ''Tonight,'' she said, ''I want to try and answer the question that I believe many people would ask me if we sat down for a cup of coffee or ran into each other at the store: You know him better than anyone, you've seen things no one else has, why do you think we should re-elect your husband as president?'' 
 She answered herself by saying, ''As you might imagine, I have a lot to say about that.''
 She went on to describe ''some very quiet nights at the dinner table,'' nighttime phone talks with foreign leaders and ''an intense weekend at Camp David'' with Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain as Mr. Bush weighed his options for confronting Saddam Hussein. ''And I was there when my husband had to decide,'' she said. ''Once again, as in our parents' generation, America had to make the tough choices, the hard decisions, and lead the world toward greater security and freedom.''
 As a result, she said, ''50 million more men, women and children live in freedom thanks to the United States of America and our allies.'' 
 The Bush twins lent an energetic, slightly madcap air to a scene that was otherwise often serious, teasing their parents and grandparents for their taste in music, and gently mocking their father's own youthful indiscretions while describing their family's lessons about ''unconditional love,'' as Barbara put it. 
 Jenna explained their approach to the delegates, saying: ''All those times when you're growing up and your parents embarrass you? This is payback time on live TV.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Laura Bush told delegates last night about her husband ''wrestling with these agonizing decisions'' on Iraq. (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times)
 George P. Bush, the president's nephew, addressing the Republican convention last night. (Photo by Vincent Laforet/The New York Times)(pg. P3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); RELIGION (91%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); CONSERVATISM (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); POLITICS (78%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); MARRIAGE (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); CHURCH & STATE (74%); IRAQ WAR (73%); TERRORISM (65%) Presidential Election of 2004; Conventions, National (US); Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; United States Economy; Abortion; Marriages; Homosexuality; Religion and Churches; Church-State Relations; United States International Relations; Presidential Election of 2004; United States Armament and Defense; Election Issues; Terrorism

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (79%); MICHAEL STEELE (78%) George W (Pres) Bush; Laura Bush; Todd S Purdum; Arnold (Gov) Schwarzenegger; Rod (Sec) Paige; Michael S (Lt Gov) Steele; George P (Jeb Bush's Son) Bush; Jenna Bush; Barbara (Pres Bush's Daughter) Bush; Elizabeth (Sen) Dole

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (93%) Iraq; New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2004



22 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-13

Talks on Disarming Shiite Rebels Collapse
Negotiations to disarm hundreds of insurgents in the ghetto of Sadr City collapsed after a tentative peace agreement was cancelled by Prime Minster Ayad Allawi. A1

France stepped up diplomatic efforts to win the release of two French journalists taken hostage in Iraq as the deadline set by their kidnappers passed with no word of the hostages' fate. A9

An Islamic militant group claimed in a posting on a Web site that it had killed 12 Nepalese hostages in what appeared to be the single largest execution of foreign captives by Iraqi insurgents to date. A9

New Plan for Gaza Pullout
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israeli announced an accelerated timetable for a unilateral withdrawal from Gaza, telling his unhappy party that the plan ''will be implemented, period.'' A13

Two suicide bombers blew up two buses 100 yards apart in Beersheba, Israel, killing at least 16 people, including a 4-year-old, and wounding more than 100 others, many seriously. A12

Moscow Suicide Bombing
A woman blew herself up outside a subway station in Moscow, killing at least 9 people and wounding more than 50, officials said. A group calling itself the Islambouli Brigades of Al Qaeda, the same group that said it was responsible for twin air bombings last week, claimed responsibility for the blast. A3

5 Afghans Die in U.S. Airstrike
At least five civilians were killed, including two children, and eight were wounded by American airstrikes in northeastern Afghanistan, the local governor said. A11

Mexico Urges Genocide Review
President Vicente Fox said in an interview that if the Supreme Court fails to hear the genocide charges his government has filed against former President Luis Echeverria, he will call for the creation of a truth commission to investigate abuses committed by the Institutional Revolutionary Party. A10

NATIONAL A14-17; P1-10

Republicans Circle Back To More Moderate Tone
The Republican National Convention returned to President Bush's winning 2000 campaign theme of ''compassionate conservatism,'' portraying him as big-hearted enough to lead the country. A1

A series of demonstrations rippled across Manhattan and converged outside Madison Square Garden, as a day of planned civil disobedience erupted into clashes with police officers. More than 900 people were arrested. A1

Senator Sam Brownback, a Kansas Republican, urged conservative Christian supporters at an invitation-only Bush campaign rally to ''win this culture war'' and called for a socially conservative agenda, including requirements that pregnant women considering abortions be offered anesthetics for their fetuses. P1

President Bush declared to the nation's largest veterans' group that America will win the war on terror, backtracking from an earlier statement in which he said he doubted that the war could be won. P4

Former Housing Secretary Mel Martinez easily won the Republican nomination in Florida's Senate race, providing a potential boost to President Bush there. A14

How well President Bush fulfilled his promises from his first nomination four years ago is a subject of intense debate. A1

Storm Kills 5 in Virginia
Tropical Storm Gaston killed at least five Virginians and washed away roads, flooded buildings, and sent vehicles floating down the streets of the capital city's streets. A17

Court Questions Florida Law
Florida's highest court questioned whether the Legislature violated privacy rights and separation of powers between the government when it passed a special law to prolong a woman's life. A14

Terror Convictions Challenged
The Justice Department asked a federal judge to throw out terrorism convictions against two Arab men accused of forming a sleeper cell, people involved in the case said. A17

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Three Middletown Officials Indicted in Loan Fraud
Mayor Joseph DeStefano of Middletown, N.Y., the city's economic development director and a city judge were indicted on charges of conspiring to direct more than $140,000 in federal urban development loans to the mayor for his personal use. B1

Man Killed Over Property
An elderly man was beaten to death on a Queens street in broad daylight after he repeatedly refused to sell his house for far below its market value, law enforcement officials said. B1

Empire State Building Is Sued
Two partners in a law firm in the Empire State Building sued the building's operators, claiming that security is too lax and that tenants are exposed to the ''clear and present danger'' of a terrorist attack. B2

EDUCATION B6

SCIENCE/HEALTH

3 Small Planets Found
Astronomers discovered three planets beyond this solar system that are smaller than known planets around other stars. A17

ARTS E1-8

SPORTSWEDNESDAY D1-7

Record Loss for the Yanks
The Cleveland Indians beat the Yankees by 22-0, the most one-sided loss in the franchise's long history. D1

OBITUARIES B7
DINING OUT F1-12

World's Caviar Faces a Ban
The United Nations agency that controls trade in endangered species halted exports of caviar until the countries where it is produced comply with an agreement to protect sturgeon. F1

BUSINESS DAY C1-14

A Harsh Hollinger Report
A special committee of the publishing company Hollinger International Inc. concluded that former officials Conrad M. Black and F. David Radler diverted to themselves virtually all the company's $400 million in earnings over seven years. A1

Trade Sanctions Authorized
The World Trade Organization authorized the European Union and seven other major American trading partners to impose more than $150 million in retaliatory sanctions on exports from the United States. C1

Pfizer Ends Discount Card
Pfizer ended its widely used discount card for the elderly, leaving Medicare beneficiaries without access to reduced prices for medicines. C1

Drug Data to Be Disclosed
GlaxoSmithKline is expected to start the process of publicly posting the results of clinical trials for all its marketed drugs with the release of 65 tests about a diabetes medication, a company executive said. C2

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A18-19

Editorials: Governor Pataki's moment; the food pyramid scheme; a show of unity in France; Francis X. Clines on the paradox of photo-op politics.

Columns: Nicholas D. Kristof, William Safire.

Crossword E6
TV Listings E7
Public Lives B2
Weather A16

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (92%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (92%); BOMBINGS (91%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); HOSTAGE TAKING (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (86%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (78%); AL-QAEDA (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); RELIGION (73%); GOVERNORS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (69%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (68%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (67%); ABORTION (64%); ARRESTS (63%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (61%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (61%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (61%); VETERANS (60%); CIVIL DISOBEDIENCE (60%); GENOCIDE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%); VICENTE FOX QUESADA (50%); SAMUEL BROWNBACK (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%) IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); ISRAEL (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2004



23 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 1, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; THE REPUBLICANS: THE CONVENTION IN NEW YORK -- CAMPAIGN PROMISES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1398 words

HEADLINE: Bush Promises: Some Fulfilled, Some Thwarted

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS and ROBIN TONER

 BODY:
Four years ago, when the nation still seemed in an era of boundless prosperity, George W. Bush accepted the Republican nomination with an expansive promise of ''compassionate conservatism'': big tax cuts, new drug benefits for the elderly, a major overhaul of Social Security and a new commitment to public education.
 Reaching out to the political center, particularly to women, Mr. Bush promised to ''use these good times for great goals'' and to ''extend the promise of prosperity to every forgotten corner of this country.''
 As Mr. Bush prepares to accept his party's nomination for a second term, how well he fulfilled those first promises is a subject of intense debate. He can point to major legislative action on tax cuts, Medicare and education, as one speaker after another told the Republican convention last night under the rubric of ''people of compassion.'' But there is furious disagreement over the results of Mr. Bush's policies, which will be joined anew as he presents his vision for a second term tomorrow night. 
 Once again, Mr. Bush is presenting his domestic agenda in broad themes: one of them, the idea of an ''ownership society,'' giving Americans more control over their retirement, health care and financial lives, and more responsibility for them. This agenda is expected to include perhaps the major unfinished item from Mr. Bush's domestic proposals of the 2000 campaign: the creation of personal investment accounts in Social Security. 
 Democrats assert that the ownership society offers little to a middle class already straining with the rising costs of health care, education and other bread-and-butter needs. 
 When he took the stage in Philadelphia in 2000, Mr. Bush faced a much easier political and economic terrain, with a federal budget surplus of more than $150 billion that was projected to keep growing. Mr. Bush argued that the surplus was ''not the government's money'' but ''the people's money,'' and he built his convention speech and his campaign around the promise of a huge tax cut.
 On that, he clearly delivered, pushing through nearly $2 trillion in tax cuts: even more than he first promised.
 He also won the passage of the No Child Left Behind law, aimed at improving poor schools, and signed into law the biggest expansion of Medicare since its creation in 1965.
 His defenders call it a record of remarkable achievement, given that the economy was already slowing by the time he took office. The stock market bubble burst in March 2000, the economy plunged into recession in March 2001, and other shocks followed: the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001; the corporate accounting scandals at Enron, WorldCom and other companies; and anxieties about the war in Iraq.
 Though many of those factors were outside Mr. Bush's control, the bottom line, for the Democrats, at least, is that prosperity diminished for millions of people. The nation lost more that two million manufacturing jobs, and few have been restored since the recession officially ended in November 2001. The nation has added 1.5 million jobs since last August, but it still has 1.2 million fewer than when Mr. Bush took office. The median family income, after adjusting for inflation, was about $1,535 lower in 2003 than in 2000.
 ''Whether you are talking about jobs, or income or growth, the record is terrible,'' asserted Roger C. Altman, a former deputy treasury secretary who is a senior economic adviser to John Kerry, in a conference call with reporters on Monday. 
 Bush allies counter that the tax cuts made the recession the shortest and shallowest in history. ''It was exactly the right time to provide tax relief,'' said Dan Bartlett, the White House communications director. ''It was a key victory for our economy and the fulfillment of a campaign promise.'' He added, ''We're more than ready to have that debate with Senator Kerry.''
 But critics say the tax cuts were far too tilted to the wealthiest Americans, and came at an enormous cost, helping to turn a huge surplus into a widening deficit that could last for years.. 
 Another major theme of Mr. Bush's speech in Philadelphia was that the Democrats had failed to lead on the long-term fiscal problems of Medicare and Social Security, which are expected to come under increasing pressure with the retirement of the baby boomers. 
 ''We know the tests of leadership,'' Mr. Bush told the convention. ''The issues are joined. We will strengthen Social Security and Medicare for the greatest generation, and for generations to come.''
 Mr. Bush did deliver on a goal that eluded his predecessor, Bill Clinton, pushing through a Medicare overhaul that for the first time added an outpatient prescription drug benefit. The law has proved confusing to many elderly beneficiaries so far, polls suggest, and Mr. Bush has reaped little political benefit from it. Its limited scope infuriated Democrats, and its cost alienated many conservatives, who were already upset at the steady growth of government spending under Mr. Bush.
 But supporters argue that it will eventually prove a great boon to retirees. The law provided discount cards this year, with additional assistance for low-income elderly, and will offer a full drug benefit by 2006.
 Still, Medicare's long-term financial problems remain; the trustees of the fund said earlier this year that its condition had significantly deteriorated, in part because of soaring health costs and in part because of the new Medicare law.
 Administration officials and outside experts agree that Medicare and Social Security will eventually fall trillions short of the money needed to meet all the entitlements guaranteed under current law.
 Moreover, the disappearance of the budget surpluses in 2001 and the re-emergence of big deficits has eliminated one source of money to help fill the gap.
 Mr. Bush's proposal for reform of Social Security centers on letting people divert a portion of their payroll taxes to personal accounts they could own and control.
 The idea was that people could accumulate far more wealth by investing in stocks and other instruments that yield higher returns than the Treasury bonds purchased for the Social Security trust fund. But such a plan could add trillions of dollars to the deficit over the next several decades, because revenues from Social Security taxes would drop sharply while benefits remained high.
 The Bush administration did not push the proposal for many reasons: the stock market decline, the focus on terrorism, and general reluctance on Capitol Hill to deal with the issue. ''The administration started out aggressively, but when the political costs of privatization became apparent, it backed away,'' said Robert D. Reischauer, president of the Urban Institute and former director of the Congressional Budget Office.
 No issue was more of a signature of ''compassionate conservatism'' four years ago than education. As a candidate, Mr. Bush set two goals that would ultimately seem competing: strong local control of schools and tough federal standards to ensure that schools for poor children were teaching them effectively. 
 The second goal led to No Child Left Behind, a sweeping law that is the centerpiece of the Bush education agenda and that has sometimes led educators and state and local officials to accuse the administration of infringing on states' rights. 
 So far, about a third of the nation's public schools have been deemed ''in need of improvement.'' The law promises children in subpar schools the right to transfer, but only a tiny share of those eligible have actually succeeded in switching schools.
 Mr. Bush has come under attack from Democrats and educators who accuse the administration of failing to finance the law fully. But federal spending on the poorest schools has increased about 60 percent on his watch, to $13.3 billion from $8.3 billion.
 Mr. Bush has also sharply expanded early reading efforts, setting aside more than $1 billion a year for new programs to teach children to read by the third grade. Spending on Head Start, the day care program for poor children, has only kept pace with inflation, however, with only about 60 percent of children who are eligible receiving services.
 Education Secretary Rod Paige told the convention last night that the Bush plan was working, while acknowledging that ''much work remains.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''The Nomination Speech, Four Years Ago''George W. Bush made several specific promises in his acceptance speech for the Republican Party's 2000 presidential nomination.POVERTYPromiseAnd we will extend the promise of prosperity to every forgotten corner of this country.AssessmentIn 2003, 1.3 million more people were below the poverty line than in 2002. The 2003 real median family income was down $1,535 from 2000, but home ownership is now at a record level of nearly 69 percent.SOCIAL SECURITYPromiseWe will strengthen Social Security and Medicare for the greatest generation, and for generations to come. . . . We will set it on firm financial ground, and make prescription drugs available and affordable for every senior who needs them.AssessmentMedicare was expanded to help pay prescription drug costs for the elderly, at an estimated cost of $534 billion over 10 years, but seniors have been lukewarm because of the plan's complexity and limitations. Mr. Bush dropped plans for partly privatizing Social Security, which could have cost $8 trillion over 40 years.EDUCATIONPromiseOn education, too many American children are segregated into schools without standards, shuffled from grade to grade because of their age, regardless of their knowledge. . . . And those who spend your tax dollars must be held accountable. . . . Now is the time to make Head Start an early learning program, to teach all our children to read, and renew the promise of America's public schools.AssessmentThe No Child Left Behind law deems about a third of the nation's public schools ''in need of improvement.'' Federal spending on the poorest schools has increased to $13.3 billion from $8.3 billion. Early reading efforts have been given more than $1 billion a year. But spending on Head Start, the day care program for poor children, has remained flat.TAX CUTSPromiseToday, our high taxes fund a surplus. . . . So we will abolish the death tax.On principle no one in America should have to pay more than a third of their income to the federal government. So we will reduce tax rates for everyone, in every bracket. . . . So we will lower the bottom rate from 15 percent to 10 percent and double the child credit.AssessmentHe made all the tax cuts promised as well as others, including reduction of the marriage penalty and cuts in capital gains and stock dividends. But the Federal budget deficit will hit a new record of $400 billion this year and deficits could exceed $4 trillion over ten years if Mr. Bush's tax cuts are made permanent.(Sources by George W. Bush's speech at the Republican National Convention, Aug. 3, 2000
Census Bureau
National Education Association
 U.S. Government)(pg. P4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); MEDICARE (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (88%); LEGISLATION (88%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); AGING (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (76%); EDUCATION LAW (76%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (76%); SENIOR CITIZENS (72%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (71%); PERSONAL FINANCE (70%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (69%); TERRORISM (60%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (60%); SCANDALS (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%); ACCOUNTING (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues ; Conventions, National (US); Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Taxation; Medicare; Aged; Presidential Election of 2004; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Medicine and Health; Education and Schools; Law and Legislation; United States Economy; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Drugs (Pharmaceuticals) 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (50%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (50%); VZ (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (50%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (50%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%) George W (Pres) Bush; Edmund L Andrews; Robin Toner

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2004



24 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 571 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Boston Scientific Says It Has Weathered Recall
Boston Scientific said that it had regained virtually all of the business it lost after a recall this summer of some of its heart stents.
 In reviewing the financial effect of the recall during a conference call with analysts, Boston Scientific characterized it as a $100 million ''blip'' in a year when revenue would end up growing about $2 billion to as much as $5.58 billion. It said that the company would finish the year with earnings of $1.60 to $1.65 a share, after a reduction of 4 cents a share from the recall. [Page C6.]

Ex-I.R.S. Executive Wins Case
A former I.R.S. executive won a victory in court in a whistle-blower case in which he raised allegations of official favoritism to rich and politically connected California families and businesses that owe back taxes. [C4.]

I.B.M. to Share Technology
I.B.M. plans to announce that it will share the designs and technology for a fast-growing line of computers known as blade servers. [C4.]

Microsoft Begins Selling Music
Microsoft started selling songs on its MSN online service, taking on Apple Computer and a host of others in the fast-growing market for digital music. [C4.]

France Plans to Cut Phone Stake
The French government said that it would sell as much as 12.1 percent of France Telecom, bringing its stake in the former state monopoly below the symbolically important level of 50 percent. Market Place. [C8.]

US Airways Pilots Hint Deal Is Near
The pilots' union at US Airways said that it might be close to reaching an agreement on wage and benefit cuts that the struggling airline contends are necessary to avoid another bankruptcy filing. [C12.]

MGM Weighs Bids Below Estimate
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer is considering accepting a buyout offer well below the $5 billion price tag originally estimated, executives close to the talks said. [C13.]

Manufacturing Rose at Slower Rate
Manufacturing activity rose in August for the 15th consecutive month, but at a slower rate than in July, according to a report. [C8.]

Crude Oil Surges on Supply Report
Crude oil futures surged almost $2 a barrel, the biggest increase in two months, after the Energy Department reported that United States oil supplies had declined more than expected. [C7.]

Stocks were mixed. The Dow Jones industrial average closed down 5.46 points, or 0.1 percent, to 10,168.46. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 1.67 points, or 0.2 percent, to 1,105.91. The Nasdaq composite index gained 12.31 points, or 0.7 percent, to 1,850.41. [C8.]

An Offer of Talks in Venezuela
Fedecamaras, a Venezuelan federation of businesses that has opposed President Hugo Chavez, said it was open to the possibility of talks with the government. Political analysts said Fedecamaras's new position, announced by the president of the group, Albis Munoz, left, in a news conference in Caracas, could defuse tensions that have roiled Venezuela since Mr. Chavez defeated his opponents last month. [World Business, Section W.]

The Branding of the Presidency
From Heinz ketchup to Bush's baked beans, brand names invade the presidential campaign. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [C5.]

A Comeback for Venture Capital
Four years after the Internet bubble burst, the venture-capital industry is stirring back to life. Small Business. [C7.]

Shift Toward a Wal-Mart Workplace
Wal-Mart may be the new economy's model of productivity, but it isn't always wowing workers. Jeff Madrick: Economic Scene. [C2.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,168.46 down 5.46Nasdaq composite -- 1,850.41 up 12.3110-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.12% up 0.01The euro -- $1.2191 up 0.0017The dollar -- 109.43 yen up 0.18Graph tracks the share price of Boston Scientific since last Wednesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); CARDIOVASCULAR DEVICES (90%); SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MFG (89%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (86%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (75%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (75%); PERSONAL DEBT (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); CONFERENCE CALLS (72%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (71%); MUSIC (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (70%); ENERGY MARKETS (70%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (69%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (69%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (69%); NETWORK SERVERS (66%); OIL & GAS PRICES (66%); FUTURES (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FRANCE TELECOM SA (92%); BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORP (90%); METRO-GOLDWYN-MAYER INC (81%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (54%)

TICKER: FTE (PAR) (92%); FTE (NYSE) (92%); FTE (BIT) (92%); BSX (NYSE) (90%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%); LCC (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (90%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (90%); SIC3841 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS (90%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (81%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (81%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (54%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); FRANCE (86%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2004



25 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR: POLITICS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: Chalabi, Claiming Exoneration, Plans Another Comeback

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE; Qais Mizher, an Iraqi employee in The New York Times's Baghdad bureau, contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, Sept. 1 

 BODY:
In his first public appearance since an Iraqi judge ordered his arrest three weeks ago, the Iraqi exile Ahmad Chalabi announced his return to Iraq's political scene on Wednesday, saying that criminal charges against him had been dropped. 
 But later on Wednesday, the judge, Zuhair al-Maliky, said in an interview that the case had not been completely closed and that Mr. Chalabi might still need to appear for questioning. 
 Speaking at a news conference at his former headquarters here, Mr. Chalabi claimed a victory in what had been a struggle with the new Iraqi government, which has in recent weeks ordered two raids on two of Mr. Chalabi's main offices. 
 Mr. Chalabi has contended that a warrant issued for his arrest in early August was political, brought at the behest of American officials. It was now reduced to a summons, he said. He also said the judge had dismissed the counterfeiting charges against him. 
 In the interview, Mr. Maliky was less conclusive, however, saying that Mr. Chalabi had yet to be cleared. 
 In a separate case, Mr. Chalabi's nephew, Salem Chalabi, charged with involvement in the killing of an Iraqi official, no longer faces arrest and will return to Iraq for questioning. Salem Chalabi heads a tribunal set up to prosecute Saddam Hussein. 
 ''I went to see the judge,'' Mr. Chalabi said at the briefing. ''I think the matter is clear now for the judge.''
 Whatever the outcome, the development was a break in the case against the embattled Mr. Chalabi, whose fortunes have fallen in recent months as his relations with the Bush administration have soured. Information his organization, the Iraqi National Congress, provided about Iraq's weapons has been largely discredited, and this spring he was cut off from Pentagon financing.
 Since then, he has been seeking new alliances, predominantly among religious Shiite groups, who could help provide Mr. Chalabi, a secular Shiite, with a new political base. The switch startled some Iraqis, who know Mr. Chalabi as a Western-style politician with American backing.
 ''He wanted to find another boat because his was sinking,'' said one former Iraqi government official who asked not to be named. ''He has become decidedly Shiite in color.''
 Mr. Chalabi has stayed out of public view since the arrest warrant, spending most of the three weeks far from Baghdad, in Sulaimaniya in the north of Iraq. He returned three days ago, about the same time he learned that the arrest warrant had been lifted, said Abdul Aziz al-Kubaisy, his deputy for intelligence.
 But at the news conference Wednesday, Mr. Chalabi did not look worried. He confidently recounted details of yet another of the day's events. Gunmen had opened fire on his convoy Wednesday morning as it returned from Najaf, the southern city where Mr. Chalabi had met with Iraq's highest Shiite cleric, Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani. Two guards were injured. Mr. Chalabi was unharmed.
 ''It was a deliberate ambush,'' he said. 
 But Mr. Chalabi's main message on Wednesday was political. He laid out a political program that foresaw the American military leaving Iraq in two years and would rid the Iraqi government of all American-appointed advisers, which number about 175, he said.
 He endorsed a decidedly free-market economic plan. State subsidies for food and fuel would be replaced by cash payments, he said. The country's oil industry would be developed under contracts awarded to large multinational companies, he said. 
 ''We're working to disseminate our program and to prepare candidates in consultation with other parties,'' ahead of elections to be held in January, he said.
 Mr. Chalabi said he had met with Ayatollah Sistani in part to talk about the elections.
 It is far from clear that Mr. Chalabi, despite his ambition and relatively substantial fortune, will be able to garner enough political support to place strongly in the elections.
 And he is still under pressure from Prime Minister Ayad Allawi, a longtime political rival. On Friday, Mr. Chalabi's organization was evicted from one of his main working residences under an order from Dr. Allawi. Guns were taken away from his security guards.
 But as Wednesday's appearance showed, he has bounced back.
 ''Chalabi is a survivor,'' said another former Iraqi government official. ''He has always come back. He never gives up on politics.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ahmad Chalabi, left, met yesterday with Muhammad Bahr ul-Uloom, center, a leading Iraqi political figure. (Photo by Karim Sahib/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); ARRESTS (90%); JUDGES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); ARREST WARRANTS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (86%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); POLITICS (72%); COUNTERFEITING (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (68%); RELIGION (67%); TERRORISM (66%) Elections; Politics and Government; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) Ali Al- (Grand Ayatollah) Sistani; Ahmad Chalabi; Sabrina Tavernise; Zuhair al- (Judge) Maliky

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (94%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2004



26 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1482 words

HEADLINE: In Western Sudan, Fear and Despair Are the Ever-Growing Enemy

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

DATELINE: SHIGEKARO, Sudan 

 BODY:
The United Nations has issued the Arab-led government of Sudan a stark ultimatum: show evidence of improved security for the black African tribes of the vast western region called Darfur, or face the consequences -- among them, possibly economic sanctions. 
 Yet that warning, issued July 30, has provided scant comfort to those who still live in this unforgiving landscape of endless yellow sand cut by jagged stone hills. The desert is littered with camel corpses and the skulls of dead donkeys. Here and there lie singed villages, or deep craters left by bombs. The people, if one can find them, continue to tell harrowing tales of government planes swooping overhead before the rampage of the pro-government Arab militias, the Janjaweed. 
 Sudan's government has been reluctant to permit free access to journalists, and so it is impossible to assess the scope of the attacks or the exact extent of the government's involvement. As the Security Council prepared to take up the matter on Sept. 2, it was also not clear from local accounts whether the latest violence occurred in the month it gave Sudan to comply. 
 What is certain is that the threat of violence remains so intense, and the government's promises to secure the region so mistrusted, that no one here feels safe enough to return home. Darfurians are still on the run.
 So terrified do they remain that some are hiding in caves, or pitching tents of twig and cloth under the thickets that sprout from the sand. They subsist on what little the desert yields. They collect rainwater to drink. They disperse their children for safekeeping and scurry as far from view as possible, trying to make themselves invisible. 
 Even as peace talks go on between the Sudanese government and their rebel enemies, even as Khartoum promises to disarm the Janjaweed and calm Darfur -- and even here, in this rebel-held area far from government troops -- fear is overpowering. 
 Even after a visit to Darfur in early July by Secretary General Kofi Annan, Sudanese military forces and Janjaweed swooped down on towns and villages, people said in dozens of interviews here and across the border in Chad, where many had fled.
 They said that in recent weeks, homes continued to be burned, livestock looted, villagers killed and women raped, events often preceded by the roar of government planes and sometimes bombings. 
 Exact dates of attacks are difficult to pin down. 
 A shopkeeper from Abu Dilek, a market town southeast of El Fashir, one of Darfur's principal cities, arrived here late one night to report a joint government-militia attack on the fourth Friday in July. 
 It was time for midday Friday Prayer, the shopkeeper, Adam Mindi, said, when eight trucks, filled with soldiers and militiamen, surrounded the market and began shooting. The soldiers wore forest-green uniforms, he said. The Janjaweed were in camouflage fatigues. When they were done shooting, they loaded their trucks with sacks of sugar from the market.
 Mr. Mindi, 42 and father of 11, witnessed all this, lying down and hiding himself in the market stalls. Later, he said, he learned that three women had been raped. He learned, too, that his father had been killed on his way to the mosque. All told, 14 people died. The village emptied out. 
 Mr. Mindi deposited his family in Abu Shouk, a camp for displaced persons near El Fashir, mounted a donkey and rode several days, all the way here to Shigekaro. He said he wanted to join the rebel group, the Sudan Liberation Army, if they would have him. 
 From a refugee who escaped to Chad came a similar tale of an attack on his village, farther south, near the Jabal Moon hills. The refugee, Muhammad Mursal Abd, 38, said he was pulling weeds in his millet field on the second Sunday in August when he heard the sound of galloping horses and then gunshots fired in his direction. 
 He escaped, but later that day men on horseback took all the cattle they could corral. The next day, they returned for more, and then they emptied Mr. Abd's house: blankets, a radio, a television he had bought while working in neighboring Libya. 
 That village, too, emptied out. The villagers hid in the muddy creeks and then fled. Ten families, including Mr. Abd's, marched west to Chad. 
 The extent of control or cognizance by the Sudanese government in the attacks is not wholly clear. But whatever the case, the reports present a vexing problem for Khartoum as it confronts the ultimatum by the Security Council. 
 Under intense pressure to disarm the militias, the government has described the Janjaweed as independent outlaws, tried to distance itself from their violence and pleaded for more time to bring Darfur under control. It has rejected an offer of African Union peacekeepers and pledged instead to dispatch additional law enforcement forces to Darfur to enable civilians to return home.
 But many who were encountered in this area would no sooner go home than show themselves in the open, even in this rebel-held area. 
 One recent morning, across the hot yellow sand, from the hills to this now nearly empty village, came a column of women, wrapped head-to-toe in blinding bright colors. 
 They had been hiding in the caves, they said, collecting rainwater and feeding their children bitter beans that grow on desert shrubs. One woman, Maka Ahmed, 45, said she had lost a 2-year-old son to hunger. Another reported that a pregnant woman had perished in the hills.
 Word had spread there were foreigners in the area. The women said they had been walking two hours in the hope that aid had come.
 An old woman, leaning on a long sturdy branch, simply sat down on the sand once she learned the foreigners were journalists, not relief workers. A little boy with tattered blue plastic shoes stared, mouth wide open. 
 For three months it has been like this: ever since their villages, Funu and Ourshi and others, had been attacked, they have been running from cave to barren desert to cave. 
 The story of their flight echoes the stories heard across Darfur for over a year now, since the start of a rebel uprising in early 2003 that is demanding greater political and economic power for black Sudanese in the west. The women here said government planes circled overhead before the Janjaweed stormed their villages. Their homes were trashed. Neighbors were killed. Animals were stolen. Everyone scattered. 
 Now, they hide in small clusters, so as not to be spotted by government troops or militias. They send their children to stay with different kinfolk. Mukhtar Salim, 38, keeps three at his side here, under the shade of a desert scrub; a fourth he sends to live with his father, across another mountain. The more scattered they are, the lower their chances of all getting killed. 
 Going home to Anka, where his two brothers were killed in July during an attack by military and militia, Mr. Salim said, is not an option.
 The most telling evidence of physical devastation comes from a United States State Department map, produced with the aid of satellite pictures in an effort to mount a case of genocide against the Sudanese government. It shows clusters of burned villages across Darfur. 
 Some two million people are displaced, nearly all of them black Africans.
 One of the displaced is Jamila Muhammad. Her refuge is a circle of twigs under the protection of a desert shrub. The Janjaweed burned her house in Ourshi. They killed her husband, took away two of her sons. The baby boy on her lap subsists on flour-and-water soup. She has no goats left to give him milk, no milk in her breasts either. She moves when she hears what sound like airplanes. 
 A woman hiding under another desert scrub nearby shrieks at the suggestion of going home. ''Stay here or move on,'' says Asha Abdur Rahman, 45. Her 12-year-old son was shot and killed by the Janjaweed.
 Elsewhere, just on the edge of the Sahara, just before the scrub brush suddenly gives way white hot stretches of sand, sat Aisha Beshara, roughly 40, surrounded by a brood of children. It took her two days to come here from the cave in which she was hiding. Her husband, she said, has gone off to fight with the rebels. She has no animals to ferry her family's meager belongings across the desert to Chad. 
 In the scheme of things, this is the safest oasis, she says. She looks up at the sky, signaling airplanes. ''Nobody knows we live here,'' she says. 
 Fear and bitterness run so deep that a child in hiding here begins bawling uncontrollably at the sight of visiting journalists. An older man scoops the child in his arms. He says she thinks these are Arabs.
 The child's mother, a stick-thin woman of 24 named Sonda Suleiman, tells her story: an attack on her village, a vanished husband, no milk for the children, only one donkey left. She squeezes her child, who stares at the visitors and will not stop crying. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: A soldier from the Sudanese Liberation Army in the ashes of Hangala, a village in Darfur that was burned down by a government-backed militia. (Photo by Lynsey Addario for The New York Times)(pg. A1)
Black women who had been hiding from Arab militias trek across the desert to find food aid.
 A young girl from a village in Darfur at the Kaunoungo refugee camp in Chad. The flow of Sudanese fleeing violence is increasing. (Photographs by Lynsey Addario for The New York Times)(pg. A4)Map of Sudan highlighting Shigekaro: Black Sudanese fleeing Arab militias are hiding in Shigekaro. (pg. A4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (89%); ARMED FORCES (85%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); REFUGEES (78%); DISARMAMENT (78%); BOMBINGS (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); JOURNALISM (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (70%); IMMIGRATION (65%); HUMAN RIGHTS (60%); PEACE PROCESS (51%) Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Freedom and Human Rights; News and News Media; Immigration and Refugees; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%) United Nations

PERSON: Somini Sengupta

GEOGRAPHIC: KHARTOUM, SUDAN (79%) SUDAN (99%); CHAD (92%); UNITED STATES (79%) Sudan; Darfur Province (Sudan); Sudan; Sudan

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2004



27 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 500 words

HEADLINE: Manufacturing Rose in August; Construction Spending Hits High

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Manufacturing activity rose in August for the 15th consecutive month, but at a slower rate than in July, according to a report released yesterday by the Institute for Supply Management, a research group.
 The institute's index for manufacturing activity stood at 59 percent in August, three percentage points below the 62 percent recorded in July and just below the level that analysts were expecting.
 The Commerce Department reported separately that construction spending bounced back in July, to the highest level on record. After a lull in June, the spike in July meant that the value of buildings constructed came in at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $997.2 billion, a record and a 0.4 percent rise over June. 
 The gains were broadly based, with spending by private builders on residential units and spending by government on big public works projects each coming in at records in dollar terms.
 The two reports painted an overall positive picture for the economy.
 A reading in the manufacturing index above 50 means manufacturing is expanding, while below 50 means activity is contracting. The index has been above 50 since June 2003.
 Over all, the report indicated healthy activity in manufacturing, while showing some weak spots, including concerns among manufacturers over rising energy costs, higher prices for basic materials, especially steel, and slowing growth in sales.
 ''August was another good month for the manufacturing sector,'' Norbert Ore, who directs the monthly survey for the institute, said in a statement. He said that while the rate of growth slowed in the month, overall conditions for manufacturers were ''still quite positive'' as new orders and production levels remained high.
 Mr. Ore said many businesses are still rating their businesses as ''strong,'' while some are watching new orders taper off. 
 ''The manufacturing sector is actually growing more rapidly than the overall economy,'' said Mark Vitner, senior economist at the Wachovia Corporation in Charlotte, N.C. He said the recovery among manufacturers had been broad based, and he called that ''an incredibly positive indicator for future economic growth.''
 The manufacturing report is compiled every month by the institute, which is based in Tempe, Ariz. The group collects information on orders, pricing and other data on commonly used manufacturing supply materials like steel, aluminum, gasoline, cardboard, latex and lumber.
 The group also reported that its employment index, a measure of job strength in manufacturing, edged down 1.6 points, to 55.7 percent, in August. That indicates that manufacturing employment is still growing, but at a slower pace than in July.
 The institute reported that prices for supplies were moving higher as demand from customers and energy costs rose. Indicators for new orders as well as imports grew in August, and the number of backlog orders also increased.
 Among the industries reporting growth were rubber, furniture, food, textiles, paper and electronics. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (92%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (92%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (90%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (90%); NEW ORDERS (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STATISTICS (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (79%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (79%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); IMPORT TRADE (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); INFRASTRUCTURE (55%) United States Economy; Production; Labor; Hiring and Promotion; Records and Achievements; Records and Achievements; Building (Construction); United States Economy

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (91%); WELLS FARGO & CO (64%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%) Institute for Supply Management; Commerce Department

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (64%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (72%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2004



28 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Trendiness Among the Tenements; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1603 words

HEADLINE: Descendants Return to a Remade Lower East Side

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

 BODY:
H. Eckstein & Sons was not quite as much a fixture of the Lower East Side as Guss's Pickles or Yonah Schimmel Knish Bakery. Still, Brenda Zimmer spent much of her life there, haggling with customers in the cramped and hectic clothing store on Orchard Street that her family owned, hanging on until a greatly weakened Eckstein's finally shut its doors in 1998. 
 Yet when she told friends a few years ago that her daughter, Amy, was moving into one of the neighborhood's storied tenements, ''they looked a little shocked,'' she said.
 ''Everybody spent their lives trying to get out of there, and my daughter is trying to come back,'' Mrs. Zimmer said, recalling her friends' puzzlement and suggesting more than a little of her own. 
 The rapid changes in a neighborhood famous as the squalid foothold for immigrants just off the boat have produced more than a few such expressions of astonishment. 
 There are still many people around who were glad to escape the neighborhood when the old life seemed to be seeping out of it more than a half-century ago. Some of them are now wonderstruck as their adventurous children and grandchildren are returning.
 On a recent stroll from Hester Street to Houston Street with Amy, Mrs. Zimmer seemed tickled that her daughter, a 28-year-old Yale graduate and freelance writer, had actually settled a few blocks from where Amy's grandfather was born and where Mrs. Zimmer worked full time for 15 years. Sure, only a handful of the wholesale and retail stores that sold hosiery, linens, lingerie, and handbags were still around, and even many of the bodegas of a more recent era of migration were gone. But the neighborhood had once again quickened to life, something closer to the bustle of the days when the walk-up tenements were teeming and the dowdy stores drew shoppers from all over for their Sunday bargains. 
 ''Now it's exciting; it's prestigious to live there,'' Mrs. Zimmer, a high-spirited woman, observed. 
 Dry-goods shops are being replaced by restaurants with $30 entrees; by boutiques where the tastefully spaced wares are fashionably retro but the prices are decidedly nouveau; by galleries like Fusion-Arts Museum, which exhibits a robotlike ''fusion golem'' made of motorized hardware; by cafes where young people peck at laptops while sipping lattes; and even by one shop, Toys in Babeland, that, to Mrs. Zimmer's embarrassed amusement, sells sex toys.
 ''A very unusual store,'' Mrs. Zimmer observed, gathering up her dignity. ''Colorful.''
 The tenements themselves that in the 1950's had apartments with hallway toilets that rented for $18 a month now have apartments for $2,000 a month. The tenements' residents are as likely to be professionals from the Midwest or trust-fund babies as poor Chinese or Latino immigrants. Some of the newer settlers are people with roots on the Lower East Side, like Deborah Copeland, a 23-year-old Yale-educated researcher whose great-grandparents lived in the tenements, and Sion Misrahi, 54, the son of a schlock-clothing merchant, who now owns several neighborhood buildings.
 With landlords offering rent-regulated tenants inducements of thousands of dollars to move out, the sounds of renovating hammers and saws can be heard everywhere. A condominium on Essex Street has sold for $2 million, and a glass-walled 20-story hotel, the Surface, is rising on Rivington Street, where pushcarts once sat. 
 Some new shops are beguiling in their deceptions, laced with contradictions. A store that still carries the original overhead sign ''Louis Zuflacht -- Smart Clothes'' actually sells voguish glassware. Lolita Bar is around the corner from Lolita Bras.
 Young people like Amy Zimmer appreciate the gritty tenement stock -- the unmall, unhomogenized feel of the place and they say they like the human mix of Chinese, Latinos, bohemians along with the lingering Old World Jewish shopkeepers. 
 Ms. Zimmer, a slender, dark-haired woman with a fondness for clothes squirreled away from her family store, lives in a studio in a tenement below Delancey Street where the boiler frequently breaks down -- letting her claim the distinction of a cold-water flat. But after growing up in a ranch house in the fairly homogeneous suburb of Pomona, in Rockland County, she likes having neighbors who are predominantly Cantonese, and she likes shopping at the stalls in the Essex Street Market. 
 ''I knew I was crossing the threshold and walking into a different era,'' she said. 
 As a child and teenager, Amy Zimmer helped out Sundays in Eckstein's, but ''wasn't allowed to walk anywhere by myself'' because of the neighborhood's other large commerce at that time -- narcotics. Still, she was beguiled by the jostling streets and the dinners at Ratner's or Schmulka Bernstein, two landmark restaurants in the neighborhood. She nurtured a deep affection for Eckstein's, which she has memorialized for the Web site Mr. Beller's Neighborhood.
 ''Mounds of jeans were piled in the basement and since the store had no dressing rooms, people would try things on behind stacks of Wranglers and Levis,'' she wrote. ''Shelves of brown cardboard boxes stuffed with underwear lined the walls; to get a pair, a salesperson would climb wooden ladders precariously affixed to a bar just below the tin ceiling.''
 As she and her mother sauntered about, they remembered how Amy's dogged great-uncle Herbert would not let anyone leave the store without buying something. His salesman's zeal made him such a prominent local personality that the defunct Grand Dairy Restaurant named a sandwich, ''the Professor,'' after another one of his traits. It was an open-face tuna on whole wheat with coleslaw on the side,. 
 She and her mother arrived at the corner of Orchard and Grand, where Eckstein's -- started by Amy's great-great grandfather and his three sons in 1916-- is now Sheila's Decorating, a fabric and furnishings store. Inside, Mrs. Zimmer was overwhelmed by the ghosts.
 ''There was the hosiery department,'' she said, pointing to where bolts of damask and silk had replaced the socks. ''There was ladies' sweaters. When you walked back there you had the underwear department. Hanes! Jockey!''
 She patted a spot over her heart. ''It's sad when I come here,'' she said. ''I grew up here and now it feels foreign.''
 But there were other places that brought out laughter. Mother and daughter had started their conversation at Gertel's Bake Shop, a 75-year-old Hester Street institution famous for its rugelach and chocolate babka. It is virtually next door to Brown, a hole-in-the-wall cafe with outdoor tables and seats made of wooden blocks.
 ''Who would think it, a cafe on Hester Street?'' Mrs. Zimmer said, as Amy chuckled. ''It's all new to me.''
 At Gorelick's clothing on Orchard Street, she offered a cheery greeting to the owner, Bernard Gorelick, whom she hadn't seen since Eckstein's closed.
 ''How are you, Bernie?'' she said.
 ''I'm an old man,'' he answered plaintively. 
 He told her the battered 72-year-old store -- a warren of steel shelves filled with dusty cardboard boxes thick with underwear and pajamas -- was closing. He didn't need to bother. A hand-lettered sign in the window said ''Going Out Sale.''
 The old wholesale and retail stores have been hit hard by converging trends -- the rise of national discounters like Wal-Mart, the end of blue laws that once gave the Lower East Side a monopoly on Sunday business, the long shutdowns on the Williamsburg Bridge for repairs. 
 Perhaps the biggest catalyst was the paradox of success -- the store owners sent their children to college and with their degrees the children were not about to take over the family businesses.
 Jerry Cohen of 67-year-old Economy Candy on Rivington, which specializes in candies like Good & Plenty that were popular decades ago, sent his son to the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. While the son works at the store summers, the father says flatly: ''Do I need him here at $6 an hour?''
 At Gorelick's, Irving Gellis, a wizened salesman, waxed lyrical about the old days. ''There was room for everybody, everybody lived in peace,'' Mr. Gellis said of the rival merchants. ''They were all invited to each other's affairs. It was one big family, Orchard Street. But the whole neighborhood has changed with all these yuppies moving in. They must have money like dirt. They're paying $1.75 for a cup of coffee. We thought these people are crazy. You pay 50 cents for a cup of coffee on Delancey Street. It's a different world.''
 When Amy announced in 2000 that she was moving to the Lower East Side, Mrs. Zimmer, who works as a guidance counselor, was concerned that the streets were noirishly desolate at night. Now, on the walk, Amy wanted her mother to share her delight in the neighborhood's quirky liveliness. She showed her 88 Orchard Street, a watering hole popular with young people that sells panini and herb omelets, not to mention prosciutto. 
 ''This is something -- prosciutto on Orchard Street,'' Mrs. Zimmer said. ''And I bet they're open Saturday.''
 ''I bet they are,'' Amy shot back with a laugh.
 The Michele Olivieri shop was selling alligator shoes for $399 -- on sale -- and advertised a Web site -- www.moshoes .com.
 ''Web site?'' Mrs. Zimmer said. ''We didn't have a computer. Everything was on paper. We added up bills in our head. We had a calculator but it was for emergencies.'' An old-timer like Yonah Schimmel, though, does much of its national trade over knishery.com. 
 And Las Venus, a store that sells ''vintage'' furniture, surprised her. The furniture was from the 1950's, 60's and 70's. ''This,'' she asked, ''is vintage?''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Brenda Zimmer, whose roots are in the Lower East Side, in the area with her daughter, Amy, who now lives there.
 Mrs. Zimmer and Amy visited Bernard Gorelick, whose clothing store on Orchard Street is closing. (Photographs by G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)Chart: ''AT A GLANCE: The Lower East Side ''POPULATION1990: 51,4712000: 51,479EDUCATIONAL ATTAINMENTHigh school grad.1990: 19.6%2000: 17.1%Some college1990: 13.62000: 13.4Bachelors degree1990: 8.52000: 12.6Graduate degree1990: 4.82000: 7.0AVERAGE HOUSEHOLD INCOME*1990: $25,3272000: $40,884MEDIAN VALUE FOR OWNER-OCCUPIED HOUSING UNITS*1990: $85,7252000: $170,588MEDIAN RENT*1990: 4462000: 511HOUSEHOLDS WITH PUBLIC ASSISTANCE INCOME1990: 19.0%2000: 8.0%*Adjusted for inflation in 2000 dollars.(Source by Andrew A. Beveridge, Queens College Department of Sociology)(pg. B5)Map of Manhattan highlighting the Lower East Side. (pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); BAKERIES (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); GRANDPARENTS (77%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (77%); FAMILY (77%); LINGERIE (69%); IMMIGRATION (68%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (64%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (64%) Retail Stores and Trade; Housing

PERSON: Joseph Berger

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City; Lower East Side (NYC); New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2004



29 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 357 words

HEADLINE: Oil Futures Prices Rise 4.5% On Outsize Drop in Supplies

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Crude oil futures prices surged by almost $2 a barrel yesterday, the biggest increase in two months, after the Energy Department reported that United States oil supplies had declined more than expected.
 Oil inventories fell 4.2 million barrels last week, to 287.1 million barrels, the lowest since the week ended March 12. Supplies had been expected to drop by 400,000 barrels, according to a Bloomberg News survey of analysts. Oil prices have declined in seven of the last nine sessions on an easing of concern that supplies from Iraq would be disrupted. 
 ''Refiners are chewing through a great deal of crude oil,'' said John Kilduff, senior vice president for energy risk management at Fimat USA, a brokerage unit of Societe Generale. 
 In trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange yesterday, crude oil for October delivery rose $1.88, or 4.5 percent, to settle at $44 a barrel, the steepest increase since July 1. Prices have declined almost 10 percent from a record $48.70 a barrel on Aug. 19, but remain more than one-third higher than they were a year earlier.
 The rise in prices accelerated in the last few minutes of trading yesterday because Flint Hills Resources, a unit of Koch Industries, had a fire at its refinery in Corpus Christi, Tex. The refinery has a processing capacity of 300,000 barrels a day, according to the company's Web site.
 ''We came down so much, so quickly,'' said Juha Laiho, a trader in Houston with the Finnish energy company Fortum. ''Prices jumped because the crude number was such a surprise. There isn't a lot of excess.''
 Crude oil inventories were up 2.4 percent from a year earlier, after being up 4.6 percent a week before, the Energy Department said. Refineries ran at 95.7 percent of their capacity, one percentage point higher than during the period a year earlier, after a 0.3 percentage point decline the previous week.
 ''The supply concerns that have pervaded the market this year are returning to the fore,'' Mr. Kilduff said.
 The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, which pumps about a third of the world's oil, has increased production quotas in an effort to lower prices. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUTURES (93%); OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); PRICE INCREASES (92%); ENERGY MARKETS (91%); PRICE CHANGES (91%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (91%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); INVENTORIES (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (72%); PLANT CAPACITY (70%); RISK MANAGEMENT (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (65%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); FIRES (51%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; International Trade and World Market; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Inventories (Economic Indicator); Futures and Options Trading

COMPANY: FORTUM CORP (84%); NEWEDGE GROUP (58%); BLOOMBERG LP (57%); SOCIETE GENERALE SA (56%); KOCH INDUSTRIES INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%) Energy Department

TICKER: FUM1V (HEL) (84%); GLE (PAR) (56%); GLE (BIT) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (84%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (84%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (84%); NAICS523140 COMMODITY CONTRACTS BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523130 COMMODITY CONTRACTS DEALING (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); CORPUS CHRISTI, TX, USA (78%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2004



30 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: Ethnic Food, Anyone? After Tennis, Flushing Calls

BYLINE: By LYDIA POLGREEN

 BODY:
They sit less than a mile and a single subway stop from one another: the world's best attended annual sporting event, drawing about 620,000 spectators each year, and one of the city's most vibrant ethnic enclaves, packed with restaurants, cafes and shops. 
 Yet the United States Open, one of the premier events of professional tennis, and downtown Flushing, Queens, remain virtual strangers. 
 ''We haven't had any customers from there,'' said Chan Loon Foo, manager of J & B Lobster King Restaurant on 40th Road just off Main Street in Flushing, which serves a generous platter for two people of lobster, Dungeness crab, clams, shrimp and scallops for $69.95, a relative bargain. ''We like if they come here, but they never do,'' Mr. Chan said. 
 Bill Hansen, who drove in from Glen Rock, N.J., with his 12-year-old daughter, Blair, to watch a few matches at the United States Open yesterday afternoon, said he had never gone to Flushing for a meal, despite going there for tennis at the National Tennis Center for 20 years. 
 ''We love Chinese food,'' Mr. Hansen said. ''Maybe if we knew where to go we'd head over there. But I just don't know much about it.'' 
 In a city that is home to six major league sports teams and holds countless sporting events, bridging the divide between spectators and the neighborhoods around sports sites has been a perennial challenge. The debate over what, if anything, sporting events contribute to the economic health of city neighborhoods has heated up as the city contemplates two new major sports venues in downtown Brooklyn and on the West Side of Manhattan. 
 In northern Queens, the gap between 2.7 million sports fans who attend the United States Open and Mets games at Shea Stadium just opposite the National Tennis Center in Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, remains huge, according to a report issued by the Center for an Urban Future, a research institute that focuses on economic development. 
 ''For a long time now thousands of people have been trekking over to Flushing Meadows for the U.S. Open and Mets games, but it seems like we have been missing an opportunity to make a connection to one of the most exciting neighborhoods in the city, downtown Flushing,'' said Jonathan Bowles, the center's research director and author of the report. ''People who go to these events just don't know about Flushing, don't know how close and convenient it is. There is almost no marketing and promotion by the city.'' 
 Downtown Flushing was once a quiet backwater in northern Queens. But over the past two decades it has grown rapidly with a huge influx of Asian immigrants, who have opened dozens of restaurants, cafes and ethnic groceries. Demand for travel agencies, banks and other services has spurred construction of low-rise and mid-rise office space. If Chinatown and Midtown had a baby that grew up and moved to Queens, it would look a lot like Flushing. 
 The neighborhood's bustling corners are chockablock with shoppers who slurp milky sweet tea through fat straws, savoring the gelatinous black tapioca balls at the bottom of each cup, and snack on warm sweet buns stuffed with red paste.
 John Guo, who works at Ten Ren Tea House, said he would like to see more people venture from the sports sites to his neighborhood, but few make the trip. 
 ''Nobody seems to know we are here,'' he said, stirring a vat of glistening tapioca balls. ''Our customers are people from the neighborhood, not outside.''
 Mr. Bowles said this is largely a failure of marketing. He said that while the city has invested in significant transportation improvements for Flushing, it has not promoted Flushing as a tourist destination to people who are already headed that way. NYC & Company, the city's tourism marketing arm, promotes a United States Open restaurant event, which offers discounts at two dozen restaurants, all in Manhattan. There are no signs at the Willets Point/Shea Stadium stop on the No. 7 train telling visitors that Flushing, with its plethora of ethnic restaurants, is nearby, Mr. Bowles said. 
 ''If more people knew about downtown Flushing, they might venture over there once in a while,'' Mr. Bowles said. 
 Chris Widmaier, a spokesman for the United States Tennis Association, which organizes the Open, said the association would welcome the chance to work with the city to promote Queens neighborhoods, but he added that about 40 percent of the spectators come from out of town and most of them stay in Manhattan and tend to eat there. 
 ''Our marketing campaign is broader than one neighborhood, more focused on New York City as a whole,'' he said. 
 Fred Fu, who owns a travel agency in Flushing and is president of the Flushing Development Center, said that sports events like the United States Open are economic development opportunities the city keeps missing. 
 ''Flushing is so unique, it has so many different cultures,'' Mr. Fu said. ''We can't let people come and then just leave again. If they know we are here, maybe they will visit, and leave a little money behind, too.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Downtown Flushing is close to the National Tennis Center and Shea Stadium, but few sports fans eat there. (Photo by Stephanie Keith for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TENNIS (92%); SPORTS (92%); RESTAURANTS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); BASEBALL (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); ETHNIC GROUPS (77%); SPORTS FANS (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (66%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (64%) Restaurants; United States Open (Tennis); Shea Stadium (NYC); Advertising and Marketing; Flushing Meadows Tennis Center

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (59%) New York Mets

PERSON: Lydia Polgreen

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%) Flushing (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2004



31 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; SMALL BUSINESS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1308 words

HEADLINE: The Return of the Venture Capitalists

BYLINE: By ANNE FIELD

 BODY:
In the world of venture capital, it may not be the best of times. But it is sure not the worst, either. 
 Four years after the Internet bubble burst, the venture-capital industry is stirring back to life. Investments by venture firms rose 22 percent in the second quarter of this year, to $5.8 billion, from $4.7 billion a year earlier, according to the MoneyTree Survey by PricewaterhouseCoopers, Thomson Venture Economics and the National Venture Capital Association. 
 For all of 2004, analysts project an 11 percent increase in investments, to $20 billion, from $18 billion in 2003. 
 That is a far cry from the $108 billion in the heady days of 1999, and nobody in the venture-capital business is predicting a return to that flood of cash. Rather, ''it's as though the turtle got out of its shell, looked around, and decided it was safe to go out,'' said Jesse Reyes, vice president for global research for Thomson Venture Economics in New York City. 
 Venture capitalists cite several factors for the improving situation, starting with the reviving economy. Forecasts of increased technology spending by corporations are also fueling the uptick, they say. Then, there is the simple matter of time. After spending several post-bubble years licking their wounds and propping up existing companies in their portfolios, venture capitalists are finally looking around for new investment opportunities.
 As for entrepreneurs, many more are now willing to come forward with innovative ideas than during the years immediately after the Internet debacle. ''Before, entrepreneurs were hunkered down, unwilling to take a risk in such a terrible environment,'' said Geoff Yang, a partner in Redpoint Ventures in Menlo Park, Calif. ''But, now, they're coming out of hiding.''
 Mr. Yang and other venture capitalists report significant increases in the number of deals they are looking at these days, especially in start-ups. He estimates that the number of investments his firm is considering is up 40 percent to 50 percent from a few years ago.
 The competition among venture capitalists to get their foot in the door of promising companies has also heated up. The time that elapses for a deal to close has been cut by more than half, from six to eight months two years ago to two or three months today, said Bill Ericson, a general partner with Mohr, Davidow Ventures, another Menlo Park firm.
 Perhaps the most encouraging development for entrepreneurs is the increase in venture-capital investments in early-stage companies, to 231 in the second quarter of 2004, the highest number in two years, and up from 207 a year earlier, according to Venture Economics.
 These deals accounted for 30 percent of all venture-capital investments, the highest proportion in more than three years, while the average capital infusion per company rose to $4.9 million, up from an average of $4.6 million over the previous four quarters. What is more, seed funds -- money invested in start-ups, which venture capitalists shunned after the bubble burst -- accounted for 32 percent of all deals in the second quarter of this year, up from 29 percent for all of 2003, said John Gabbert, vice president for worldwide research at VentureOne, a market research firm in San Francisco. 
 Some firms have decided it is time to plunge into a suddenly promising market. Mark Hilderbrand, a general partner in Onset Ventures in Menlo Park, which focuses on early-stage companies, says it expects to make as many as 10 investments this year, up from just one last year.
 Such renewed enthusiasm has been good news for entrepreneurs like Fred Khosravi. Two years ago, Mr. Khosravi founded a company called Access Closure in Mountain View, Calif., to develop and sell a technology to improve angioplasty procedures. He had a tough time finding takers, although in late 2002 he managed to raise $3.5 million from Onset and a group of private investors willing to invest in what was then a relatively unpopular area. A year later, he raised $10 million more from a group that included Three Arch Partners and Onset.
 Late last year, Mr. Khosravi helped found another company, Sadra Medical in Cupertino, Calif., to develop a technology for the replacement of aortic valves. A few months later, it easily raised $9 million from Onset, as well as from Pequot Capital Management and Schroder Ventures, despite the fact that the company was at an earlier stage of testing than was Access when it received its first round of financing. Mr. Khosravi said he was also able to negotiate a similar valuation to the one he got at Access, even though the newer company had reached a point considerably less proven, and riskier, in its product development. 
 Mr. Khosravi is benefiting from being in the hot life-science sector, which includes biotechnology and medical device companies. About 25 percent of all venture capital is going to that area these days, according to the MoneyTree survey, in large part a result of declining investor interest in Internet and telecommunications companies. ''You have to put your money somewhere,'' said Mark Heesen, president of the National Venture Capital Association in Arlington, Va.
 At the same time, it is unlikely that start-ups will see a return to easy-money days anytime soon, in part because many firms are not raising the kind of funds they did during the bubble. While venture capitalists are stepping up their own fund-raising efforts, raising $5.8 billion in 82 funds in the first half of this year, almost double the $3 billion they raised in 76 funds in the 2003 period, according to Venture Economics, the amount of money available from each fund may be less than was the case several years ago. Back then, many of the bigger funds had close to $1 billion or more.
 Some firms started scaling back fund size around 2001, when they returned significant portions to their investors. Mohr, Davidow reduced its $850 million fund by almost half, Mr. Ericson said. Redpoint gave back about 40 percent of its $750 million fund in 2001, Mr. Yang said. The firm is not currently raising a new fund, but, when it does, he expects it to be ''substantially smaller'' than before.
 The key to winning some of that money, according to venture capitalists, lies in the acumen of company management. That has always been true, of course, but according to investors, it is even more of a factor now. Robert E. Brown Jr., managing general partner of Meridian Venture Partners in Radnor, Pa., said: ''People are so much more sophisticated these days about how to make their case. Everybody can walk the walk and talk the talk.'' 
 The real test, then, is whether company management has already proved its mettle with appropriate industry and small-company experience. ''Even if they were unsuccessful, at least we know they tried and learned from what they did before,'' Mr. Brown said. Recently, he said, the firm added a psychological test to the last step of the decision-making process ''to sort out the wheat from the chaff.''
 One way for entrepreneurs to improve their chances of getting money from venture capitalists is to solicit their advice first. Two years ago, Jack Danahy, the founder of Qiave Technologies, a company that makes a software security product, and two partners decided to start a second software company. But instead of trying to develop an idea on their own, they spent three months picking the brains of venture capitalists at Greylock, a Boston venture-capital firm, and Commonwealth Capital Ventures in Wellesley, Mass., as well as clients of both firms, asking their advice on market opportunities.
 Based on those conversations, they started Ounce Labs in Waltham, Mass., another software security company, and raised $3 million apiece from the two venture capital firms early this year. ''The negotiations went very smoothly,'' Mr. Danahy said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Fred Khosravi has founded two companies in two years. He found it easier to acquire venture capital funds the second time. He has benefited from being in life-science ventures, a popular area among investors. (Photo by Randi Lynn Beach for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VENTURE CAPITAL (95%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (87%); STARTUPS (78%); GENERAL PARTNERSHIPS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%) Venture Capital; Small Business

COMPANY: REDPOINT VENTURES (81%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (57%); MOHR DAVIDOW VENTURES (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (81%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (81%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (57%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: Anne Field

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (70%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2004



32 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1353 words

HEADLINE: Justice Dept. Seeks End To Its Detroit Terror Case

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: DETROIT, Sept. 1 

 BODY:
The Justice Department on Wednesday assailed its own legal strategy in the case that had brought its first courtroom victory in the war on terror. 
 In a 60-page filing released Wednesday, prosecutors asked a federal judge to end the terror case against what they once called a ''sleeper operational combat cell'' based here. They are asking for a new trial of three men only on document fraud. 
 After nine months of investigation, federal prosecutors compiled a wealth of evidence that they said fatally undermined every aspect of their terror case. They also sharply rebuked the prosecutor who led the case, Richard G. Convertino, suggesting he knowingly withheld evidence that he was obligated to share with defense lawyers. Mr. Convertino, who was removed as the case prosecutor last year and is the subject of a department investigation, has denied accusations that he did anything wrong and has filed a lawsuit against the department. 
 The developments were a stunning reversal in a case once hailed by Attorney General John Ashcroft as a major victory in the war on terror. 
 ''To have one of the department's few wins move into the loss category is pretty remarkable,'' said Jonathan Turley, a law professor at George Washington University. ''The Detroit case is like a 20-car pileup for Ashcroft. You have an open feud with the former prosecutor and ultimately the abandonment of the case.''
 Some others were heartened that the department aired its missteps.
 ''We applaud the Justice Department's call for fairness in this case,'' said Ismael Ahmed, executive director of the Arab Community Center for Economic and Social Services, in a statement on Wednesday. ''It clearly demonstrates why we feel that America is such a great country.''
 Mr. Ashcroft declined through a spokesman to comment. 
 ''The filing does speak for itself,'' said Bryan Sierra, a Justice Department spokesman in Washington. ''We are obligated to do the right thing if we feel something went wrong with the case.''
 In June 2003, two Moroccan men, Abdel-Ilah Elmardoudi, 38, and Karim Koubriti, 26, were convicted on terror and document fraud charges. A third Moroccan man, Ahmed Hannan, 36, was convicted of document fraud. A fourth man was acquitted. The men were never sentenced because of escalating problems over howthe case was handled. 
 ''In its best light, the record would show that the prosecution committed a pattern of mistakes and oversights that deprived the defendants of discoverable evidence,'' federal prosecutors said in their latest filing. 
 The nine-month review, which had been ordered by the presiding federal judge, showed that prosecutors did more than suppress evidence. The report said that prosecutors also ''created a record filled with misleading inferences that such material did not exist.''
 The filing was largely a rebuke of Mr. Convertino, who was removed within months of winning the convictions. What is unclear is why the department allowed Mr. Convertino to try the case if it had concerns about his conduct. 
 The government said Wednesday that in the early stages of the investigation, in 2002, there were deep divisions within the department over Mr. Convertino's strategy to interview a main witness, Youseff Hmimssa, without letting the F.B.I. take notes, to prevent the defense from gaining access to the information. 
 ''Convertino's approach caused significant controversy within the Department of Justice,'' prosecutors said, adding that department officials in Washington and Detroit cautioned him against the approach. One F.B.I. agent was said to have been ''adamantly opposed.'' Keith Corbett, Mr. Convertino's supervisor and co-counsel on the case, also warned against the strategy. 
 Tension between Washington officials and Mr. Convertino grew, with a federal prosecutor assigned to the case saying in December that he was relegated to being more observer than participant. 
 Mr. Convertino has countered in his own suit that the department is retaliating against him for his agreement to testify about terrorism last year before the Senate Finance Committee. The committee chairman, Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, is a critic of the department. 
 ''Much of the evidence claimed to have been wrongfully withheld by Rick was evidence he wasn't aware of,'' said Mr. Convertino's lawyer, William Sullivan. ''Even if he had been, it was not material to the defense and it would not have led to a different result at the trial.''
 Mr. Convertino, who declined to comment, has said that he was assigned only a barebones staff and could not have monitored every piece of information; he has also said the bureaucracy prevented him from seeing some of the evidence uncovered by the government. 
 He remains on the Justice Department's payroll, assigned to the Senate Caucus on International Narcotic Control, which is led by Mr. Grassley, who has in the past characterized Mr. Convertino as a whistleblower. Mr. Grassley's office declined comment. 
 Lawyers for the defendants have portrayed Mr. Convertino as a rogue prosecutor who withheld evidence in a potentially star-making case. 
 ''We intend to file motions to have the case thrown out completely,'' said Jim Thomas, Mr. Hannan's lawyer. ''Because of the taint that has been attached to this trial and the misconduct of the prosecutor, this case should not be tried again. The government has had their shot.''
 In its filing, the government lays out a rebuttal of Mr. Convertino's legal strategy based on evidence they say was withheld from the court. 
 The strategy relied on three strands of evidence: drawings and a videotape suggesting the men were collecting intelligence on targets in the United States and abroad; the testimony of an associate who said the men were hatching terrorist schemes, and corroborating evidence that they were using methods consistent with terror operations. 
 ''Unfortunately, numerous developments since trial, including the discovery of significant materials not disclosed by the prosecution, have undermined each part of this three-legged stool,'' the government said in its filing. 
 One crucial piece of evidence was a day planner containing sketches that prosecution witnesses said included a military hospital in Jordan and an American air base in Turkey. During the trial, prosecutors contended that a portion of the sketch depicted an aircraft hangar at the base in Turkey. Defense lawyers said it was simply a doodle drawing of the Middle East. The government now says American investigators in Germany concluded that the supposed hangar drawing was, in fact, an outline of the Middle East. 
 An Air Force colonel who testified at the trial created the false impression that military officials were in agreement that the sketch represented a hangar, the government now says. And a C.I.A. official showed the sketch to various experts who doubted it was significant. 
 Prosecutors contended that another sketch showed a Jordanian military hospital. At trial, defense lawyers had asked for any photographs taken by the government of the hospital. Two government witnesses suggested such photographs had not been taken. But the government said Wednesday that the prosecutors did have photographs. 
 ''It is difficult, if not impossible, to compare the day planner sketches with the photos and see a correlation,'' the government said. 
 Another piece of evidence was a videotape of what looked like tourist footage. Prosecutors contended at trial that it was interspersed with potential targets, including the MGM Grand Hotel. But prosecutors failed to reveal that F.B.I. agents disagreed the video was surveillance footage. 
 ''Under the court's established protocol, the government should have brought this information to the court's attention,'' the government said. 
 Mr. Elmardoudi and Mr. Koubriti, who were convicted on the terror charge, remain in custody. Mr. Hannan, convicted of document fraud, was released to a halfway house this year. The government said that it would recommend Mr. Koubriti be released to a halfway house. 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Jeffrey Collins, left, and Richard G. Convertino, former federal prosecutors in Detroit. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (94%); TERRORISM (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); EVIDENCE (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); SENTENCING (78%); ETHICS (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); JUDGES (78%); LITIGATION (78%); LAWYERS (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); ACQUITTAL (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (51%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (50%) Terrorism; Ethics; Terrorism; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (94%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (55%) Justice Department

PERSON: Danny Hakim; John (Atty Gen) Ashcroft; Richard G Convertino; Abdel-Ilah Elmardoudi; Karim Koubriti; Ahmed Hannan

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); MOROCCO (91%) Detroit (Mich); Morocco

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2004



33 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: G.M. and Ford to Cut Production

BYLINE: By FARA WARNER

DATELINE: DETROIT, Sept. 1 

 BODY:
General Motors and Ford Motor said today that they would cut car and truck production in the fourth quarter by as much as 7 percent because vehicles were piling up unsold in inventory. Each company experienced a sharp drop in sales last month, along with the auto industry as a whole, new figures released today show.
 According to Ward's AutoInfoBank, the average number of new cars and light-duty trucks sold daily last month fell by 5.6 percent from August 2003. 
 Even Toyota Motor, usually the industry's most consistent seller, suffered a slump in August, with sales off 2.8 percent over all in the Ward's report. Sales of the market-leading Camry sedan fell 17 percent, and Toyota's sport-utility models were down 17.9 percent. 
 The Chrysler unit of DaimlerChrysler was a significant exception to the trend, posting a small increase, 1.8 percent, in the month, largely on the strength of its popular 300C sedan and the new Dodge Magnum station wagon. Car sales at Chrysler rose 21.9 percent, though truck sales were off sharply.
 Industry executives said the calendar was partly to blame for the overall decline, with none of the Labor Day weekend falling in August this year; they also cited the effects of Hurricane Charley and the difficult comparison with an unusually good August last year. 
 Both G.M. and Ford cited the uneven economy and expensive gasoline as causes of the slowdown in sales last month and as reasons for their decisions to cut back production, beginning in October.
 ''Disappointing job gains and higher energy prices are making life difficult for consumers,'' said Jarlath Costello, an economist at Ford, in a telephone conference call with reporters and analysts. 
 But Diane Swonk, chief economist at Bank One in Chicago, said she was not persuaded that broader economic issues had much to do with the sales slump. ''Their situation is more one of saturation and excessive incentives earlier that borrowed from their future,'' she said of the automakers. G.M.'s overall sales fell 7 percent in August, Ward's said, with truck sales off by 10 percent and sport utility vehicles by 6 percent, compared with a year ago. 
 G.M. said it would pare its output in the fourth quarter by 6.8 percent, to 1.29 million vehicles. About three-fifths of that output will be light-duty trucks. After several months of trying to reduce its inventories, the company still had 1.15 million unsold cars and trucks on hand in August, more than half of them leftover 2004 models. Generous sales incentives will probably be needed to clear them out and make room for the 2005 models now being built. 
 Ford said it planned to cut its production 7.8 percent in the fourth quarter, to 830,000 vehicles, with nearly all the cuts coming from truck production. 
 Jesse Toprak, director of pricing analysis at Edmunds.com, a car research Web site, said that both General Motors and Ford now had very high ''days to turn'' averages. The figures, measured from the day a car arrives on a dealer's lot to the day a buyer drives it away, come from surveys of thousands of dealers, Mr. Toprak said. 
 ''G.M. was at a record 91 days in July, and while August numbers aren't in yet, I don't think it will change that much,'' he said. Ford's July 2004 figure, 92 days, was lower than the 97-day figure last July but still historically high for the company, according to Edmunds.com estimates.
 Mr. Toprak says the industry average is around 72 days to turn, with far shorter figures for a few hot models, like Chrysler's 300C, which the company can barely get to dealers fast enough to keep up with demand. 
 ''In California, we have just a 5-day supply of 300C's, and an 11-day supply for the Magnum,'' said Gary Dilts, senior vice president for sales at Chrysler. ''And now those cars are creating a lighting-rod effect for other vehicles.'' 
 For example, he said, Chrysler's minivan sales were up 13 percent in the Ward's figures for August, in a category that has not shown much momentum in recent years. 
 Mr. Dilts declined to say whether Chrysler planned production changes for the fourth quarter. ''It's not good business to discuss something that could change next week,'' he said.
 There were a few other bright spots in the industry. Many luxury brands gained ground, with Mercedes-Benz, Volvo and Porsche posting sales increases in August on the strength of popular models like the Mercedes E class, Porsche's new 911 and the new S40 sedan from Volvo.


GRAPHIC: Photo: An assembly line in Chicago for Ford's Mercury division. Few brands escaped an August slump, but the Chrysler 300C sedan and Dodge Magnum station wagon both sold well. (Photo by Tim Boyle/Getty Images)Graph:American automakers are planning to cut back on production because of rising inventories of unsold vehicles.Graph tracks the inventories, end of the second quarter of each year, for DaimlerChrysler, Ford (LIGHT TRUCKS, CARS) and General Motors since 2000.(Source by Ward's AutoInfoBank)(pg. C1)Chart: ''Auto Sales in August''ANNUAL SELLING RATEFor cars and light trucks (includes minivans, sport utility vehicles and pickups) sold in the United States.Graph tracks the annual selling rate for light trucks and cars from Feb. 2003-Aug. 2004.INDUSTRY SALESFor vehicles sold in the United States.Cars2004: 636,0112003: 738,135CHANGE*: - 6.9%Light trucks2004: 788,5172003: 890,773CHANGE*: - 4.4Total2004: 1,424,5282003: 1,628,908CHANGE*: - 5.6CAR SALESLeading U.S. sellers.G.M.NUMBER SOLD: 170,199CHANGE: - 2.4%MARKET SHARE: 26.8%ToyotaNUMBER SOLD: 97,632CHANGE: + 0.3MARKET SHARE: 15.4HondaNUMBER SOLD: 77,747CHANGE: -12.2MARKET SHARE: 12.2Ford+NUMBER SOLD: 73,748CHANGE: -20.1MARKET SHARE: 11.6Daimler-ChryslerSNUMBER$ SOLD: 52,771CHANGE: +22.0MARKET SHARE: 8.3NissanNUMBER SOLD: 43,739CHANGE: - 4.3MARKET SHARE: 6.9TOP-SELLING VEHICLESThe most popular vehicles and changes from a year earlier.Ford F-SeriesNUMBER SOLD: 84,996CHANGE: +24.6%Chevrolet SilveradoNUMBER SOLD: 62,655CHANGE: -6.3Honda AccordNUMBER SOLD: 37,878CHANGE: -16.7Dodge RamNUMBER SOLD: 36,677CHANGE: - 9.6Toyota CamryNUMBER SOLD: 35,612CHANGE: -17.4Ford ExplorerNUMBER SOLD: 30,603CHANGE: - 8.8Toyota CorollaNUMBER SOLD: 29,481CHANGE: -10.4Honda CivicNUMBER SOLD: 27,680CHANGE: -13.3Chevrolet TrailblazerNUMBER SOLD: 25,935CHANGE: + 2.7Chevrolet MalibuNUMBER SOLD: 25,260CHANGE: +84.2Chevrolet ImpalaNUMBER SOLD: 25,240CHANGE: - 6.8Chevrolet CavalierNUMBER SOLD: 20,380CHANGE: + 7.9LIGHT TRUCK SALESLeading U.S. sellers.G.M.NUMBER SOLD: 233,004CHANGE: -10.4%MARKET SHARE: 29.6%Ford+NUMBER SOLD: 191,608CHANGE: - 0.6MARKET SHARE: 24.3Daimler-ChryslerSNUMBER$ SOLD: 143,249CHANGE: - 4.1MARKET SHARE: 18.2ToyotaNUMBER SOLD: 82,762CHANGE: - 6.2MARKET SHARE: 10.5HondaNUMBER SOLD: 48,878CHANGE: + 2.3MARKET SHARE: 6.2NissanNUMBER SOLD: 36,605CHANGE: +25.6MARKET SHARE: 4.6*Based on average daily sales, including fleet sales, adjusted for any differences in the number of selling days in a month. +Includes Volvo and Land Rover sales. SIncludes$ MercedesBenz sales.(Source by Ward's AutoInfoBank)(pg. C13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); SEDANS (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); AUTOMAKERS (79%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (79%); SALES FIGURES (78%); TRENDS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); STATISTICS (73%); SALES & SELLING (72%); US LABOR DAY (66%); EXECUTIVES (66%); CONFERENCE CALLS (63%); HURRICANES (51%) Automobiles; Sales; Utility Vehicles and Other Light Trucks; Production; Automobiles

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (91%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (59%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: General Motors Corp; Ford Motor Co; Daimlerchrysler Ag; Ward's Auto Info Bank; Toyota Motor Corp

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); TYT (LSE) (91%); TM (NYSE) (91%); 7203 (TSE) (91%); GM (NYSE) (59%); JPM (NYSE) (53%); JPM (LSE) (53%); 8634 (TSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%)

PERSON: Fara Warner

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2004



34 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Economic Scene; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1075 words

HEADLINE: Wal-Mart may be the new model of productivity, but it isn't always wowing workers.

BYLINE: By Jeff Madrick. 
Jeff Madrick is the editor of Challenge Magazine, and he teaches at Cooper Union and New School University. His most recent book is ''Why Economies Grow'' (Basic Books/Century Foundation). E-mail: challenge @mesharpe.com.

 BODY:
ON this Labor Day, it is worth remembering how widely it was once argued that America's new economy would produce more democratic workplaces that depended on the advancing skills of workers. Old assembly-line mass production was dead, hierarchical management was a dinosaur, and the nation's productivity would be raised rapidly through the creation of interesting new jobs at higher pay and benefits.
 But the new economy, it appears, can cut two ways. New technologies can be used to create good jobs, but they can also be used to create stultifying and poorly paid ones. In fact, the latter possibility, more than outsourcing or globalization, may account for why the nation's productivity has been rising recently while real wages are stagnating and job creation is well behind the pace of past recoveries. 
 To the historian Nelson Lichtenstein, who teaches at the University of California, Santa Barbara, one way to think about how the economy has changed is that Wal-Mart Stores, a services company, is the classic ''business template'' of the contemporary economy. 
 It is the nation's largest company, representing 2.3 percent of the gross domestic product and employing 1.5 million workers. Its prowess and buying power are breathtaking: it is the largest trucker in the nation, the third-largest pharmacy, one of the nation's largest grocers, and its overall sales are greater than those of Target, Sears, Kmart, J.C. Penney, Safeway and Kroger combined. Microsoft and Intel sales are a tenth as large. 
 Moreover, it is a remarkably innovative exploiter of the latest technologies, enabling it to run its huge retail network highly productively, and providing its 20 million or so daily customers both low prices and a wide variety of products. The economists Barry Bosworth and Jack E. Triplett of the Brookings Institution find in a new book, ''Productivity in the U.S. Services Sector'' (Brookings Institution Press), that retailing in general has contributed substantially to the nation's productivity boom since the mid-1990's. And Wal-Mart is the industry leader. 
 By contrast, Mr. Lichtenstein says, in the 1950's, General Motors was clearly the nation's business template. G.M. was the largest company in America, its revenues making up 3 percent of G.D.P. And G.M. was highly productive, meaning high output per hour of work, just as Wal-Mart is now. 
 But here is the critical difference. The manufacturing company paid high and rising wages, setting a pattern for the rest of the nation. Unlike G.M., Wal-Mart is not producing high-paying jobs, even by the standards of the retailing industry. Critics are compiling evidence that Wal-Mart's success, while entrenched in the brilliant management of new technologies, is dependent on low labor costs. And the low-wage business model is setting a pattern for others. 
 As James Hoopes, a professor of business ethics at Babson College, puts it, the new technologies enable Wal-Mart to manage its labor from the top down in ways that Frederick Winslow Taylor, the classic managerial efficiency expert of the first mass-production era, could only dream about. Just as it closely manages its inventory and purchases, Wal-Mart's central management deploys its employees and minimizes their hours. 
 Mr. Hoopes says that because it does not work face to face with employees, top management may not even fully understand what is going on. But academic researchers interviewing Wal-Mart employees find frequent complaints about stress and overwork and little respect for personal needs. And a recent gender-discrimination class-action suit has attracted wide attention. 
 High technology, critics say, also allows companies like Wal-Mart to juggle worker schedules so adeptly that they can make efficient use of part-time help. So part of Wal-Mart's success results from hiring a high proportion of temporary and part-time workers from the ample supply of students, retirees and working spouses. 
 A new study by Arindrajit Dube and Ken Jacobs of the University of California, Berkeley, has produced clear evidence of Wal-Mart's comparatively low wages. The researchers calculate that in the San Francisco Bay Area, the company's average wage, about $11 an hour, is roughly 30 percent below what unionized workers get in local grocery chains. 
 They also find that the average Wal-Mart wage for all of California is 20 to 30 percent below the average wage paid by retailers with 1,000 or more workers. Indeed, annual turnover is high at Wal-Mart, averaging some 46 percent nationwide. Costco averages only 24 percent, though Wal-Mart counters that its turnover is lower than the average for all American retailers. Wal-Mart also argues that the Berkeley study was done by researchers who are advised and sometimes financed by organized labor. But this columnist could find no bias with their methodology. Further, Wal-Mart's health care benefits have also come under fire. 
 But the issue goes well beyond Wal-Mart. A recent book by Simon Head, ''The New Ruthless Economy'' (Oxford, 2003), finds a tightening supervision of labor in other industries that are technology-intensive. Ubiquitous call centers are Mr. Head's favorite examples, but he argues that the health care industry is going down a similar path. He even finds that the widely praised innovations of the Japanese automakers in the 1970's and 1980's had more to do with ever tighter control of labor tasks, reminiscent of Frederick Taylor, than with any highly promoted cooperation among workers. 
 Whether Mr. Head is ultimately right, the new economy is clearly not the one-way street it was once heralded to be. ''There has been a sort of wishful thinking that technology will create democratic workplaces,'' Mr. Hoopes of Babson said. ''To some degree, where skills are short and demand is high, that is happening. But for unskilled and semi-skilled workers, people can be more closely supervised, lose freedom and be stuck in low-paying jobs.'' 
 Just as at the turn of the last century, most Wal-Mart critics say a crucial way to improve conditions is to change laws to make labor unions easier to organize. Mr. Lichtenstein says a substantial raise in the minimum wage -- back to its 1980 level, before inflation eroded it -- would have still more impact. This sounds like 19th-century Progressivism all over again. Perhaps it is sometimes true that the more things change, the more they remain the same.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Two researchers calculate that the average Wal-Mart wage for all of California is 20 to 30 percent below the average wage paid by retailers with 1,000 or more workers. (Photo by Robert Galbraith/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW ECONOMY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); PRODUCTIVITY (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); US LABOR DAY (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); OUTSOURCING (78%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); RETAIL SALES (72%); BOOK REVIEWS (69%); HISTORY (68%) United States Economy; Labor; Wages and Salaries; Productivity; United States Economy

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (96%); INTEL CORP (54%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%) Wal-Mart Stores Inc

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (96%); INTC (NASDAQ) (54%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%); GM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (96%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (96%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: Jeff Madrick; Arindrajit Dube; Ken Jacobs

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (56%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%) San Francisco (Calif); California

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2004



35 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 599 words

HEADLINE: Markets Mixed as Oil Rises; Technology Shows a Gain

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Stocks closed mixed yesterday as a lower reading on manufacturing activity and rising oil prices chilled an early spate of bargain hunting. Technology shares still eked out a modest advance.
 The first rise in oil prices after a string of declines added an element of gloom to a market already made sluggish by lackluster trading. Government data showed a steep drop in United States oil inventories last week as imports fell and refiners continued to operate at unusually high rates, sending the prices of light crude for October delivery soaring. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average closed down 5.46, or 0.1 percent, at 10,168.46. Broader stock indicators were narrowly higher. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 1.67 points, or 0.2 percent, to 1,105.91. The Nasdaq composite index gained 12.31, or 0.7 percent, to finish at 1,850.41.
 The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies was up 4.53 points, or 0.8 percent, at 552.46.
 Trading was light, as it has been all week because of the Republican National Convention and the coming Labor Day holiday. The markets were slow to react to the Institute for Supply Management's manufacturing index for August. Manufacturing activity rose for the 15th consecutive month, suggesting healthy activity in the sector, but the reading of 59 was 3 points lower than the one recorded for July, and fell short of economists' expectations.
 Many market participants are looking ahead to tomorrow, when the Labor Department is scheduled to release its data for August. After two months of anemic employment growth, Wall Street is hoping for a stronger labor market.
 ''The market really needs to see some positive economic statistics, and we haven't been getting them lately,'' said Brian Williamson, an equity trader at the Boston Company Asset Management. ''The next few days are going to be critical to see where we stand.''
 Sagging monthly sales figures from the nation's two largest automakers offered little encouragement. General Motors lost 10 cents, to $41.21, and Ford Motor declined 21 cents, to $13.90, after the companies said production cuts could affect fourth-quarter profits.
 Intel's midquarter report, scheduled to be released late this afternoon, is expected to provide clues about the technology sector. While there has been some concern that a negative outlook from Intel would weigh heavily on technology shares, a round of analyst downgradings and lowered forecasts spurred speculative buying, leading analysts to surmise that investors may have already factored in a mediocre forecast. Intel ended the day up 14 cents at $21.43.
 Among other chip stocks, Fairchild Semiconductor International added 3.7 percent, or 45 cents, to $12.78, after reiterating its third-quarter outlook from July. And the chip equipment maker Teradyne gained 3 percent, or 38 cents, to $13.25, although WR Hambrecht & Company cut its third-quarter earnings target.
 August sales reports are expected today from the nation's largest retailers. Among those reporting earlier, Wendy's International gained 89 cents, to $35.26, after posting strong sales despite 100 temporary restaurant closings because of Hurricane Charley and other storms. Same-store sales from restaurants open at least a year rose 2.8 percent, the company said.
 Advancing issues outnumbered decliners by about 3 to 2 on the New York Stock Exchange.
 Treasury prices were little changed yesterday. By late in the day, the price of the benchmark 10-year note fell 1/32, to 101 2/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.12 percent, from 4.11 percent Tuesday.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (91%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); BONDS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (86%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); SEMICONDUCTOR EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (76%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); STATISTICS (76%); US LABOR DAY (76%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); INTEREST RATES (71%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (67%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (66%); AUTOMAKERS (66%); COMPUTER CHIPS (65%); SEMICONDUCTORS (60%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (52%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (52%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (85%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (68%); WR HAMBRECHT & CO LLC (60%); FORD MOTOR CO (58%); BOSTON CO ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (53%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%); FAIRCHILD SEMICONDUCTOR INTERNATIONAL INC (50%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (85%); FORDP (PAR) (58%); F (NYSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (52%); FCS (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (60%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (60%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2004



36 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1199 words

HEADLINE: China's 2 Top Leaders Square Off in Contest to Run Policy

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN; Chris Buckley contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: BEIJING, Sept. 1 

 BODY:
As China's leaders prepare to gather for a national planning session, the country's two top officials, Hu Jintao and Jiang Zemin, are engaged in an increasingly pointed power struggle that has begun to create cracks in the one-party system, Chinese officials and analysts say.
 Tension between Mr. Jiang, the country's semiretired senior leader who still heads the military, and Mr. Hu, who replaced Mr. Jiang as Communist Party chief and president nearly two years ago, has begun influencing debates on issues like slowing the overheated economy, fighting corruption and assigning jobs, these people say. The most delicate matters are now often viewed within the party as battles between rival factions. 
 There are no signs that the political system has become as unstable as it was in 1989, when economic and political disputes, including over how to handle popular protests for democracy, divided the Politburo. Moreover, since the death of Mao Zedong in 1976, China's leaders have at times sparred over power and ideology without threatening one-party rule. Even so, some party officials say the split between Mr. Jiang and Mr. Hu has the potential to grow into a more direct confrontation, and both men are viewed as seeking to rally support ahead of the planning meeting this month in a bid to weaken or even displace the other. At a minimum, divided leadership seems likely to complicate policy making and efforts to carry out policies in a system that relies on clear direction from the top.
 Purported differences between the men are often exaggerated in China's rumor-filled political discourse. But people in the government and party hierarchy, including a few who say they were skeptical about the possibility of a power struggle until recent months, say they see signs that the two leaders have associated themselves with opposing schools of thought.
 Broadly speaking, Mr. Hu is seen as embracing the idea that China needs to focus more on populist social problems, like corruption, health care, income inequality and environmental pollution, while Mr. Jiang has often spoken about the importance of maintaining a high rate of economic growth as the first priority. 
 Mr. Jiang is viewed as more supportive of China's private sector and of delegating power to the provinces to control their economies. Mr. Hu and Prime Minister Wen Jiabao have been using central government controls to reduce wasteful state spending, curtail lending to cool the overheated economy, and support the largest state-owed conglomerates.
 Several people also said that Mr. Hu and Mr. Jiang have also begun to diverge subtly on foreign policy, with Mr. Hu working to forge closer ties to European nations, especially France and Germany, and Mr. Jiang emphasizing the relatively cordial relationship he built with the United States in the late 1990's.
 Mr. Jiang and Mr. Hu regularly appear together in public and do not openly oppose each other. But they have added fuel to speculation about the deteriorating state of their relations by dropping hints or casting aspersions at each other in party meetings, officials said.
 Speaking at a ceremony commemorating the 100th anniversary of the birth of Deng Xiaoping last week, Mr. Hu praised Deng, the father of China's market-oriented overhaul, for having given up his party and military positions well before he died in 1997. His speech was widely interpreted as a jab at Mr. Jiang, 78, who has clung to power longer than many expected. ''Comrade Deng Xiaoping early on advocated abolishing lifelong tenure for officials and leaders, and he set a personal example,'' Mr. Hu said, according to a transcript of his remarks released by the official New China News Agency.
 He went on to emphasize the importance of completing the transition to younger leadership that began in 2002, when Mr. Hu was given his current positions. ''The party's third generation of collective leadership with Comrade Jiang Zemin as its core made tremendous achievements,'' Mr. Hu said. ''We, the new central collective leadership, are striving to unify and lead the whole party and people in continuing to advance this great endeavor.''
 Mr. Jiang has begun directly criticizing Mr. Hu, several officials said. He recently invited a dozen officials and scholars, including prominent advisers to Mr. Hu and Mr. Wen, to discuss domestic and foreign policy at a hotel in western Beijing. Mr. Jiang repeatedly expressed concerns that Mr. Hu and Mr. Wen had taken dangerous policy gambles that threatened China's social stability and economic growth, according to two people who were told about the meeting.
 In another sign of jockeying, this summer Mr. Jiang restored a Communist tradition of holding secretive retreats at the seaside resort of Beidaihe. In doing so, he effectively overturned an edict banning such party perks that Mr. Hu had announced with fanfare last year.
 The main source of tension between the two men is now said to be personnel changes that could be discussed at the September meetings, known as the Fourth Plenum, a full meeting of the Communist Party's powerful Central Committee.
 People told about plans for the meeting said Mr. Hu intended to put forward a proposal to increase the number of vice chairmen of the Central Military Commission, the top military body, to five from three, potentially loosening Mr. Jiang's grip on the military. Mr. Jiang is now the chairman of the commission and Mr. Hu is one of the three vice chairmen. His proposal is seen as a step toward pressuring Mr. Jiang to retire, with Mr. Hu then taking control of the military.
 Mr. Jiang, however, has declined to resign or to set a time for the transition, these people said. Instead, he has proposed elevating his longtime lieutenant, Vice President Zeng Qinghong, to join Mr. Hu as a vice chairman of the military commission, a move that could foreshadow a struggle to succeed Mr. Jiang when he does turn over the reins.
 Mr. Jiang has also submitted a proposal to create an American-style national security council that would oversee China's defense and foreign policies. People told about the proposal said they considered it likely that Mr. Jiang would seek to become the first head of that council.
 Mr. Hu and Mr. Wen have long been viewed favorably by party elders and reform-minded officials who want to see the party embrace at least modest political openness, and they developed reputations as dedicated, clean officials. But Mr. Wen, in particular, has seen his clout wane recently, even as he has waged a tough campaign to restrict investment and tackle corruption.
 Several officials said Mr. Wen was damaged by a report that appeared in early July in the 21st Century Business Herald. The influential newspaper suggested that the prime minister's American-educated eldest son, Wen Yunsong, had garnered a substantial stake in the Ping An Insurance Company shortly before that company went public on the Hong Kong stock market earlier this year. 
 The report did not name Mr. Wen's son, but it provided details that pointed to him as an operator behind holding companies that had managed to acquire a pre-offering stake in the company, which is now valued at nearly $1 billion.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Hu Jintao, China's president, left, and its former president, Jiang Zemin, at the National People's Congress in Beijing in March. Mr. Jiang continues to lead the military, and is opposed to some of Mr. Hu's policies. (Photo by Greg Baker/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRENDS (90%); POLITICS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (75%); CORRUPTION (75%); ETHICS (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); FOREIGN POLICY (64%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%) Politics and Government; Economic Conditions and Trends; Ethics; Social Conditions and Trends

PERSON: HU JINTAO (92%); WEN JIABAO (58%) Joseph Kahn; Hu Jintao; Jiang Zemin

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (88%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (98%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (77%) China; China

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2004



37 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 427 words

HEADLINE: Exile Leader In Miami Joins Democrats

BYLINE: By TERRY AGUAYO

DATELINE: MIAMI, Sept. 1 

 BODY:
In an unexpected move that signals the political diversification of Cuban-Americans, the executive director of a prominent Cuban-American exile group here has left his post to join a Democratic advocacy organization. 
 Joe Garcia, executive director of the Cuban American National Foundation, has become the senior advisor in Florida for the New Democrat Network, a Washington-based 527 organization. ''I think this is probably the most important election of my generation, and I have to get involved,'' Mr. Garcia said. 
 As executive director of the foundation, a nonpartisan group, Mr. Garcia's role was to promote policies affecting Cuban affairs without endorsing any political party.
 Mr. Garcia, a longtime Democrat, said he chose to join the New Democrat Network because he believed no group was doing a better job reaching out to Hispanics in Florida and across the country. He began work in the new post on Monday.
 ''I don't think we've reached out enough to Cuban-Americans and Hispanics in general,'' Mr. Garcia said of the Democratic Party. ''As Democrats, we make a huge mistake in walking away from the Cuban-American vote. And as Cuban-Americans, we've paid a huge price.''
 Mr. Garcia will continue to serve on the foundation's board and has the support of Jorge Mas Santos, chairman of the foundation and the son of its founder. Mr. Garcia was chairman of the Florida Public Service Commission under a Democratic governor, Lawton Chiles, before joining the foundation. 
 ''The Cuban-American community has been ignored by Democrats for a long time,'' said Simon Rosenberg, president of the New Democrat Network. ''Joe is going to send a message to Cuban-Americans that they are welcome in the Democratic Party.''
 Historically, Cuban-Americans have been reliably Republican, contending that the party has more thoroughly embraced their staunchly anti-Castro platform than the Democrats. But the group is changing socially and politically. Prominent exile leaders in South Florida now favor a more conciliatory relationship with Cuba, while still denouncing Mr. Castro.
 The change in attitudes reflects an ideological split between the original Cuban exiles and their children and grandchildren, and between immigrants who left Cuba for economic reasons and those who fled for political reasons. It also represents a concerted effort by some exile groups to improve the image of Cuban-Americans after the nationally televised struggle over the young shipwreck survivor Elian Gonzalez. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); FOUNDATIONS (72%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (72%); GOVERNORS (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (65%); GRANDCHILDREN (64%); IMMIGRATION (60%) Cuban-Americans; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: FLORIDA PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION (54%) Cuban American National Foundation

PERSON: JOE GARCIA (93%) Terry Aguayo; Joe Garcia; Fidel (Pres) Castro

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (93%) FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (99%) Cuba; Cuba

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2004



38 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 1; National Desk; THE REPUBLICANS: THE CONVENTION IN NEW YORK -- THE DELEGATES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: The View From the Floor: Looking Good for the President, and Getting Better

BYLINE: By RICK LYMAN; Adam Sank and Mark Glassman contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
Not that Pat Takasugi ever thought there was much of a chance that President Bush would lose, but the spectacle under way in Madison Square Garden has really convinced Mr. Takasugi, an Idaho onion farmer and first-time Republican delegate, that victory is in the air.
 ''The message we've been putting out has been just perfect,'' he said yesterday as he waited on the red carpet to enter a delegates-only ''Western Roundup'' of country-and-western entertainment. ''Without safety from terrorists, Americans won't have to worry about any of the other things, and that's the best message for us to win. I'll tell you, people are getting excited.'' 
 Now we know what elephants look like when they preen.
 As they approach the close of their four-day gathering in New York, Republican delegates from across the country say they are jazzed, eager for the fight ahead and increasingly confident that, despite some close calls in recent months, they really are going to win this one.
 Interviews with several dozen delegates as they wandered through the sunny city on the afternoon of their convention's third day found them generally pleased with the flow of events and newly certain of their belief that, when battle is engaged, Democrats tend to stumble.
 ''I am absolutely certain of victory,'' said John Bozek, a retired federal worker from Pagosa Springs, Colo., and another first-time delegate. ''The convention got off to a kind of perfunctory start, but it's gotten better every day since then. So we're in good shape. This is a conservative country, and I'm positive that will show in the end.''
 Delegates, of course, are likelier than most voters to take a rosy view of their party's prospects. Even facing the raw end of a landslide, they would be unlikely to toss in the towel in the middle of their national convention.
 But there have been some tough patches for Republicans this year, with discouraging developments in Iraq, low approval ratings for the president and contradictory economic news.
 So unbridled optimism comes as a welcome change of mood for many of the delegates, especially those in hard-fought or heavily Democratic states.
 ''The excitement is building,'' said Cheri Hottinger, an office manager from Newark, Ohio. ''You can tell. Just the buzz. People are in their seats a lot earlier. You can feel the focus.''
 Terry O'Mahoney, a Texas delegate, said the convention had dispelled any worries about November. ''We're driving on,'' Mr. O'Mahoney said. ''We're going to win.''
 And Bernie Francis, a delegate from Carrollton, Tex., offered his view of the convention yesterday as he walked along 33rd Street: ''Over the top. Unusually upbeat and interesting and moving. I'm just delighted.''
 Delegates cited different moments when, for them, the scales tipped.
 ''Arnold,'' said Tiody Ferre, chairwoman of the Puerto Rican delegation, as she and several other delegates waited patiently for the light to change at Seventh Avenue and 34th Street. Ms. Ferre referred, of course, to Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of California, who spoke at Tuesday night's session.
 ''He's the American dream,'' said Zoraida Fonalledas, one of the other delegates. ''He's an example of the inclusion you want when you come to the U.S.''
 Still, Luis Manuel Garcia Passalaequa, another delegate, said it would be unwise to let infectious optimism cloud anyone's view of the fight ahead to re-elect Mr. Bush.
 ''It's not going to be a landslide,'' Mr. Garcia said. ''It's going to be tough. But he's going to win.''
 For Ed May, a college professor and delegate from Maplewood, N.J., the critical moment came with former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's speech on Monday. ''He was speaking from the heart,'' Mr. May said.
 Mr. May said the convention had made him so confident that he was now predicting a 60-40 landslide for Mr. Bush. ''Most of the protesters don't seem to be strongly for Kerry-Edwards,'' he said. ''They're just against a lot of things. But Republicans are very strongly for George Bush and Dick Cheney.''
 As for New York as a venue, the reviews were generally positive, especially for the police (''We buy them jam,'' said Leon Royer, a Montana delegate, as he and his wife made their way through Times Square, lugging Macy's shopping bags). But some of the delegates did confess to being a trifle unnerved at times by the anger that has been directed at them by protesters.
 ''We're from the Midwest, so we're not used to hearing so much hate and anger being shouted at us,'' said Ramona Nitz, a substitute teacher from Cherokee, Iowa.
 Ellie Lopez-Bowlan, a family nurse practitioner from Reno, said she and other Nevada delegates had to walk a gantlet of protesters as they emerged from a Broadway performance of the musical ''Aida.'' And it was not pleasant.
 ''I used to be a model and live in New York,'' Ms. Lopez-Bowlan said. ''My advice to them is: Don't harass a Latina.''
 And a few of those attending the convention were not entirely pleased with everything they heard this week. Representative Cliff Stearns of Florida said the planners might have gone a little overboard in highlighting moderate Republicans. ''I'm a conservative,'' Mr. Stearns said. ''The only thing I feel that is a little bit disappointing is that there are no conservative speakers.''
 The party platform passed Monday was a thoroughly conservative document, Mr. Stearns said, but the mix of speakers did not match. ''It seems like we could have somebody describe why the conservative philosophy is important,'' he said.
 John Acer, treasurer of the National Federation of Republican Assemblies and an alternate delegate from Arizona, was particularly despondent with the general tone of moderation emanating from Madison Square Garden this week.
 ''The moderate agenda is being pushed,'' Mr. Acer said. ''They're not acting like Republicans, and I'm sorry to see that. This is well-orchestrated, but people like Arnold and Rudy and John McCain do not represent the core values of Republicans.''
 Even Mr. Bush has revealed himself to be nothing but a moderate, a frustrated Mr. Acer said. Does he think that will that prove costly in November? Mr. Acer shook his head.
 ''It's in the bag,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: John Bozek, at left, of Colorado, said he was ''certain of victory.'' Pat Takasugi, of Idaho, center, is a first-time delegate. And Ellie Lopez-Bowlan, with Steve Martin, both Nevada delegates, said she ran a gantlet of protesters. (Photographs by Yoni Brook/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); TERRORISM (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Conventions, National (US); Public Opinion; Demonstrations and Riots

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) Rick Lyman; Adam Sank; Mark Glassman; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2004



39 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: Cutups and Cutthroats

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD. 
E-mail: liberties@nytimes.com

 BODY:
I always enjoy hearing about how a teenage Dick Cheney stood off to the side with buckets of water to put out Lynne's flaming batons.
 But there was an even better moment during Claire Shipman's two-part ''Good Morning America'' interview at the Wyoming ranch this week. Trying to humanize Dr. No, ABC was let into the inner sanctum to watch Mr. Cheney take his 4-year-old granddaughter on her first solo horsie ride and hear how he's teaching his granddaughters fly-fishing. 
 Ms. Shipman asked the vice president ''his greatest guilty pleasure.''
 His wife quickly interjected that it was fishing. But we all know, of course, it's global domination.
 It's always amusing to watch Republicans try to get down. At convention time, they stop bilking Joe Lunchbox to act like Joe Lunchbox.
 How awkward in Columbus, when W., hanging with Jack Nicklaus, noted that his grandfather was born there, so they should ''send a homeboy back to Washington, D.C.'' Do they know a homeboy from a Lawn-Boy? 
 How you livin', dawg?
 And speaking of dawgs, whuddup with that video of Barney debating that French poodle Fifi Kerry about taxes? By the time the twins finished their White House Valley Girl routine, and Karl Rove and Karen Hughes went all giddy in the sendup, the convention's arc was clear.
 Highly scripted screwball moments designed to soothe fears that the Bushies are bullies alternate with high-octane, turbo moments designed to stir up fears that we won't be safe without the Bush bullies.
 Unlike the arrogant Boston Kerry strategists, who focus-grouped and dial-a-metered their convention to death, scrubbing most of the direct attacks on President Bush, the arrogant Austin Bush strategists have encouraged their non-girlie-men speakers to put the pedal to the metal and flatten the poor Democrat who is windsurfing through his free fall.
 Despite the fact that the economy is cratering, Iraq is teetering, Afghanistan is reverting to warlords, Dick Cheney is glowering at the world, the war on terror has created more acts of terror, Ahmad Chalabi is an accused spy for Iran and the Pentagon has an accused spy for Israel, Republicans felt so good about themselves that when Arnold Schwarzenegger said he was inspired to become a Republican by Richard Nixon, they exploded. When Tricky Dick is a hot applause line, they're feeling cocky.
 Republicans are political killers. They are confident that Americans, in a 9/11 world, are going to be more drawn to political killers who have made some ''miscalculations'' on Iraq, as W. put it, than with a shaggy-haired Vietnam War protester whom Bush 41 compares to Hanoi Jane.
 ''I still have great difficulty with his coming back and making those statements before the Congress and throwing medals away,'' the president's father told Don Imus yesterday.
 Republicans know that plunging ahead with a course of action, even if it becomes obvious it's wrong, is an easier political sell than flip-flopping, even if it's right.
 When the president slipped, admitting that the war on terror is unwinnable -- perhaps recognizing that terror's a tactic, not an enemy -- he had to be saved later by Laura Bush, who fixed his stumble into nuance. Then Mr. Kerry made the mistake of responding in Bush black-and-white, calling the war on terror winnable.
 While Democrats whined about the meanies and their Swift boat attacks, the G.O.P. juggernaut rolled on. 
 Zell Miller, playing Cotton Mather behind the cross-like lectern, made Mr. Cheney seem rational, with a maniacal litany of weapons he said Mr. Kerry had opposed that can destroy any mud hut in any third world country: B-1 and B-2 bombers, F-14A Tomcats, F-15 Eagles, Patriot and Trident missiles, and Aegis cruisers. 
 Just as the ''third party'' ad effort has been ferocious and misleading, so have some of the attack speeches here. Dick Cheney stomped on John Kerry the way he's stomped on the world. In fact, he stomped on Mr. Kerry for trying to get along with the world: ''He talks about leading 'a more sensitive war on terror' as though Al Qaeda will be impressed with our softer side.'' It's nice to know Mr. Cheney remembers Al Qaeda.
 As others raged, Mr. Bush flew to New York and went to an Italian community center to eat pizza with Queens firemen. The homeboy was having a ruthless, but effective, week.

Thomas L. Friedman is on leave until October, writing a book.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRANDCHILDREN (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); ELECTIONS (75%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (73%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (72%); WATER SPORTS (70%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (70%); SPORT FISHING (70%); WAR ON TERROR (68%); TERRORISM (67%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (67%); VIETNAM WAR (65%); ESPIONAGE (60%) Presidential Election of 2004; Conventions, National (US); Election Issues

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); GEORGE H W BUSH (79%); KARL ROVE (58%); RICHARD NIXON (54%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (54%) Maureen Dowd; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2004



40 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 3; National Desk; THE REPUBLICANS: THE CONVENTION IN NEW YORK -- ECONOMIC ANALYSIS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: Jobless Figures Could Emphasize Bush's Big Weakness

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON; Janet Elder contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
About 10 hours after President Bush accepts his party's nomination tonight, the government will release an important report on the state of the economy. Even some of his allies say that if it is weak it could dampen Republican enthusiasm coming out of the convention and leave Mr. Bush on the defensive for a pivotal issue heading into the campaign homestretch.
 Economists do not expect the employment report tomorrow to show terribly strong growth in jobs. 
 With economic statistics over the last month suggesting that the recovery has slowed or even faltered, Mr. Bush is heading into the final two months of the campaign vulnerable to any further bad economic news, especially in swing states like Michigan, Ohio and Pennsylvania, where employment losses have hit hard.
 So on a day when unions organized a three-mile line of demonstrators waving pink slips to dramatize job losses, Republicans put aside momentarily their emphasize on national security and ushered a group of small-business owners and elected officials on stage last night at the party's convention to talk up economic progress. Three families spoke about how they benefited from the president's tax cuts 
 At a news conference Commerce Secretary Donald L. Evans deflected responsibility for the economy's difficulties and suggested that Americans would increasingly feel better.
 ''The president inherited a Clinton recession and turned it into the early stages of Bush prosperity,'' Mr. Evans said, pinning the blame on Mr. Bush's predecessor even though the generally accepted starting date for the recession is a month or two after Mr. Bush took office. 
 Mr. Bush himself is widely expected to devote part of his speech tonight to defend his economic record. But in many ways, the economy has been in the background throughout the proceedings, a distinct No. 2 to the thunderous proclamations about the battle against terrorism and the president's credentials to be commander in chief. Senator John Kerry's campaign said Mr. Bush was trying to run away from that record.
 ''The reason the economy has been conspicuous in its absence at the Republican convention is that the president cannot credibly argue that his policies are working,'' a strategist for Mr. Kerry, Tad Devine, said. ''They have made a decision that they are going to fight this election almost totally on the war on terrorism.''
 Certainly for the White House, the economy poses a problem and has been overshadowed at the convention by the focus on terrorism.
 The White House can hardly afford to ignore the subject. Polls suggest that the economy and employment continue to dominate the public's agenda. 
 When asked what will be the most important campaign issue in their states, 32 percent of the respondents said the economy and jobs, followed by 18 percent who said the Iraq war, according to a New York Times/CBS News poll in mid-July. Just 4 percent said terrorism. 
 While Americans say they trust Mr. Bush to handle the campaign against terrorism, they are far less confident about his ability to manage the economy and create jobs. Even some experts sympathetic to Mr. Bush suggested that the economy was not a subject that the Republicans wanted to dwell on right now.
 ''Kerry didn't talk about his Senate career'' at the Democratic convention, said Irwin M. Stelzer, director of economic policy studies at the Hudson Institute, a conservative research group. ''And the Republicans don't want to talk about the economy.''
 Experts say the president cannot appear detached. In swing states, nearly half the voters polled said their communities had lost jobs under Mr. Bush. A CBS News poll taken before the convention found that 17 percent of the voters in those states said the number of jobs in their community had increased in the last four years; 47 percent said the number decreased and 29 percent said there had been no change.
 Over all, 37 percent of all voters approve of the way Mr. Bush is handling the economy, according to the poll, while 54 percent disapprove, including 90 percent of Democrats and 57 percent of independents.
 Criticism of Mr. Bush's economic leadership is nothing new. Months after he took office, the public's approval for his handling of the economy fell below the 50 percent mark. In April 2001, it was 47 percent. 
 For much of the last year approval of Mr. Bush's handling of the economy has been at or below 40 percent.
 Speaking to reporters at the convention, Republican officials said the economic outlook was improving because of Mr. Bush's policies. Gov. Bill Owens of Colorado said perception about the economy lagged behind the improving reality. Gov. George E. Pataki of New York said Mr. Bush's tax cuts had helped the economy and the financial markets.
 Even Ohio, hard hit by losing manufacturing jobs, is making solid progress, said its governor, Bob Taft.
 Democrats pointed to new figures for employment in swing states to make a case that things were getting worse rather than better.
 Columbus, Ohio, where Mr. Bush campaigned yesterday before heading to New York, lost 2,400 jobs in July, the figures showed. Milwaukee, where he is to appear tomorrow, lost 7,000 jobs in July. Mr. Evans said a broad array of economic statistics and anecdotal evidence showed that the economy was healthy and growing stronger. 
 He said the month-to-month numbers were less important than the trend over the last several years, which he said showed clear improvement. 
 Mr. Bush has said he will offer a detailed agenda for a second term tonight. His aides said it would include items with economic components, including his call for adding private investment accounts to Social Security. But the president is not expected to advocate steps to bolster the economy in the short term, and his broader call for steps to promote an ''ownership society'' is not expected to include substantial new initiatives.
 As a result, when it comes to the economy, Mr. Bush's standing with voters over the next two months could be shaped more than anything by the latest statistics, starting with the employment report tomorrow. 
 ''He is going to give a speech, and then something is going to happen to him on Friday morning,'' Mr. Stelzer of the Hudson Institute said. ''At that point, there are two dimensions, what actually happens and the success of both parties in spinning what happens.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Commerce Secretary Donald L. Evans suggested that Americans would increasingly feel better. (Photo by Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); RECESSION (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (85%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (76%); STATISTICS (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); SMALL BUSINESS (67%); TERRORISM (67%); IRAQ WAR (67%) Labor; Conventions, National (US); Unemployment; United States Economy; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; Small Business; Labor

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN KERRY (79%) Richard W Stevenson; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2004



41 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1050 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Restores Much of Cuts In Housing Aid

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

 BODY:
Saying that they had averted a major housing crisis, New York City officials announced yesterday that the federal government had agreed to restore almost all the $55 million that had been scheduled to be cut under a recent regulatory change affecting the government's main housing program for the poor.
 At the same time, the Department of Housing and Urban Development announced that it would restore about $160 million that 378 other housing agencies across the country had protested was also being unfairly cut out of their Section 8 voucher financing.
 HUD officials attributed their decision to the agencies' collective ability to prove that they needed more money. Without such financing, many agencies warned, the regulatory change might have forced them to freeze the number of rent vouchers, squeeze more money from tenants or even evict them. 
 In New York, the shortfall might have produced other bad effects, as well, said Shaun Donovan, the city's commissioner of Housing Preservation and Development. He said that it might have delayed Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's ambitious plan to renovate or build 65,000 units of housing; made it harder to get more homeless families out of shelters; and even given financial institutions pause to finance Mitchell-Lama and other private developments because of a loss of confidence in Section 8.
 ''Section 8 is the most important housing program in the country, period, and quite frankly, drastic measures were on the table had this money not come through,'' Mr. Donovan said. ''But I think HUD heard a chorus around the country about the importance of Section 8, and I think they heard that voice, more strongly, from New York.''
 For years, the federal government has paid the full cost of rent vouchers, now totaling 1.9 million, given to poor tenants to help them find and pay for their own housing under the Section 8 program. But in the last three years, the Section 8 budget has ballooned by 27 percent, alarming the Bush administration. In April, HUD informed housing agencies that, for the current fiscal year, it would pay only an amount based on the cost of a voucher in August 2003, plus an inflation adjustment. But housing agencies denounced that regulatory decision, saying it would shortchange, by hundreds of millions of dollars, New York and other places where the cost of providing vouchers has outpaced inflation.
 To plead New York's case, Mr. Bloomberg talked with Alphonso Jackson, the secretary of housing. Mr. Donovan, a former deputy assistant secretary at HUD, and Tino Hernandez, chairman of the New York City Housing Authority, lobbied HUD officials. And a bipartisan coalition of lawmakers in other states -- including the governors of Massachusetts and Minnesota, both Republicans -- wrote letters.
 In May, Mr. Jackson announced that the federal government had spotted an extra $150 million that had been left over from the 2003 budget to help 525 agencies absorb Section 8 cuts. 
 Of the $13.2 million that went to New York State, the city's two primary agencies distributing vouchers, New York City Housing Authority and the Department of Housing Preservation and Development, received $12.3 million.
 HUD also gave agencies until July 15 to appeal the proposed changes. And late last week, HUD began notifying, by individual letters, its decisions for the 400 or so agencies that had filed such appeals. New York, for one, was told that it would receive an extra $52 million, with roughly $37 million going to the city's Housing Authority and $15 million going to Housing Preservation and Development.
 ''Secretary Jackson is pleased that HUD has been able to respond positively to many of the nation's public housing authorities who successfully demonstrated a need for a higher inflation factor for their 2004 voucher funding due to various market conditions,'' said Michael Liu, HUD's assistant secretary for public and Indian housing. ''The secretary is also pleased that these housing agencies, including several in New York, have taken appropriate steps to reduce or keep their voucher costs in line with local housing costs.''
 It was not immediately clear yesterday whether the restored money, expected within a month, would come in time to help families around the country who have already been notified that their vouchers will not be renewed. This was particularly pronounced, housing groups said, in places where the fiscal year ended sometime this summer.
 New York's housing agencies had not yet reached that stage, in part because their fiscal year begins in January. Still, officials informed HUD of the rising cost of housing, higher rents in rent-stabilized apartments of up to 6.5 percent this year and a shortage of low-cost housing.
 Just last week, the Census Bureau reported that the percentage of New Yorkers paying more than 35 percent of their income on rent rose to about 42 percent from 38.5 percent.
 Section 8 enables poor, disabled or elderly tenants to receive vouchers from a local housing agency and redeem them with any private landlord who is willing to participate. Tenants pay 30 percent of their income in rent, while the vouchers pay the rest, up to a limit set by the federal government, depending on the local market.
 The New York City Housing Authority furnishes about 90,000 vouchers, or three-quarters of the total in the city. About 83 percent of the authority's voucher recipients have incomes of less than $16,320. The median contribution from tenants with vouchers from the authority is $216 per month; the median payment to landlords is $670.
 For all of the credit that Mr. Donovan and Mr. Hernandez lavished on HUD yesterday, though, they cautioned that another important and controversial issue looms: HUD's proposal to loosen the eligibility rules for Section 8 for the 2005 fiscal year. That change could mean that families with higher incomes could receive vouchers, leaving those with lower incomes to battle for a smaller piece of the pie.
 In July, the House Appropriations Committee approved a bill that would slightly increase the financing for Section 8 vouchers, now $14.4 billion a year. But the committee also approved a 4 percent cut for other programs, leading many housing groups and elected officials to predict another spirited battle in the months to come. 

CORRECTION-DATE: September 9, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article last Thursday about the federal government's decision to restore funds to a housing program for the poor referred imprecisely to New York City's share and misstated the total. The share, more than $52 million, is part of the nationwide amount being restored to the program (known as Section 8), not a separate outlay. The total is $156 million, not $160 million.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING AUTHORITIES (94%); CITIES (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); BUDGETS (89%); EVICTION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); BUILDING RENOVATION (73%); FAMILY (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); HOMELESSNESS (52%) Housing; Mitchell-Lama Projects; Finances; Renting and Leasing; Vouchers; Housing

ORGANIZATION: Housing and Urban Development Department

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (78%); ALPHONSO JACKSON (58%) David W Chen; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2004



42 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Metro Matters; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: Immigrants Pumping Iron (Pickax, Rake)

BYLINE: By JOYCE PURNICK

 BODY:
YESTERDAY morning, a few hours after Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of California waxed ecstatic about the American dream and assured immigrants that they could realize theirs just as surely as he has realized his, about 100 men stood on Roosevelt Avenue in Queens, waiting. They waited not for a dream, but for a day job as a painter, a sander, a plasterer.
 If they were lucky, a contractor would cruise by in a van and offer them a day's work for $60, $80 or $100. Just before noon yesterday, scores of these unemployed immigrants, mostly from Ecuador, Colombia and Mexico, were still waiting. 
 ''There is not a job,'' said Angelo Castro, who immigrated from Ecuador three years ago. He is 34 now, and still working day to day.
 As he spoke, about 15 more men ran over from across the street and as far as two blocks away, expectant looks on their faces. ''A job?'' they asked, seeing a woman dressed in business clothes, writing in a notebook. ''You have a job?''
 The five-block stretch on Roosevelt Avenue in Jackson Heights -- under the tracks of the No. 7 train, the traffic of the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway whizzing below -- is a shape-up site. That's an outdoor hiring hall, commonly associated with migrant farmworkers. But with the growth in immigration and renovation, the shape-up phenomenon has come to New York City, becoming a significant if mostly unnoticed part of the underground economy.
 Outdoor job markets are scattered around the city, operating at least every weekday morning. The largest, the one on Roosevelt Avenue, operates all day long and on weekends, peopled by young, poor, mostly new immigrants who mill quietly about the streets and command low pay. 
 The more experienced laborers gravitate to the daily morning shape-up in front of the Janovic Plaza on Third Avenue at 67th Street in Manhattan. They tend to speak a little more English and earn up to $150 for a day's work, if they are lucky. Some make semi-permanent arrangements with contractors, but most depend on the vagaries of the market.
 ''It depends,'' said Rodrigo Parra, a Colombian who has been in the United States for 16 years. ''Sometimes no, sometimes si. Yesterday I work in Queens, I install, what is it? -- a porch. Today -- no.''
 Workers are paid in cash and get no benefits, vacation or sick leave. But they have known worse. Here, they will tell you, is better than there, especially for the children. 
 ''Here is a little bit better, but hard,'' said Ricardo, 47, an illegal immigrant from Colombia. In New York for 17 years, he is still working as a day laborer, in part because he has no Social Security number. That has made getting a driver's license -- which he is sure would get him a better job -- almost impossible. Several states, citing post-Sept. 11 security concerns, have gotten tough about licenses for illegal immigrants, including California, where Mr. Schwarzenegger made cracking down a part of his campaign. 
 Most of the workers interviewed yesterday are here illegally, which would surely annoy many Americans. Others might note that they came here for the same reason Mr. Schwarzenegger did: opportunity.
 Though under quite different circumstances.
 WHEN he immigrated from Austria in 1968, Mr. Schwarzenegger was already a celebrity, the youngest man to hold the Mr. Universe title. His entry path was so smooth as to be greased, which might explain his cheerful observations at the Republican convention on Tuesday:
 ''In this country, it doesn't make any difference where you were born. It doesn't make any difference who your parents were. It doesn't make any difference if, like me, you couldn't even speak English until you were in your 20's. America gave me opportunities, and my immigrant dreams came true. I want other people to get the same chances I did, the same opportunities. And I believe they can.'' 
 Danko Boroja, a Serb who came to New York four years ago, was one of the few workers who knew of the governor's speech. He smiled. ''He came a world champion,'' said Mr. Boroja, 28, a part-time student at a community college. ''If you are successful, America shows an interest in you. If you come as just an immigrant, it's different.'' 
 Not that he is complaining. ''I can use my hands, I can use my brain,'' he said. ''Yes, America is a better place.''
 That it surely is. But as many a New Yorker could tell Mr. Schwarzenegger, for many an immigrant that place is much more Roosevelt Avenue than it is Rodeo Drive. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (93%); MIGRANT WORKERS (78%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); REFUGEES (73%); FARM LABOR (72%); WEIGHTLIFTING (71%); HOLIDAY & VACATION LEAVE (60%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (55%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (50%); SICK LEAVE (50%) Immigration and Refugees; Illegal Aliens; Labor

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (90%) Joyce Purnick; Arnold (Gov) Schwarzenegger

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2004



43 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 997 words

HEADLINE: Opposition Offers Compromise in Venezuela

BYLINE: By BRIAN ELLSWORTH and JUAN FORERO; Brian Ellsworth reported from Caracas for this article, and Juan Forero from Bogota.

DATELINE: CARACAS, Sept. 1 

 BODY:
In a break with other government opponents, Venezuela's largest and most influential business association said on Wednesday that it was prepared to embark on talks over the economy's future with President Hugo Chavez, but the offer was quickly rebuffed by the administration.
 Fedecamaras, a federation that has opposed Mr. Chavez and that represents some of Venezuela's biggest business groups, on Wednesday said it was open to the possibility of talks with the government. 
 Later in the day, Jesse Chacon, who has been named interior minister, said the government had rejected Fedecamaras's offer because the association receives orders from the Democratic Coordinator, an opposition group intent on removing Mr. Chavez, and does not reflect the general position of most businessmen. 
 Mr. Chacon said Mr. Chavez's government would not negotiate under any conditions, an apparent reference to Fedecamaras's call to roll back legislation the group feels is harmful to businesses.
 A high-ranking government official, who asked to remain unnamed, said the government was upset that Fedecamaras did not fully recognize Mr. Chavez as the winner of the recall. He noted that Fedecamaras, in its statement, said the recall results ''have generated doubts about its transparency and veracity.''
 ''The first thing they have to do is recognize us as a legitimate government that won the election in a fair and transparent manner,'' the official said by phone from Caracas.
 Political analysts said Fedecamaras's new position, announced by the president of the group, Albis Munoz, in a news conference Wednesday in Caracas, could defuse tensions that have roiled Venezuela since Mr. Chavez handily defeated his opponents in a recall referendum on Aug. 15 in which 59 percent of Venezuelans voted to keep him in office. 
 ''We responded to an invitation by the president to hold a conversation,'' Ms. Munoz said after the government's response. ''We issued a manifesto not giving conditions but indicating our principles.''
 The Democratic Coordinator, which represents political parties, unions, businesses and social groups, maintains that the government won through fraud, though international monitors led by former United States President Jimmy Carter called the election fair and transparent.
 ''I think it's encouraging that at least part of the opposition is prepared to recognize the results and to begin to deal in a pragmatic way with the Chavez government,'' said Michael Shifter, who follows Venezuela for the Inter-American Dialogue, a Washington policy group. ''It does seem to be a recognition that this act in the saga has ended and the curtain is down and the country cannot afford to continue at an impasse.''
 A congressman from Mr. Chavez's Fifth Republic Movement, Ricardo Sanguino, said Fedecamaras's position could help restore calm in a country where business groups have played a prominent role in the anti-government movement.
 ''I think they're realizing it was a mistake to get involved in politics,'' Mr. Sanguino said. ''This is a sign that they're returning to their role as a business organization.''
 Still, the statement read by Ms. Munoz was a departure for a group that has been so stridently anti-Chavez that a former president, Pedro Carmona, led an interim government after Mr. Chavez was briefly overthrown in 2002. Mr. Chavez returned to power two days later, forcing Mr. Carmona into exile in Colombia.
 ''We have decided to heed the government's call to open discussions about the national economy,'' Ms. Munoz said.
 The Fedecamaras announcement comes a week after the Venezuelan American Chamber of Commerce met with Finance Minister Tobias Nobrega to discuss tax reductions and various economic initiatives important to business leaders.
 This week, Antonio A. Herrera-Vaillant, general manager of the chamber, wrote in an opinion piece for publication in the chamber's newsletter that the current debate over fraud ''appears to be a lose-lose option, unless hard facts emerge quickly.'' He also said that if the referendum clarified anything, it was that Venezuelans ''reject the extremists and clowns that populate both ends of either spectrum.''
 Mr. Herrera-Vaillant also called on the government to ends its cycle of verbal attacks on what Mr. Chavez has called a ''rancid oligarchy.'' Mr. Herrera-Vaillant wrote that insulting opponents does nothing to unite Venezuelans behind the government.
 ''People of means will not mind economic sacrifice as much as insults and attempts against their personal dignity and basic rights,'' he said.
 Fedecamaras also called on the government to end its efforts to expropriate land in urban areas and apply a new law to regulate the media. Other business leaders say Mr. Chavez could improve the business climate by loosening exchange controls and rolling back legislation they view as antibusiness. ''The real test will be whether or not the government will continue pushing legislation that increases the confrontation,'' said Jorge Botti, a business leader and opposition figure.
 In his five and a half years in office, Mr. Chavez has frightened many business leaders with his talk of a revolution to overturn the country's old social order to attend to the needs of the poor. A series of economic laws in 2001 that tightened restrictions on businesses, including the all-important oil sector, prompted the opposition to begin strikes that have kept the country in turmoil.
 Mr. Chavez's government, though, has had a relatively good relationship with foreign oil companies and multinational companies of all kinds, which continue to invest in Venezuela. Now, with the referendum solidifying his power base, the president has offered some conciliatory words. But he has been clear that the economy will be run his way.
 ''I call on private businessmen to work together with us to build the new economy, transforming the capitalist economic model into a social, humanist and equality economy,'' Mr. Chavez said last week.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Opposition leader Albis Munoz offered a compromise. (Photo by Andrew Alvarez/Agence France-Presse)(pg. W1)
 Pedro Carmona, who served as president briefly after a coup in 2002. A popular uprising forced Mr. Carmona into exile in Colombia. (Photo by Kimberly White/Reuters)(pg. W7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); LEGISLATION (73%); TRENDS (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (66%); REFERENDUMS (65%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: Fedecamaras (Orgn); Democratic Coordinator (Orgn)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (92%); JIMMY CARTER (57%) Brian Ellsworth; Juan Forero; Hugo (Pres) Chavez; Jesse (Min) Chacon; Albis Munoz

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); COLOMBIA (79%) Venezuela; Venezuela

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2004



44 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE REPUBLICANS: THE CONVENTION IN NEW YORK -- THE OVERVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1546 words

HEADLINE: Cheney and G.O.P. Mount Vigorous Assault on Kerry

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY and ROBIN TONER

 BODY:
Declaring that the nation's fundamental security was at stake in the presidential election, Vice President Dick Cheney said yesterday that Senator John Kerry had repeatedly ''made the wrong call'' on critical foreign policy challenges and failed to appreciate the severity of the threat the nation faced after the Sept. 11 attacks.
 Mr. Cheney's remarks were part of a vigorous assault that he and his party mounted on Mr. Kerry's domestic and foreign policy credentials, coupled with a spirited defense of President Bush's economic stewardship, as the Republicans gathered for the third night of their nominating convention in New York.
 ''He talks about leading a more sensitive war on terror, as though Al Qaeda will be impressed with our softer side,'' Mr. Cheney said of Mr. Kerry, speaking in a somber tone to a crowd that interrupted him with shouts of ''U.S.A.'' as he recalled the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11. [Excerpts, Page P6; video, nytimes.com.] 
 ''He declared at the Democratic Convention that he will forcefully defend America -- after we have been attacked,'' Mr. Cheney continued. ''My fellow Americans, we have already been attacked, and faced with an enemy who seeks the deadliest of weapons to use against us, we cannot wait for the next attack. We must do everything we can to prevent it -- and that includes the use of military force.''
 ''George W. Bush will never seek a permission slip to defend the American people,'' he said, drawing an explosion of applause as he mocked Mr. Kerry's call for alliance building. 
 Mr. Cheney led a parade of Republicans -- and one Democrat -- in an orchestrated evening intended to undercut Mr. Kerry's commander-in-chief credentials while also trying to seize the ground on economic issues. The speakers stood in front of a banner that read ''Land of Opportunity'' as they attributed the economic difficulties of the past four years to a downturn that began under President Bill Clinton and was aggravated by the terrorist attacks. They asserted that the economy was on the rise again. 
 The party formally nominated Mr. Bush to run for a second term at 8:09 p.m.
 Mr. Kerry's running-mate, Senator John Edwards of North Carolina, issued a statement shortly after the Republicans adjourned, saying: ''There was a lot of hate coming from that podium tonight. What John Kerry and I offer to the American people is hope.''
 Republicans enlisted the Democrat who delivered the keynote address at the 1992 Democratic convention that nominated Bill Clinton, Senator Zell Miller of Georgia, to offer the keynote for the Republicans, which amounted to a memorably brutal attack on Mr. Kerry and the Democratic Party. Mr. Miller, a Southern conservative who has grown increasingly alienated from his party, said Democrats had placed partisan politics over national security during this time of war and portrayed Mr. Kerry as ''faint-hearted,'' self-indulgent and indecisive.
 ''For more than 20 years, on every one of the great issues of freedom and security, John Kerry has been more wrong, more weak and more wobbly than any other national figure,'' Mr. Miller said, adding: ''George Bush wants to grab terrorists by the throat and not let them go to get a better grip. From John Kerry, they get a 'yes-no-maybe' bowl of mush that can only encourage our enemies and confuse our friends.''
 But it was a full-throated attack on his own party that roused the Republicans who filled Madison Square Garden. 
 ''At the same time young Americans are dying in the sands of Iraq and the mountains of Afghanistan, our nation is being torn apart and made weaker because of a Democrat's manic obsession to bring down our commander in chief,'' Mr. Miller said, staring sternly across the hall. ''What has happened to the party I've spent my life working in?''Mr. Cheney and Mr. Miller paired up in a one-two punch of prime-time attractions for the Republicans on a day where, once again, New York witnessed protests directed against the convention -- this time, two that made it inside Madison Square Garden. The police arrested 12 members of the group Act Up who infiltrated the convention hall in a protest of Mr. Bush's AIDS policy during a morning session of Republican youth. Another protester was dragged out after she disrupted Mr. Cheney's speech. 
 As much presidential campaigning was taking place away from the convention as inside Madison Square Garden. Mr. Kerry, breaking from a tradition in which opposing candidates strike a low profile during nominating conventions, flew from his vacation home in Nantucket to Nashville to tell veterans that ''extremism has gained momentum'' across the globe under Mr. Bush's policies.
 Mr. Bush came to New York the night before he is to accept the nomination to run for a second term, to join firefighters in Queens, in a scene that was shown on monitors in the hall, and to accept the endorsement of leaders of the city's main firefighters union, the Uniformed Firefighters Association.
 For the second time in three nights, the challenge to Mr. Kerry's national security credentials was the main line of attack But setting the groundwork for Mr. Bush's acceptance speech on Thursday, the speakers last night also moved to seize the issue of the economy.Republican speakers sought to portray Mr. Kerry as an advocate of an old Democratic Party philosophy of sprawling government and punishing taxes, from his days as a lieutenant governor under former Gov. Michael S. Dukakis of Massachusetts to his 20 years in the Senate. The debate over the economy was waged from the podium -- where three families talked about what they said was the benefit of Mr. Bush's tax cuts -- and the streets, where thousands of protesters lined up waving fliers that declared, ''The next pink slip might be yours!'' 
 Representative Rob Portman of Ohio, a close White House ally from a pivotal state, told the delegates last night: ''This president inherited an economy spiraling into recession, and already losing jobs in states like Ohio. Yes, we have more work to do, but we are on track for economic growth.''
 And Representative Paul D. Ryan, an influential conservative Republican from Wisconsin, said that while Mr. Kerry ''claims he wants to relieve the squeeze on the middle class,'' he had ''never met a tax increase he didn't like.''
 Mr. Bush's economic record is considered a major vulnerability this year, with weak job growth in recent months, a decline in real wages over the past year, and a net loss of 1.8 million private sector jobs since he took office. 
 ''When Republicans talk about a 'Land of Opportunity,' we must ask: Opportunity for whom?'' Elliot Spitzer, the attorney general from New York, said at a Democratic Party briefing yesterday. ''For the past four years, people like me have had to protect the public because George Bush has not.''Republicans turned not only to a Democrat to go after Mr. Kerry, but also to natives of his own state, Massachusetts. ''If you think that during the great national policy debate of the 1980's Ronald Reagan was wrong and Ted Kennedy was right, then by all means send in John Kerry,'' said Gov. Mitt Romney, a Massachusetts Republican.
 But the night belonged to Mr. Cheney and Mr. Miller, speaking during prime-time, to a hall filled with delegates who booed at every mention of Mr. Kerry's name, and waved signs that said, ''Let Freedom Reign.'' If Mr. Miller was fiery and provocative, Mr. Cheney delivered equally brutal lines in an understated fashion.
 ''History has shown that a strong and purposeful America is vital to preserving freedom and keeping us safe -- yet time and again Senator Kerry has made the wrong call on national security,'' Mr. Cheney said. ''Even in this post-9/11 period, Senator Kerry doesn't appear to understand how the world has changed,'' he said, adding: ''A senator can be wrong for 20 years, without consequence to the nation. But a president -- a president -- always casts the deciding vote. And in this time of challenge, America needs -- and America has -- a president we can count on to get it right.''
 A moment later, when he mocked Mr. Kerry for changing his positions on issues, the audiences responded, ''Flip-flop, flip-flop.'' 
 Mr. Miller split his time attacking Mr. Kerry and his party. ''They don't believe there is any real danger in the world except that which America brings upon itself through our clumsy and misguided foreign policy,'' he said of Democrats. ''It is not their patriotism -- it is their judgment that has been so sorely lacking.''
 The Republicans in the hall were delighted with both speakers -- but particularly, at the image of a Democrat of their midst offering what was arguably the toughest attack on Mr. Kerry of the week. ''Vintage Zell Miller,'' said Mayor Bob Young of Augusta, Ga.: "With his barbs and his spitballs. He's a very plain speaker and a traditional populist.''
 And Mr. Cheney, on taking the podium before beginning his 23-minute speech, said archly: ''I'm glad Zell Miller is on our side.''
 Mr. Kerry's aides accused the Republicans of distorting his record -- and were particularly dismissive of Mr. Miller.
 ''This angry old man is scaring the children,'' said Jay Carson, a Democratic Party spokesman. 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Dick Cheney said John Kerry talked ''as though Al Qaeda will be impressed with our softer side.'' (Photo by Vincent Laforet/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (76%); WAR ON TERROR (76%); AL-QAEDA (69%); ARMED FORCES (64%) Presidential Election of 2004; Conventions, National (US); Election Issues; Terrorism; Presidential Election of 2004; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; United States Economy; Security and Warning Systems; Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (83%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (93%); JOHN KERRY (93%); BILL CLINTON (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); JOHN EDWARDS (79%) Adam Nagourney; Robin Toner; Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush; Zell (Sen) Miller

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (79%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2004



45 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 1; National Desk; THE REPUBLICANS: THE CONVENTION IN NEW YORK; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1611 words

HEADLINE: Cheney Extols a President Whom 'We Can Count On'

 BODY:
The following are excerpts from Vice President Dick Cheney's speech to the Republican National Convention, as recorded by The New York Times. The full speech and video are on the Web at nytimes.com/campaign.
 I'm honored by your confidence. And tonight I make this pledge: I will give this campaign all that I have, and together we will make George W. Bush president for another four years.
 Tonight I will talk about this good man and his fine record leading our country. And I may say a word or two about his opponent. I am also mindful now that I have an opponent of my own. People tell me Senator Edwards got picked for his good looks, his sex appeal, his charm and his great hair. I said, ''How do you think I got the job?''
 On this night, as we celebrate the opportunities that America offers, I am filled with gratitude to a nation that has been good to me, and I remember the people who set me on my way in life. My grandfather noted that the day I was born was also the birthday of Franklin Delano Roosevelt. And so he told my parents they should send President Roosevelt an announcement of my birth. 
 Now my grandfather didn't have a chance to go to high school. For many years he worked as a cook on the Union Pacific Railroad, and he and my grandmother lived in a railroad car. But the modesty of his circumstances didn't stop him from thinking that President Roosevelt should know about my arrival.
 My grandfather believed deeply in the promise of America, and had the highest hopes for his family. And I don't think it would surprise him all that much that a grandchild of his stands before you tonight as vice president of the United States.
 It is the story of this country that people have been able to dream big dreams with confidence they would come true, if not for themselves, then for their children and grandchildren. And that sense of boundless opportunity is a gift that we must pass on to all who come after us. ...
 Opportunity also depends on a vibrant, growing economy. As President Bush and I were sworn into office, our nation was sliding into recession and American workers were overburdened with federal taxes. Then came the events of Sept. 11, which hit our economy very hard. So President Bush delivered the greatest tax reduction in a generation, and the results are clear to see. Businesses are creating jobs. People are returning to work. Mortgage rates are low and home ownership in this country is at an all-time high. The Bush tax cuts are working. ...
 These have been years of achievement, and we are eager for the work ahead. And in all that we do, we will never lose sight of the greatest challenge of our time: preserving the freedom and security of this nation against determined enemies.
 Since I last spoke to our national convention, Lynne and I have had the joy of seeing our family grow. We now have a grandson to go along with our three wonderful granddaughters, and the deepest wish of my heart and the object of all my determination is that they, and all of America's children, will have lives filled with opportunity and that they will inherit a world in which they can live in freedom, in safety, and in peace.
 Four years ago, some said the world had grown calm, and many assumed that the United States was invulnerable to danger. That thought might have been comforting; it was also false. Like other generations of Americans, we soon discovered that history had unexpected duties in store for us.
 Sept. 11, 2001, made clear the challenges we face. On that day we saw the harm that could be done by 19 men armed with knives and boarding passes. America also awakened to a possibility even more lethal: this enemy, whose hatred of us is limitless, armed with chemical, biological, or even nuclear weapons.
 Just as surely as the Nazis during World War II and the Soviets during the cold war, the enemy we face today is bent on our destruction. As in other times, we are in a war we did not start, and have no choice but to win. Firm in our resolve, focused on our mission, and led by a superb commander in chief, we will prevail.
 The fanatics who killed some 3,000 of our fellow Americans may have thought they could attack us with impunity because terrorists had done so previously. But if the killers of Sept. 11 thought we had lost the will to defend our freedom, they did not know America and they did not know George W. Bush.
 From the beginning, the president made clear that the terrorists would be dealt with and that anyone who supports, protects, or harbors them would be held to account. In a campaign that has reached around the world, we have captured or killed hundreds of Al Qaeda. In Afghanistan, the camps where terrorists trained to kill Americans have been shut down, and the Taliban driven from power. In Iraq, we dealt with a gathering threat, and removed the regime of Saddam Hussein. Seventeen months ago, he controlled the lives and the fortunes of 25 million people. Tonight he sits in jail.
 President Bush does not deal in empty threats and halfway measures. And his determination has sent a clear message. Just five days after Saddam was captured, the government of Libya agreed to abandon its nuclear weapons program and turn the materials over to the United States. Tonight, the uranium, the centrifuges and plans and designs for nuclear weapons that were once hidden in Libya are locked up and stored away in Oak Ridge, Tenn., never again to threaten America.
 The biggest threat we face today is having nuclear weapons fall into the hands of terrorists. The president is working with many countries in a global effort to end the trade and transfer of these deadly technologies. The most important result thus far, and it is a very important one, is that the black-market network that supplied nuclear weapons technology to Libya, as well as to Iran and North Korea, has been shut down. The world's worst source of nuclear weapons proliferation is out of business and we are safer. ...
 This nation has reached another of those defining moments. Under President Bush we have put in place new policies and created new institutions to defend America, to stop terrorist violence at its source, and to help move the Middle East away from old hatreds and resentments and toward the lasting peace that only freedom can bring. This is the work not of months, but of years and keeping these commitments is essential to our future security. For that reason, ladies and gentlemen, the election of 2004 is one of the most important, not just in our lives but in our history.
 And so it is time to set the alternatives squarely before the American people.
 The president's opponent is an experienced senator. He speaks often of his service in Vietnam and we honor him for it. But there is also a record of more than three decades since. And on the question of America's role in the world, the differences between Senator Kerry and President Bush are the sharpest and the stakes for the country are the highest. 
 History has shown that a strong and purposeful America is vital to preserving freedom and keeping us safe. Yet time and again Senator Kerry has made the wrong call on national security. Senator Kerry began his political career by saying he would like to see our troops deployed ''only at the directive of the United Nations.'' During the 1980's Senator Kerry opposed Ronald Reagan's major defense initiatives that brought victory in the cold war. And in 1991, when Saddam Hussein occupied Kuwait and stood poised to dominate the Persian Gulf, Senator Kerry voted against Operation Desert Storm.
 Even in this post-9/11 period, Senator Kerry doesn't appear to understand how the world has changed. He talks about leading a ''more sensitive war on terror,'' as though Al Qaeda will be impressed with our softer side. 
 He declared at the Democratic convention that he will forcefully defend America after we have been attacked. My fellow Americans, we have already been attacked. We're faced with an enemy who seeks the deadliest of weapons to use against us. And we cannot wait until the next attack. ...Senator Kerry denounces American action when other countries don't approve as if the whole object of our foreign policy were to please a few persistent critics. But in fact, in the global war on terror, as in Afghanistan and Iraq, President Bush has brought many allies to our side. But as the president has made very clear, there is a difference between leading a coalition of many nations and submitting to the objections of a few. George W. Bush will never seek a permission slip to defend the American people.
 Senator Kerry also takes a different view when it comes to supporting our military. Although he voted to authorize force against Saddam Hussein, he then decided he was opposed to the war, and voted against funding for our men and women in the field. He voted against body armor, ammunition, fuel, spare parts, armored vehicles, extra pay for hardship duty, and support for military families. Senator Kerry is campaigning for the position of commander in chief. Yet he does not seem to understand the first obligation of a commander in chief and that is to support American troops in combat.
 In his years in Washington, John Kerry has been one of a hundred votes in the United States Senate and fortunately on matters of national security, his views rarely prevailed. But the presidency is an entirely different proposition. A senator can be wrong for 20 years, without consequence to the nation. But a president, a president always casts the deciding vote. And in this time of challenge, America needs and America has a president we can count on to get it right. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GRANDPARENTS (87%); CHILDREN (87%); GRANDCHILDREN (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (71%); JOB CREATION (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (65%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (65%); RECESSION (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); TRAINS (64%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (64%); TAX LAW (64%); TAX RELIEF (64%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (60%); MORTGAGE RATES (50%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Conventions, National (US); Vice Presidents and Vice Presidency (US)

COMPANY: UNION PACIFIC RAILROAD CO (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (54%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (54%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%) Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2004



46 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: Panama's New Chief, Sworn In, Inherits a Diplomatic Tempest

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN and GINGER THOMPSON; Steven R. Weisman reported from Panama City for this article, and Ginger Thompson from Mexico City.

DATELINE: PANAMA, Sept. 1 

 BODY:
Martin Torrijos, the son of a former dictator, was sworn in as Panama's new president on Wednesday and walked straight into a diplomatic storm.
 Last week, Cuba broke relations with Panama to protest a decision by the departing president, Mireya Moscoso, to pardon four Cuban exiles who had been accused of plotting to assassinate President Fidel Castro during a visit here in 2000. 
 Ms. Moscoso said she had decided to pardon the men and allow them to leave Panama because she said she was concerned that Mr. Torrijos might have them extradited to Cuba or Venezuela, where, she said, ''I am sure they would have been killed.'' 
 Three of the men flew to Miami. The fourth reportedly flew to Honduras. 
 Their release and Ms. Moscoso's remarks provoked outrage in Havana and in Venezuela, whose president, Hugo Chavez, recalled his ambassador.
 In his inauguration speech on Wednesday, Mr. Torrijos, 41, said that he would seek to repair relations with Cuba and Venezuela and he criticized Ms. Moscoso's decision to pardon the men.
 ''For me, there are not two classes of terrorism, one that is condemned and another that is pardoned,'' Mr. Torrijos said. ''It has to be fought no matter what its origins.''
 Some political analysts said they saw the hand of Washington in Ms. Moscoso's actions. Florida, a base for Cuban exiles, is crucial for President Bush's re-election efforts. 
 So far, the Bush administration has not commented on the issue. Secretary of State Colin L. Powell flew here on Wednesday for the inauguration of Mr. Torrijos, but made few public remarks. 
 State Department officials said Mr. Powell wanted to use the visit to try to demonstrate the Bush administration's interest in Latin America.
 While here, Mr. Powell metwith President Leonel Fernandez of the Dominican Republic, President Boniface Alexandre of Haiti and President Alvaro Uribe Velez of Colombia, where the United States is spending more than $500 million a year to crackdown on illicit drugs.
 The inauguration had particular significance for Mr. Powell, who was chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff when the first President Bush sent American troops here to force President Manuel Antonio Noriega out of office in 1989. Last November, Mr. Powell attended the ceremony here for the 100th anniversary of Panama's independence.
 Mr. Torrijos is heir to a political party that was built by military strongmen, including his father, Gen. Omar Torrijos, who ruled the country from 1968 until his death in 1981, and General Noriega.
 During his election campaign, Mr. Torrijos embraced memories of his father as a champion of the poor and the visionary who negotiated the 1977 treaty by which the United States gave this country control of the Panama Canal. But he also capitalized on his youth to win support among the young and upper class. 
 Panama's economy has grown steadily in the last several months. However, Mr. Torrijos inherits a government barraged by accusations of corruption. Overspending by the government has pushed the country's pension system close to bankruptcy, and more than 40 percent of Panamanians live in poverty.
 Miguel Antonio Bernal, a professor at the University of Panama, said of Mr. Torrijos: ''There is no way he is going to be able to live up to people's expectations. He is going to have a short honeymoon.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: September 4, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article on Thursday about the inauguration of Martin Torrijos as president of Panama referred incorrectly to the Bush administration's response to accusations that the United States had influenced Panama's decision to pardon four Cuban exiles who had been accused of plotting to assassinate President Fidel Castro of Cuba in 2000. The administration did not refrain from commenting. Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, interviewed on Panamanian television, said that the pardons were ''strictly a matter that was decided by the Panamanian government'' and that ''Panama is a sovereign nation that can handle these matters on its own without any input from the United States.'' On Aug. 26, a State Department spokesman said: ''This was a decision by the government of Panama. We never lobbied the Panamanian Government to pardon anyone.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS (90%); PARDONS (90%); ASSASSINATION (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); EXTRADITION (72%); AMNESTY (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); TERRORISM (69%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (65%); ARMED FORCES (65%); ANNIVERSARIES (64%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (50%) Politics and Government; Amnesties and Pardons; Assassinations and Attempted Assassinations; United States International Relations

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (77%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); HUGO CHAVEZ (58%); ALVARO URIBE (58%) Steven R Weisman; Ginger Thompson; Martin (Pres) Torrijos; Omar (Gen) Torrijos; Mireya (Pres) Moscoso; Fidel (Pres) Castro; Colin L (Sec) Powell

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) PANAMA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); CUBA (96%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (94%); HAITI (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); HONDURAS (79%) Panama; Cuba; Panama; Venezuela

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2004



47 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 114 words

HEADLINE: 'Compassionate Conservatism' and Its Discontents

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Arnold Schwarzenegger's admonition to Republicans on Tuesday night not to be ''economic girlie men'' is an insult that may play well on ''Saturday Night Live'' but that has no place in the national discourse. 
 As a synonym for ''wimp,'' it belittles the unemployed men and women who, unlike the multimillionaire governor, worry about the economic realities they face every day.
 Also, the use of ''girlie'' as a derogatory term is an insult to girls and women of any party affiliation.
 If President Bush is really trying to push his party's slogan that ''W Stands for Women,'' then ''G is for Girlie'' is not the way to do it. 

Barbara Cohn Schlachet
New York, Sept. 1, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (88%); ELECTIONS (88%); WOMEN (88%); GOVERNORS (86%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (86%); US PRESIDENTS (85%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (72%) Presidential Election of 2004; Conventions, National (US); Election Issues

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) Barbara Cohn Schlachet; Arnold (Gov) Schwarzenegger; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2004



48 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 2, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 3; National Desk; THE REPUBLICANS: THE CONVENTION IN NEW YORK -- THE SPEECH; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: A Familiar Formula for a Second Nomination Address

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET

 BODY:
Only one president in the 20th century has really pulled it off.
 Accepting their second nomination for the job, presidents tend to do little more than the obvious, if only because it can be effective: Glossing their accomplishments, warning against a change in direction, then pivoting to promise more of the same, only better. 
 But Franklin Delano Roosevelt left a lasting impression. ''There is a mysterious cycle in human events,'' he told Democrats gathered in 1936 in Philadelphia. ''To some generations much is given. Of other generations much is expected. This generation has a rendezvous with history.'' 
 In the private theater at the White House yesterday, President Bush stood before a handful of aides to practice his speech, to be delivered Thursday night in New York. The closely held speech was written by Michael Gerson, his chief speechwriter, who has a record of rising to such occasions as well as a demonstrated tilt toward generational themes. Karen P. Hughes, Mr. Bush's longtime adviser, also contributed to the draft.
 Mr. Bush is not likely to discard the familiar formula. Like past incumbents, he is planning to devote ''a good portion of his speech'' to ''new policies within the areas he cares most about,'' said Scott McClellan, the White House spokesman. 
 Mr. McClellan said that Mr. Bush would promote progress toward improving education, but added that ''there is more to do to make sure people have the education and skills they need to meet the jobs in our changing economy.'' 
 He said Mr. Bush would speak of having reduced health care costs and passing ''historic Medicare reforms,'' but again added, ''There's more to do.''
 Mr. Bush is also expected to speak of progress toward, and further plans for, an ''ownership society,'' which is the administration's shorthand for partly privatizing Social Security, providing medical savings accounts and promoting home ownership, among other things. 
 A challenger, accepting a nomination for the first time, must carry a heavier oratorical burden than an incumbent, argued Michael Waldman, a speechwriter for President Clinton. ''The incumbent president needs no introduction,'' he said. ''You have to put out an agenda, but you don't have to convince people you're a good guy.''
 But incumbents can find themselves staggering under the weight of their own record. ''Well, it was a mistake to go along with the Democratic tax increase,'' President George H.W. Bush declared in 1992, offering up a mea culpa rare for any president. ''And I admit it.''
 In 1996, Bill Clinton's acceptance speech in Chicago was laden with paragraphs about proposals enacted and proposals still ahead, on a ''bridge to the 21st century'' that he mentioned considerably more than once. 
 Even the Great Communicator, Ronald Reagan, gave a second acceptance speech that was longer on specifics than on gauzy visions. 
 In 2000, Mr. Gerson wrote an acceptance speech for Mr. Bush that implicitly paralleled the nominee's own story of youthful waywardness and maturation to his generation's passage through the 1960's. Mr. Bush spoke of a new cohort rising to assume leadership from ''the greatest generation'' -- the World War II veterans who not incidentally included his father.
 Indeed, Mr. Bush said his generation faced what some might call a rendezvous with history, or words to that effect. ''The rising generations of this country have our own appointment with greatness,'' he said. Later in the speech, he invoked Roosevelt by name. 
 In a poignant testament to how quickly times have changed, Mr. Bush was summoning his generation to take advantage of easy times. ''Times of plenty, like times of crises, are tests of American character,'' he said. ''We will use these good times for great goals.''
 The times of plenty have given way to times of crises, and the generational theme has risen again. Laura Bush repeatedly invoked it in her speech on Tuesday night as she praised her husband's leadership during ''the most historic struggle my generation has ever known.''
 Comparing her husband as a wartime leader to Abraham Lincoln and Franklin Roosevelt, she said, ''Once again, as in our parents' generation, America had to make the tough choices, the hard decisions, and lead the world toward greater security and freedom.''
 Roosevelt, his polio-stricken legs locked in braces, was helped by two men toward the podium in 1936, but he fell at one point, spilling the pages of his speech, said Doris Kearns Goodwin, author of ''No Ordinary Time,'' a biography of Franklin and Eleanor Roosevelt.
 Helped to his feet, Roosevelt set his braces, reached the podium, reordered his pages and began his electrifying address, which pointed to some progress in his first term but acknowledged mighty, persistent problems.
 ''It's not an admission in the slightest that he was responsible for not getting us wholly out of the Depression, but that he was going to continue to fight,'' Ms. Goodwin said. 
 Roosevelt was summoning his generation not to fight in Europe -- the war was years away -- but to battle the ''economic tyranny'' of the ''royalists of the economic order'' and to give government a ''vibrant personal character.''
 ''Governments can err,'' he said, ''presidents do make mistakes, but the immortal Dante tells us that divine justice weighs the sins of the cold-blooded and the sins of the warm-hearted in different scales.''


CORRECTION-DATE: September 22, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sept. 2 about the acceptance speech President Bush planned for his second nomination quoted incorrectly from a passage by President Franklin Delano Roosevelt in his speech to the 1936 Democratic convention in Philadelphia. He said: ''To some generations much is given. Of other generations much is expected. This generation of Americans has a rendezvous with destiny'' -- not simply ''this generation'' and not ''a rendezvous with history.'' 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Karen Hughes, a top adviser to President Bush and a contributor to his acceptance speech, arrived with him yesterday in Columbus, Ohio. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); PRIVATIZATION (71%); HEALTH CARE (68%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); MEDICARE (63%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (63%); TAX LAW (60%) Presidential Election of 2004; Conventions, National (US)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); GEORGE H W BUSH (79%); BILL CLINTON (73%) James Bennet; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (59%) OHIO, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2004



49 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 548 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Despite Its Optimism, Bank In Europe Lets Rate Stand
The European Central Bank is sounding markedly more confident these days than it did earlier this year about the economic recovery in the 12 countries that use the euro. But it is not ready to back up its words with action.
 The bank left its benchmark short-term interest rate unchanged at 2 percent despite announcing higher growth and inflation forecasts for Europe than it had in June. The bank has bucked a trend toward tighter monetary policy led by the Federal Reserve. [Page C5.]

Absolut to Try Television Ads in U.S.
To introduce a raspberry-flavored version of its flagship brand, the Absolut Spirits Company will boldly go where no Absolut vodka has gone before in the United States: onto television. The campaign for Absolut Raspberri will include four television commercials, scheduled to begin on national cable networks like E, FX and VH1. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [C3.]

Orders Rise and Productivity Slows
July factory orders rose the most in four months, exceeding forecasts, and productivity gains slowed last quarter. [C3.]

Late-Day Buying Helps Market
Stocks rose in a late-session surge. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 121.82 points, to 10,290.28, its highest point in seven weeks. The Nasdaq composite index added 23.02 points, to 1,873.43. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 12.40 points, to 1,118.31. [C5.]

Nigerian Venture Considered Bribes
Halliburton said that officers from a Nigerian joint venture considered paying bribes to win contracts. [C3.]

Northwest Airlines Cancels a Fee
Northwest Airlines reversed a $7.50 round-trip service charge for travel agents after American Airlines imposed several new ticket-booking fees but declined to match the one on travel agent transactions. Travel agents had said the fee amounted to a fare increase. [C2.]

Nortel Delays Its Restatement
The Nortel Networks Corporation, the telephone equipment maker that is restating results back through 2001, said that it would not have financial statements for last year and the first half of 2004 ready until the end of October, a month later than planned. The ''volume and complexity'' of the restatement caused the delay, said Tina Warren, a spokeswoman for Nortel. [C4.]

Group to Seek Reversal of Fund Rule
The United States Chamber of Commerce said it had asked a federal court to overturn a rule requiring mutual fund boards to have independent chairmen and majorities of independent directors. [C9.]

Oil Binds Japan and Russia
Japan has quietly become the largest foreign investor in Russia's Far East region despite an unresolved territorial dispute between the countries. [World Business, Section W.]

China Wary of Influx of Capital
China's central bank governor said efforts to slow the economy are at a critical stage, with monetary policy becoming harder to put in place because of rising inflows of foreign capital. [World Business, Section W.]

Spain Looks to Sell More Than Sun
With hotels reporting some 40 percent of their rooms unoccupied this season, and many rooms empty even in the hotels that line Spain's fabled beaches, government and industry officials say it is time to scrap the recipe that has built the country into the world's most popular tourist destination after France. [World Business, Section W.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,290.28 up 121.82Nasdaq composite -- 1,873.43 up 23.0210-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.21% up 0.09The euro -- $1.2157 down 0.0034The dollar -- 109.46 yen up 0.03Graph: ''TODAY'' shows unemployment figures from February to July.UnemploymentAugust figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +5.5%Graph tracks the daily closing price of Nortel Networks shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (90%); EURO (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); AIRLINES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); TRAVEL AGENTS (86%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BANKING IN CHINA (78%); TRENDS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); CABLE TELEVISION (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); CABLE INDUSTRY (74%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (74%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (74%); INTEREST RATES (73%); FACTORY ORDERS (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (71%); FINANCIAL RESTATEMENTS (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); JOINT VENTURES (69%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (68%); PRODUCTIVITY (67%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (66%); BRIBERY (64%); MUTUAL FUNDS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); ABSOLUT SPIRITS CO INC (70%); NORTEL NETWORKS CORP (64%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (56%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS424820 WINE & DISTILLED ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (70%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (70%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (70%); SIC5182 WINE & DISTILLED ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (70%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (70%); SIC2084 WINES, BRANDY, & BRANDY SPIRITS (70%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (56%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (87%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2004



50 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; HAVENS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1840 words

HEADLINE: Waking Up Cape Charles

BYLINE: By TIM NEVILLE

DATELINE: CAPE CHARLES, Va. 

 BODY:
IN 1991, houses in this town on the Eastern Shore of Virginia were so cheap that when Barbara Brown found one just four blocks from the Chesapeake Bay, she bought it with a credit card. 
 The house -- two stories and 1,500 square feet with three bedrooms -- was in terrible shape, said Ms. Brown, who paid $15,000 for it. ''It was a 'dead dogs in the corner' type of house,'' she said. Ms. Brown, a psychotherapist, gutted the place, rehabbed it and sold it in 1996 for $65,000. ''I bought it because I walked down to that beach and looked at the water. The house had potential.'' Today it might sell for $250,000 or more.
 The renaissance at 123 Peach Street is impressive but hardly unique in Cape Charles. What is remarkable is the blistering velocity at which the entire character of the town has changed from a down-on-its-luck outpost to one of the Mid-Atlantic's hottest second-home real estate markets in just the last few years. 
 Not all local residents applaud the changes -- some argue that rising house prices and property taxes will eventually drive them out -- but the economic boom is hard to ignore. Houses and commercial buildings that stood falling apart five years ago now sell for $250,000 or more. New homes boasting breezy British West Indies architecture -- many approaching the $1 million mark -- pop regularly out of the sand. McCarthy's Hotel, closed for decades, is scheduled to reopen by Thanksgiving under a new owner who is restoring it to its 1930's roots.
 Eating out once meant a $1.50 fried bologna sandwich at Savage's Drugstore. Now diners can get excellent oysters on the half shell, chutneys with their beef skewers and organic vegetarian chili. Flourless chocolate torte and a cappuccino? Head to the Cape Charles Coffee Company, a hip cafe that opened on July 3 in a building renovated to late-Victorian grandeur, complete with brass banisters, chandeliers and sconces.
 Despite the new money, Cape Charles can still seem charmingly rural. Oyster roasts at the Cape Charles Historical Society are a community event. Locals gather at Watson's Hardware on Christmas Eve for an informal gathering over cigars, whiskey and guitar music by a guy everyone calls ''Freshwater Frank.'' The town manager rides to work on a purple bicycle with white-wall tires and a wicker basket. 
 The main force behind Cape Charles's new economic vibrancy is a Virginia Beach developer named Richard S. Foster, known as Dickie. His Bay Creek, a massive gated community and resort destination, will, when completed, surround and overshadow the existing town, a 38-block-grid of American Foursquare and Sears homes. On its streets lined with crape myrtle trees, Cape Charles has about 650 houses -- a number that until recently had not changed for 60 years. If Mr. Foster's ambitions are fully realized, Bay Creek could have 2,500 homes, or more. Plans call for retail shops and restaurants -- two of which opened in August -- a 100-room hotel and spa, a beach club on the Chesapeake, tennis courts, pool, community center, two 18-hole golf courses, a replica of a historic lighthouse and 113 acres of artificial lakes. 
 Golfers can already play one course, an Arnold Palmer design. The Jack Nicklaus course should open in the fall of 2005. Boats regularly dock at Bay Creek's new 224-slip marina, and roughly 140 new houses have been built. And a state-appointed commission recently voted to change the round-trip toll, now $24, across the Chesapeake Bay Bridge-Tunnel that links Cape Charles to the Hampton Roads-Tidewater area to $17 for round trips completed within 24 hours. The changes have some Cape Charles residents worried their town could become a suburb. 
 When Mr. Foster bought 1,700 acres of farmland in 1998 to create Bay Creek, many residents were immediately cool to his plans. Though Cape Charles sits only 23 miles by car north of some 1.6 million people in Hampton Roads-Tidewater, the town -- like much of the Delmarva Peninsula -- has largely escaped becoming part of the eastern megalopolis. The town's population, now roughly 1,300, has never topped 3,000.
 ''The buzz words around here were, 'We don't like change,' '' Mr. Foster said. ''I didn't get that. I'd hold up a postcard of Mason Avenue,'' the town's main drag, ''from 1947 and point out all the cars, all the businesses. You look at Mason Avenue from a few years ago and buildings were literally falling into the street. Talk about change.''
THROUGHOUT the early 1900's, Cape Charles thrived as a bustling railroad depot and port. People and goods moving along the Eastern Seaboard poured through the town on the New York, Philadelphia & Norfolk Railroad. About 21 miles of open water separated the tracks on the Eastern Shore from those in Norfolk. To bridge that gap, workers in Cape Charles transferred entire railroad cars on and off barges that tugboats then pulled across the water. Passengers crossed the bay aboard ferries like the Virginia Lee. 
 During those glory years the town boomed. ''On Saturday afternoons it was difficult to find a parking space on Mason Avenue,'' wrote Jim Lewis, author of ''Cape Charles: A Railroad Town,'' a town history published in May. ''The streets were crowded with groups of farmers and townsfolk mingling.''
 Cape Charles's economy began circling the drain shortly after World War II, when trucking and highways started squeezing the railroad companies. Passenger ferries started to dock a few miles south of Cape Charles to shorten the distance across the bay, and in 1958, the last passenger train left Cape Charles. In 1964 the Chesapeake Bay Bridge-Tunnel opened and put the ferries out of work altogether. The town rotted, cut off and stagnant.
 ''There's no doubt we were struggling,'' said Charles Brown, known as Sambo, who serves the town as both councilman and police officer. 
 That's when Dickie Foster showed up and purchased his parcel of land, which had once been owned by the estate of William Scott, a congressman, friend to President Grover Cleveland and a railroad baron who, in 1886, founded Cape Charles in a cornfield.
 In 1975, Brown & Root, an energy company that is now a subsidiary of Halliburton, bought most of the Scott estate with hopes of eventually developing it. Those plans never materialized, and in early 1996, company officials began searching for an outside developer. Mr. Foster had been looking for a new project on the Eastern Shore, and in September 1996 he signed a contract to purchase the 1,700 acres that would become Bay Creek.
 The development currently has nine neighborhoods, each with a defining architecture -- Caribbean or Victorian, for example. Condominiums run about $280,000, while houses in the development go for $300,000 for a 2,400- to 2,600-square-foot home or as much as $1.4 million for a place as large as 6,000 square feet. Mr. Foster expects waterfront lots in Plantation Pointe, a neighborhood on the east side of the development overlooking Plantation Creek, to sell for as high as $2 million.
 Bay Creek properties are not alone in fetching those prices. ''Old'' Cape Charles is now listed on the National Register of Historic Places, and a 2,500-square-foot brick home several blocks back from the beach and still needing central air-conditioning and kitchen and bathroom work, sold in late August for $425,000. Structurally sound, 2,400-square-foot fixer-uppers routinely go for about $250,000. ''You'd probably have to put in another $100,000 in renovations on a house like that,'' said Chip Watson, a Cape Charles real estate broker and the owner of Watson's Hardware.
 Mr. Foster considers himself a history buff, and many of Bay Creek's amenities focus on rekindling Cape Charles's past. In the middle of a artificial lake on the Palmer course's second hole, workers were recently building a model of the Old Plantation Flats Lighthouse. The original, demolished in 1962, once guided ships into the town's harbor. Mr. Foster said that he wanted to buy a steam locomotive and passenger cars, like those that once rolled into town, to begin running sightseeing trains.
 ''Being part of a community -- and I mean part of -- is rewarding at this age in my life,'' said Mr. Foster, who turns 61 on Sept. 11. ''I don't want to see the town dry up.''
 In general, though environmental groups worry about the development's demands on groundwater, the consensus among locals seems to be mostly favorable toward Mr. Foster, particularly in light of the sorely needed jobs and town improvements that Bay Creek has spawned. 
 But in a place where you can find the stranger in town by looking for the car that doesn't belong, a place where nearly everybody knows everyone and nicknames run rampant -- ''Banjo,'' ''Beak,'' ''Squeaks'' and ''Beans'' -- the most common complaint is about all the new faces in town, people whom the locals call ''come-heres.'' 
 ''If they want to be a part of the community, then why is there a gate over there?'' asked one man nursing a beer in the Harbor Grille on Mason Avenue. He was referring to Bay Creek, and he asked not to be identified. ''We're losing our character. The community isn't the same.''
 A lifelong resident, Alma Elliot, agreed. A bank teller and 42-year-old mother of three, she does not own her spacious blue two-story house at 541 Mason Avenue. She pays $400 a month in rent, a bargain compared with rates for other rental properties in town.
 Two doors down is the former home of her octogenarian aunt, Dorothy Bibbins, who moved out as property taxes and upkeep on the house, which had fallen into disrepair, became too much for her. The house more than doubled in assessed value in the last year.
 ''There's not much you can do,'' said Dora Sullivan, a town councilwoman who considers the poor and elderly among her strongest constituents. ''That's just life.''
 On a spring afternoon, Mr. Foster drove his white Lincoln Navigator along Bay Creek's newly paved roads, past blooming lavender plants, azaleas and pink rose bushes, whose smell perfumed the limp early-June air. Mr. Foster then pulled the steering wheel to the right and drove across the verdant bristles of Kentucky bluegrass to offer his passengers a better view of the golf course he has never played. ''I actually don't like the game,'' he said.
 Carol Stone and her husband, David, are two of Bay Creek's newest customers who do like golf. The couple, from Raleigh, N.C., were in Bay Creek's office on the outskirts of town a few weeks ago picking out ceramic tiles for their 2,700-square-foot home near the marina. They shot a round of golf, which they compared with playing in Hawaii, and afterward wandered around Cape Charles's quiet streets.
 You still can't buy feta cheese or a decent pair of shoes in town. Nonetheless, the Stones, in their mid-50's, enjoyed the small-town feel. ''We like Cape Charles as it is now,'' Mrs. Stone said. ''It will grow and change like every other area near the water, especially when people find out about this community. We hope to enjoy this bit of paradise before it becomes too populated.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: BUILDER -- Dickie Foster foresees 2,500 homes in his Bay Creek development.
FIXER-UPPER -- Newcomers are buying and rehabbing old houses in Cape Charles, Va. Some longtime residents say they fear being unable to afford to live in their own town. (Photographs by Tim Neville for The New York Times)(pg. F5)
 THE NEW -- Bay Creek development in Cape Charles, Va. (Photo by Jay Paul for The New York Times)(pg. F5)Map of Virginia highlighting Cape Charles. (pg. F5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); PROPERTY TAX (73%); HOME PRICES (73%); COFFEE (71%); RESORTS (70%); HISTORY (68%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (65%); CHRISTMAS (63%); THANKSGIVING (63%); MEAT FREE DIETS (56%) Geographic Profiles; Housing 

PERSON: Tim Neville

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA BEACH, VA, USA (79%) VIRGINIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (74%) Cape Charles (Va)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2004



51 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 979 words

HEADLINE: Study Finds Bird-Flu Virus Can Spread Among Cats

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE K. ALTMAN

 BODY:
The avian influenza virus that has spread widely among poultry and other birds in Southeast Asia and infected some people there has also crossed another species barrier to infect cats, and can be spread among them as well, Dutch scientists have found.
 The finding is ''extraordinary because domestic cats are generally considered to be resistant to disease from influenza A virus infection,'' like that of the avian strain, the researchers are reporting in today's issue of the journal Science.
 In the Dutch study, some cats with the infection died of it, while others survived. A few did not even show any symptoms that they were carrying the disease. 
 Whether cats can transmit the virus strain, A(H5N1), to humans is not known. The World Health Organization has received no reports that cats played a role in afflicting the 35 people who have developed A(H5N1) infection, all in Thailand and Vietnam, said Dick Thompson, a spokesman for the agency in Geneva. Those cases were traced chiefly to direct contact with sick birds.
 Even so, the Dutch study has important implications for human and animal health, said Juan Lubroth, a senior animal health officer at another United Nations agency, the Food and Agriculture Organization.
 The findings, Dr. Lubroth and the study's authors said, underscore a need to investigate the possible role of cats and an array of other animals in the spread of avian influenza among poultry farms and to humans. 
 An estimated 200 million birds have either died of A(H5N1) or been slaughtered to control the outbreak since last winter, when the strain simultaneously appeared in eight Asian countries. United Nations officials have described the scale of the epidemic -- geographically and economically -- as unprecedented for an avian flu outbreak.
 The strain has also been particularly lethal for humans, killing 25 of the 35 people infected.
 Many influenza experts and health officials fear a worst-case occurrence in which a person becomes infected with both an avian influenza virus and a human one. Under such a circumstance, the viruses might swap genes, creating a new virus that could cause an epidemic all over the planet much like that of the so-called Spanish flu of 1918-19, which killed 675,000 people in the United States alone and more than 20 million around the world. 
 The laboratory in Rotterdam that reported the new findings has conducted research on A(H5N1) since 1997, when its scientists detected the strain in a child who had died of the disease in Hong Kong.
 The Hong Kong case was a scientific bombshell, because it was the first in which a new avian influenza virus had been transmitted from birds to humans without first mixing with mammalian influenza strains in pigs.
 Since then, the A(H5N1) virus has mutated to become more virulent.
 Last January a clouded leopard died, apparently of avian influenza, at a zoo in Thailand after eating virus-infected chickens, Thai health officials recalled in recent interviews in Bangkok.
 A month later, scientists identified the A(H5N1) virus in three dead cats, and in a white tiger that recovered after becoming ill in the same zoo where the leopard died. The cats belonged to a Thai woman who had 15 in all, 14 of which apparently died of avian flu, although the remains of only those 3 could be found for testing. The woman did not develop bird flu. 
 Tests showed that the molecular makeup of the viruses isolated from the cats and the tiger was the same as that of the virus found in chickens.
 After learning about those infections, the Rotterdam team, led by Dr. Thijs Kuiken, conducted three laboratory experiments by using the A(H5N1) virus isolated from a Vietnamese patient who had died of it. The findings confirmed what had been observed in the cats in Thailand.
 First, Dr. Kuiken's team introduced the Vietnamese virus into the airways of three European shorthair cats, the breed generally used in animal experiments. All three became sick beginning the next day, and one died on the sixth day of illness. In comparison, none of three cats infected with the most common type of human influenza virus became ill.
 In the second experiment, three cats were fed infected chicken. Examination of their tissues under a microscope showed that all three had developed severe lung damage similar to that seen among birds and humans. (People are not vulnerable to infection by eating chicken that is cooked, but the person who cooks it may be at risk from handling it, health officials say.)
 In the third experiment, the researchers put two healthy cats in the same cage two days after infecting a third cat. The healthy cats also became ill.
 Dr. Kuiken said in telephone interviews that he did not know whether these two cats had caught the infection by licking, through droplets or through the air. His study, he said, was not devised to determine how the cats spread the virus.
 Additional research is needed because of the small size and scope of the Dutch study, experts said.
 But the Food and Agriculture Organization ''is not set up to conduct this type of research,'' Dr. Lubroth said, adding that scientists at universities and other research institutes would have to do much of it, though with technical advice from his agency.
 One avenue of research will be to test whether cats that are susceptible to other strains of influenza virus can spread those strains as well.
 In addition, Dr. Kuiken said his team planned to test whether the original A(H5N1) virus, from the 1997 Hong Kong case, could infect cats, or whether only the later, mutated form could do so.
 At the same time, Dr. Lubroth said, agricultural workers need to educate farmers about good practices like not raising swine with chickens.
 Another reform will be teaching farmers to keep cats away from poultry, although that step, Dr. Lubroth said, ''may be as difficult as herding wild cats.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AVIAN INFLUENZA (95%); INFLUENZA (95%); VIRUSES (92%); CATS (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); LIVESTOCK RESEARCH (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); ANIMALS (90%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (90%); BIRDS (90%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (90%); POULTRY (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); MAMMALS (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (77%); POULTRY & EGG PRODUCTION (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); EPIDEMICS (58%) Influenza; Cats; Avian Influenza; Poultry; Birds

ORGANIZATION: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (56%); FOOD & AGRICULTURE ORGANIZATION OF THE UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%) Science (Journal)

PERSON: Lawrence K Altman

GEOGRAPHIC: ROTTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (58%) HONG KONG (92%); ASIA (92%); NETHERLANDS (90%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (90%); THAILAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SWITZERLAND (75%) Netherlands ; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2004



52 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: July Factory Orders Exceeded Forecasts; Productivity Pace Slows

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
July factory orders rose the most in four months, exceeding forecasts, and productivity gains slowed last quarter, two government reports released yesterday showed. 
 In addition, more Americans filed first-time unemployment claims last week than at any time since mid-April, an unexpected jump that partly reflected the lingering effects of Hurricane Charley.
 Factory orders rose 1.3 percent in July, to $369.6 billion, after a revised 1.2 percent increase in June, according to the Commerce Department. Bookings for products other than transportation equipment rose 0.5 percent in July after rising 0.6 percent the month before. 
 Factory orders increased as rising profits gave companies the cash to replace aging equipment. Business spending on equipment and software accelerated in the second quarter. Unfilled orders accelerated in July, yesterday's report showed, suggesting that production will increase.
 Productivity, which measures the amount of work done by an employee in an hour, grew at a 2.5 percent annual rate from April through June, the slowest since late 2002 and less than the 3.7 percent rate in this year's first three months, the Labor Department said.
 The government previously estimated second-quarter productivity at 2.9 percent. Labor costs rose at a 1.8 percent annual rate, the fastest in two years. Productivity ebbed as the economy grew at a 2.8 percent annual rate in the second quarter, the slowest in more than a year.
 Companies may be approaching the limits of efficiency gains that they can wring out of their existing work forces, and economists forecast increased hiring in coming months. In the last two years, productivity exceeded 4 percent on average.
 ''The big gains in productivity were through savage cost-cutting, and much of that is behind us,'' said Josh Shapiro, chief United States economist at Maria Fiorini Ramirez in New York. ''It's telling that the firing side of the equation, at least, is calming down.''
 Labor costs rose in the second quarter by the most since a 2.3 percent rise in the second quarter of 2002, the productivity report said. Costs fell 0.3 percent in the 12 months that ended in June. Adjusted for inflation, compensation per hour was 1.3 percent higher in the second quarter than in the period three months last year, the smallest 12-month gain in a year.
 The Labor Department also reported that first-time applications for unemployment benefits rose last week by 19,000, to 362,000, topping the median forecast of 340,000 in a Bloomberg News poll.
 ''Despite their jump during the last two weeks, claims are still signaling better employment gains for August,'' said David Resler, chief economist at Nomura Securities in New York. 
 Floridians put out of work by Hurricane Charley accounted for about half of last week's increase in initial claims, a Labor Department spokesman said. While the hurricane raised initial claims in the last two weeks, it probably had little effect on the August employment data because the storm hit Aug. 13, after the Labor Department payroll survey was taken, economists said.
 The number of people continuing to collect state jobless benefits fell to 2.882 million in the week that ended Aug. 21, from 2.887 million the prior week. The four-week moving average of continuing claims fell to 2.887 million, from 2.892 million.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (94%); FACTORY ORDERS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); PRODUCTIVITY (92%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); HURRICANES (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); TROPICAL STORMS (72%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (69%) United States Economy; Factories and Industrial Plants; Labor; Unemployment Insurance

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2004



53 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1200 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-10

South Korea Admits Scientists Made Uranium
South Korea admitted that a group of its nuclear scientists secretly produced a small amount of near-weapons grade uranium, raising suspicions that the country may have attempted a secret weapons program, raising suspicions that the South may have attempted a secret program to counter North Korea's nuclear arsenal. A1

Ex-Malaysian Official Freed
The high court in Malaysia overturned the sodomy conviction of former Deputy Prime Minister Anwar Ibrahim and allowed him to walk free after serving six years in prison. The decision was the clearest sign yet of change Prime Minister Abdullah Badawi's landslide election victory. A3

Argentine Defendants Cleared
The trial of four Argentine police officers and a car thief, accused of providing the vehicle used in a deadly terrorist bomb attack on a Jewish community center in Buenos Aires 10 years ago, ended in the acquittal of all the defendants. A7

Palestinian Hunger Strike Fails
Palestinian prisoners in Israeli jails called off their hunger strike after 18 days, and while Palestinian officials tried to put on a brave face, there was little doubt that they had suffered a significant defeat. A Palestinian minister contended that talks had occurred, but officials of the Israeli prison authority insisted that no negotiations had taken place. A6

26 Russian Hostages Released
Fighters who seized a school in southern Russia released 26 hostages, all women and children, some of them only babies. Their release was the first sign that negotiators had made progress in their efforts to end the siege peacefully, but officials said the captors had since broken off the negotiations. A10

Negotiations in Iraq Faltering
Leaders of the Mahdi Army declared that they had been betrayed by the Iraqi prime minister, Ayad Allawi, who has been trying to lure away the militia's supporters with millions of dollars in government aid. A senior leader of the insurgent group said efforts to renew peace negotiations had failed, and raised the prospect of renewed fighting with American forces. A8

Closing arguments were heard in the court-martial of a U.S. Marine reservist who is being tried in connection with the death of an Iraqi prisoner and the beating of several others. If convicted, he will be the first American serviceman to be found guilty in connection with the death of an Iraqi detainee. A8

A new law banning Islamic headscarves and other religious symbols from French public schools took effect peacefully, transforming the first day of school into a nationwide show of defiance against the captors of two French hostages in Iraq who had demanded that the law be rescinded. A8

NATIONAL A12-16; P1-12

Bush Says Americans Face A Defining Moment
President Bush, in accepting the nomination of the Republican Party for a second term, said that the people of the United States have arrived at a defining moment in their history and that he wants to lead them in building ''a safer world and a more hopeful America.'' A1

Republicans ended their convention with optimism that they had framed the debate for the fall campaign around President Bush's strengths as a wartime president -- and that they had succeeded in raising significant doubts about Senator John Kerry. A1

Mr. Kerry called the president ''unfit to lead this nation'' for ''misleading'' America into war in Iraq, and he accused Mr. Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney of having avoided combat during the Vietnam War. P1

A state judge in Manhattan ordered the city to release more than 550 protestors who had been detained without seeing a judge after they were arrested at demonstrations against the Republican National Convention. P1

A crowd stretching five blocks chanted and roared outside Madison Square Garden in an area designated for protests that was out of view of the delegates, while thousands of others gathered a few miles south in Union Square Park. P8

Florida Braces Itself Again
Tens of thousands of Florida residents fled their homes as Hurricane Frances lurched closer and forecasters warned of potentially widespread flooding and destruction. A1

Terror Convictions Thrown Out
A federal judge threw out the terrorism convictions of two Arab immigrants, undoing what the Justice Department once proclaimed was its first major courtroom victory in the war on terror. A12

Source of F.B.I. Investigation
The investigation into whether a Pentagon analyst passed classified information to Israel began with a longstanding covert national security inquiry into the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, people who have been briefed on the matter said. A16

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

New York Health Survey Lacks Willing Participants
An ambitious effort by New York City to give physical exams and blood tests to more than 2,000 people has run into unexpected trouble getting residents to participate, especially in affluent areas. B1

A Deadline for McGreevey
Gov. James E. McGreevey of New Jersey needs only to remain in office until midnight tonight to outlast the state deadline that would automatically trigger a special election to choose his successor. B1

Road Over Dam Stays Closed
Andrew J. Spano, the Westchester County executive, said the road that runs over the Kensico Dam would be permanently closed to vehicles. He cited the potential for a catastrophic terrorist attack. B5

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Cats Vulnerable to Bird Flu
The avian influenza virus that has spread widely among poultry and birds in Southeast Asia has crossed another species barrier to infect cats, and can be spread among them, Dutch scientists have found. A14

WEEKEND E1-22; E23-30

SPORTSFRIDAY D1-7

An Upset at the U.S. Open
Anna Chakvetadze of Russia beat Anastasia Myskina, her nation's top player and the United States Open's fourth-seeded woman, 7-6 (3), 6-3, in a second-round match. D1

ESCAPES F1-10

OBITUARIES B7

Helen Lane
A versatile translator whose projects included works by many important Latin-American authors, she was 83. B7

BUSINESS DAY C1-9

Intel Lowers Its Forecast
Intel slashed its revenue and profit margin expectations for the third quarter, citing unexpectedly weak demand. The news caused share prices to tumble. C1

Shift in Airline Jobs
Low-fare airlines are thriving partly because they have avoided the path of the traditional airlines, which were once known for good pay, generous benefits and strong unions. C1

Yukos News Lifts Oil Prices
World oil prices rose after Russia's largest oil producer, Yukos, said a court ruling authorizing prosecutors to seize the bank accounts of the company's main production unit would paralyze operations. C1

Wet Seal Sales Falter
Wet Seal Inc., a chain of mall-based specialty stores aimed at teens, reported dismal sales figures. C1

European Rates Unchanged
The European Central Bank left its benchmark short-term interest rate unchanged at 2 percent, despite higher inflation forecasts. C5

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A18-19

Editorials: Mr. Bush's acceptance speech; denying the troops a secret ballot; decision time for Governor McGreevey.

Columns: Bob Herbert, Paul Krugman.

Crossword E2
TV Listings E21
Public Lives B2
Weather C10


GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HOSTAGE TAKING (90%); PRISONS (90%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); HOMICIDE (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (79%); ARMIES (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); MILITARY COURTS (76%); VERDICTS (76%); ACQUITTAL (76%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); SEX OFFENSES (76%); MILITARY OFFENSES (76%); JAIL SENTENCING (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (74%); VEHICLE THEFT (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); TERRORISM (73%); RELIGION IN SCHOOLS (73%); JEWS & JUDAISM (73%); RELIGION (73%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); BOMBINGS (68%); PEACE PROCESS (67%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (66%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (64%); ARMED FORCES (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); MALAYSIA (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); ISRAEL (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); ARGENTINA (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2004



54 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; JOURNEYS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1358 words

HEADLINE: 36 Hours New London, Conn.

BYLINE: By MAURA J. CASEY

 BODY:
SHIPS have been sailing into New London's deep harbor since 1646 -- schooners and packet ships, an English armada led by Benedict Arnold, nuclear submarines that glide silently up the Thames River, cresting the water like the backs of whales. The town helped shape Eugene O'Neill, who set two of his greatest plays at his family's New London cottage, and as tall ships visit and ferries disgorge cars and passengers from Long Island and Block Island, its salty flavor still feels real. New London's struggles are real, too, evidenced by some empty storefronts. But with huge pots of flowers bedecking lampposts and luxury apartments renting in once-neglected buildings, a new liveliness blends with breathtaking harbor vistas, glimpses of history and the enduring draw of the sea. MAURA J. CASEY

Friday

7 p.m.
1) Mariachi and Top 40
In the time-honored tradition of seaports around the world, New London attracts a population from far-flung parts of the world, and on State Street, you can choose from several national cuisines. Try Mexican, accompanied by the music of strolling mariachi bands, like pan-seared shrimp with chili butter sauce ($16) and cactus salad ($5.50) at Zavala (2 State Street, 860-437-1891). Later, check out the alternative rock bands and dance scene at Stash's Cafe (95 Pequot Avenue, 860-443-1095, cover charge $5 to $10).
 New London is on the Connecticut shore, with easy access from Interstate 95 at exit 83, midway between New York and Boston.
 The Lighthouse Inn and Resort (6 Guthrie Place, 860-443-8411) has 24 rooms in a carriage house and 27 rooms and suites in the mansion. Six suites have water views. Weekend rates in September and October are $189 to $349 a night.
 The Queen Anne Inn Bed and Breakfast (265 Williams Street, 800-347-8818) is in a 1903 Victorian house eight blocks from the waterfront. Its eight rooms start at $115.
 The Radisson Hotel in downtown New London (35 Governor Winthrop Boulevard, 860-443-7000) has 120 rooms and suites starting at $109.


Saturday

9 a.m.
2) Breakfast With Cannons
Sniff the flowers as you order sticky buns, scones and your caffeine of choice at the Thames River Greenery/Beanery (70 State Street, 860-443-6817), a combination flower shop and coffee bar. Pause at an outside table to watch for ships cruising down below past the Union Railroad Station, which was designed by H. H. Richardson, and listen for Amtrak trains whistling their way through it. Then take your repast to Fort Trumbull State Park (9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Wednesday to Sunday, 90 Walbach Street; 860-444-7591), a massive 19th-century fortification with jaw-dropping views of the Thames (New World pronunciation: thaymes) and Long Island Sound. There are few prettier places for a picnic and few more pleasant ways to get a sense of New London's history and strategic location than by strolling around the fort, now a state park, inspecting the cannons and ramparts.

Noon
3) Choose Your Asia
Bangkok City and Little Tokyo (860-442-6970 and 860-447-2388) offer Thai and Japanese cuisine under the same roof at 123 and 131 State Street. Thai lunches for $5.50 to $6.50 include sauteed meats and soup. For a Japanese lunch, try the yakitori bento with skewered teriyaki chicken and California rolls for $7.95.

1 p.m.
4) Ah, Dramatists
When Eugene O'Neill wrote his detailed set directions for ''Long Day's Journey Into Night'' and ''Ah, Wilderness!,'' he was recreating the living room and surroundings of Monte Cristo Cottage (325 Pequot Avenue, 860-443-0051), the summer home his family owned from 1884 to 1921, down to the wood of the writing desk and the wicker chairs. This cottage, where the O'Neills loved, suffered and laughed as the characters do in these autobiographical plays, looks much as it did onstage. Though the current owner, the Eugene O'Neill Theater Center in nearby Waterford, has suspended regular tours during a renovation, you can still step inside the world of the plays by calling to make an appointment at 860-443-5378, extension 213 (ask to speak to Sara Qua). The house will also be open for readings from O'Neill's plays on his birthday, Oct. 16, and in the winter, after the renovations have been completed.

2:30 p.m.
5) Art and Custom
Small, distinctive galleries dot the downtown area, all within a 10-minute walk. The Alva Gallery (54 State Street, 860-437-8664) has contemporary work; the Empress of Art Gallery and Boutique (66 Bank Street, 860-447-9170), blown glass, stained glass and jewelry; Yah-Ta-Hey Gallery (279 State Street, 860-443-3204), Native American art. Hygienic Art (81 Bank Street, 860-447-3240), above, is a residential art cooperative with rotating exhibits. Switch from art to history at the U.S. Custom House and Maritime Society Museum (150 Bank Street, 860-447-2501), in a building that is also the oldest operating customs house in the United States. An 1833 jewel designed by Robert Mills, the designer of the Washinton Monument, it has vaulted ceilings and a flying staircase, and two doors made of wood taken from Old Ironsides, the storied battleship U.S.S. Constitution. (When the ship, commissioned in 1797, was being refurbished in the 1830's, some of its original wood was offered to public buildings.) The exhibits include ships' logs from the 1700's and artifacts from the whaling industry that was New London's economic base in the early 1800's. The exhibit ''Amistad: Voyage to Freedom'' tells the story of the escaped slaves who commandeered the schooner Amistad in 1839. (Tuesday through Sunday, 1 p.m. to 5 p.m.; adults $5, students $3, 12 and under free.)

5 p.m.
6) A Drink With Eugene
O'Neill played on the New London waterfront as a boy and drank there as an adult. To follow in his footsteps, first look over the bronze statue at the foot of State Street based on a picture of him at age 7, sitting on the banks of the Thames River, and then take a seat at the Dutch Tavern (23 Green Street, 860-442-3453), legendary as the only remaining New London watering hole that he frequented. The owners, Peter Detmold and Martha Conn, are proud that the place, with its tin ceiling and century-old tables, still looks largely as it did in O'Neill's day. This is a basic bar, small and no-frills, but it serves a good $2.35 cheeseburger, a $3 cheese steak and a variety of ales and nonalcoholic drinks. It has been the setting for readings of O'Neill plays, among them, appropriately, ''The Iceman Cometh.''

6:30 p.m.
7) Lobster in the Rough
A little difficult to find, but worth the persistence, is Captain Scott's Lobster Dock (80 Hamilton Street, 860-439-1741). It's off Howard Street, nestled between railroad tracks and a sheltered marina. It's open until mid-October. For $11.95, try the lobster roll, served cold or hot with drawn butter drizzled over chunks of lobster, and for an extra $1.50, the red potatoes. On some Saturdays, there's after-dinner activity -- a summer film festival, music, ballet or plays -- at the Garde Arts Center (325 State Street, 860-444-7373; www.gardearts.org).

Sunday

9 a.m.
8) Wake Up on the Boardwalk
A great place for a morning walk or a brisk swim is Ocean Beach Park (off Ocean Avenue), established after homes in the area were wiped out by the Great Hurricane of 1938. The park has a wide, sandy beach with a half-mile-long boardwalk, a water slide, several restaurants, an Olympic-size swimming pool and, on clear days, sparkling views of Long Island and Fishers Island, N.Y. ($5 for adults, $3 for children 16 and under, or a $13 parking charge on weekends including admission for everyone in the car; $9 a car on weekdays and free after Labor Day).

11 a.m.
9) Under the Chandeliers
Sample Champagne and a buffet brunch in the Victorian dining room, with hand-carved chandeliers and fireplaces, at the Lighthouse Inn and Resort (6 Guthrie Place, 860-443-8411). The inn, in a mansion built around 1902 for the steel magnate Charles S. Guthrie, is the only location in Connecticut listed by the National Trust for Historic Preservation as a Historic Hotel of America. If it's a warm day, head out to the patio overlooking the Sound after brunch (adults, $23.95; children under 12, $9.95).

THE BASICS
Visiting New London

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photographs by George Ruhe for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Steven Shukow for The New York Times)Map of New London, Connecticut.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARINE VESSELS (90%); RESTAURANTS (87%); FERRIES (79%); NAVAL VESSELS (79%); MARINE MAMMALS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); SAILING (78%); RIVERS (77%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (76%); TRAINS (76%); FLORISTS (74%); BED & BREAKFAST INNS (74%); HARBORS & PORTS (73%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (73%); STATE PARKS (72%); POP & ROCK (71%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (71%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (71%); RETAILERS (70%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (60%) Travel and Vacations

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (68%); NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (50%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (50%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (50%)

PERSON: Maura Casey

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW LONDON, CT, USA (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) New London (Conn); Connecticut 

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2004



55 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 974 words

HEADLINE: Malaysian High Court Voids Conviction of Ex-Deputy Premier

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

DATELINE: SINGAPORE, Sept. 2 

 BODY:
The high court in Malaysia overturned the sodomy conviction of former Deputy Prime Minister Anwar Ibrahim on Thursday and allowed him to go free after serving six years in prison.
 The decision, which took many Malaysians and officials in surrounding countries by surprise, was the clearest sign yet of a new era since Prime Minister Abdullah Badawi's election victory six months ago.
 Mr. Anwar, who attended the court session on Thursday in a wheelchair and a neck brace because of a serious back condition, was abruptly fired in 1998 by the Malaysian leader at the time, Mahathir Mohamad, over differences about how to handle the Asian financial crisis. 
 Soon afterward, Mr. Anwar was arrested, tried and convicted on sodomy and corruption charges in what the deputy prime minister's supporters interpreted as personal revenge by Dr. Mahathir against the man who was his likely successor.
 Mr. Anwar, 57, emerged Thursday morning from the courtroom in Putrajaya, the Malaysian administrative capital, with a shout of ''Reformasi!'' the rallying cry of the demonstrators who supported him against Dr. Mahathir in 1998.
 ''Thank God it's over,'' Mr. Anwar said. ''I have to give credit to the new prime minister for not interfering with judiciary. I appeal to Prime Minister Abdullah Badawi to make the necessary reforms.''
 Surrounded by several hundred supporters, Mr. Anwar then went to his father's home. He planned to apply for a new passport on Friday so he could go to Germany for surgery, according to his lawyer, Sankara Nair. 
 Mr. Anwar's health is ''very bad,'' because of a back condition that has put his ''spine in jeopardy,'' Mr. Nair said. 
 After losing two earlier appeals, Mr. Anwar's legal team argued the appeal before the federal high court in April, Mr. Nair said. ''This was the final appeal,'' he said.
 A leading Malaysian newspaper columnist, Karim Raslan, said the ruling on Thursday represented the end of what had been a nightmare on the Malaysian political conscience. ''A lot of people were deeply disturbed by the treatment of Anwar,'' Mr. Raslan said. He added that Mr. Abdullah had shown professionalism by allowing the court to make its decision without interference.
 The decision, by a three-judge panel, was welcomed by the United States. ''It was gratifying to see that justice has now been served,'' the United States Embassy said in a statement.
 Mr. Anwar began serving a nine-year sentence on sodomy charges in 2000. His six-year sentence on corruption charges ended last year after he was given one-year reduction for good behavior.
 Mr. Anwar's arrest in 1998 soured relations between the Clinton administration and Malaysia, especially after Vice President Al Gore rebuked Dr. Mahathir and championed the cause of the former deputy prime minister and his supporters.
 At a meeting of Pacific Rim leaders in Kuala Lumpur in 1998, Mr. Gore said Malaysia needed more reforms like those proposed by Mr. Anwar, who at the time was on trial.
 For that censure and for other reasons, Dr. Mahathir maintained a solid wall of criticism against the United States until his retirement last October after 22 years in office. 
 Mr. Abdullah, who took over as prime minister last November and then won his own electoral mandate in March, patched up relations with a visit to Washington this summer. He told President Bush that he would be prepared to send a team of Malaysian medics to Iraq.
 Soon after Mr. Anwar was freed Thursday, Mr. Abdullah said the court's ruling had been made purely on legal merits. ''Those who want to rejoice or whatever they want to do must also understand the law,'' he said.
 While few could challenge the prime minister's statement that the court ruling had not been influenced by politics, the sudden release of Mr. Anwar buoyed the Malaysian stock market. Analysts said the release would reverberate well among foreign investors.
 In their ruling, the appellate judges decided 2 to 1 that the evidence used to convict Mr. Anwar of sodomy was unreliable. The prosecution's chief witness, Azizan Abu Bakar, a driver for Mr. Anwar's wife, changed the dates on which he alleged that Mr. Anwar had committed sexual acts with him.
 ''We don't think it is safe to convict based on his evidence alone,'' Judge Abdul Hamid said of the driver's testimony. ''We are not prepared to uphold the conviction.''
 The question uppermost in many minds in Kuala Lumpur, the official capital, on Thursday was whether Mr. Anwar, who is considered a canny politician, could still make a comeback in opposition to the governing party. His arrest and his sentencing set off demonstrations against the Mahathir government. 
 His lawyer, Mr. Nair, said he expected that Mr. Anwar would want to rest after his operation before deciding on his future.
 Prime Minister Abdullah built on his election victory by encouraging an opening of the economy and calling on Malaysians to show the world that their country could show a moderate face of Islam.
 Although he is viewed as a consensus politician, many supporters of the governing party remember that it was Mr. Abdullah who, as Dr. Mahathir's foreign minister, criticized Mr. Gore for what he called interference in Malaysia's domestic affairs.
 Whatever policy differences may have existed between Mr. Abdullah and Mr. Anwar then, they are likely to be much more muted now. Noordin Sopiee, chairman of the Institute for Strategic and International Studies in Kuala Lumpur, said it would probably be difficult for Mr. Anwar to make a comeback.
 ''Politics in Malaysia is merciless,'' he said. ''Once you're out of circulation you can't make a comeback.''
 Dr. Mahathir remained defiant. 
 ''My conscience is clear,'' the former prime minister said after the court's announcement. ''As far as I am concerned, I'm convinced that what I know is right. I still believe he is guilty.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Anwar Ibrahim, center, with supporters after his conviction on sodomy charges was overturned yesterday. (Photo by Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (93%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); APPEALS (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); SEX OFFENSES (90%); BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (89%); SENTENCING (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (85%); POLITICS (78%); VERDICTS (78%); LAWYERS (75%); CORRUPTION (74%); ARRESTS (74%); JUDGES (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (69%); RIOTS (67%); WRITERS (61%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%) Politics and Government; Decisions and Verdicts; Freedom and Human Rights; Demonstrations and Riots; United States International Relations

PERSON: AL GORE (56%) Jane Perlez; Anwar Ibrahim; Abdullah Badawi (Prime Min); Mahathir Mohamad (Prime Min)

GEOGRAPHIC: MALAYSIA (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); SINGAPORE (79%); GERMANY (79%) Malaysia; Malaysia

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2004



56 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: Spain Looks to Sell More Than Its Sand and Sun

BYLINE: By RENWICK McLEAN

DATELINE: MADRID, Sept. 2 

 BODY:
With hotels reporting some 40 percent of their rooms unoccupied this season, and, for a second summer, many rooms empty even in the hotels that line Spain's fabled beaches, government and industry officials say it is time to scrap the recipe that has built the country into the world's most popular tourist destination after France.
 ''The model of beaches and sun has been exhausted,'' a spokeswoman for the Ministry of Industry, Tourism and Commerce said. ''We need to look at alternatives,'' she said, adding that when government officials return from vacation in September, the ministry will begin exploring ways to promote Spain's cultural, historical and architectural sites, as well as its food and restaurants. The spokeswoman said ministry policy prevented her from being quoted by name. 
 One uniquely Spanish event, the running of the bulls in Pamplona, draws thousands of tourists every year, Americans in particular. Bullfights, which are drawing protests from animal rights groups, are unlikely to be promoted. 
 There are many alternatives, however. Spain has nearly 40 entries in the United Nations' list of the world's major cultural and natural landmarks, more than any other country except Italy. These include the Roman aqueducts in Segovia, the Moorish fortress Alhambra in Granada, the medieval walled city of Avila, and the Gothic cathedral in Burgos. 
 Madrid has three of the world's premier art museums within a half-mile stretch -- the Prado Museum, with collections that include paintings by Goya and Velazquez; the Reina Sofia Museum, with the works of Picasso and Joan Miro; and the Thyssen-Bornemisza Museum, with exhibitions that span six centuries of Western art. 
 Tourism accounts for 12 percent of Spain's $890 billion gross domestic product and supports 10 percent of the work force, according to government figures. Spain draws more than 50 million foreign tourists a year, more than any other nation except France, according to the World Tourism Organization.
 But more than 60 percent of hotels on the coasts expect summer sales to drop this year, according to Exceltur, an association of Spanish tourism companies. Government figures from June, the latest available, show that foreign visits to Spanish hotels were down 4.6 percent compared with June 2003. And last summer, the number of tourists coming to Spain fell nearly 3 percent, to about 24.5 million, according to the tourism ministry. 
 ''In some cases it's a tragedy, because some hotels get 80 percent of their business in the summer,'' said Domingo Lujan, general manager of the Hotel Spa Porta Maris in Alicante, on the southeastern coast. 
 Many industry executives have been encouraging the tourism ministry for years to broaden the focus of its promotions to include more than beaches, and the ministry's spokeswoman agreed that ''Spain has many advantages that have not yet been exploited.'' 
 But others are fearful of any shift of emphasis. ''The beach is fundamental to Spain,'' said Rafael Villegas, the chief of reservations at the Hotel Balcon de Europa in Nerja on the southeastern coast. ''Other forms of tourism are important,'' he said, but ''the reason people come here is because we offer the sun.''
 Government officials say that the shift does not mean they will abandon the coasts, and they expect the beaches to remain the most important tourist draw. But they say that the only way to keep the industry growing is to promote other attractions as well.
 It is not clear how much money the government is willing to spend to bolster tourism. So far, it has talked only vaguely of new marketing campaigns and efforts to help the industry evolve toward higher-end tourism that would bring in more money per visitor. 
 Some hotels, like Mr. Lujan's spa, are already adapting by marketing themselves to business clients or clients who want the beach to be only part of their vacation. 
 Critics of any shift away from a promotional focus on the beaches say that two summers of declines hardly constitute a crisis. Also, they point out that tourism in Spain's low seasons has been on the rise, helping to offset the summertime drops. And tourism by Spaniards within Spain remains strong, thanks in large part to the solid economy. This has helped offset the summertime drops in foreign tourists.
 Still, government and other industry executives say that the summertime declines indicate that the core of Spain's tourism business has hit a ceiling. 
 Part of the drop results from high gasoline prices and stagnant economies in countries like Germany, a major source of Spanish tourism, they say, but the far more important reason is that there are powerful new competitors -- countries where the costs of doing business are much lower than in Spain -- like Bulgaria, Croatia, Tunisia and Turkey. 
 Formerly these countries were seen by many Westerners as politically unstable, said Mr. Lujan, the manager of the spa in Alicante. ''Now they are more stable, and they are back.''
 ''Countries on the Adriatic Sea, like Croatia, offer sunshine and very low prices,'' the spokeswoman for the tourism ministry said. ''Spain cannot compete with them by lowering prices'' for beach holidays, so in September ministry officials will begin meeting with industry executives to map out a strategy to promote its cultural and historical attractions. 
 Making matters worse, Spain's loss of business has occurred just as the hotel industry has increased its supply of rooms by the thousands. As a result, vacancy rates have jumped. 
 Some hotel executives began noticing the changes in the market years ago, and have begun adapting. 
 Mr. Lujan's hotel, for example, offers not only access to the beach, but also conference facilities, exercise equipment and extensive spa services.
 ''When we founded the hotel in 2002,'' he said, ''we were looking for an alternative.'' Business at his hotel over the last two months is down about 5 percent from last year, Mr. Lujan said, but since his hotel draws guests all year long, he said the impact would be manageable.
 But for hotels that rely primarily on the allure of the beach, a drop in guests during the summer poses a serious threat, because the business cannot be made up during the rest of year, he said.
 ''You can't recover the lost revenue,'' he said. ''An empty bed is gone forever.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The beaches last month in Girona, Spain. Hotels have reported high vacancy rates for a second year. (Photo by Xabier Mikel Laburu/Bloomberg News)(pg. W1)
 Industry executives have encouraged Spain's tourism ministry to broaden the focus of promotions. (Photo by Santi Burgos/Bloomberg News)(pg. W7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (89%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); BEACHES (89%); TOURISM (89%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); LEISURE TRAVEL (76%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (76%); HISTORIC SITES (76%); HOTEL STAFF (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (72%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (72%); PAINTING (69%); SALES PROJECTIONS (66%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (64%); EXECUTIVES (60%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (53%) Travel and Vacations; Advertising and Marketing; Culture; History; Architecture; Food; Restaurants; Hotels and Motels; Beaches

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: Renwick Mclean

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (92%) NAVARRE, SPAIN (79%); CATALONIA, SPAIN (79%) SPAIN (99%); UNITED STATES (79%) Spain

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2004



57 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 100 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Asia: Malaysia: Exports Surge

BYLINE: Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Malaysia's exports rose unexpectedly in July, helped by increased sales of computer chips and other electrical and electronics goods in Asia, Europe and the United States. 
Exports rose 29 percent from a year earlier, to 42.63 billion ringgit ($11 billion), the fastest rate in seven months, the trade ministry said. The rate was up from 23 percent in June. Imports rose 25.8 percent in July from a year ago, to 35.03 billion ringgit, giving Malaysia a trade surplus of 7.6 billion ringgit, up 47 percent from the period a year ago. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (93%); IMPORT TRADE (88%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (86%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (86%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (86%); TRENDS (86%); COMPUTER CHIPS (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) International Trade and World Market; Economic Conditions and Trends

GEOGRAPHIC: MALAYSIA (95%); ASIA (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (87%) Malaysia

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2004



58 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2008 words

HEADLINE: Coffee, Tea or Job? For Airline Workers, An Uncertain Future

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD

 BODY:
For decades, an airline job was a coveted plum. Good pay, generous benefits, strong unions and the glamour of air travel made pilots, flight attendants, mechanics and even baggage handlers the envy of their neighbors. 
 Now there are two airline industries, one that created those attractive jobs but can no longer afford them, and another that is thriving in large part because it has avoided creating them. Struggling traditional airlines like United, Delta and US Airways have laid off tens of thousands of employees and told the rest that they must absorb round after round of salary and benefit cuts to keep flying. At the healthier low-fare carriers like Southwest and JetBlue, the pay is much lower and the benefits are skimpier, but a good year can yield a big bonus at the end.
 Plenty of people still want the work: JetBlue says it gets 120,000 resumes a year, or more than 50 for each opening it fills. But for industry veterans, a grim reality is sinking in: the golden age has passed. 
 Fresh out of Queens College in 1977, Richard Chu could not find a job that made use of his teaching degree, so he hired on at United Airlines as a ramp worker, loading and fueling planes at Kennedy Airport and de-icing them in the winter. Though it was blue-collar work, it was a gem of a job to Mr. Chu. The starting pay was $6,000 more a year than he could hope for from teaching, and that, coupled with ample benefits and free travel, was enough to let his wife, Theresa, stay home and raise their children.
 But that was then. Badly hurt by the slump in air travel after the Sept. 11 terror attacks, United filed for bankruptcy in 2002. Mr. Chu's base pay was cut by 13 percent, to $21.96 an hour; his health care premiums jumped; and, worst of all, his nest egg of $150,000 in United stock, bought over the years, was wiped out. 
 Now Mr. Chu, a union official, is working every overtime shift he can snag, Mrs. Chu has taken a job as a hospital receptionist and the family budget is still strained. ''It saddens me to see what this job has become,'' Mr. Chu said in an interview this week. 
 For all that, Mr. Chu is luckier than some. Since 2000, when industry employment peaked at just over 600,000 workers, the major airlines have eliminated 110,000 jobs. Most of the layoffs came just after the terror attacks, but the major airlines have kept cutting even though air traffic has rebounded to near the levels of 2001. Every major company is now on a drive to reduce costs, eliminating or threatening many of their employees' most treasured benefits, including pension plans and free travel.
 The low-fare carriers that the older airlines once sneered at have, meanwhile, grabbed a quarter of the nation's passenger traffic as more travelers shop for the lowest fares and fewer seem willing to pay extra for premium service or a familiar brand name. 
 The savings for travelers have been huge, especially on cross-country flights. The average one-way fare from New York to San Francisco has fallen by more than half in the last four years, from $472.85 in the first quarter of 2000 to $209.73 in the first quarter of this year, according to Back Aviation Solutions, an industry consulting firm. Over that time, JetBlue's market share on the route has grown to 23 percent from nothing, while that of United, the market leader, has fallen to 24 percent from 41 percent in 2000.
 ''When you become a commodity industry, as steel and autos and airlines have done, then you have a lot of destructive competition,'' said Robert W. Mann, an industry consultant based in Port Washington, N.Y. ''It gets worse when you introduce a whole new style of competitor who isn't burdened by legacy costs.''
 The low-fare carriers are where the growth is, and they have hired thousands of pilots, flight attendants and other workers in recent years. Paradoxically, because their companies are financially healthy, the nonunion workers at the discount carriers are more secure in their jobs these days than the union members at teetering major carriers like US Airways. And the new carriers have no trouble recruiting.
 Southwest Airlines, the granddaddy of the new carriers, has seen a 30 percent surge in job applications this year, which it credits to the popular reality television program ''Airline.'' The show features Southwest employees dealing with all kinds of passenger problems. Linda Rutherford, the airline's director of public relations, said that resumes pour in to the airline's Web site at triple the usual rate on Tuesday nights after the program is broadcast.
 The applicants at the low-fare carriers tend not to be current or former airline workers. Vincent Stabile, JetBlue's vice president for human resources, said the airline was willing to consider anyone who had experience dealing with the public, and has received resumes from police officers, firefighters, nurses and teachers. Only about half the people it hires have airline experience, Mr. Stabile said, and most of those are pilots and aircraft technicians.
 Notably, JetBlue has no unions and likes it that way. While organized labor ''certainly has a very meaningful purpose,'' Mr. Stabile said, ''we like to have an environment where people feel they don't need to go through anybody else to get what they need and want.''
 ''If we fail at that, we get what we deserve,'' he added.
 For the unionized veterans of the older airlines, getting what they feel they deserve is fast becoming a losing proposition. 
 Mr. Chu, who turns 50 next month, needs to work five more years before he will be eligible to retire from United with a full pension. But the pension plan may be gone by then, at least in its present form. Struggling to cut costs and emerge from bankruptcy, United has stopped putting money into its four traditional retirement plans and has said it is likely to terminate them and create 401(k) savings plans in their place. If so, Mr. Chu's pension benefits will be greatly reduced. 
 This week, the airline also said it was planning further cost-cutting moves that could lead to the elimination of thousands more jobs.
 One of Mr. Chu's most prized perks is already gone. He and his family used to be able to fly free on United. Now he must pay service fees of $110 a person to take his wife and children to California to visit his relatives, Mr. Chu said.
 William B. Wise, 44, a US Airways mechanic, can still fly free, when he can find an available seat on one of the airline's crowded planes. But he, too, faces a shaky future. After two rounds of pay and benefit cuts while the airline was in bankruptcy last year, US Airways is pushing its unions to accept $800 million more in cuts. According to Christopher L. Chiames, US Airways' senior vice president for corporate affairs, the airline is trying an ''extreme makeover,'' from a traditional airline into a low-fare carrier. But if it cannot get an agreement on the cuts by the end of September, US Airways said it was likely to file for Chapter 11 protection again, and its chairman, David G. Bronner, has warned that that could quickly turn into a liquidation of the airline. 
 Mr. Wise, who is president of the machinists' union local in Charlotte, N.C., called the mood among workers ''one of dismay.'' He said the workers had already given enough, and he supported his union's refusal to reopen its contract with US Airways.
 ''I don't think anyone wants to draw a line in the sand and say, 'I dare you to cross it,' just to see what happens,'' he said. But ''bottom line, I don't believe that any amount of concessions'' will be the answer to the airline's problems, he said.
 Mr. Chiames, the US Airways executive, said the union's stance ignored the reality of the marketplace. ''Nobody buying a ticket today says, 'They have a really nice health care plan for their employees, I'll pay $50 extra,''' Mr. Chiames said.
 Others in the industry agree that US Airways has little choice but to try to cut its costs to match its low-fare rivals, whether employees like it or not. ''It's a bet-the-company risk, but that risk has to be taken,'' Southwest's chief executive, Gary C. Kelly, said in an interview this week. ''The future in the airline industry, without a doubt, is low fares, and the only way to survive and charge a low fare is to have a low cost structure.'' 
 Mr. Mann, the industry consultant, concurred. ''There's blood in the water,'' he said, ''and the sharks are not just circling, they're coming in for big bites.'' 
 US Airways and United are not the only carriers whose employees are suffering. Next week, Delta Air Lines is expected to disclose the first steps in its long-awaited restructuring plan, which it has already warned will include layoffs. Continental said on Thursday that it would cut 425 management jobs as part of an effort to save $200 million a year.
 Northwest is talking to its unions about $900 million in wage and benefit cuts, and American, which won concessions from its workers last year by threatening to file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy, has kept up the pressure on costs. Yesterday, American said it would join Northwest in charging customers a $5 fee to book a ticket over the phone and $10 to buy one at the airport counter, in part to encourage them to book over the Internet, sparing it some customer-service costs. 
 All those moves make the situation at JetBlue seem positively delightful, even though the starting salaries there are half of what the major airlines pay, or less. 
 JetBlue flight attendants start at about $25 an hour, mechanics at $26 an hour, and pilots at $108 an hour, Mr. Stabile of JetBlue said. Even after two rounds of cuts, the average US Airways flight attendant earns $39.95 an hour, mechanics about $28 and pilots $134 an hour, according to the airline.
 Pay levels like those are ''why you've got so many airlines in bankruptcy or facing bankruptcy right now,'' Mr. Stabile said.
 But base pay is not the whole picture. At JetBlue, Mr. Stabile said, employees have many opportunities to supplement their pay by working extra hours or taking on some supervisory tasks. But most of all, they take part in a profit-sharing program. The average JetBlue worker got a payout equivalent to seven weeks' pay in 2000 and 2001, eight weeks in 2002 and almost nine weeks last year. These days, there are no profits to share at the traditional airlines. 
 Southwest also has a profit-sharing plan, and most workers there, except for administrative staff, are unionized, notably the flight attendants, who won a 6 percent raise in June after two years of contentious talks. 
 Mr. Kelly of Southwest said the most important factor for the airline was not pay but productivity. Unlike the traditional carriers, Southwest expects its flight attendants to help clean its airplanes, and pays them by the number of trips they make, not for time spent waiting around the airport. 
 But even Southwest has had its employment ups and downs. Earlier this year, it offered buyouts to all its 32,394 full-time employees, and about 1,000 workers took them. While it is now hiring new pilots to fly aircraft it is adding to its fleet, Mr. Kelly said, Southwest will fill the flight attendant jobs on those planes from inside the company, meaning that the person who checked you in last month may be serving you a beverage on some future flight.
 Jan K. Brueckner, professor of economics at the University of Illinois, said the only way that airlines could hope to survive and prosper in the low-fare era was to push costs down and keep them down. The current overhaul of employee compensation is the final stage of the deregulation of the industry, which has taken 26 years to filter down to the workers.
 ''It's a paroxysm of adjustment, where we're trying to get the price of labor in line with the selling price of the product,'' Professor Brueckner said.
 For his part, Mr. Chu said he would be happy if he and his job both make it to 2009. Exhausted from his recent travails, he said he had no plans for a second career after United: ''Right now, I just want to retire.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: In the 1960's, air travel was still a relatively exotic and luxurious mode of travel and those who worked for the industry, like the American Airlines flight attendant above, were well paid and their jobs highly prized. Now, stiff competition for customers and stringent cost-cutting make the jobs at older airline companies more risky than glamorous. (Photo by Tim Boyle/Getty Images)
(Photo by Associated Press)
Financial problems at United Airlines have cost Richard Chu, a ramp worker and machinists' union official, his nest egg, part of his salary and some of his company benefits. He hopes that his job will last until his retirement in five years. (Photo by Phil Marino for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 While older airlines struggle, low-cost ones keep coming. In June, Independence Air, a former partner of United, introduced service from Washington to five United States cities for fares as low as $49 one way. (Photo by Alex Wong/Getty Images)(pg. C2)Chart:As the fortunes of the major airlines have declined, employees have made concessions like accepting lower wages.AVERAGE HOURLY RATES FOR UNITED EMPLOYEES, 2002 AND 2004Flight Attendant*$45.0240.97Lead Mechanic30.4627.30Customer Service24.2921.45Ticket Agent23.4520.71Ramp Worker23.3920.66*domestic flights(Source by United States Bankruptcy Court)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (91%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); AIR FARES (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (86%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (78%); OVERTIME (78%); BAGGAGE HANDLING (77%); JOB CREATION (73%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (73%); BUDGETS (70%); TERRORISM (68%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (68%); INTERVIEWS (66%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (63%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (62%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (50%) Airlines and Airplanes; Labor; Wages and Salaries; Fringe Benefits; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Airlines and Airplanes; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Givebacks (Collective Bargaining)

COMPANY: JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (91%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (91%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: United Airlines; Delta Air Lines; US Airways; Southwest Airlines; Jetblue Airways

TICKER: JBLU (NASDAQ) (91%); LCC (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%)

PERSON: Micheline Maynard

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2004



59 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 676 words

HEADLINE: Investors Ignore Mixed Data To Focus on Next Job Report

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Stocks moved higher in a late-session buying surge yesterday, as oil prices stepped back from their highs and investors shrugged off mixed economic data, focusing with renewed optimism on the government's upcoming jobs report. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 121.82 points, or 1.2 percent, to 10,290.28, its highest point in seven weeks. Broader gauges also rose sharply. The Nasdaq composite index added 23.02 points, or 1.2 percent, to 1,873.43. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gained 12.40 points, or 1.1 percent, to 1,118.31. The sprint sent the S.&P. 500 back into positive range for the year, up 0.6 percent since the start of 2004. 
 Trading has been muted all week because of the Republican National Convention in New York and the upcoming Labor Day holiday. Investors were also looking ahead to an after-the-bell outlook from the chip maker Intel -- which was gloomy, as expected -- and employment data scheduled to be announced today.
 In economic news, worker productivity rose a disappointing 2.5 percent in the spring, the smallest gain since late 2002. In a second report, the department said the number of new people signing up for unemployment benefits rose for the second week in a row, reflecting the lingering impact of Hurricane Charley. Separately, the Commerce Department said orders to factories grew by 1.3 percent in July, following a 1.2 percent advance in June. 
 Crude oil prices climbed after Russia's largest oil producer, Yukos, warned of a possible production halt after a decision by a Moscow court to freeze its assets as part of a battle over back taxes. Light sweet crude for October delivery closed up 6 cents at $44.06. That the market was up in spite of several negative factors was cause for optimism, analysts said, and perhaps a sign that investors were setting aside some of the worries that kept them on the sidelines during the summer. It was almost as if the sellers were ''getting a bit tired,'' said Bill Groenveld, head trader for vFinance Investments.
 There was not much encouragement for the high-technology sector in Intel's financial outlook, issued after the close of regular trading. The company, a chip bellwether, rose 20 cents to close at $21.63 on the Nasdaq before the release, then sank in extended trading after saying third-quarter revenue was likely to fall in the low end of its previous forecast.
 The nation's retailers reported weak sales, as low- to middle-income shoppers became more frugal in response to rising energy and grocery bills and growing worries about the job market.
 Wal-Mart Stores, the world's largest retailer, was up 39 cents at $53.02 despite reporting a slim 0.5 percent increase in sales, missing Wall Street forecasts. Based on disappointing sales, Wal-Mart said it now believed that its third-quarter profits would be at the low end of its forecast.
 Costco Wholesale was down 42 cents at $40.41 after reporting a 4 percent gain in sales, missing estimates of a 7.3 percent rise.
 Advancing issues outnumbered decliners nearly 3 to 1 on the New York Stock Exchange. Preliminary volume came to 1.11 billion shares, compared with 1.14 billion traded Wednesday.

	 	 		--------------------	 	

Treasury Prices Fall
(By Reuters)
 Treasury debt prices retreated yesterday as investors worried that a robust jobs report for August could send bonds lower.
 The government payrolls data is to be released today, and traders are concerned that a recent run-up in bond prices that took yields to five-month lows could reverse sharply if the job figures prove strong.
 By late in the day, the price of the benchmark 10-year note fell 25/32 to 100 9/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, rose to 4.21 percent, from 4.12 percent on Wednesday.
 Here are the results of yesterday's auction of 12-day cash management bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.951
Investment Rate: 1.491
High Rate: 1.460
Low Rate: 1.420
Median Rate: 1.455
Total applied for: $37,380,120
Accepted: $16,000,420
Noncompetitive: $120

The 12-day cash management bills mature Sept. 15, 2004.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)Chart: ''Freddie Mac Yields''Average for some Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. securities, plotted weekly.Graph tracks average for some Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. securities, plotted weekly, from May to August.30-year: 5.27%15-year: 4.65%(Source by F.H.L.M.C.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); RETAILERS (83%); ELECTRONICS (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); BONDS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); HURRICANES (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); US LABOR DAY (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); MICROPROCESSORS (72%); COMPUTER CHIPS (72%); PRODUCTIVITY (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (72%); COMPANY REVENUES (67%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (66%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (54%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (54%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (84%); OAO NK YUKOS (54%); WAL-MART STORES INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (84%); WMT (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (54%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (50%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (54%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (54%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2004



60 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; THE REPUBLICANS: THE CONVENTION IN NEW YORK -- NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1218 words

HEADLINE: Bold Strokes, Few Details

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

 BODY:
For a nation divided over his stewardship, distressed about the economy and dubious about the war with Iraq, President Bush had one overriding message last night: He's still the one.
 Still the caring ''compassionate conservative'' voters met and liked four years ago, still the strong steward who has led them through tumultuous times of terrorism and war, still the man they can trust to face the problems of a second term -- abroad, and at home.
 But he offered few critical details of the second-term domestic agenda he outlined. His big policy ideas -- restraining government spending, simplifying the tax code, offering tax credits for health savings accounts, allowing personal investment accounts for Social Security -- were vague. And the specific proposals he cited -- increasing money for community colleges, opening rural health centers -- were mostly small. 
 Mr. Bush spoke confidently but saved his passion for national security issues, and sounded a tone of defiance at critics of his decision to invade Iraq, telling the roaring, flag-waving delegates that when faced with foreign threats, ''I will defend America every time.'' 
 And while he conceded in unusually personal terms that ''some folks look at me and see a certain swagger, which in Texas is called 'walking,''' and that ''now and then I come across as a little too blunt,'' he suggested that those traits were bred in the bone and unlikely to change at 58. ''For that,'' the president said, referring to his mother, Barbara, ''we can all thank the white-haired lady sitting right up there.''
 The two-term limit makes second presidential terms notoriously disappointing, and big things difficult to achieve. Mr. Bush's four years already have had enough excitement for eight. His old rival and now-fervent backer, Senator John McCain, said in an interview this week that like all his predecessors, Mr. Bush knows that his ''legacy revolves as always around national security policy, the war on terror, but it also revolves around some need for major reform in some domestic areas.''
 Mr. Bush devoted the first half of his speech to domestic policy. But his biggest ideas were not really new, and he left the daunting details of the agenda items Mr. McCain outlined in the interview -- a comprehensive overhaul of Social Security and Medicare, a reining in federal spending, a reshaping of immigration law -- almost entirely unaddressed. The major items he did mention face significant opposition in Congress, and many would cost far more than his own party seems likely to be willing to spend.
 Four years ago in Philadelphia, Mr. Bush criticized eight years of Democratic rule with the refrain: ''They had their chance. They have not led. We will.'' No one -- not even the two protesters who sneaked into Madison Square Garden to interrupt his speech -- can dispute that he has, first by steamrolling big tax cuts through a compliant Congress, then toppling the Taliban and winning support for the controversial war with Iraq.
 But Mr. Bush's promise then to ''extend the promise of prosperity to every forgotten corner of this country'' remains unmet, slow job growth makes his assertion last night that ''we have seen a shaken economy rise to its feet'' debatable, and the war is enmeshed in what even he recently acknowledged as a ''miscalculation of what the conditions would be.'' The overriding question for an electorate that remains as polarized as the one that failed to give him a popular victory in 2000 is where Mr. Bush wants lead the nation next, and how he intends to get there.
 ''You don't want to have a battle over the status quo,'' said Matthew Dowd, his chief campaign strategist. ''You want to talk about what are your policies, what are your plans?''
 The Republicans have faulted John Kerry as failing to outline a more detailed idea of what he would do as president, and indeed he left the Democratic convention in Boston last month without explaining the meaning of his 19-year service in the Senate, or laying out much in the way of a future agenda, beyond promising not to be Mr. Bush.
 Mr. Bush pledged to keep right on being himself, fighting ''the terrorists across the earth -- not for pride, not for power, but because the lives of our citizens are at stake.'' But Mr. Bush's own stated rationale for deposing Saddam Hussein has shifted repeatedly, the unconventional weapons that he said threatened the world have not been found, and his opponents contend that his actions have inflamed Muslim extremists and put Americans at greater risk.
 Even his father's former national security adviser, Brent Scowcroft, who warned two years ago against rushing to war with Iraq, said in an interview published in The New York Observer this week that Mr. Bush may have overreacted to the threat posed by Al Qaeda and that the administration's preoccupation with terrorism meant ''we are maybe not paying enough attention to other problems in the world that have nothing to do with terrorism but are really significant.''
 Mr. Bush conceded no such error last night, instead repeating a version of a refrain he uses often: ''Do I forget the lessons of Sept. 11 and take the word of a madman, or do I take action to defend our country? Faced with that choice, I will defend America every time.''
 In all, it was a remarkable moment for a man whose political career began just 10 years ago with his election as governor of Texas, who won the White House by just five electoral votes (and a single vote on the Supreme Court), and who now stands as one of the most decisive, unyielding presidents of modern times. Mr. Bush is hoping that his core voters will turn out in large numbers, and that even those undecided voters who may be uneasy about some of his decisions will respect his resolve.
 Bill Clinton warned his fellow Democrats two years ago that ''when people are insecure, they'd rather have somebody who's strong and wrong than somebody who's weak and right.'' That is why Mr. Kerry spent so much time in his convention last month attesting to his combat service in Vietnam. 
 Mr. Bush had a different challenge. 
 Voters take his strength for granted, as he acknowledged last night by saying: ''In the last four years, you and I have come to know each other. Even when we don't agree, at least you know what I believe and where I stand.'' But polls show Americans have doubts about Mr. Bush's stubbornness, his truthfulness (only about one in five Americans now think he is telling the entire truth when he talks about Iraq), and even the likeability that helped him so much last time. So one of his tasks was to show that for all the vicissitudes of war, the intelligence failures that failed to stop Al Qaeda's attacks and started American troops on the road to Baghdad, he remains the plain-spoken man they met four years ago.
 He spoke of the pain of ordering troops into battle, ''even when it is right,'' and of holding ''children of the fallen, who were told their dad or mom is a hero, but would rather just have their dad or mom.''
 And he concluded: ''One thing I've learned about the presidency is that whatever shortcomings you have, people are going to notice them and whatever strengths you have, you're going to need them.''
 So the nation has. So Mr. Bush will.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Brittany Karnie of Ohio and other volunteers helped distribute the ubiquitous ''4 More Years'' signs last night inside Madison Square Garden. (Photo by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. P2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TERM LIMITS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); MEDICARE (74%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (74%); TAX REFORM (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); IMMIGRATION (71%); TERRORISM (71%); HEALTH SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (69%); RURAL HEALTH (69%); IMMIGRATION LAW (69%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (53%) Presidential Election of 2004; Conventions, National (US); Election Issues; Taxation; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Medicine and Health; Presidential Election of 2004; Social Security (US); United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Tax Credits

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%) Todd S Purdum; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2004



61 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: Filipinos Still Seek Work in Iraq Despite Danger and Ban

BYLINE: By CARLOS H. CONDE

DATELINE: MANILA, Sept. 2 

 BODY:
Despite a presidential order banning Filipino workers from going to Iraq, hundreds of people still line up every day at employment agencies here, hoping for a chance to get a job in that strife-torn country.
 President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo ordered the ban and withdrew the Philippines' contingent of troops from Iraq in July after insurgents kidnapped a Filipino truck driver and threatened to kill him. Since then, hundreds of Filipinos who had been hired for jobs in Iraq have held demonstrations to demand that the ban be lifted. 
 In one protest, the police dispersed the workers with water cannons and clubs, injuring several. It was a scene that reflected the desperation of many Filipinos to find work, even in danger zones like Iraq.
 ''These people do not really have a choice,'' said Florante de Guzman, an official for Anglo-European Services, a Manila company that had been recruiting Filipinos for jobs in Iraq. Mr. de Guzman said his company received an average of 400 job applications for Iraq every day.
 The same company recruited most of the 4,000 Filipinos now working in American military installations in Iraq, many of them as janitors. The company has arranged to hire 1,380 more Filipinos to work for American contractors in Iraq if the ban is lifted. If that does not happen soon, Mr. de Guzman said, these jobs may go to other foreigners. He contends that the government is violating workers' rights with the ban.
 But the government has remained firm in its decision. ''The deployment ban is in the best public interest and we ask for understanding and cooperation,'' said Ignacio Bunye, Mrs. Arroyo's spokesman.
 On Tuesday, the United States ambassador to the Philippines, Francis J. Ricciardone, appealed to the Philippine government to lift the ban. The government, Mr. Ricciardone said in an interview broadcast on ABS-CBN television, could ''take a careful look at relaxing that ban in very specific circumstances.''
 Mrs. Arroyo ordered the ban after Iraqi militants kidnapped and threatened to kill a truck driver, Angelo de la Cruz, in July. The kidnapping led to the withdrawal of the small Philippine military contingent in Iraq. Mr. de la Cruz has since returned home.
 Workers like Jesus Gabon, 46, contend that the ban harms Filipinos like him.
 ''I need this job, and I chose Iraq because the pay there is better,'' he said. In July, he was hired to become a security guard inside an American installation in Iraq, with a salary of $450 a month. His trip there was canceled because of the ban.
 He said he was not concerned about the danger in Iraq. ''I am sure that our employers and the Americans will protect us,'' he said.
 Mr. Gabon said Filipino workers are in danger anywhere they go. Every year, hundreds of Filipino workers return home with tales of abuse from their employers. Some of them have died while employed abroad.
 Filipino overseas workers -- about eight million of them are scattered all around the world -- are the lifeblood of the weak Philippine economy, sending home more than $7 billion annually. 
 Every day, more than 1,500 of these workers leave the Philippines. 
 Lack of good jobs and low pay fuel the migration. The unemployment rate has been rising over the years -- it stood at 13.7 percent in April -- and is one of the highest in Southeast Asia. A security guard like Mr. Gabon would be lucky to earn a salary of $150 a month at home. The average daily wage in Manila is $5. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (93%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (73%); RIOTS (70%) Travel Restrictions; Kidnapping; Demonstrations and Riots

PERSON: GLORIA MACAPAGAL-ARROYO (89%) Carlos H Conde; Gloria (Pres) Macapagal Arroyo

GEOGRAPHIC: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (92%) PHILIPPINES (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); GABON (92%) Iraq; Philippines ; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2004



62 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 646 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Bush's Acceptance Speech

 BODY:
When President Bush accepted his party's nomination last night, he energetically presented himself as the man who could keep America safe in a time of international terrorism. His handlers believe that is the key to his re-election. But if Mr. Bush intends to have a second term, he needs to do something more -- particularly if he hopes to win by more than 500 votes this time. The president needs to speak to the large number of moderate voters who feel that things have been going in the wrong direction over the last four years, and convince them that he has the capacity to learn from mistakes and do better. On that count, his acceptance speech fell short.
 Despite the enormous changes the United States has undergone since the last election, from terror attacks to recession, Mr. Bush has been sticking resolutely to the priorities he brought into the office in 2001. He won his tax cuts and his education initiative. American foreign policy managed to wind up focused on the same country on which Mr. Bush and his advisers had fixated from the beginning. 
 Each of those policies has cost the nation dearly: the tax cuts have exploded the budget deficit, Mr. Bush has failed to finance his education programs adequately, and the war in Iraq has been fumbled from the day Baghdad fell. Nobody expected the president to admit that any of his initiatives had turned out to be less than smashing successes, but wavering voters might have been buoyed by at least a hint that the administration realizes that the course needs adjustment.
 Instead, the president presented troubled, half-finished initiatives like his prescription drug plan as fully completed tasks, just as he presented the dangerous and chaotic situation in Iraq as a picture of triumphant foreign policy on a par with the Marshall Plan. He tossed out a combination of extremely vague concepts -- like creating an ownership society -- along with small-bore ideas like additional college scholarships. The combination of minor thoughts and squishy generalities was typical of John Kerry's convention speech as well. But Mr. Bush's contribution doesn't raise many hopes for the level of campaign discussion to come. 
 The president, who dropped his laudable attempt to begin desperately needed immigration reform as soon as he ran into political resistance, gave the idea not a mention last night. There was no hint that he realizes his ''uniter, not a divider'' vow ran aground on the administration's insistence on right-wing judicial nominees and inflexibility on social issues like stem cell research. 
 There was nothing in the speech last night that suggested a new era of frankness from the White House, or hope that any of those fundamental problems would be approached with anything but the ''my way or the highway'' attitude Mr. Bush has used on issues like tax cuts and Iraq.
 If Mr. Bush is rigid in his policies, he is remarkably flexible in marketing them. Once again, the Republican convention has led with its left, with a parade of prime-time speakers from what might be called the far moderate side of the party. Aside from a bizarre and nasty assault on Mr. Kerry by Senator Zell Miller, a registered Democrat, the tough talk was left mainly to the vice president. 
 It was depressing to hear Dick Cheney, who spoke on Wednesday night, repeat his crowd-pleasing snipe against Senator Kerry for calling for ''a more sensitive war on terror.'' It was a phony criticism, given that Mr. Bush has used almost identical language in the past. But, worse, it signaled that Mr. Cheney and the administration's other hit men will spend the next two months trying to sell their failed approach to foreign policy, and encouraging Americans to believe that anyone who acknowledges that the United States needs to take a more patient and humble approach to the world is in league with the girlie men. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); IMMIGRATION (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); TERRORISM (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); IRAQ WAR (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); BUDGETS (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (72%); TAX LAW (72%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (72%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (67%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (65%); BUDGET DEFICITS (51%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (50%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (50%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Editorials; Election Issues; Taxation; Conventions, National (US)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (55%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2004



63 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: Heads in the Sand

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT. 
E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com

 BODY:
When asked this week on CNN how long the U.S. military is likely to remain in Iraq, Senator John McCain replied ''probably'' 10 or 20 years. ''That's not so bad,'' he said, adding, ''We've been in Korea for 50 years. We've been in West Germany for 50 years.''
 Reporters have come to expect candor from Senator McCain, and in this case he didn't disappoint. But there weren't any speakers mounting the podium at the Republican National Convention to hammer home the message that G.I.'s would be in Iraq for a decade or two. 
 That's not the understanding most Americans had when this wretched war was sold to them, and it's not the view most Americans hold now.
 If Senator McCain is correct (and the belief in official Washington is that he is), then boys and girls who are 5 or 10 years old now will get their chance in 2015 or 2020 to strap on the Kevlar and engage the Iraqi ''insurgents'' who, like the indigenous forces we fought in Vietnam, will never accept the occupation of their country by America.
 Marcina Hale, a protester who came to New York this week from suburban Westport, Conn., said she has two teenage boys and that Iraq ''is not a war that I'm willing to send my sons to.'' As the years pass and the casualties mount, that sentiment will only grow.
 The truth is always the first casualty of politics. But there was a bigger disconnect than usual between the bizarre, hermetically sealed perspective that was on display in Madison Square Garden this week and the daunting events unfolding without respite in the real world.
 Iraq is a mess. While the cartoonish Arnold Schwarzenegger was drawing huge laughs in the Garden and making cracks about economic ''girlie men,'' reports were emerging about the gruesome murder of 12 Nepalese hostages who had traveled to Iraq less than two weeks earlier in search of work.
 At the same time, an effort to disarm insurgents in the militant Baghdad slum of Sadr City collapsed, and the death toll among American forces in Iraq continued its relentless climb toward 1,000.
 The Los Angeles Times noted yesterday that a report by the respected Royal Institute of International Affairs in London has concluded that Iraq will be lucky if it avoids a breakup and civil war. The often-stated U.S. goal of a full-fledged Iraqi democracy is beyond unlikely.
 In Afghanistan, a legitimate front in the so-called war against terror, much of the country remains in the hands of warlords, and the opium trade is flourishing. Experts believe substantial amounts of money from that trade are flowing to terrorist groups.
 In Israel, 16 people were killed by suicide bombers who blew themselves up on a pair of crowded buses on Tuesday. In Russia, a series of horrific terror attacks, in the air and on the ground, have cast a pall across the country.
 Despite all the macho posturing and self-congratulating at the Republican convention, the wave of terror that's been unleashed on the world is only growing. The American-led war in Iraq is feeding that wave, causing it to swell rather than ebb.
 Any serious person who looked around the world this week would have to wonder what the delegates at the G.O.P. convention were so happy about.
 The Republican conventioneers spent the entire week reminding America that we were attacked on Sept. 11, 2001. But interestingly, there was hardly a mention by name of those who were actually responsible for the attacks -- Osama bin Laden and Al Qaeda.
 Discussions about the nation's real enemies were taboo. We don't know where they are or what they're up to. The over-the-top venom of some of the speakers and delegates was reserved not for Osama, but for a couple of mild-mannered guys named John.
 What Americans desperately need is a serious, honest discussion of where we go from here. If we're going to be in Iraq for 10 or 20 more years, the policy makers should say so, and tell us what that will cost in money and human treasure. The violence associated with such a long-term occupation is guaranteed to be appalling. 
 Vietnam tore this nation apart. As we've seen in this campaign, the wounds have yet to heal. Incredibly, we're now traveling a similarly tragic road in Iraq. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); CIVIL WAR (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); VIETNAM WAR (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); POLITICS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (71%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); HOSTAGE TAKING (61%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (60%); MURDER (56%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (55%); OPIUM (50%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; Vietnam War; Terrorism

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (62%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (62%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (91%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (50%) Bob Herbert; John S (Sen) Mccain

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%); LONDON, ENGLAND (51%) CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (96%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); VIET NAM (90%); GERMANY (88%); ISRAEL (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2004



64 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 599 words

HEADLINE: I.B.M. Offers $10,000 to Owners of Contaminated Houses

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA; Samme Chittum contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
The I.B.M. Corporation announced yesterday that it was willing to pay $10,000 each to the owners of nearly 500 contaminated homes in the upstate village of Endicott if the owners give up their right to sue for property damages caused by industrial pollution. 
 Residents have complained that ventilation systems I.B.M. has installed in their homes since 2002 to prevent toxic vapors from building up in the basements have hurt property values. Last year they asked Attorney General Eliot Spitzer for help in protecting home values. 
 Mr. Spitzer's office negotiated with I.B.M. for a year to develop the payment program, which is modeled after a similar effort in Rochester. Endicott officials think the payments will help revive the village, compensate homeowners for lost real estate values and allow residents to improve their homes, creating spillover economic benefits. Homeowners would not be required to use the money for home improvements. 
 The owners of the 480 houses and a handful of commercial properties that were offered the ventilation systems are eligible to receive payments. Owners would give up the right to sue for property damages but would still be able to sue for personal injury. 
 The program could cost I.B.M. more than $5 million, and will be another costly step in the company's efforts to remediate hazards it helped create in this upstate village just west of Binghamton, where it got its start nearly a century ago. Other manufacturers also contributed to the pollution, but only I.B.M. is helping clean it up. 
 Last month, I.B.M. agreed to a consent order with the state to clean up the remaining pollution, a byproduct of chemicals called volatile organic compounds that were used as degreasers. 
 Residents of Endicott had a mixed reaction to the announcement of the payment program.
 ''My gut reaction is that sounds like a buyout,'' said Edward M. Blaine, the director of a community outreach program who has owned a house in there for 31 years. 
 Mr. Blaine, 52, said he was not sure that he would accept the money and give up his right to sue if he cannot sell his house at market value. ''If I had to say yes or no right now I'd probably say no,'' he said. ''I need to think about it.'' 
 Joseph T. Havel has no doubt. ''I'm not taking it,'' Mr. Havel said. ''It's like a payoff, isn't it?'' 
 Mr. Havel is a taxidermist who used to work in his basement until state environmental officials discovered that the plume of groundwater contamination was giving off vapors that were seeping into the many basements, including his. He has since abandoned the basement and built a workshop in the garage.
 ''If I tried to sell my house right now, I probably wouldn't get any more than $60,000,'' he said. ''People across the street from me have been trying to sell for over a year.'' 
 He said the house had an assessed value of $102,000.
 David A. Munro, an assistant attorney general who worked with I.B.M. to develop the program, said there was no evidence that property values had declined since the vapor problem was discovered. 
 Rose Sotak, a real estate agent whose parents owned a house in Endicott that they have willed to her 18-year-old daughter, Kristin, said sales records indicated that prices had actually increased from 1 to 5 percent a year in the last few years. 
 Ms. Sotak said she would accept I.B.M.'s offer and put the money toward Kristin's college tuition. 
 ''The way I look at it,'' Mrs. Sotak said, ''I.B.M. will be paying over $5 million, which will be great for the economy here.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); WATER POLLUTION (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (77%); PERSONAL INJURY (77%); INDOOR AIR QUALITY (77%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (76%); CONSENT DECREES & ORDERS (75%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (73%); VOLATILE ORGANIC COMPOUNDS (72%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (72%); LITIGATION (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); ORGANIC CHEMICALS (63%) Air Pollution; Suits and Litigation; Air Pollution

COMPANY: M CORP (91%)

ORGANIZATION: International Business Machines Corp

INDUSTRY: SIC6361 TITLE INSURANCE (91%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (79%) Anthony Depalma; Eliot (Atty Gen) Spitzer

GEOGRAPHIC: BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Endicott (NY)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2004



65 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: Feel the Hate

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN. 
E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
''I don't know where George Soros gets his money,'' one man said. ''I don't know where -- if it comes from overseas or from drug groups or where it comes from.'' George Soros, another declared, ''wants to spend $75 million defeating George W. Bush because Soros wants to legalize heroin.'' After all, a third said, Mr. Soros ''is a self-admitted atheist; he was a Jew who figured out a way to survive the Holocaust.''
 They aren't LaRouchies -- they're Republicans. 
 The suggestion that Mr. Soros, who has spent billions promoting democracy around the world, is in the pay of drug cartels came from Dennis Hastert, the speaker of the House, whom the Constitution puts two heartbeats from the presidency. After standing by his remarks for several days, Mr. Hastert finally claimed that he was talking about how Mr. Soros spends his money, not where he gets it. 
 The claim that Mr. Soros's political spending is driven by his desire to legalize heroin came from Newt Gingrich. And the bit about the Holocaust came from Tony Blankley, editorial page editor of The Washington Times, which has become the administration's de facto house organ.
 For many months we've been warned by tut-tutting commentators about the evils of irrational ''Bush hatred.'' Pundits eagerly scanned the Democratic convention for the disease; some invented examples when they failed to find it. Then they waited eagerly for outrageous behavior by demonstrators in New York, only to be disappointed again.
 There was plenty of hatred in Manhattan, but it was inside, not outside, Madison Square Garden.
 Barack Obama, who gave the Democratic keynote address, delivered a message of uplift and hope. Zell Miller, who gave the Republican keynote, declared that political opposition is treason: ''Now, at the same time young Americans are dying in the sands of Iraq and the mountains of Afghanistan, our nation is being torn apart and made weaker because of the Democrats' manic obsession to bring down our commander in chief.'' And the crowd roared its approval.
 Why are the Republicans so angry? One reason is that they have nothing positive to run on (during the first three days, Mr. Bush was mentioned far less often than John Kerry).
 The promised economic boom hasn't materialized, Iraq is a bloody quagmire, and Osama bin Laden has gone from ''dead or alive'' to he-who-must-not-be-named.
 Another reason, I'm sure, is a guilty conscience. At some level the people at that convention know that their designated hero is a man who never in his life took a risk or made a sacrifice for his country, and that they are impugning the patriotism of men who have.
 That's why Band-Aids with Purple Hearts on them, mocking Mr. Kerry's war wounds and medals, have been such a hit with conventioneers, and why senior politicians are attracted to wild conspiracy theories about Mr. Soros.
 It's also why Mr. Hastert, who knows how little the Bush administration has done to protect New York and help it rebuild, has accused the city of an ''unseemly scramble'' for cash after 9/11. Nothing makes you hate people as much as knowing in your heart that you are in the wrong and they are in the right.
 But the vitriol also reflects the fact that many of the people at that convention, for all their flag-waving, hate America. They want a controlled, monolithic society; they fear and loathe our nation's freedom, diversity and complexity.
 The convention opened with an invocation by Sheri Dew, a Mormon publisher and activist. Early rumors were that the invocation would be given by Jerry Falwell, who suggested just after 9/11 that the attack was God's punishment for the activities of the A.C.L.U. and People for the American Way, among others. But Ms. Dew is no more moderate: earlier this year she likened opposition to gay marriage to opposition to Hitler.
 The party made sure to put social moderates like Rudy Giuliani in front of the cameras. But in private events, the story was different. For example, Senator Sam Brownback of Kansas told Republicans that we are in a ''culture war'' and urged a reduction in the separation of church and state.
 Mr. Bush, it's now clear, intends to run a campaign based on fear. And for me, at least, it's working: thinking about what these people will do if they solidify their grip on power makes me very, very afraid. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (88%); HEROIN (77%); DRUG LIBERALIZATION (77%); DECRIMINALIZATION (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); HOLOCAUST (75%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (74%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (74%); POLITICS (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (72%); RELIGION (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); CARTELS (54%) Presidential Election of 2004; Conventions, National (US); United States Politics and Government; Freedom and Human Rights; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: GEORGE SOROS (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (54%); BARACK OBAMA (54%); PAUL KRUGMAN (50%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%) Paul Krugman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2004



66 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 635 words

HEADLINE: In the Bush Years, Government Grows as the Private Sector Struggles

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
BIG government is back. And while that fact may not have been heralded at Madison Square Garden this week, it is largely responsible for the best long-term economic statistic that Republicans cited.
 By one measure, President Bush has presided over a reversal of the trend to smaller government that began nearly 30 years ago. That measure is the share of wage and salary income that comes directly from governments, and its rise has helped keep the economy growing. 
 In the Republican platform, most of the economic statistics referred to recent months, noting, for example, that ''since last August, 1.5 million new jobs have been created.'' Such numbers ignore the recession at the beginning of the Bush administration, and the slow recovery that followed until growth took off in mid-2003, when one tax cut -- the child credit -- put significant cash in the pockets of parents just in time for back-to-school sales.
 But one statistic did stand out: ''Real after-tax incomes are up by 9.6 percent since December 2000.'' 
 That statistic was through June. This week, the government updated it, and the figure through July is a little better, up 9.7 percent. That is a highly respectable number, and it helps to explain why consumer spending remained strong during the downturn. 
 The tax cuts that President Bush pushed through Congress were a big reason for the gain. Adjusted for inflation, taxes paid in July were down 23 percent from December 2000, the last month of the Clinton administration. (All numbers are at seasonally adjusted annual rates.) 
 What else contributed to the increase? Private businesses are paying a lot more for employee benefits, especially health care. Those costs are up 23 percent, adjusted for inflation. And government spending on its benefit programs, principally Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid, is up 19 percent. All that spending counts in disposable personal income, and makes the overall number look better. But few of us feel better off when health insurance premiums go up.
 In the area people think of when they hear about personal income -- wage and salary payments -- the picture is not as pretty. The entire increase there comes from the government payroll. Adjusted for inflation, private industry is paying almost exactly the same as in 2000. To be precise, private spending on wages is up less than 0.1 percent. 
 No administration back to John F. Kennedy has done as poorly. The two that came closest -- a 1.4 percent rise under the first President Bush and a 3.3 percent gain in the term that ended with Gerald Ford in the White House -- each ended with incumbents losing the election.
 The share of wage and salary income coming from the government can be seen as a measure of the size of government relative to the economy. It began to rise in the 1950's and peaked in the second quarter of 1975, under Mr. Ford, at 21.8 percent of total wage and salary income. It declined under Jimmy Carter and Ronald Reagan, rose a little under the first President Bush and then fell rapidly under Bill Clinton, hitting a low of 16 percent in late 2000.
 It has risen under the current administration. The latest quarterly figure showed 17.4 percent of all wage and salary payments came directly from the government. 
 Some of that is simple economic cycles. Government salary payments tend to rise less rapidly than private ones in good times and not to fall in bad times. But it also shows that this administration has not cut the size of government.
 A bigger government and tax cuts are the main reasons that real personal incomes are up since 2000. The big question for the economy is whether the stimulus has been enough to produce a self-reinforcing recovery. More signs that the private economy has turned around will be needed before that can be deemed a sure thing.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the percentage of all wages paid by the government in the U.S., measured quarterly, since 1989. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); STATISTICS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); INCOME TAX (88%); HEALTH INSURANCE (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); MEDICARE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); TRENDS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); RECESSION (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); BUDGETS (77%); EMPLOYMENT (76%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (76%); MEDICAID (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (63%) United States Economy; Presidential Election of 2004; Taxation; Election Issues; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Income

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%) Floyd Norris; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2004



67 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; NYC; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: It's Safe To Return, Girlie Men

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN

 BODY:
SOUND the all-clear, you who ran away to escape the invasion. It's safe to come home now. The Republicans are done partying, the city still stands, and many New Yorkers can get back to muttering about the players at Madison Square Garden who really frost them: the Knicks and the Rangers.
 Just thank your stars that Arnold Schwarzenegger didn't know you were gone. He might have called you girlie men for fleeing. In groping for ways to mock people, Mr. Schwarzenegger, the California governor, seems to love that phrase. In case you didn't catch him the other night, he used it, and not for the first time, in his convention speech. 
 The Garden audience, filled with people who like to talk about values, ate it up. Dick Cheney and Rudolph W. Giuliani were caught on camera applauding so enthusiastically that you'd have thought they had heard Winston Churchill putting down Clement Attlee. (''A sheep in sheep's clothing,'' Churchill once said of Attlee. Now there's a real zinger, slurring no group except perhaps sheep.)
 For anyone interested in an update, you didn't miss all that much while you were away. The streets around the Garden were predictably in a lockdown, but the rest of the city seemed normal -- that is to say, dead -- during summer's last week before Labor Day. It was quite pleasant, actually, just the way New York always is on a long holiday weekend.
 Whether any of this was good for business is another matter. City Hall assured everyone for months that the convention is a guaranteed economic boon. While the numbers aren't in yet, many business owners, especially near the Garden, have trouble believing that this event was good for them. Their shops looked as if they had been hit by a neutron bomb.
 Tony Ashmawi, who runs a clothing store at Eighth Avenue and 40th Street, tried to drum up customers with a sign advertising an ''Annoying Republican Convention Sale.'' The gimmick worked, sort of. ''One guy bought a couple of shirts,'' Mr. Ashmawi said. ''He said that the sign caught his eye.'' But more often, he said, people smiled and kept walking.
 Crime was down in all five boroughs, preliminary statistics showed, even though police patrols were thin except in the fortress zones: around the Garden and in parts of Lower Manhattan and Midtown that were protest targets. Maybe the muggers, too, figured it was a good week to skip town. Whatever, it brought back memories of January 1971, when police officers staged a wildcat strike for several days. While they were off the job, the crime rate stayed low.
 YOU missed the anti-Bush street demonstrations. But you have returned in time, lucky you, for inevitable disputes over whether the police performed admirably in the face of provocation or suppressed dissent unfairly, even unconstitutionally. One usually cannot go wrong betting that each version held true at one point or another during the week.
 The mere fact that people wished to protest near the World Trade Center site had some New Yorkers in a tizzy. Exploiting Sept. 11, the nerve! That is what a few news commentators said.
 Hmm, using those still-searing memories for political gain -- can you imagine President Bush or former Mayor Giuliani or other Republicans doing that?
 Then again, you missed less-than-edifying moments on the part of some anti-Bush types who cornered convention delegates on the street, haranguing them with tirades of the four-lettered variety. That these protesters were ill-mannered, at best, seems beyond question.
 But does that put them in the same league with terrorists? Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg seems to think so. ''A handful of people have tried to destroy our city by going up and yelling at visitors here because they don't agree with their views,'' Mr. Bloomberg said yesterday.
 This, he continued, is ''the city for free speech if there ever was one, and some people think that we shouldn't allow people to express themselves.''
 ''That's exactly what the terrorists did, if you think about it, on 9/11. Now this is not the same kind of terrorism, but there's no question that these anarchists are afraid to let people speak out.''
 It must be said that many of the foul-mouthed protesters were out-of-towners themselves. Likening them to terrorists may be a bit much for some people. Still, they were an affront to many New Yorkers. Since when do we need outside help to scream dirty words in public?
 There. Aren't those of you who fled thrilled to be back? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (88%); CRIME RATES (86%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (84%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); STRIKES (69%); US LABOR DAY (69%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (67%) Presidential Election of 2004; Conventions, National (US); Madison Square Garden

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK RANGERS (58%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (58%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (73%); DICK CHENEY (58%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%) Clyde Haberman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2004



68 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 6; National Desk; THE REPUBLICANS: THE CONVENTION IN NEW YORK -- THE LANGUAGE; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 240 words

HEADLINE: In Speech, Old Phrase, New Idea

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK

 BODY:
When President Bush made the notion of an ''ownership society'' the signature phrase of his convention address last night, he was reviving a term he has used before for different purposes.
 As early as February 2003, Mr. 
Bush was using it to argue for cuts in the capital gains tax. But then he meant the growth that had already taken place in the percentage of Americans with shares in the stock market. 
 ''America is an ownership society, by the way, and that is fantastic news for the future of this country,'' he said to a group of teachers and students in Kennesaw, Ga. 
 He said: ''And as an ownership society, we've got to understand what it means to reduce taxes on dividends. It means there will be $20 billion this year more dollars in circulation for investment.''
 But by August of last year Mr. Bush was beginning to test out the phrase in informal presentations, using it as he did last night to describe a goal he hoped to achieve, and as a unifying theme for a grab bag of policies including private accounts for people to save for retirement, health care and education.
 Daniel J. Mitchell, who studies economic policy at the Heritage Foundation, said: ''It is a positive phrase. People like to own things.'' 
 Mr. Mitchell added, ''Prior to the use of this phrase, it did seem like a disjointed group of policy proposals. And whoever came up with the phrase, maybe it is Bush himself, now there is a unifying theme.''




LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX LAW (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (69%); PERSONAL FINANCE (68%) Presidential Election of 2004; Conventions, National (US)

ORGANIZATION: THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) David D Kirkpatrick; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2004



69 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1026 words

HEADLINE: Oil Could Help Japan Resolve Territorial Fight With Russia

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: NOSAPPU, Japan, Sept. 2 

 BODY:
Wearing a white windbreaker to protect him from the Siberian wind, Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi stood on the bridge of a Japanese Coast Guard patrol boat on Thursday, scanning the treeless shores of islands occupied by Russia since September 1945. Following close behind was an uninvited escort: a Russian Coast Guard patrol boat.
 The moment on the Sea of Okhotsk seemed frozen in time. Nearly six decades after Soviet troops swept down the Kuriles, seizing the Japanese islands, there is no peace treaty between Russia and Japan. 
 But the rapidly changing geopolitics of Asia's energy industry could break a logjam that has endured since World War II.
 About 350 miles northeast of here, offshore of Sakhalin Island, part of Russia, Japanese companies are participating in the first $10 billion slice of what could be a $100 billion development of oil and gas reserves believed to rival the North Slope of Alaska.
 About 700 miles east of here, at Vladivostok, Japanese and Russian officials met this summer to outline a plan for a 2,500-mile, $12 billion pipeline to bring Siberian oil to the Sea of Japan. A decision on the pipeline is expected this fall.
 Behind Japan's drive to lock in access to Russian oil and gas are forecasts that over the next 15 years China's oil imports will double and its gas imports will increase fivefold. Japan's energy use, meanwhile, is far from stagnant. In July, Japan, which imports 88 percent of its oil from the Middle East, experienced a 9 percent jump in the volume of its oil imports. 
 ''Japan finds itself very much like before World War II,'' Alexander Losyukov, Russia's ambassador to Japan, said in a recent interview. ''It needs resources and markets, and those two things can combine to lead to a very dangerous situation.''
 Japan has quietly become the largest foreign investor in Russia's energy-rich Far East region. With Russia's president, Vladimir V. Putin, expected to visit Tokyo in six months, many analysts feel the time is nearing for both sides to negotiate a truce over the four disputed islands. Both sides have said they would like to announce a formula for a bilateral peace treaty during Mr. Putin's visit, which will coincide with the 150th anniversary of the first trade treaty signed by the countries, in 1855.
 ''Prime Minister Koizumi is very much interested in getting this bilateral relationship to move,'' Takashi Inoguchi, professor of international politics at the University of Tokyo, said. ''Something has to be done to get the two countries closer.''
 The Toyota Motor Corporation, Japan's largest carmaker, is expected to take advantage of Mr. Putin's visit to announce the opening of its first assembly plant in Russia, probably in the Volga region east of Moscow. Last year, Toyota tripled its new car sales in the country to 25,000, making it the most popular imported brand in Russia.
 Despite the signs of a thawing relationship, however, Moscow frowned on Mr. Koizumi's boat trip around the islands -- the first by a Japanese prime minister.
 ''Such actions, let alone their demonstrative timing with the anniversary of the end of World War II, not only fail to give a positive impetus to the peace treaty negotiations, but will only complicate the negotiations once again,'' Russia's foreign ministry warned Monday after Mr. Koizumi announced he would take the trip. ''As far as we understand, these plans are primarily based on internal political considerations.''
 Indeed, Mr. Koizumi's tour here on Thursday might have been calculated to neutralize conservative opposition before serious talks start.
 That would fit a pattern of such steps by his administration. On Aug. 15, the anniversary of Japan's World War II surrender, Shoichi Nakagawa, Japan's powerful minister of economy, trade and industry, was one of four members of Mr. Koizumi's cabinet to visit a Tokyo war memorial shrine venerated by conservatives. The next day, Mr. Nakagawa flew to Sakhalin, becoming the first Japanese minister to visit the island, which was partly controlled by Japan until the end of World War II.
 During a five-day tour, he visited the site of the construction of Russia's first plant to liquefy natural gas. Several of Japan's largest utilities have signed long-term contracts to import the Sakhalin gas.
 With Japan expected to win rights to the Siberian oil pipeline, Russia is moving to mollify China. On a visit to Beijing last week, Russia's energy minister, Viktor Khristenko, told journalists that Russian oil sales to China would increase fivefold by 2010. Russia is China's fifth-largest source of oil.
 With gas emerging as an equally valuable energy source, China and Japan are shadowing each other in the East China Sea. With China laying a 300-mile gas line to offshore deposits, Japan has complained that China will tap into a 246 billion cubic meter gas field that is partly Japanese. With each country's exclusive economic zone in dispute, China's moves to develop the gas have been met by a Japanese survey ship, exploring the contested area in the southern tip of Okinawa Prefecture.
 Americans restored Okinawa to Japanese rule in 1972. Now, people here say that the time has come for Russia to give up its war booty as well -- the four disputed islands, which the Japanese call the Northern Territories and the Russian call the Southern Kuriles. The islands' total landmass is larger than Okinawa's.
 ''Without restoration of the four islands, we will not have a Japan-Russia peace treaty,'' Mr. Koizumi said here in a meeting with representatives of the 8,000 former inhabitants of the islands who are still alive. ''Restoration of the four islands will not only benefit Japan, but it will benefit Russia.''
 With billions of dollars of Japanese investments about to start flowing, Mr. Losyukov, the Russian ambassador, fretted that Japan might link the island issue with the rate of investment. ''Every time we talk about that, we hear from the Japanese side, 'We want simultaneous action on economic and territorial issues; if you take this approach you are braking everything,''' Mr. Losyukov said. ''Blocking everything by that way, unfortunately, is linkage.''


CORRECTION-DATE: September 16, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article in World Business on Sept. 3 about oil relations between Japan and Russia misstated the location of Vladivostok, where Japanese and Russian officials met this summer to outline a plan for a pipeline to bring Siberian oil to the Sea of Japan. It is west of Nosappu, Japan, not east. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Japanese prime minister, Junichiro Koizumi, got a close-up look yesterday at Habomai Island, a Russian territory since World War II. (Photo by Kyodo/Reuters)Map of Russia and Japan highlighting Kuriles Islands: Russia's ''Southern Kuriles'' are Japan's ''Northern Territories.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); WORLD WAR II (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); PEACE PROCESS (89%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (88%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (83%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (75%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (74%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (70%); ANNIVERSARIES (69%); FOREIGN POLICY (68%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (67%); AUTOMAKERS (62%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (62%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Waters, Territorial; Pipelines; Gas (Fuel); Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (60%)

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (60%); TM (NYSE) (60%); 7203 (TSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (60%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (78%) James Brooke

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%) PACIFIC OCEAN (94%); ALASKA, USA (79%) JAPAN (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); CHINA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Kurile Islands; Russia; Japan; Sakhalin Island; Sea of Japan

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2004



70 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 5; National Desk; THE REPUBLICANS: THE CONVENTION IN NEW YORK -- ADVERTISING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 537 words

HEADLINE: New Ads Focus on Economy

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG

 BODY:
With their conventions behind them, Senator John Kerry and President Bush will turn to the paid airwaves to get their messages across, each beginning a barrage of commercials next week that hit strikingly similar themes about the economy and jobs.
 The extensive exchange of commercials is the beginning of the end game in what has already been the most expensive advertising war in presidential campaign history. The campaigns' new advertisements were released to reporters yesterday and indicate that the early round of the real general election contest will focus heavily on the domestic issues that both sides believe matter most to voters in the crucial swing states. 
 Mr. Bush's campaign is spending roughly $7 million in conjunction with the Republican National Committee on three commercials in about 20 states, party officials said.
 In one new spot an announcer says Mr. Bush and Congress have plans for ''a fairer, simpler tax code'' to reduce the nation's ''dependence on foreign energy'' and to create ''incentives to create jobs.''
 In another commercial, Mr. Bush reprises his message that the nation is overcoming the devastation of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and goes on to promise: ''During the next four years, we'll spread ownership and opportunity. We need to make our economy more job-friendly to keep American jobs here in America.''
 In a third, an announcer says Mr. Bush and Congress have a plan to ''lower health care costs,'' ''keep doctors in their communities'' and provide ''every eligible child with health coverage.''
 Mr. Kerry will spend at least $1.5 million on advertisements in seven swing states, with new commercials taking Mr. Bush to task for his stewardship of the economy while painting Mr. Kerry as a protector of the middle class and Mr. Bush as a slave to special interests. His campaign says it will spend $50 million before Election Day.
 In one new commercial, Mr. Kerry says, ''The fundamental choice in this election is between a president who will fight for the middle class, and a president who sides with the special interests.'' He adds that it is time to end loopholes that reward companies that ''ship jobs overseas,'' and to ''end America's dependence on Middle East oil.''
 That commercial, Mr. Kerry's aides said, will run starting on Tuesday in Pennsylvania, Florida, Iowa, New Mexico, Pennsylvania, New Hampshire and Wisconsin.
 In another new advertisement, to run in Ohio on Friday, Mr. Kerry highlights job losses there and tells viewers, ''President Bush insists the economy is just fine.'' The campaign said it has also produced six new state-specific spots critical of Mr. Bush that it will show in every state he visits on his post-convention tour.
 The commercials are Mr. Kerry's first significant advertising push since he stopped running commercials in late July to save money. 
 Mr. Kerry's aides expressed relief that they could finally run advertisements after a month in which they sustained heavy attacks from Mr. Bush and from a group of Swift boat veterans questioned his war record.
 Democrats and Mr. Kerry's aides acknowledged that those attacks dampened his poll numbers and, at the very least, slowed his momentum after the Democratic convention.


GRAPHIC: Photo: New commercials from the Kerry campaign are state specific. This one highlights job losses in Ohio. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); TAX LAW (68%); TERRORISM (66%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (66%); HEALTH INSURANCE (64%); TAX REFORM (54%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (51%) United States Economy; Political Advertising; Election Issues; Labor; Unemployment; Presidential Election of 2004; Conventions, National (US); Finances

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%) Jim Rutenberg; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2004



71 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 176 words

HEADLINE: Fighting Words, at the Convention and Beyond

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''Cheney and G.O.P. Mount Vigorous Assault on Kerry'' (front page, Sept. 2):
 Vice President Dick Cheney, in his convention address, chose a message that confused rhetoric with reality. He ignored glaring negative facts, like the millions of Americans who are still unemployed, the increase in poverty in America in the last three years, and the millions of Americans without health care. 
 Nor did he mention the loss of American prestige and respect in the world by our pre-emptive war against Iraq or the unfortunate consequences of our lack of adequate planning for postwar Iraq. 
 Equally important, not a word was offered about the sizable budget deficits that President Bush is running up for our children to pay in the future. 
 The presidential campaign offers a choice. One hopes that despite the Bush administration spokesmen's self-congratulatory words, the consequences of questionable national and international decisions made during the president's stewardship underscore the need for change.

Cy Shain
San Francisco, Sept. 2, 2004


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); IRAQ WAR (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); BUDGETS (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2004



72 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 1; National Desk; THE REPUBLICANS: THE CONVENTION IN NEW YORK -- THE SPEECH; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 4850 words

HEADLINE: Bush Accepts: 'Our Tested and Confident Nation Can Achieve Anything'

 BODY:
Following is a transcript of President Bush's speech accepting the Republican nomination last night in New York, as recorded by The New York Times: 
 Thank you all. Mr. Chairman, delegates, fellow citizens: I'm honored by your support and I accept your nomination for president of the United States.
 When I said those words four years ago, none of us could have envisioned what these years would bring. In the heart of this great city we saw tragedy arrive on a quiet morning. We saw the bravery of rescuers grow with danger. We learned of passengers on a doomed plane who died with a courage that frightened their killers. We have seen a shaken economy rise to its feet. And we have seen Americans in uniform storming mountain strongholds and charging through sandstorms, and liberating millions with acts of valor that would make the men of Normandy proud.
 Since 2001, Americans have been given hills to climb and found the strength to climb them. Now, because we have made the hard journey, we can see the valley below. Now, because we have faced challenges with resolve, we have historic goals within our reach and greatness in our future. We will build a safer world and a more hopeful America, and nothing will hold us back.
 In the work we have done, and the work we will do, I am fortunate to have a superb vice president. I have counted on Dick Cheney's calm and steady judgment in difficult days, and I'm honored to have him at my side.
 I am grateful to share my walk in life with Laura Bush. Americans have come to see the goodness and kindness and strength I first saw 26 years ago, and we love our first lady. I'm a fortunate father of two spirited, intelligent and lovely young women. I'm blessed with a sister and brothers who are my closest friends. And I will always be the proud and grateful son of George and Barbara Bush.
 My father served eight years at the side of another great American, Ronald Reagan. His spirit of optimism and good will and decency are in this hall and are in our hearts, and will always define our party.
 Two months from today, voters will make a choice based on the records we have built, the convictions we hold and the vision that guides us forward. A presidential election is a contest for the future. Tonight I will tell you where I stand, what I believe and where I will lead this country in the next four years.
 I believe I believe every child can learn and every school must teach, so we passed the most important federal education reform in history. Because we acted, children are making sustained progress in reading and math, America's schools are getting better, and nothing will hold us back.
 I believe we have a moral responsibility to honor America's seniors, so I brought Republicans and Democrats together to strengthen Medicare. Now seniors are getting immediate help buying medicine. Soon every senior will be able to get prescription drug coverage, and nothing will hold us back.
 I believe in the energy and innovative spirit of America's workers, entrepreneurs, farmers and ranchers, so we unleashed that energy with the largest tax relief in a generation. Because we acted our economy is growing again and creating jobs and nothing will hold us back.
 I believe the most solemn duty of the American president is to protect the American people. If America shows uncertainty or weakness in this decade, the world will drift toward tragedy. This will not happen on my watch.
 I am running for president with a clear and positive plan to build a safer world and a more hopeful America. I am running with a compassionate conservative philosophy: that government should help people improve their lives, not try to run their lives. I believe this nation wants steady, consistent, principled leadership. And that is why, with your help, we will win this election.
 The story of America is the story of expanding liberty: an ever-widening circle, constantly growing to reach further and include more. Our nation's founding commitment is still our deepest commitment: In our world, and here at home, we will extend the frontiers of freedom.
 The times in which we work and live are changing dramatically. The workers of our parents' generation typically had one job, one skill, one career, often with one company that provided health care and a pension. And most of those workers were men. 
 Today, workers change jobs, even careers, many times during their lives, and, in one of the most dramatic shifts our society has seen, two-thirds of all moms also work outside the home.
 This changed world can be a time of great opportunity for all Americans to earn a better living, support your family and have a rewarding career. And government must take your side. 
 Many of our most fundamental systems -- the tax code, health coverage, pension plans, worker training -- were created for the world of yesterday, not tomorrow. We will transform these systems so that all citizens are equipped, prepared and thus truly free to make your own choices and pursue your own dreams.
 My plan begins with providing the security and opportunity of a growing economy. We now compete in a global market that provides new buyers for our goods, but new competition for our workers. 
 To create more jobs in America, America must be the best place in the world to do business. To create jobs my plan will encourage investment and expansion by restraining federal spending, reducing regulation and making the tax relief permanent. To create jobs, we will make our country less dependent on foreign sources of energy. To create jobs, we will expand trade and level the playing field to sell American goods and services across the globe. And we must protect small-business owners and workers from the explosion of frivolous lawsuits that threaten jobs across our country.
 Another drag on our economy is the current tax code, which is a complicated mess, filled with special interest loopholes, saddling our people with more than six billion hours of paperwork and headache every year. The American people deserve, and our economic future demands, a simpler, fairer, pro-growth system. In a new term, I will lead a bipartisan effort to reform and simplify the federal tax code.
 Another priority in a new term will be to help workers take advantage of the expanding economy to find better and higher-paying jobs. In this time of change, many workers want to go back to school to learn different or higher-level skills. So we will double the number of people served by our principal job training program and increase funding for our community colleges. I know that with the right skills American workers can compete with anyone, anywhere in the world.
 In this time of change, opportunity in some communities is more distant than in others. To stand with workers in poor communities and those that have lost manufacturing, textile and other jobs, we will create American opportunity zones. In these areas, we will provide tax relief and other incentives to attract new business, and improve housing and job training to bring hope and work throughout all of America.
 As I've traveled the country, I've met many workers and small-business owners who have told me they are worried they cannot afford health care. More than half of the uninsured are small-business employees and their families. In a new term, we must allow small firms to join together to purchase insurance at the discounts available to big companies. We will offer a tax credit to encourage small businesses and their employees to set up health savings accounts, and provide direct help for low-income Americans to purchase them.
 These accounts give workers the security of insurance against major illness, the opportunity to save tax-free for routine health expenses and the freedom of knowing you can take your account with you whenever you change jobs. And we will provide low-income Americans with better access to health care: In a new term, I will ensure every poor county in America has a community or rural health center.
 As I have traveled our country I have met too many good doctors, especially OB-GYNS, who are being forced out of practice because of the high cost of lawsuits. To make health care more affordable and accessible, we must pass medical liability reform now. 
 And in all we do to improve health care in America, we will make sure that health decisions are made by doctors and patients, not by bureaucrats in Washington, D.C.
 In this time of change, government must take the side of working families. In a new term, we will change outdated labor laws to offer comp-time and flex-time. Our laws should never stand in the way of a more family-friendly workplace.
 Another priority for a new term is to build an ownership society, because ownership brings security and dignity and independence. Thanks to our policies, home ownership in America is at an all-time high. Tonight we set a new goal: seven million more affordable homes in the next 10 years so more American families will be able to open the door and say, ''Welcome to my home.''
 In an ownership society, more people will own their health care plans and have the confidence of owning a piece of their retirement. We'll always keep the promise of Social Security for our older workers. With the huge baby boom generation approaching retirement, many of our children and grandchildren understandably worry whether Social Security will be there when they need it. We must strengthen Social Security by allowing younger workers to save some of their taxes in a personal account, a nest egg you can call your own, and government can never take away.
 In all these proposals, we seek to provide not just a government program, but a path, a path to greater opportunity, more freedom and more control over your own life.
 This path begins with our youngest Americans. To build a more hopeful America, we must help our children reach as far as their vision and character can take them. Tonight, I remind every parent and every teacher, I say to every child: No matter what your circumstance, no matter where you live, your school will be the path to promise of America.
 We are transforming our schools by raising standards and focusing on results. We are insisting on accountability, empowering parents and teachers, and making sure that local people are in charge of their schools. By testing every child, we are identifying those who need help and we are providing a record level of funding to get them that help. 
 In northeast Georgia, Gainesville Elementary School is mostly Hispanic and 90 percent poor. And this year 90 percent of its students passed state tests in reading and math. The principal expresses the philosophy of his school this way: ''We don't focus on what we can't do at this school; we focus on what we can do. We do whatever it takes to get kids across the finish line.'' See, this principal is challenging the soft bigotry of low expectations. And that is the spirit of our education reform and the commitment of our country: No dejaremos a ningun nino atras. We will leave no child behind. 
 We are making progress and there is more to do. In this time of change, most new jobs are filled by people with at least two years of college, yet only about one in four students gets there. In our high schools we will fund early intervention programs to help students at risk. We will place a new focus on math and science. As we make progress we will require a rigorous exam before graduation. By raising performance in our high schools and expanding Pell grants for low- and middle-income families, we will help more Americans start their career with a college diploma. 
 America's children must also have a healthy start in life. In a new term we will lead an aggressive effort to enroll millions of poor children who are eligible but not signed up for the government's health insurance programs. We will not allow a lack of attention or information to stand between these children and the health care they need.
 Anyone who wants more details on my agenda can find them online. The Web address is not very imaginative, but it's easy to remember: GeorgeWBush.com. 
 These changing times can be exciting times of expanded opportunity. And here, you face a choice. My opponent's policies are dramatically different from ours. Senator Kerry opposed Medicare reform and health savings accounts. After supporting my education reforms, he now wants to dilute them. He opposes legal and medical liability reform. He opposed reducing the marriage penalty, opposed doubling the child credit, opposed lowering income taxes for all who pay them. 
 No, wait a minute, wait a minute -- to be fair, there are some things my opponent is for. He's proposed more than $2 trillion in federal spending so far, and that's a lot, even for a senator from Massachusetts. And to pay for that spending, he is running on a platform of increasing taxes, and that's the kind of promise a politician usually keeps. His taxes -- his policies of tax and spend, of expanding government rather than expanding opportunity, are the politics of the past. We are on the path to the future, and we're not turning back.
 In this world of change, some things do not change: the values we try to live by, the institutions that give our lives meaning and purpose. Our society rests on a foundation of responsibility and character and family commitment. Because family and work are sources of stability and dignity, I support welfare reform that strengthens family and requires work. Because a caring society will value its weakest members, we must make a place for the unborn child. Because religious charities provide a safety net of mercy and compassion, our government must never discriminate against them. Because the union of a man and woman deserves an honored place in our society, I support the protection of marriage against activist judges. And I will continue to appoint federal judges who know the difference between personal opinion and the strict interpretation of the law.
 My opponent recently announced that he's the conservative -- the candidate of ''conservative values,'' which must have come as a surprise to a lot of his supporters.
 There are some problems with this claim. If you say the heart and soul of America is found in Hollywood, I'm afraid you are not the candidate of conservative values. If you voted against the bipartisan Defense of Marriage Act, which President Clinton signed, you are not the candidate of conservative values. If you gave a speech as my opponent did calling the Reagan presidency eight years of ''moral darkness,'' then you may be a lot of things, but the candidate of conservative values is not one of them.
 This election will also determine how America responds to the continuing danger of terrorism -- and you know where I stand. Three days after Sept. 11 I stood where Americans died in the ruins of the Twin Towers. Workers in hard hats were shouting to me, ''Whatever it takes.'' A fellow grabbed me by the arm and he said, ''Do not let me down.'' Since that day I wake up every morning thinking about how to better protect our country. I will never relent in defending America, whatever it takes. 
 So we have fought the terrorists across the earth, not for pride, not for power, but because the lives of our citizens are at stake. Our strategy is clear. We have tripled funding for homeland security and trained half a million first responders, because we are determined to protect our homeland. We are transforming our military and reforming and strengthening our intelligence services. We are staying on the offensive, striking terrorists abroad so we do not have to face them here at home. 
 And we are working to advance liberty in the broader Middle East because freedom will bring a future of hope and the peace we all want. And we will prevail. Our strategy is succeeding. 
 Four years ago, Afghanistan was the home base of Al Qaeda. Pakistan was a transit point for terrorist groups. Saudi Arabia was fertile ground for terrorist fund-raising. Libya was secretly pursuing nuclear weapons. Iraq was a gathering threat, and Al Qaeda was largely unchallenged as it planned attacks. 
 Today, the government of a free Afghanistan is fighting terror; Pakistan is capturing terrorist leaders; Saudi Arabia is making raids and arrests; Libya is dismantling its weapons programs; the army of a free Iraq is fighting for freedom; and more than three-quarters of Al Qaeda's key members and associates have been detained or killed. We have led, many have joined, and America and the world are safer.
 This progress involved careful diplomacy, clear moral purpose and some tough decisions. And the toughest came on Iraq. We knew Saddam Hussein's record of aggression and support for terror. We knew his long history of pursuing, even using, weapons of mass destruction. And we know that Sept. 11 requires our country to think differently. We must, and we will, confront threats to America before it is too late.
 In Saddam Hussein, we saw a threat. Members of both political parties, including my opponent and his running mate, saw the threat, and voted to authorize the use of force. We went to the United Nations Security Council, which passed a unanimous resolution demanding the dictator disarm, or face serious consequences. Leaders in the Middle East urged him to comply. After more than a decade of diplomacy, we gave Saddam Hussein another chance, a final chance, to meet his responsibilities to the civilized world. He again refused, and I faced the kind of decision that comes only to the Oval Office, a decision no president would ask for, but must be prepared to make. Do I forget the lessons of Sept. 11 and take the word of a madman, or do I take action to defend our country? Faced with that choice, I will defend America every time.
 Because we acted to defend our country, the murderous regimes of Saddam Hussein and the Taliban are history, more than 50 million people have been liberated and democracy is coming to the broader Middle East. 
 In Afghanistan, terrorists have done everything they can to intimidate people. Yet more than 10 million citizens have registered to vote in the October presidential election, a resounding endorsement of democracy. Despite ongoing acts of violence Iraq now has a strong prime minister, a national council and national elections are scheduled for January. Our nation is standing with the people of Afghanistan and Iraq because when America gives its word, America must keep its word.
 As importantly, we are serving a vital and historic cause that will make our country safer. Free societies in the Middle East will be hopeful societies, which no longer feed resentments and breed violence for export. Free governments in the Middle East will fight terrorists instead of harboring them, and that helps us keep the peace. 
 So our mission in Afghanistan and Iraq is clear: We will help new leaders to train their armies and move toward elections and get on the path of stability and democracy as quickly as possible. And then our troops will return home with the honor they have earned.
 Our troops know the historic importance of our work. One Army specialist wrote home: ''We are transforming a once sick society into a hopeful place. The various terrorist enemies we are facing in Iraq,'' he continued, ''are really aiming at you back in the United States. This is a test of will for our country. We soldiers of yours are doing great and scoring victories in confronting the evil terrorists.'' That young man is right; our men and women in uniform are doing a superb job for America. 
 Tonight I want to speak to all of them and to their families: You are involved in a struggle of historic proportion. Because of your service and sacrifice, we are defeating the terrorists where they live and plan, and you're making America safer. Because of you, women in Afghanistan are no longer shot in a sports stadium. Because of you, the people of Iraq no longer fear being executed and left in mass graves. Because of you, the world is more just and will be more peaceful. We owe you our thanks, and we owe you something more. We will give you all the resources, all the tools, and all the support you need for victory.
 Again, my opponent and I have different approaches. I proposed, and the Congress overwhelmingly passed, $87 billion in funding needed by our troops doing battle in Afghanistan and Iraq. My opponent and his running mate voted against this money for bullets and fuel and vehicles and body armor. When asked to explain his vote, the senator said, ''I actually did vote for the $87 billion before Ivoted against it.'' Then he said he was ''proud'' of his vote. Then, when pressed, he said it was a ''complicated'' matter. There's nothing complicated about supporting our troops in combat.
 Our allies also know the historic importance of our work. About 40 nations stand beside us in Afghanistan and some 30 in Iraq. I deeply appreciate the courage and wise counsel of leaders like Prime Minister Howard, President Kwasniewski, Prime Minister Berlusconi and, of course, Prime Minister Tony Blair.
 Again my opponent takes a different approach. In the midst of war he has called America's allies, quote, a ''coalition of the coerced and the bribed.'' That would be nations like Great Britain, Poland, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, Denmark, El Salvador, Australia and others -- allies that deserve the respect of all Americans, not the scorn of a politician. 
 I respect every soldier from every country who serves beside us in the hard work of history. America is grateful and America will not forget. 
 The people we have freed won't forget either. Not long ago seven Iraqi men came to see me in the Oval Office. They had X's branded into their foreheads and their right hands had been cut off by Saddam Hussein's secret police, the sadistic punishment for imaginary crimes. During our emotional visit, one of the Iraqi men used his new prosthetic hand to slowly write out in Arabic a prayer for God to bless America. 
 I am proud that our country remains the hope of the oppressed and the greatest force for good on this earth. Others understand the historic importance of our work. The terrorists know. They know that a vibrant, successful democracy at the heart of the Middle East will discredit their radical ideology of hate. They know that men and women with hope and purpose and dignity do not strap bombs on their bodies and kill the innocent. 
 The terrorists are fighting freedom with all their cunning and cruelty because freedom is their greatest fear. And they should be afraid, because freedom is on the march. I believe in the transformational power of liberty: The wisest use of American strength is to advance freedom. 
 As the citizens of Afghanistan and Iraq seize the moment, their example will send a message of hope throughout a vital region. Palestinians will hear the message that democracy and reform are within their reach, and so is peace with our good friend Israel. Young women across the Middle East will hear the message that their day of equality and justice is coming. Young men will hear the message that national progress and dignity are found in liberty, not tyranny and terror. Reformers and political prisoners and exiles will hear the message that their dream of freedom cannot be denied forever. And as freedom advances, heart by heart and nation by nation, America will be more secure and the world more peaceful. 
 America has done this kind of work before, and there have always been doubters. In 1946, 18 months after the fall of Berlin to allied forces, a journalist in The New York Times wrote this: ''Germany is a land in an acute stage of economic, political and moral crisis. European capitals are frightened. In every military headquarters, one meets alarmed officials doing their utmost to deal with the consequences of the occupation policy that they admit has failed.'' End quote. Maybe that same person is still around, writing editorials.
 Fortunately, we had a resolute president named Truman, who with the American people persevered, knowing that a new democracy at the center of Europe would lead to stability and peace. And because that generation of Americans held firm in the cause of liberty, we live in a better and safer world today.
 The progress we and our friends and allies seek in the broader Middle East will not come easily, or all at once. Yet Americans of all people should never be surprised by the power of liberty to transform lives and nations. That power brought settlers on perilous journeys, inspired colonies to rebellion, ended the sin of slavery and set our nation against the tyrannies of the 20th century. We were honored to aid the rise of democracy in Germany and Japan, Nicaragua, Central Europe and the Baltics. And that noble story goes on.
 I believe that America is called to lead the cause of freedom in a new century. I believe that millions in the Middle East plead in silence for their liberty. I believe that given the chance they will embrace the most honorable form of government ever devised by man. I believe all these things because freedom is not America's gift to the world, it is the Almighty God's gift to every man and woman in this world.
 This moment in the life of our country will be remembered. Generations will know if we kept our faith and kept our word. Generations will know if we seized this moment and used it to build a future of safety and peace. The freedom of many and the future security of our nation now depend on us. And tonight, my fellow Americans, I ask you to stand with me.
 In the last four years, you and I have come to know each other. Even when we don't agree, at least you know what I believe and where I stand. You may have noticed I have a few flaws, too. People sometimes have to correct my English. I knew I had a problem when Arnold Schwarzenegger started doing it. Some folks look at me and see a certain swagger, which in Texas is called ''walking.'' Now and then I come across as a little too blunt. And for that we can all thank the white-haired lady sitting right up there.
 One thing I've learned about the presidency is that whatever shortcomings you have, people are going to notice them and whatever strengths you have, you're going to need them. These four years have brought moments I could not foresee and will not forget. I've tried to comfort Americans who lost the most on Sept. 11, people who showed me a picture or told me a story, so I would know how much was taken from them. I've learned firsthand that ordering Americans into battle is the hardest decision, even when it is right.
 I have returned the salute of wounded soldiers, some with a very tough road ahead, who say they were just doing their job. I've held the children of the fallen, who were told their dad or mom is a hero, but would rather just have their dad or mom. I've met with parents and wives and husbands who have received a folded flag and said a final goodbye to a soldier they loved. 
 I am awed that so many have used those meetings to say that I'm in their prayers and to offer encouragement to me. Where does that strength like that come from? How can people so burdened with sorrow also feel such pride? It is because they know their loved one was last seen doing good. Because they know that liberty was precious to the one they lost. And in those military families, I have seen the character of a great nation: decent, idealistic and strong.
 The world saw that spirit three miles from here when the people of this city faced peril together and lifted a flag over the ruins and defied the enemy with their courage. 
 My fellow Americans, for as long as our country stands people will look to the resurrection of New York City and they will say: Here buildings fell, here a nation rose.
 We see America's character in our military, which finds a way or makes one. We see it in our veterans, who are supporting military families in their days of worry. We see it in our young people, who have found heroes once again. We see that character in workers and entrepreneurs, who are renewing our economy with their effort and optimism. And all of this has confirmed one belief beyond doubt: Having come this far, our tested and confident nation can achieve anything.
 To everything we know there is a season, a time for sadness, a time for struggle, a time for rebuilding. And now we have reached a time for hope. This young century will be liberty's century. By promoting liberty abroad, we will build a safer world. By encouraging liberty at home, we will build a more hopeful America. 
 Like generations before us, we have a calling from beyond the stars to stand for freedom. This is the everlasting dream of America. And tonight in this place that dream is renewed. Now we go forward, grateful for our freedom, faithful to our cause and confident in the future of the greatest nation on earth.
 May God bless you, and may God continue to bless our great country. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); MOUNTAINS (74%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (73%); EDUCATION REFORM (71%); CHILDREN (62%) Presidential Election of 2004; Conventions, National (US)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); DICK CHENEY (58%) George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2004



73 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; THE REPUBLICANS: THE CONVENTION IN NEW YORK -- STRATEGY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1504 words

HEADLINE: Buoyed G.O.P. Says It Has Framed Agenda for Fall

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER and JODI WILGOREN

 BODY:
Republicans ended their convention yesterday on a confident note, optimistic that they had framed the debate for the fall campaign around President Bush's strengths as a wartime president -- and that they had succeeded in raising significant doubts about Senator John Kerry with slashing attacks on the Democrat as too indecisive and liberal to lead.
 Scrambling to regain their political footing, Democrats vowed to recover from the attacks of August and return the voters' focus to the economy, with an aggressive new advertising campaign that highlights Mr. Bush's ''failure to deliver'' on issues like job creation and prescription drugs, and with a fiery new attack by Mr. Kerry last night on those ''who refused to serve when they could have'' and ''who misled America into Iraq.'' The Democrats scoffed at Mr. Bush's speech as an empty defense of the status quo, devoid of new ideas. [Page P1.] 
 No one will know until the postconvention polls how much the Republicans gained here, or how enduring those gains will be in a presidential race that has been essentially deadlocked for months. Given how polarized the voters have become, some experts argue that conventions are more about galvanizing the already committed than converting the undecided. 
 But Republican strategists have succeeded, at the moment, in setting the terms of the debate, forcing Mr. Kerry not only into defending his security credentials but also into undertaking a tough and possibly risky attack on Mr. Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney even before the Republicans had left New York.
 The Republicans clearly believed that their decision to hold their convention just four miles from ground zero, to hold it unusually late in the campaign year and to use it to cast Mr. Bush as a tested commander in chief for perilous times, opposed by an untrustworthy alternative, had paid off. 
 Mr. Bush's campaign advisers said they had entered this convention in better political shape than they expected -- tied with Mr. Kerry in several polls, rather than behind -- and expected an additional bounce from the pageantry of the past four days. 
 ''I still think it will be close, and you won't know for a few days,'' said Matthew Dowd, a top Bush strategist. But he added, cautiously, that it was ''a distinct possibility'' Mr. Bush would begin the post-Labor Day sprint to November with a lead.
 Mark Mellman, the pollster for Mr. Kerry, agreed. ''Bush has a lot of room to bounce and we expect him to bounce,'' Mr. Mellman said. ''Every time a president speaks to the country -- with one recent exception--they get a bounce.'' But, he added, ''My guess is he'll have a big bounce, and in a couple weeks it will be back close to even.''
 From the start, the Democrats anticipated the kind of attacks the Republicans unleashed this week, which is why they largely devoted their convention in Boston to presenting Mr. Kerry as a decorated Vietnam War hero with the strength and courage to be president. At the time, Mr. Kerry's strategists indicated that they believed the convention would let their candidate cross a critical threshold and be seen as a credible commander in chief, enabling him to move on to domestic policy.
 Democrats historically have an advantage on issues like health care and jobs, and they consider Mr. Bush particularly vulnerable on those issues, given the economic troubles, soaring health costs and lagging job growth of recent years, which they expect to be underscored by Friday's employment numbers.
 But Mr. Kerry was thrown off-stride by the largely unsubstantiated attacks of a group of conservative Vietnam veterans last month. And many Democrats now look back and view their own convention as a missed opportunity to begin the debate on domestic issues -- not just to play defense on national security.
 Mindful of the second-guessing and new doubts, the high command of the Kerry campaign defended those strategic decisions yesterday and said they had only begun to fight. 
 ''If you ask a convention or a 30-second television ad to do too much, you get nothing out of it,'' said Tad Devine, a senior Kerry adviser. ''I think that's why we had a pretty good convention. If we had to go back and do four days over again, I think there's very little we would change.''
 Mr. Devine also said that Mr. Kerry would not respond to the harsh portrayal of him point by point. But he promised: ''There will be pushback and there will be challenge. We will challenge the president in relation to his policies.'' 
 The pushback began Thursday when the high command of the Kerry campaign made an unusual foray to New York to sell their strategy for the fall to political reporters covering the Republican convention, which the Kerry advisers denounced as filled with invective. ''I think the personal attacks are really out of bounds,'' said Mary Beth Cahill, Mr. Kerry's campaign manager. ''It's turning off mainstream voters.''
 Ms. Cahill said that despite the influx of new blood at high levels of the Kerry team and the slippage in polls in recent weeks, the campaign had not shifted its plans. ''We've had a strategy all along and now we're in the fall phase of implementing it,'' she said.
 The Kerry aides brushed off criticism in Democratic circles about the seemingly stagnant month, noting that there had been similar hand-wringing in March, when they were also under fierce attack. ''We always knew August would be difficult,'' Ms. Cahill said. ''We will be competitive dollar for dollar in the fall when it really matters and when voters are paying attention.''
 Underscoring Ms. Cahill's contention yesterday morning that this race is really starting anew, Mr. Kerry swung back hard at what he called the anger and distortion of the Republican convention at a midnight rally in Ohio. He contrasted his own record as a Vietnam veteran with Mr. Cheney's lack of service, and said that Mr. Bush was unfit for the Oval Office because of his handling of the war in Iraq and the economy.
 There was another major piece of unfinished business from the Democratic convention -- by spending so little time focused on Mr. Kerry's 20 years in the Senate, it gave the Republicans something of a blank slate to fill this week. Speaker after speaker took the stage at the Republican convention to denounce Mr. Kerry's voting record on foreign and domestic policy as liberal and extreme. 
 Even Mr. Bush, in a much more positive speech than many of the Republicans who preceded him, had harsh words for Mr. Kerry's values and votes.
 Democrats asserted today that Mr. Bush's convention was so negative that it was unlikely to appeal to the remaining uncommitted voters who will decide this election. 
 But Mr. Dowd, the Bush strategist, said that the Democrats ''had a convention that didn't tell the public anything new'' about Mr. Kerry, and failed to connect Mr. Kerry's proposals with his record in public life. ''It was as if he said, 'I served in Vietnam and I can do health care,''' Mr. Dowd said.
 Moreover, Mr. Bush's advisers say that their convention was a careful balance of moderates and conservatives, past and future, attacks on Mr. Kerry -- or, as they put it, ''contrasts'' -- and highlights of Mr. Bush's accomplishments. And, they said, it was all put in the context of the challenges facing the nation since terrorists struck the World Trade Center and the Pentagon.
 Last night, Mr. Bush tried to pivot to the next four years, in a speech before his biggest audience. If Senator Zell Miller, Democrat of Georgia, and Mr. Cheney rallied the Republican base on Wednesday night, the president tried to present a positive vision for the political center. 
 Taking a cue from Mr. Kerry, the Bush campaign issued its own book last night, titled ''A Plan for a Safer World and More Hopeful America.''
 The book and the speech tried to cast Mr. Bush as a sensitive leader for a changing economy -- a man who thinks about flextime for working parents, job training for those who want to move ahead, more flexible arrangements for health care and retirement savings. ''We are making progress, and there is more to do,'' he said. For all the Republican euphoria, the declining audience for conventions -- coupled with the intensely polarized electorate -- has many analysts questioning how much difference a convention makes these days. Geoffrey Garin, a Democratic pollster, said that the undecided ''are not the people watching this convention.'' He added, ''They are not partisan by definition and they do not think these partisan events are designed for them.''
 In fact, many say those voters will not check in until the fall debates.
 Even a Republican strategist, speaking on the condition that he not be identified, suggested that the conventional wisdom about who has political momentum was turning rather too fast, as groupthink set in on the political world. 
 ''Republicans will not feel as good next week as they feel this week,'' the strategist said. ''Beware of the bubble.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Delegates celebrated last night after President Bush delivered his acceptance speech at the Republican National Convention. (Photo by Yoni Brook/The New York Times)(pg. P5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (79%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HIJACKING (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); TERRORISM (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); US LABOR DAY (68%); JOB CREATION (55%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (55%) Presidential Election of 2004; Conventions, National (US); Election Issues; Terrorism; Airlines and Airplanes; Presidential Election of 2004; Hijacking; World Trade Center (NYC)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); DICK CHENEY (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%) Robin Toner; Jodi Wilgoren; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry; Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%) Iraq; New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2004



74 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; THE REPUBLICANS: THE CONVENTION IN NEW YORK -- THE OVERVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1770 words

HEADLINE: Bush, Evoking 9/11, Vows to 'Build a Safer World'

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY and RICHARD W. STEVENSON; Thomas Crampton contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
George W. Bush accepted the Republican nomination to run for a second term as president last night, outlining proposals that he vowed would create jobs, expand health care and broaden educational opportunities, while he battered Senator John Kerry for what Mr. Bush said was a weak and wavering record on national security and the economy.
 At the culmination of a four-day convention in New York, Mr. Bush repeatedly and soberly referred to the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks as he portrayed his first term in the White House as one shaped by that tragedy. Defining his presidency with historic sweep, he suggested that Mr. Kerry would falter in the face of the continuing threat to the United States.
 ''We will build a safer world and a more hopeful America, and nothing will hold us back,'' Mr. Bush said. [Transcript, Page P4; video, nytimes.com.] 
 ''Generations will know if we seized this moment, and used it to build a future of safety and peace. The freedom of many, and the future security of our nation, now depend on us.''
 For 62 minutes, speaking from a circular stage that was assembled overnight at the center of Madison Square Garden, Mr. Bush moved between a discussion of national security and his domestic programs. 
 In the process, he drew critical contrasts with Mr. Kerry, pointing to votes the senator had cast and statements he had made in 20 years in office to portray his opponent as advocate of big government, defense cuts and tax increases. He mocked Mr. Kerry's efforts to associate himself with conservative values, describing the Massachusetts Democrats as representing the liberal ''heart and soul'' of Hollywood.
 ''His policies of tax and spend, of expanding government rather than expanding opportunity, are the politics of the past,'' Mr. Bush said. ''We are on the path to the future, and we are not turning back.''
 In an unusual counterattack on the night of an incumbent's acceptance speech, Mr. Kerry, under intensifying pressure from Democrats to fight back, scheduled a late-night rally in Springfield, Ohio, to deliver his toughest attack on Mr. Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney. 
 ''You all saw the anger and distortion of the Republican convention,'' Mr. Kerry said. ''For the past week, they attacked my patriotism and even my fitness to serve as commander in chief. Well, here's my answer to them. I will not have my commitment to defend this country questioned by those who refused to serve when they could have, by those who misled America into Iraq.''
 Mr. Bush put forth broad objectives covering Social Security, taxes, health care, education and jobs, after months in which members of his own party implored him to set out a detailed agenda for a second four years in the White House and the Democrats excoriated him as lacking one. The speech called for two historic undertakings -- rewriting the tax code to make it simpler and more conducive to economic growth and overhauling Social Security to add personal investment accounts -- but offered no answers to the political and budgetary obstacles that could impede such plans.
 But most of the proposals, on issues like affordable housing and community college job training, were relatively modest and not of a scale likely to redefine the presidential race. His package lacked the freshness and sweep of the agenda he ran in 2000, presumably in part because the growing federal budget deficit constrained him from proposing big new programs. 
 Despite the most intensive security ever imposed at a nominating convention, at least two protesters found their way to the hall, shouting at Mr. Bush as he spoke. 
 ''Let's drown out those protesters -- I've already heard their garbage,'' said Anna Trinque, a delegate from Florida, as a woman dressed in a pink slip was dragged out by guards. The president paused and grinned as the audience drowned out the interlopers with shouts of ''U.S.A.'' He did not acknowledge them.
 The speech was distinctly less strident than the harder edged speeches that served as the four-day warm up for the president's climactic acceptance speech. As he did in 2000, Mr. Bush warmed the audience with self-deprecatory jokes, including one about his tendency toward malapropisms. 
 At times, the speech, with its rosterlike recitation of initiatives, sounded like a State of the Union address. A phrase that had been a staple of Mr. Bush's first campaign for president, but had fallen out of his oratorical lexicon -- a call for compassionate conservatism -- was pressed back into service last night.
 The speech opened an elaborate roll-out of Mr. Bush's fall campaign, and it capped the most combative Republican convention since the party gathered in Houston to renominate Mr. Bush's father in 1992. After four days in which speaker after speaker attacked Mr. Kerry's credibility, credentials and even his patriotism, and focused almost entirely on national security, Mr. Bush expanded his appeal with a discussion of domestic policy.
 Taking a page from Bill Clinton in 1992 and Mr. Kerry last month, Mr. Bush issued a 48-page glossy book that described his proposals, titled ''A Plan for a Safer World and More Hopeful America.'' Before he walked out Republicans handed out hundreds of placards reading, ''Agenda for America,'' which they waved in a blizzard of American flags.
 Mr. Bush said his plan could also be found on the campaign's Web site, GeorgeWBush.com. At the same moment that the White House released the text of his speech and the booklet, his campaign announced that it would start a wave of advertising next week promoting the domestic plan.
 The president burst onto stage and stood for nearly three minutes as his audience shouted out: ''Four more years.'' Mr. Bush, the 43rd president, smiled at the 41st president and his wife -- that would be George H. W. Bush and Barbara Bush -- sitting in a box across the hall.
 Throughout his speech Mr. Bush appeared rested, comfortable and confident. He arrived after being introduced by a videotape that featured images of him standing on the rubble of the World Trade Center. The campaign video included the screams of sirens and the images of walls filled with pictures and names familiar to those who lived through the attacks.
 Mr. Bush delivered his speech on a closing night that neatly summarized the central themes of the convention -- from its relentless attacks on Mr. Kerry, as carried by Gov. George E. Pataki of New York, to the repeated Sept. 11 references and the assertion, often in terse language, that Mr. Kerry would not protect the country from further harm. Mr. Pataki, in his speech, strongly suggested that failures by the Clinton administration to go after terrorists had permitted the attacks of Sept. 11. 
 ''Senator Kerry says, 'America should go to war not when it wants to go to war but when it has to go to war,''' Mr. Pataki said. ''Well, senator: the firefighters and cops who ran into those burning towers and died on Sept. 11 didn't want to go to war, they were heroes in a war they didn't even know existed.'' 
 Mr. Bush was scheduled to leave New York after his speech, flying to Pennsylvania which, unlike New York, is a swing state. 
 From the start of his speech, Mr. Bush took notice of the difficult times the nation has faced because of what took place Sept. 11, the event that led Republicans to choose to hold their first convention here. 
 ''When I said those words four years ago, none of us could have envisioned what these years would bring,'' he said. ''In the heart of this great city, we saw tragedy arrive on a quiet morning.''
 The president then underlined what has emerged as the dominant theme of this convention: that he would protect the nation from harm, and that Mr. Kerry could not be counted on to do the same.
 ''This election will also determine how America responds to the continuing danger of terrorism -- and you know where I stand,'' he said. ''Three days after Sept. 11, I stood where Americans died, in the ruins of the twin towers. Workers in hard hats were shouting to me, 'Whatever it takes.' A fellow grabbed me by the arm and he said, 'Do not let me down.'
 ''Since that day, I wake up every morning thinking about how to better protect our country,'' he said. ''I will never relent in defending America. Whatever it takes.'' 
 For all that, there was one notable omission from Mr. Bush's speech. The president made no mention of the foreign figure who arguably most influenced his first term in the White House: Osama bin Laden, the yet-to-be-captured leader of Al Qaeda.
 Even as Mr. Bush emphasized national security, his speech reflected what his own campaign aides said was a reality of this election: that his role as commander in chief alone could not win him back the White House. As he did in the 2000 campaign, Mr. Bush called for allowing but not requiring workers who are not already near retirement age to invest part of their payroll taxes in personal investment accounts. But such a change would not by itself address what some analysts see as a looming financial crisis in the retirement system.
 Mr. Bush did not say how he would pay for the costs of a transition to a system with personal accounts, a shift that could cost trillions of dollars in coming decades at a time when the government is already saddled with substantial deficits.
 In calling for a rewriting the tax code, Mr. Bush waded into one of the most complex issues facing the government. The current code has few defenders in its totality, but Washington is thick with interest groups who have a vested interest in parts of it. The president avoided any mention of how he would deal with popular provisions that would probably have to go in any ambitious overhaul, like the deduction for mortgage interest payments, and he did not allude to the deep divisions among advocates of change over what kind of system might replace the current one, like a national sales tax or a single-rate flat tax.
 Under the rubric of an ''ownership society'' intended to promote individual power and responsibility as well as to give people more of a direct financial stake in the economy, he also made a case for tax incentives to help people save for health insurance costs and for efforts by government to encourage homeownership.
 Mr. Bush's speech drew as ecstatic a reaction as he has found while campaigning, and for long moments, he stood and gazed at the cheering crowd, smiling just slightly. From the floor, Steve Minarik of Rochester watched in awe.
 ''This is one of the most moving moments of a lifetime,'' Mr. Minarik said.


CORRECTION-DATE: September 4, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption yesterday with the continuation of a front-page article about President Bush's address to the Republican National Convention misstated the former title of Gen. Tommy R. Franks, who also spoke. He was head of the United States Central Command, not chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.


GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney acknowledging the cheers last night. (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. A1)
 Gen. Tommy R. Franks, who stepped down last year as chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, after speaking yesterday at the convention. (Photo by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. P3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); HIJACKING (76%); TERRORISM (76%); TRANSCRIPTS (73%); SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); LIBERALISM (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); AIRLINES (60%) Presidential Election of 2004; Conventions, National (US); Election Issues; Terrorism; Airlines and Airplanes; Hijacking; Presidential Election of 2004; World Trade Center (NYC); Madison Square Garden; Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); DICK CHENEY (89%); JOHN KERRY (79%) Adam Nagourney; Richard W Stevenson; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry; Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%) New York City; Washington (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2004



75 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: For Some, Bargain Dining Transcends Political Ideology

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

 BODY:
The Republicans and the protesters who have dogged their steps this week may not agree on Iraq or the economy, but they both like to eat well -- and at a discount.
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and the city's tourism bureau offered both groups of partisans lists of restaurants, museums and stores where they could receive reduced prices. An unscientific survey suggests that both groups have been spurning modest-priced chains like Applebee's Neighborhood Grill and Bar in favor of pricier dining rooms on the list, like Broadway Joe Steakhouse, where the filet mignon goes for $30.75.
 Patti Aagaard, the manager at Broadway Joe, on West 46th Street between Eighth and Ninth Avenues, said her restaurant had a ''very strong week'' despite traffic restrictions around the Times Square area, topped by a party of 50 delegates from West Virginia and a half dozen smaller groups of acknowledged protesters. 
 Of course, the Republicans and the protesters do not carry the same amounts of cash in their wallets. David Schmitt, a waiter at Broadway Joe, recalled that one party of seven protesters ordered only a single entree of sliced filet. Luckily, he said, the next night the restaurant had a table upstairs of nine delegates from Georgia who made up for the protesters with several steaks and two bottles of wine. 
 ''They were nice people, and they tipped,'' Mr. Schmitt said.
 By contrast, on no longer bawdy, naughty or sporty 42nd Street, Ali Ghonaim, the manager of the Applebee's there, said he had not seen a single Republican delegate on his premises. Nor a protester for that matter.
 ''I've seen people with suits here, but you don't really know,'' he said, wondering if a Republican may have dined there without wanting to call attention to himself. ''But nobody asked for a discount.''
 In a transparent attempt to soften up the hearts -- and bellies -- of the demonstrators, the Bloomberg administration announced in mid-August that it would offer discounts to law-abiding protesters, just as it had to Republican delegates. The protesters had merely to pick up a button with an image of the Statue of Liberty and the words ''Peaceful Political Activists'' from the office of NYC & Company, the city's tourism bureau, on Seventh Avenue and 52d Street.
 Many protesters shunned the buttons. ''I think it is a feeble attempt to make protesters feel good about the city,'' said Samantha Heller, a spokeswoman for the Poor People's Economic Human Rights Campaign. 
 ''We were living in a Bushville encampment with over 200 poor and homeless families and eating from soup kitchens,'' said Ms. Heller, whose camp was on a vacant lot in Brooklyn. ''Even with the discounts, they were still way out of any price range for our folks.''
 But some protesters were not so fastidious about their ideology, with anti-Bush diners spotted at more than a few of the expensive restaurants on the list, protesting only when the food did not come quickly enough. 
 Marios Strangalos, the manager of O'Neal's near Lincoln Center, said a colorful group of protesters wearing mostly pink showed up after a demonstration for a nightcap.
 ''We haven't had many Republicans, to tell the truth,'' he said. ''We're too democratic.''
 Some museums have been visited by groups of bargain-minded protesters and delegates. Eight Midwestern delegates and at least one button-wearing protester from Richmond, Va., showed up for tours at the Lower East Side Tenement Museum. The Museum of Sex, at 233 Fifth Avenue at 27th Street, has also had a sprinkling of both, even though it was scratched at the last minute from the Republican list. But the Whitney Museum of American Art, despite an exhibit related to the Vietnam War, had a low turnout of both delegates and protesters. Officials there speculated that it was too far uptown from the action. 
 Whatever the friction on the streets outside, people on both sides have minded their manners while dining. When groups of Republicans and protesters have shown up at Broadway Joe at the same time, ''there doesn't seem to be any conflict in the restaurant,'' said Ms. Aagaard, the manager.
 She added, ''We don't readily put these people together.''
 One of her waiters, Mr. Schmitt, a libertarian by philosophy and a supporter of the war in Iraq, said he had a pleasant dialogue with two protesters from Minnesota and all three realized they had come honestly by their opinions as a result of different interpretations of Catholicism. 
 ''The situation is loaded with irony,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Waitresses at Applebee's in Times Square were not busy serving Republicans and protesters, who were at pricier places on the discount list. (Photo by Diane Bondareff for The New York Times)
 Buttons that enabled law-abiding protesters to get bargain prices. (Photo by Tony Cenicola/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); TOURISM (77%); BEEF (76%); RIOTS (76%); FAMILY (73%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (69%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (63%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (57%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%); HOMELESSNESS (50%) Restaurants; Presidential Election of 2004; Conventions, National (US); Demonstrations and Riots

COMPANY: APPLEBEE'S INTERNATIONAL INC (85%)

ORGANIZATION: New York City Convention and Visitors Bureau

INDUSTRY: NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (85%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (85%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (88%) Joseph Berger; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2004



76 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 3; National Desk; THE REPUBLICANS: THE CONVENTION IN NEW YORK -- THE RECORD; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: Comparing the President's Acceptance Speech and History

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and ELISABETH BUMILLER

 BODY:
President Bush's acceptance speech last night included assertions about his accomplishments and Senator John Kerry's past statements and voting patterns that were at best selective, and in some cases challenged by the historical record. 
 Not surprisingly, they were also challenged by the Kerry campaign, which refuted some of Mr. Bush's accusations and pleaded guilty with an explanation to others.
 Mr. Kerry does oppose health savings accounts, which are tax-free vehicles for people to set aside money for medical expenses. Mr. Bush and other Republicans see them as a way to give people control over medical insurance, but Democrats and consumer groups say they are mostly an option for healthy, affluent people.

PRESIDENT'S STATEMENT -- ''Now seniors are getting immediate help buying medicine.''

FACT -- The truth of the statement depends on how ''immediate'' is defined. A drug discount card became available this summer, and about 4.1 million Medicare beneficiaries have signed up, about 10 percent of all of those eligible. There remains much debate about how much savings the card actually provides.
 The new drug benefit provided for in the Medicare bill, covering about 75 percent of drug costs, does not begin until 2006.

PRESIDENT'S STATEMENT -- ''After supporting my education reforms, he now wants to dilute them.''

FACT -- Mr. Bush was referring to the No Child Left Behind Act, which was passed by Congress in 2002 and set performance standards for most American schools. Mr. Kerry voted for the bill, but like many other Democrats since then, he has criticized Mr. Bush for not fully financing his plan. Last night Mr. Kerry's campaign argued that Mr. Bush has fallen $27 billion short of financing the law; Mr. Bush's aides acknowledge that financing has been short of initial projections.

PRESIDENT'S STATEMENT -- ''I believe in the energy and innovative spirit of America's workers, entrepreneurs, farmers and ranchers -- so we unleashed that energy with the largest tax relief in a generation. Because we acted, our economy is growing again, and creating jobs, and nothing will hold us back.''

FACT -- The economy was in recession for much of 2001. It has been growing since then, although the pace of growth, after picking up last year and early this year, appears to have faltered again. Throughout the recovery, the rate of job creation has lagged the rate typical of past economic cycles.

PRESIDENT'S STATEMENT -- Mr. Bush cited a column in The New York Times, published in 1946, that described the desperate state of occupied Germany. He quoted it as saying that Germany was ''a land in an acute stage of economic, political and moral crisis,'' and that everywhere in the country ''one meets alarmed officials doing their utmost to deal with the consequences of the occupation policy that they admit has failed.''
 ''Maybe that same person's still around, writing editorials,'' Mr. Bush said, going on to say that the country had a ''resolute president named Truman'' who stuck with the occupation. 

FACT -- Mr. Bush accurately quoted the column, written by Anne O'Hare McCormick, but he failed to mention that Ms. McCormick also praised the conditions in the American sector of Germany, saying it was working better than other sectors because the United States had turned over more of the administration of the area to Germans to ''encourage initiative and develop self-government.'' It is, of course, a policy similar to what Mr. Bush did in Iraq in June.




PRESIDENT'S STATEMENT -- ''Senator Kerry opposed Medicare reform and health savings accounts,'' Mr. Bush said halfway through his speech, taking on his opponent, but not with the ferocity that Vice President Dick Cheney and Senator Zell Miller, Democrat of Georgia, did on Wednesday night. He added, ''I brought Republicans and Democrats together to strengthen Medicare.''

FACT -- The reform was an overwhelmingly Republican initiative, with only 16 Democrats voting for it in the House, and 11 in the Senate. Mr. Kerry was on the campaign trail and did not vote on Mr. Bush's favored version of the Medicare plan, but he is on record as being opposed to it, saying it benefited drug companies at the expense of the elderly. Mr. Kerry, like most other Democrats, favored a more ambitious plan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (85%); JOB CREATION (85%); ELECTIONS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); TAX LAW (76%); HEALTH SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (76%); TAX INCENTIVES (76%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (76%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); MEDICARE (75%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); HISTORY (73%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); TAX RELIEF (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (70%); EDUCATION REFORM (70%); EDUCATION LAW (70%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (70%); AFFLUENT MARKET (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (63%); GUILTY PLEAS (56%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Conventions, National (US)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%) David E Sanger; Elisabeth Bumiller; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2004



77 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 1; National Desk; THE REPUBLICANS: THE CONVENTION IN NEW YORK -- POLITICAL POINTS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1254 words

HEADLINE: The Show Is Over. Now for the Awards.

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY and SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

 BODY:
The Walter Mondale Where's-the-Beef Award: George W. Bush, who told the conventioneers, ''Anyone who wants more details on my agenda can find them online.'' Ever the wonks, we followed the directions to georgewbush.com, seeking the details of the crowd-pleasing promise in his speech to ''lead a bipartisan effort to reform and simplify the federal tax code.'' Here's all we found: ''President Bush will work with Congress to make the tax code simpler for taxpayers, encourage saving and investment, and improve the economy's ability to create jobs and raise wages.'' 
 Most overanalyzed gimmick: The round stage for President Bush's acceptance speech. Was it designed so he would look like a pitcher all alone on the mound, or a man of the people in the center of the hall? After the Democrats projected strength with a stage looking like a battleship, was Mr. Bush trying to soften his image by standing on a platform without any hard edges? With the spotlight on him, would he come off as Teddy Roosevelt, ''the man in the arena,'' or more like Thomas E. Dewey, derided as ''the little man on the wedding cake''?
 Sometimes a stage is just a stage. 
 Most awkward sight: Republican delegates dancing to ''Soul Man.''
 Best euphemism: Marvin Scott, the Republican Senate candidate from Indiana, an African-American, for calling his ancestors ''involuntary immigrants.''
 Greatest gift to Republicans: John Kerry windsurfing off Nantucket. No one looks presidential in a bathing suit, especially when the rest of the news features Republican guys in suits talking tough about defending the country. Jay Leno delivered the coup de grace: ''I mean, even his hobby depends on which way the wind blows.''
 Greatest gift to Mr. Bush's speechwriters: Mr. Kerry's description of himself as having ''conservative values.'' It enabled Mr. Bush to declare, ''If you gave a speech, as my opponent did, calling the Reagan presidency eight years of 'moral darkness,' then you may be a lot of things, but the candidate of conservative values is not one of them.''
 Greatest gift to Democrats (runner-up): The Band-Aids with purple hearts worn by conventioneers. The Republican leadership quickly ordered them removed, but not before indignant Democrats cut into the Republicans' air time. 
 Greatest gift to Democrats: Mr. Bush's declaration on Monday that the war on terror could not be won, followed by a retraction a day later. If you're going to put on a meticulously scripted show, don't blow the opening night with an ad-lib.
 Free Speech Award: The Republican National Committee, which, unlike its Democratic counterpart, permitted the Arab network Al Jazeera to post its sign inside the convention hall all week. It also let in a certain filmmaker. 
 Missing in action: Jeb Bush. For the clubby Bush clan, the convention was a family affair; some 90 Bush relatives spent the week in New York. But there was a notable exception: the president's brother Jeb, the Florida governor. He skipped the quadrennial family reunion, saying he needed to tend to victims of Hurricane Charley at home. But his absence was convenient for Republicans, allowing the president to avoid all those unpleasant memories of Florida in 2000, as well as predictions that a third Bush would seek the presidency in 2008.
 Stupid pet trick: The White House staff's home video of President Bush's dog, Barney. The sketch featured Karl Rove, the White House political adviser, doing an impression of Howard Dean's scream; Andrew H. Card Jr., the chief of staff, scampering across the White House lawn; and Karen P. Hughes, Mr. Bush's longtime communications aide, feeding the Scottish terrier red meat and telling him to ''stay on message.''
 Note to Karl: Don't give up your day job. 
 Least expected political rehabilitation: Richard Nixon, who inspired Arnold Schwarzenegger to become a Republican. ''Listening to Nixon speak sounded more like a breath of fresh air,'' Governor Schwarzenegger told the convention. ''I said to my friend, I said, 'What party is he?' My friend said, 'He's a Republican.' I said, 'Then I am a Republican.'''
 Best line of the convention: ''Don't be economic girlie men!'' No attribution necessary.
 Most succinct attack on the legal profession: Mitt Romney, the governor of Massachusetts. After complaining about the costs of lawsuits and malpractice insurance, he said, ''And Senator Edwards, if you don't like hearing that, sue me.''
 Best line by the Bush twins: The excuse they borrowed from their father's standard response to questions about his youth. Alluding to their well-publicized adventures in under-age drinking, Jenna Bush said, ''We kept trying to explain to my dad that when we were young and irresponsible, well, we were young and irresponsible.''
 Worst line by the Bush twins: ''I know it's hard to believe, but our parents' favorite term of endearment for each other is actually 'Bushie.''' Too much information.
 Ambien Award: Senator Bill Frist, the doctor who offered a new prescription for insomniacs in the hall. He combined a plodding, emotion-free speaking style with flights of rhetoric like, ''Prescription drugs and Medicare, tax-free Health Savings Accounts, an ethical framework for scientific discovery: these will be part of our future. Tax credits for the uninsured; electronic medical records; a just, fair and fast medical liability system'' -- he went on, but we won't. 
 Most strategic electoral use of Sept. 11: Gov. George E. Pataki of New York. In his remarks last night, he told of people from three states who helped New York after Sept. 11, and then asked their delegations to rise. All three -- Oregon, Iowa and Pennsylvania -- just happen to be battleground states. 
 The My-General-Can-Beat-Up-Your-Band-of-Brothers Award: Tommy Franks, the retired general who directed the Iraq war and endorsed Mr. Bush last night. Unfortunately, he also departed from military protocol by announcing, ''Wow, this convention rocks!''
 English as a Second Language Award: Mr. Bush, who said: ''People sometimes have to correct my English. I knew I had a problem when Arnold Schwarzenegger started doing it.''
 Lamest Democratic response: The ''Thousand Points of Hope'' rallies across the country last night, at which people held candles and flashlights. If you're going to steal a Republican idea -- the ''thousand points of light'' that became a signature line of the first President Bush -- at least change the number.
 Teresa Heinz Kerry Shove It Award: Zell Miller, the Democratic senator from Georgia and convention keynote speaker, for telling Chris Matthews, the host of the MSNBC program ''Hardball'' to ''get out of my face.''
 Mr. Miller's hellfire and brimstone address, which included a riff on Senator Kerry's votes on defense spending -- ''This is the man who wants to be commander in chief of our U.S. armed forces? U.S. forces armed with what? Spitballs?'' -- was a huge hit in the hall. But even some conventiongoers were left scratching their heads when the smooth-talking Southerner took on Mr. Matthews.
 ''You know, I wish, I wish we lived in the day where you could challenge a person to a duel,'' he said at one point. Mr. Matthews, a man not known for letting his guests get a word in edgewise, tried desperately to reclaim his ground, but the senator would not give. We think Mr. Miller, who will retire from the Senate in January, has a television future show in his future: ''Spitball.'' 
 Best rationale for having Zell Miller deliver the keynote address: He made Dick Cheney look moderate.


GRAPHIC: Drawings (Illustrations by Stephen Savage)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONSERVATISM (86%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (71%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (65%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (64%); JOB CREATION (55%) Presidential Election of 2004; Conventions, National (US)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); JOHN F TIERNEY (58%); JAY LENO (50%) John Tierney; Sheryl Gay Stolberg

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2004



78 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 3, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section P; Column 6; National Desk; THE REPUBLICANS: THE CONVENTION IN NEW YORK -- FOREIGN POLICY; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: Kerry Wants Broader Effort From Bush On Sudan

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER; Warren M. Hoge contributed reporting for this article from the United Nations, and Steven R. Weisman from Washington.

DATELINE: NANTUCKET, Mass., Sept. 2 

 BODY:
Senator John Kerry called on President Bush on Thursday to take the lead in stopping the killing of civilians in the Darfur region of Sudan by declaring it a genocide, pushing for tough United Nations sanctions on the government, backing the deployment of an international force and raising money for relief aid.
 As a United Nations special envoy, Jan Pronk, briefed the Security Council in New York on his findings that Sudan had failed to rein in the Arab militias attacking black Africans in Darfur, Mr. Kerry said the choice facing the Bush administration was ''whether to give Sudan another pass or, finally, to punish the real perpetrators of the violence.''
 ''Many governments want to evade the issue yet again,'' Mr. Kerry said in a statement. ''I hope ours will not be one of them.'' 
 An estimated 50,000 black Africans have been killed and 1.2 million have been displaced by marauding Arab Janjaweed militias armed and encouraged by the Sudanese government. The United Nation has characterized the campaign of raping women, razing villages, destroying crops and poisoning water supplies as ethnic cleansing, and Congress has declared it genocide. A report by Secretary General Kofi Annan on Wednesday used the term ''scorched-earth policy.''
 In a sternly worded report based on the findings of Mr. Pronk, Mr. Annan said that attacks against civilians were continuing, that a vast majority of militias had not been disarmed and that ''no concrete steps have been taken to bring to justice or even identify any of the militia leaders or perpetrators of these attacks, allowing the violations of human rights and the basic laws of war to continue in a climate of impunity.''
 At the United Nations, the United States has taken the lead in pressing reluctant members of the Security Council to act on the Sudan crisis, and on Thursday Ambassador John C. Danforth, formerly President Bush's special envoy to Sudan, complained that Mr. Pronk was too easy on the Sudanese government.
 ''The fact of the matter is that the government of Sudan has been directly involved in military action against civilian villages in Darfur, including within the last week, and it's just important to set that straight,'' Mr. Danforth said. Mr. Pronk, he said, was ''flat-out wrong'' not to have made that point.
 Mr. Danforth added that the United States felt it was important to bring as much pressure as possible on Sudanese leaders. ''Without that kind of pressure,'' he said, ''the government of Sudan will try to do its usual job of trying to float through this thing.''
 Mr. Kerry noted that the administration had estimated in June that as many as one million civilians could die if the militias were not disarmed and relief aid failed to get through. Yet, he said, the administration ''and the international community have not done nearly enough.''
 He called on Mr. Bush to ''stop equivocating'' and declare the attacks a genocide, and to release the findings of a State Department investigation of the crisis. Two dozen experts hired by the department spent a month interviewing refugees and confirming widespread atrocities, and their report, which includes 1,200 interviews, is on the desk of Secretary of State Colin L. Powell.
 Mr. Kerry also said the president should press the United Nations to create a commission to investigate possible war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide.
 He urged Mr. Bush to press the Security Council to impose sanctions on the Sudanese government in Khartoum, the capital, including freezing the assets of government leaders and their business affiliates, outlawing arms sales or transfers to Sudan, and embargoing Sudanese oil.
 Administration officials have dismissed such talk as unrealistic, however, given the opposition of Security Council members, particularly China and France. On Wednesday evening, Mr. Powell cautioned that sanctions could be vetoed or could make Khartoum more intransigent.
 Mr. Kerry also said the United States should provide or help raise the full $531 million needed for food, medicine and other relief supplies. The administration says it will have allotted $295 million by the end of the month.
 On the question of military intervention, Mr. Kerry said the administration should push the United Nations to deploy an international force and to authorize it to use all means necessary to disarm militias, protect civilians and allow aid to get through. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (90%); GENOCIDE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); WAR CRIMES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (77%); DISPLACED PERSONS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (75%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (74%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (72%) United States International Relations; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; War Crimes, Genocide and Crimes Against Humanity; Election Issues; Foreign Aid; Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%) United Nations

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN KERRY (92%) Warren Hoge; Steven R Weisman; David M Halbfinger; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) SUDAN (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (92%) Sudan; Sudan

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2004



79 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 2; Sports Desk; FOOTBALL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1250 words

HEADLINE: Colorado Working to Overcome Scandal

BYLINE: By PETE THAMEL

DATELINE: BOULDER, Colo., Sept. 3 

 BODY:
Students are settling into the routine of this semester at the University of Colorado, where classes began two weeks ago. They whiz around campus on mountain bikes and flock at night to the restaurants and bars on Pearl Street and the Hill.
 Campus life appears normal, but the university is still confronting the aftermath of a recruiting scandal in the off-season.
 Colorado opens its season here Saturday against Colorado State, and Coach Gary Barnett and his players say that the off-season of unrest has galvanized them. But those on campus remain divided over the issues raised by the scandal, which still resonates through the lives of the nine women who have accused football players and high school recruits of sexual assault. 
 No criminal charges have been filed in the cases, one of which dates to 1997. But three of the women have filed suit in federal court against the university, saying that players or recruits raped them during or after recruiting parties in 2001. The cases are pending.
 Joanna E. Starek, a professor in the women's studies department at Colorado, said she was disappointed that the discussion concerning the scandal had evolved into feminists battling against the football team because the issues surrounding the accusations were much deeper.
 ''The whole thing is not going to go away for the women who were assaulted,'' Starek said. ''Part of the problem is that people want to sweep it under the table.''
 Many Colorado players say, however, that the game on Saturday gives them an opportunity to help restore the image of the football team and the university.
 Matt McChesney, a senior defensive end, called the opener ''one of the biggest games in school history.''
 Colorado was 5-7 last season. Besides the usual loss of starters to graduation, the team also lost its best running back and cornerback because they transferred. The players also endured the off-season tumult, which included Barnett's being placed on paid leave for three months.
 ''I think winning cures everything,'' McChesney said. ''Winning cures everything in the long run. That's our goal, to go out and win a lot of football games. And it starts this Saturday, thank God.''
 Joel Klatt, a junior quarterback, agreed. ''Ultimately, and it's sad, but that's what happens in American society,'' he said. ''Wins surpass everything.''
 Supporters of the women who said they were sexually assaulted have argued that the players' attitude simplifies complex issues. 
 ''It's fine to root for C.U. football, but winning football games will not change the fundamental flaws in C.U.'s athletic department, nor will it erase the harassment and assaults that C.U. has chosen to ignore,'' said Lisa Simon, a spokeswoman for Lisa Simpson, one of the women who has sued the university and who has chosen to identify herself publicly. ''The idea that winning surpasses everything is what corrupted the culture in the first place.''
 Both Barnett and Dick Tharp, Colorado's athletic director, said they did not agree with the players' notion that winning would help resolve the matter. Tharp also said that the biggest misconception about the athletic department throughout the ordeal was that it had condoned sexual assaults and rapes. 
 ''For me personally, it was that people could even fathom that our department encouraged or was encouraging some of the behavior that was alleged,'' Tharp said.
 Mixed feelings still permeate the campus, but the football team seems to have support from many students and much of the community. 
 All 12,000 student season tickets have been sold for the first time since 1992. Sales of regular season tickets decreased to 24,200, from 26,901. But Dave Plati, a spokesman for the athletic department, said that more people cited the 5-7 record and economic concerns than the recruiting scandal as reasons for not renewing.
 Still, the Colorado State game is sold out and sales of the more expensive club seats and luxury boxes have not suffered. This season, 1,027 tickets for club seats have been sold, compared with 904 last season. Twenty-eight of the 40 luxury boxes have been sold, the same number as last season.
 The broader impact of the scandal on the university is not clear. Barbara Schneider, the admissions director, said freshman enrollment is 5,170 this fall, compared with a projected 5,300. She said the fact that the university was ranked as the No. 1 party school in the United States last year by the Princeton Review probably had more effect on the size of the freshman class. The recruiting scandal became a major public issue in February, after most applications had been received.
 Joanne Belknap, a sociology professor who has been critical of the university's handling of the sexual-assault accusations, said she had received phone calls or e-mails from about 20 parents who said they would not send their children to Colorado because of the scandal.
 ''I wouldn't send my kids here,'' said Belknap, who grew up in Denver and received her undergraduate degree from the university.
 Belknap said a scene at a meeting of the university's board of regents in May illustrated the inept handling of the scandal. A Colorado regent, Jerry G. Rutledge, asked the parents of about a dozen football players to stand at the meeting, to recognize them for all they had gone through, Belknap said.
 Meanwhile, one of the women who said she had been raped was sitting in the back of the meeting. She walked out, Belknap said. 
 ''This is the problem with the university,'' Belknap said. ''They're apologizing to the football parents and not to the victims or the victims' parents.''
 Rutledge defended his stand at the meeting. ''There were a lot of parents there who had sons who were great kids who were dragged through the muck,'' he said, adding: ''There have been no charges and I simply made the point that it's time to move on. Enough is enough.''
 The uproar over the accusations has frustrated many faculty members, who have seen the university's image suffer. The main complaint among faculty members is that although some policies have changed, Barnett; Tharp, the athletic director; and Betsy Hoffman, the university president, have survived the scandal and three separate investigations into the accusations. 
 ''They're saying that someone should have been held accountable and weren't,'' said Ron Stump, the vice chancellor for student affairs. ''That's a bottom-line issue for a lot of people.''
 A grand jury investigation into whether alcohol and sex were used to entice football recruits to Colorado ended with an indictment last month against only one person, Nathan Maxcey, a former low-level assistant coach who was accused of soliciting a prostitute.
 A report from the grand jury, which will probably be released next week, is expected to be critical of the university. 
 Many changes have been made at Colorado. The athletic director now reports directly to the provost, the university's chief academic officer, in order to improve the integration of athletes into the student community. The university created an online alcohol education program, which all freshman are required to complete. Recruits must now be accompanied by chaperones and will have an 11 p.m. curfew. 
 After practice on Monday, Barnett said the team was focused on its opening game. 
 ''I don't know if any of us put much thought into healing,'' Barnett said. ''We're out here together and getting ready for a game. That in itself is energizing, and that's what this team is going on.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Coach Gary Barnett was put on paid leave for 3 months while Colorado investigated the recruiting scandal. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. D7)
 Colorado quarterback Joel Klatt (Photo by David Zalubowski/Associated Press)(pg. D1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); SEX OFFENSES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); SCANDALS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (89%); ATHLETES (88%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (79%); HIGH SCHOOLS (79%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (79%); DRINKING PLACES (77%); LITIGATION (74%); ETHICS (71%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (69%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (69%) Football; Sex Crimes; Draft and Recruitment (Sports); Coaches and Managers; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations; Ethics

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (91%) University of Colorado

PERSON: Pete Thamel; Gary Barnett

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2004



80 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1021 words

HEADLINE: Even in Stormy Weather, Florida's Appeal Endures

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

DATELINE: VERO BEACH, Fla., Sept. 3 

 BODY:
Hurricane Frances was out there, somewhere, but more mystery at the moment than menace in the mind of Christine Weslowski as she leaned into the big warm breeze blowing hard across the boardwalk here.
 ''Isn't this great?'' she said Thursday evening, a sunny pink shine on her widow's peaks as the wind blew back her hair. ''Where else could you experience something like this?''
 Divorced and unemployed, Ms. Weslowski, 53, was just down from up north in full pursuit of a new life. A dreamer. Yet another. 
 From Hurricane Andrew to Hurricane Charley to whatever deadly storm is named next; from the culture-clash cyclone of Elian Gonzalez, the Cuban castaway; to the political tornado that was the 2000 election recount -- no calamity seems antidote enough to cure the enduring international addiction to Florida. From Ponce de Leon to P. Diddy, they keep coming, and fast, to what Gov. Jeb Bush insists, in between emergency news conferences, is still America's ''paradise.''
 From 1990 to 2000, much of which the state spent recovering from Hurricane Andrew, Florida's population soared by 24 percent to 16 million. Now it is past 17 million. 
 The state is under constant construction, with huge housing tracts and high rises pushing north on the east coast past Miami-Dade, Broward and Palm Beach counties through Martin and St. Lucie -- places that a decade ago were filled with farmland rather than young families and old folks.
 Damage costs from Hurricane Andrew in 1992 were estimated at $27 billion, those from Hurricane Charley last month at least $7 billion. But few people with real influence seem interested in stopping the boom that, aside from increasing traffic congestion, threatening the fragile environment and stressing the fresh water supply, will only increase the costs of rebuilding.
 ''We need to remind people,'' Lt. Gov. Toni Jennings said at a news conference Friday after the storm had toyed with the state's anxieties from offshore for two days, ''Florida is open for business.''
 And in Indian River County, many Floridians seemed awfully open-minded about hurricanes -- particularly people who have never been hit by a big one.
 ''Oh, it's worth it,'' declared Michael Dunne, a New York native who with his wife, Cheryl, brought their children to the beach Thursday night to watch the waves even as officials had removed streetlights on Ocean Drive for fear of what the imminent winds might do.
 ''Why do people live in California?'' asked Mrs. Dunne, originally from New Jersey, countering the suggestion that maybe the state was not the safest haven for a young family. ''They have earthquakes that you have no way of knowing are coming.''
 The Dunnes, who have lived in Florida 13 years, were packed and ready to evacuate. They said they had come to terms with the possibilities, including returning to find their house, a concrete-block structure west of the Indian River on the mainland, destroyed. ''I think it will probably shake me a little bit,'' said Mr. Dunne, 46. ''But I don't think it'll make me want to leave here.''
 Then again, Indian River County has never experienced the kind of storm that it faces now.
 ''There has never been a hurricane over 100 miles per hour in the history of the town,'' Nathan McCollum, the county's emergency management coordinator, said Friday.
 Joe Miller, 64, said he had lived in the county all his life and not once felt threatened by a storm the way he did by Hurricane Frances. Late on Thursday, when the roads were dark and the stores were closed, Mr. Miller was making last-minute money mounting plywood over the windows of A-One Discount Beverages just off Highway 1.
 Wearing a sleeveless T-shirt that declared ''Richer is Better,'' Mr. Miller said a coastal resident told him earlier in the day of having made plans to fly out of state to avoid the storm.
 ''Isn't that great to have that kind of dinero?'' asked Mr. Miller, who lives in a mobile home far inland from the new developments that increasingly crowd Vero Beach's coast. ''To just do what you want to do, go where you want to go?'' 
 In northern Indian River County, immaculate coastal developments like St. John's Island quickly give way to places like Wabasso, where wooden shacks sit on sandy roads rimmed by dense palmettos and, further out, citrus groves.
 Fruit packers and pickers and tractor drivers, mostly black, some from Haiti and the West Indies, have lived here for half a century. But their shacks have never really been tested.
 ''They're talking like it'll tear down everything and we'll just be lying here,'' said Ruby Mitchner, 74. The windows of her weathered pink frame house were partly covered with a mix of wood scraps.
 Then Dennis Richard, on his way back from boarding windows in Sebastian, pulled into Ms. Mitchner's driveway. ''Ma'am, I've got some cut-off wood,'' he told her. ''You want it? I was just going to throw it away.''
 Mr. Richard, 32, said later, ''I just saw her. You've got to help people out.''
 Ms. Mitchner said that Hurricane Frances was the first time a storm had really scared her and that she might head to a shelter on Saturday, depending on the forecast. She pointed up the road, toward Sebastian River High School, which has been converted into a shelter for people with special medical needs.
 Even at the shelter, there were signs of the state's gambler spirit. One man, Gordon Winagle, 74, had written a message on the board of the band room: ''Yesterday is a history day. Today is a gift day. Tomorrow is a mystery day.''
 Doris Cotti, 81, sat knitting by her cot in the band room.
 ''This is my hurricane lap robe,'' she said. ''I've got enough yarn to make another one.''
 In the next room, Mary Lou Volkman, 71, who lives in a waterfront development called Cache Cay, said she was just happy to find a safe place to stay for her and her husband Harvey, who was sifting through more than a dozen containers for pills for his heart condition.
 She said that they had moved down from Connecticut four years ago, and that they gave little thought at the time to hurricanes.
 ''I don't know,'' she said, ''we just always wanted to come to Florida.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ruby Mitchner outside her Wabasso, Fla., home, which she has tried to protect against the hurricane. (Photo by Marko Georgiev for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (91%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); WEATHER (89%); FAMILY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); TORNADOES (74%); POPULATION SIZE (71%); BUDGETS (71%); TRENDS (70%); BEACHES (70%); COASTAL AREAS (70%); POLITICS (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Area Planning and Renewal; Land Use Policies; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Politics and Government ; Population; Economic Conditions and Trends

PERSON: William Yardley

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) Florida

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2004



81 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: Driving Takes Its Toll

BYLINE: By Owen D. Gutfreund. 
Owen D. Gutfreund, the author of ''20th-Century Sprawl: Highways and the Reshaping of the American Landscape,'' is a professor of history and urban studies at Barnard College.

 BODY:
This summer, Americans continued to rack up highway miles. Even while higher gas prices raised vacationing and commuting costs, most drivers acted as though this was a temporary glitch, complacently looking forward to the return of reasonable prices. For decades, Americans have grown too accustomed to cheap gas, buying S.U.V.'s and V-8's, driving more and more miles per capita every year. We are now more dependent on imported oil than ever before. But is there any viable alternative? Our own history offers us a possible solution.
 Starting in 1916, the federal government dispensed millions of dollars in highway grants to states, without collecting a penny from consumers of the new highways. There was no federal gas tax, and tolls were banned on the new roads. But desperate for cash and pressed to pay their share of road-building expenses, states tried to pass on some of the costs to drivers. 
 At first this was only through state gas taxes. But these levies were effectively limited by lobbyists from auto manufacturers, oil companies, tire makers, highway engineers and road builders -- all of whom wanted to increase car use as much as possible. With this source of revenue capped, some states turned to toll roads.
 When Pennsylvania announced plans to build a toll-financed turnpike in 1937, Washington gasped. If other states followed Pennsylvania's lead, then federal bureaucrats would lose the control they had enjoyed for more than 20 years. They tried to squash the project, issuing pessimistic traffic forecasts to scare away lenders. But the Pennsylvania Turnpike was built anyway, and was hugely successful.
 Within a year, New York, Connecticut, Florida, Illinois, Maine, Maryland and Massachusetts entered the toll-road business. A decade later, when the Eisenhower administration was preparing the Interstate highway legislation, even more states -- New Jersey, Colorado, Indiana, Ohio, Oklahoma, North Carolina and Texas -- had joined the movement. It was clear: drivers understood that tolls were a fair way to pass on the high costs of road-building to highway-users, in direct proportion to how much they drive. 
 But despite its proven viability, this alternative became the proverbial road not taken. The Interstate legislation, as enacted in 1956, put a stop to new toll-road construction, and we instead proceeded with a socialized transportation system, available to the consumer at no charge, mostly paid for from general revenue. Toll-road construction ceased, and with the exception of a handful of projects, all new highways built since have been freeways. 
 There is a mistaken notion that American drivers pay for their roads through gas taxes. Actually, even though states collect gas taxes and a modest federal levy was imposed to pay part of the Interstate expenses, the total of these charges never amounted to more than one-third of highway costs. Such taxes, adjusted for inflation, have actually decreased, and efforts to increase them are politically risky, even though each 1-cent rise in the gas tax costs the average driver less than $8 a year. In practice, our roads and highways have been underwritten by general taxation. With gas taxes and tolls capped by effective lobbying, this annual subsidy has grown, amounting to billions of dollars annually. 
 With driving so generously subsidized and the true costs hidden, Americans have driven more and more miles each year. 
 Now we need to reconsider the road not taken. We must stop encouraging over-dependence on oil by under-pricing our roads and hiding the true costs of highway driving. Of course, to impose new gas taxes on top of the recent spike in prices may be politically impossible. But if oil prices drop, we should be ready to raise gas taxes. In the meantime, we should expand the use of tolls to finance expressways.
 The toll roads built in the 1940's and 1950's still exist, although some have been converted to free highways. But instead of removing tolls from these roads, as is occasionally suggested, we should go in the other direction. All of our major Interstates, across the country, should have tolls that are high enough to defray the full costs of building and maintaining the highway network and also high enough to make us change our driving habits. 
 We don't have to bring back the frustrating traffic bottlenecks at old-fashioned tollbooths now that the logistics of collecting tolls have been greatly simplified by systems like E-ZPass, FastLane and SmartTag. But by permanently raising the artificially low cost of driving, we could encourage people to drive fewer miles and to place a higher value on fuel efficiency, ultimately reducing our dependence on imported oil. 
 Instead of letting drivers onto our expensive, world-class highway system free, we should charge a fair price by imposing more and higher tolls, and raising gas taxes much higher, permanently. Otherwise, our insatiable need for petroleum will continue to distort our foreign policy, to undermine the stability of our economy and to damage the environment. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (91%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (90%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); FUEL TAX (90%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (89%); CONSTRUCTION (88%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (78%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (78%); LOBBYING (75%); BUDGETS (75%); ENGINEERING (73%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (73%); AUTOMAKERS (72%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (72%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (72%); TIRE MFG (67%) Roads and Traffic; Tolls; Taxation; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Building (Construction)

PERSON: Owen D Gutfreund

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) United States

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2004



82 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 493 words

HEADLINE: In Largely Quiet Iraq, Pipeline Is Attacked

BYLINE: By ALEX BERENSON

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, Sept. 3 

 BODY:
An unusual quiet continued Friday for the second straight day in Iraq, with American forces and insurgents apparently taking a pause after months of heavy combat. 
 Still, some violence persisted. In northern Iraq, guerrillas blew up an oil pipeline, and the state-run oil company halted exports as firefighters battled the huge blaze. 
 Insurgents have repeatedly attacked oil pipelines and terminals since the fall of Saddam Hussein's government last year. Most of Iraq's oil production comes from fields in southern Iraq near the Kuwaiti border, which are estimated to have the second-largest deposits of oil in the world.
 Last month, Shiite Muslim guerrillas loyal to the cleric Moktada al-Sadr attacked the headquarters of Iraq's Southern Oil Company in Basra, temporarily disrupting production in the south and causing world oil prices to spike toward $50 per 42-gallon barrel. Pipelines in northern Iraq are generally more vulnerable and have repeatedly been attacked.
 Meanwhile, the fate of two French journalists who have been held hostage for two weeks remained unclear on Friday as French government officials and Muslim clerics continued frantic efforts to obtain their release. On Thursday, two French clerics said they would travel to the Mother of All Battles mosque, a huge shrine in northwest Baghdad, to meet with a Sunni clerics association in an effort to persuade the kidnappers to release the men. 
 The journalists' fate has become a cause celebre in France, which opposed the American-led invasion of Iraq and has refused to send its troops here despite more than a year of American appeals.
 In videotapes released this week, the journalists said they could be killed at any time if the French government did not repeal its ban on head scarves for Muslim students. The ban is part of a larger prohibition on religious imagery for students of all faiths, but French Muslims have criticized it as an attack on their freedom of religion. France has said it will not repeal the ban.
 So far this year, more than 100 foreigners have been kidnapped, along with hundreds of Iraqis.
 Both religious and economic considerations appear to be driving the kidnappers, with some companies and governments reportedly paying hundreds of thousands of dollars to win the release of hostages. A cartoon in an Iraqi newspaper this week showed a masked man with an assault rifle standing behind another man wearing a shirt marked ''TV'' and looking through a camera. The thought bubble over the masked man's head showed a fat bag with a large ''$'' on it.
 The French journalists are apparently being held by hard-core Sunni Muslim insurgents, which may complicate efforts to win their release. Sunni guerrillas in Falluja and western Iraq appear to be motivated mainly by anger at the United States, not money. They have repeatedly killed hostages, including some Iraqis they accuse of being collaborators, and have released video of beheadings on the Internet.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Smoke billowed yesterday from an oil pipeline in Kirkuk in northern Iraq that was attacked by insurgents. (Photo by Marwan Ibraham/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (92%); RELIGION (92%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (90%); HOSTAGE TAKING (89%); WRITERS (87%); TERRORISM (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); FIRES (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (72%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (71%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (68%); CHURCH & STATE (62%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Bombs and Explosives; Kidnapping; Pipelines; Islam; Scarves; Education and Schools; International Trade and World Market; Apparel; Church-State Relations; Terrorism

COMPANY: SOUTHERN OIL CO INC (70%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%)

PERSON: MOQTADA AL-SADR (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) Alex Berenson

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%) IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (94%); KUWAIT (79%) Iraq; France; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2004



83 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; AFTER THE CONVENTION: DEMONSTRATIONS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1234 words

HEADLINE: Police and Protesters Spar A Last Time, Over the Peace

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD and MICHAEL WILSON; Reporting for this article was contributed by Winnie Hu, William K. Rashbaum, Susan Saulny and Shaila K. Dewan.

 BODY:
Starbucks survived, the streets were not ablaze, and the police did not wipe acid from their faces or blood from their nightsticks. As the Republican National Convention departed, New York 2004 turned out not to be Seattle 1999, when window-smashing and marauding through the streets during a trade summit meeting gave rise to fears that any large political gathering would dissolve into lawlessness and anarchy.
 But as officers returned yesterday to their normal assignments and protesters gathered evidence for their threatened civil suits, the police and protesters engaged in one last dispute -- this time, over why the demonstrations outside the convention ended up relatively tame.
 Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly said his department had averted a violent week, frustrating the plans of the angriest protesters with a huge show of force, widespread arrests and high-tech planning. ''Disruptive elements,'' he said at a news conference yesterday, had planned to shut down the financial district, crash delegate parties and interfere with the convention itself, but they ''were thwarted at every turn in their plans to disrupt the city.'' 
 There were 1,821 arrests during the week, according to the Police Department, the most at any political convention. Of those, 56 were for felonies, 282 were for misdemeanors, 1,480 were for violations and 3 were juvenile arrests. ''I think the police officers were just absolutely amazing,'' Mr. Kelly said.
 But protest organizers said that, despite earlier news media warnings, they had never planned to conduct violence like what took place in Seattle in 1999, in which some 500 people were arrested in a riot during a World Trade Organization meeting.
 Anarchists credit those disturbances with drawing attention to abuses in global trade, which were until then an obscure issue, they said. But John Flanigan, an anarchist organizer in New York, said no such violence was necessary at the convention because ''so much attention is already on it.'' 
 Instead, aware that smoke and fire could char their own cause, radical protesters say they took a different tack this week, focusing on directly harassing groups of Republicans, dropping banners and engaging in acts of civil disobedience, like blocking traffic.
 To elude the police buildup, they took their message directly to the perceived enemy outside the well-guarded convention space -- taunting delegates at their events, hotels and on the street -- and managed to sneak people inside, too.
 Anarchist organizers took particular pride in goading the police to shut down traffic briefly in Times Square Sunday night and disturbing what was supposed to be a tranquil evening of Broadway theater for the delegates, setting the tone for weeklong harassment of the visitors at various convention functions.
 Demonstrators may also have been tired by a busy protest calendar. Edwin Amenta, a sociology professor at New York University who has studied protest movements, said he believed there may have been little fight left after hundreds of thousands of people marched peacefully on Sunday, dominating news coverage unlike any other protest during the week.
 In addition, he said, Seattle had taught the protest movement a lesson, noting that no big economic or political summit in the United States since then has seen that level of disruption or property damage.
 ''They have become much savvier and were trying to avoid that kind of thing,'' Dr. Amenta said. ''There were people able to express outrage at delegates without having the repercussions of engaging in vandalism.''
 It is clear, however, that if the protesters had tried to become violent, they would have run up against strong resistance from a huge police force. The police presence throughout Manhattan, and especially in Midtown, numbered some 10,000 on patrol or at fixed posts through the day and night. They came from every precinct, from the edge of Queens to the bottom of Staten Island, from Coney Island in Brooklyn to Van Cortlandt Park in the Bronx. 
 The highest levels of the department turned out in ways rarely seen, too. On Tuesday, officers arrested 14 demonstrators who had tried to string yarn through the narrow intersection of South Williams Street and Mill Lane, a short pedestrian alley in the financial district. Personally overseeing the arrests was none other than Chief of Department Joseph J. Esposito, the highest ranking uniformed officer in the department. ''Looks like they were going to do some street theater,'' he said. 
 In an interview Wednesday, Mr. Kelly credited 18 months of planning and studying the opposition. 
 ''In order to know where you go, you need intelligence,'' he said. ''There's strategic intelligence and tactical intelligence. You can get that a variety of ways. Observations. We have scouts running around, the blimp in the air, helicopters, cops in static locations.''
 Officers also read Web sites of anarchist groups, discovering this week that, in the course of a protest, demonstrators were calling in reports to a message service that posted the dispatches on the Web. 
 ''One of their big approaches was to have rapid mobilizations on their part, so we needed to be able to respond to that,'' Mr. Kelly said. ''So that's what the scooters and the bicycles and the follow-on troops in the vans were able to do.'' 
 The rapid-response techniques seen this week have become known around the department as the ''Kelly Doctrine,'' said Paul J. Browne, a police spokesman.
 There were about 1,500 officers divided into three companies of scooters, bicycles, cars and vans, designed to pounce on a block at a sign of trouble, he said. Mr. Kelly acknowledged that the police had also sought to use undercover officers to infiltrate groups suspected of committing crimes, but declined to comment on whether they were successful.
 Protesters and civil liberties lawyers accused the city of using indiscriminate arrests and long detentions as another tactic in keeping the peace, in hopes of keeping activists off the streets until the convention ended. On Thursday, a state judge held the city in contempt of court for failing to release protestors who had been detained for more than a day without being formally charged before a judge, and lawyers promised yesterday that lawsuits against the city would follow.
 ''The Bloomberg administration needs to be held accountable for what happened,'' said Norman Siegel, a civil liberties lawyer who argued for the release of detainees. ''I don't know of a similar situation of this magnitude.''
 City officials said the delays were caused by the large number of arrests to process. Mr. Browne said charges that the police deliberately delayed the releases were a ''calculated lie.''
 Just after midnight yesterday morning, the week's players seemed to have boiled down to a few hundred demonstrators singing and dancing to bongo drums, even picking up their own trash and disposing of it as they dispersed. The department's chief of patrol, Nicholas Estavillo, approached a line of police officers who were watching and said, ''As you know, we're wheels-up at J.F.K.,'' meaning President Bush's airplane had departed. ''Thank you very much,'' the chief told his officers. ''No one does it like the N.Y.P.D.'' 
 In lieu of applause, the officers tapped their batons against the metal barriers before them -- about the only contact those batons made all week.


GRAPHIC: Photos: MONDAY -- The police escorted protesters in a march near the United Nations. (Photo by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)
TUESDAY -- Protesters were arrested on Broadway at 33rd Street. (Photo by Michael Nagle for The New York Times)
WEDNESDAY -- A mock unemployment line stretched from Wall Street to Midtown. (Photo by David L. Ryan/The Boston Globe)
THURSDAY -- Bush supporters and opponents argued as the week wound down. (Photo by Logan Mock-Bunting/Getty Images)(pg. B1)
 Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly credits the department's preparations and response teams with keeping demonstrations orderly. (Photo by Frances Roberts for The New York Times)(pg. B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (89%); RIOTS (89%); ARRESTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); FELONIES (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); CIVIL DISOBEDIENCE (71%); LITIGATION (70%); JUVENILE CRIME (68%); MISDEMEANORS (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); SOCIOLOGY (65%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (63%); THEATER (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Demonstrations and Riots; Conventions, National (US); Police

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%)

PERSON: Michael Wilson; Randal C Archibold; Raymond W (Comr) Kelly

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2004



84 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 942 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Off as Intel's Weak Forecast Overshadows Jobs Data

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
Stocks were little changed outside the technology sector yesterday as investors shrugged off a new kind of surprise from the labor market: job growth for the previous month came in as forecast.
 The fact that investors were not jarred by another employment surprise, as they have been almost every month this year, left the chip maker Intel to be the mover on the second-lightest trading day of the year. The company sharply lowered its revenue and profit margin projections after the market closed on Thursday.
 Employment ''wasn't a market-moving event for us,'' said David Hegarty, head of United States equity trading at Commerzbank Securities. The report was a positive factor, he said, as was the weakening of Hurricane Frances and the wrapping up of the Republican National Convention in New York ''with nothing going awry.'' 
 But that news, he said, was ''offset by Intel's midquarter update and a light I.S.M. number,'' a reference to a report this week from the Institute for Supply Management that showed a slight slowdown in the pace of manufacturing. 
 All three main market gauges were dragged lower by Intel, with the Nasdaq composite index the hardest hit, falling 1.6 percent. The Dow Jones industrial average, which finished down 30.08 points, would have been off about 18 points without Intel's 7.3 percent decline, to $20.05, down $1.58. The drop of 4.68 points in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index would have been shaved to about 3.6 points without Intel.
 Other technology stocks were also dragged lower by Intel's news, which means that the yearlong sell-off in the sector could continue. PMC-Sierra dropped 6.9 percent; Advanced Micro Devices was down 6.6 percent; Novellus Systems declined 6 percent; National Semiconductor fell 4.8 percent; and Analog Devices dropped 4.5 percent.
 The dollar rallied on the jobs news, rising 0.7 percent against the euro and 1 percent against the Japanese yen.
 But the rebound in jobs from a weak July was a negative for bonds, as some analysts concluded that economic growth, while moderate, is strong enough for the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates again when policy makers meet this month. The yield on the Treasury's 10-year note jumped to 4.29 percent from 4.21 percent on Thursday, as the price, which moves in the opposite direction, fell 21/32, to 99 20/32.
 The low trading volume for the day, which tailed off sharply in the afternoon, showed that many Wall Street players stayed away yesterday or left early for the Labor Day weekend. Trading volume yesterday, at 921.8 million shares on the New York Stock Exchange, and on Monday, at 846.9 million shares, was the lowest since the day before and after Christmas last year.
 Data for cash flows into equity mutual funds show that many investors have lost their enthusiasm for stocks.
 From April 2003 through April this year, $204 billion flowed into domestic equity mutual funds, an average of $15.7 billion a month, according to AMG Data Services. Since then, in the four months through August, $13.9 billion has come into these funds. And although complete August data will raise that total, the average monthly flow has plunged, to $3.5 billion, on this preliminary data. ''Sentiment has virtually dried up over the summer,'' said Robert Adler, president of AMG. 
 Positive news on corporate earnings, which rose 25.3 percent in the second quarter and are expected to climb 14.9 percent in the third, has been overwhelmed by geopolitical concerns, said Jim Swanson, chief investment strategist at MFS Investment Management, the mutual fund company based in Boston.
 He said that investors he talked to say ''we just want to get past the election, we just want Iraq to calm down.'' And the surge in the price of oil, which neared $50 a barrel in August, ''deters investors from being confident,'' he said. Oil prices have pulled back somewhat and settled in New York yesterday at $43.99 a barrel, down 7 cents. 
 The Labor Department reported before the stock market opened that 144,000 new jobs were created in August, just about matching the Wall Street forecast of 150,000, according to Bloomberg News.
 This was the closest this year that the Bloomberg consensus forecast had come to the actual number. The closest before this was 23,000 for the May employment report. But the forecasters were off by 208,000 for July and off 188,000 for March. The average margin of error for the year so far is 121,000.
 Although forecasters were closer to the mark this time and job growth rebounded from a sluggish 73,000 new jobs in July, some economists said that job growth was still not strong enough to support their economic growth forecasts.
 ''You are going to need a little more employment growth to get enough income growth to generate 3.5 percent to 4 percent growth in the gross domestic product,'' said David J. Greenlaw, chief United States fixed-income economist at Morgan Stanley. 
 At the close, the Dow was down 30.08 points, or 0.3 percent, to 10,260.20, while the S.&P. 500 slipped 4.68 points, or 0.4 percent, to 1,113.63. The Nasdaq fell 28.95 points, or 1.6 percent, to 1,844.48. For the year, the Dow is now down 1.9 percent and the S.&P. 500 is up 0.2 percent. The Nasdaq is down 7.9 percent.
 Intel lowered its revenue forecast for the third quarter to $8.3 billion from $8.6 billion, down from a range of $8.6 billion to $9.2 billion. The company also lowered its forecast for its gross profit margin for the year, to 58 percent from 60 percent.
 The dollar's rally left the euro valued at $1.2071, down from $1.2157 on Thursday, while the dollar rose to 110.60 yen, from 109.476.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C4)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C4)Graph tracks euro to the dollar, since March 2003. (Sources by Bloomberg Financial Markets
 Associated Press). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).(pg. C4)Graph tracks crude oil prices (near-month contract), since March 2003. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks. (pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (89%); ELECTRONICS (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); MICROPROCESSORS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); US LABOR DAY (74%); TREASURY SECURITIES (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (68%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (66%); EURO (61%); INTEREST RATES (60%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (54%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (54%) Stocks and Bonds; Finances; Government Bonds; Dow Jones Stock Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's Stock Index; Credit; Interest Rates

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (97%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (69%); ANALOG DEVICES INC (58%); COMMERZBANK AG (56%); NATIONAL SEMICONDUCTOR CORP (53%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (53%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (50%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (97%); ADI (NASDAQ) (58%); CZB (LSE) (56%); CBK (FRA) (56%); AMD (NYSE) (53%); AMD (FRA) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (97%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%)

PERSON: Jonathan Fuerbringer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (76%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2004



85 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE PRESIDENT; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: Job Figures Help President Promote Economic Record

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: CEDAR RAPIDS, Iowa, Sept. 3 

 BODY:
President Bush opened his general election drive on Friday, storming through three swing states, citing modest new figures for job growth and portraying himself as the only safe choice in an age of terrorist threat.
 ''It's a time for choosing,'' Mr. Bush said the day after accepting his party's nomination for a second term. ''It's going to come down to the records we've built, the convictions we hold and the vision that guides us forward.'' 
 Plunging into the fall campaign with hopes that the Republican convention had broken the deadlock that has defined the presidential race for months, Mr. Bush traveled to Pennsylvania, Wisconsin and Iowa, three states that he lost in 2000 but is fighting to capture this time.
 At rallies festooned with red, white and blue signs proclaiming, ''Leadership Matters,'' he sounded familiar themes about national security and conservative values and talked up the economy and proposals on health care, education, job training and Social Security that he laid out in his acceptance speech on Thursday in New York. 
 Signaling a more concerted effort to woo moderates without taking his eye off his base, he revived his ''compassionate conservative'' label and made an open appeal to Democrats and independents. 
 ''There's a lot of discerning Democrats who understand that four more years will make this country safer, stronger and better,'' Mr. Bush said at a thunderous rally in West Allis, Wis. ''Our vision includes everybody.'' 
 His advisers called the move to reach beyond his base a sign of the president's strength heading into the homestretch of his campaign against Senator John Kerry. Presidential aides signaled that Mr. Bush would concentrate for the final two months on his record and agenda and suggested that Mr. Bush would leave the most direct and forceful attacks on Mr. Kerry to others. 
 In his swing through Oregon on Friday, Vice President Dick Cheney minced no words, saying the Democratic nominee suffers from ''a fundamental misunderstanding of the way the world we live in works.''
 The president did not respond directly to Mr. Kerry's comments at a midnight rally in Ohio, where the Democrat said he would not accept criticism of his commitment to defending the country from ''those who refused to serve'' in Vietnam and called Mr. Bush ''unfit'' to serve because he had misled the nation on Iraq and the economy.
 Neither Mr. Bush, who was in the Texas Air National Guard, nor Mr. Cheney, who received multiple draft deferments, served in Vietnam, where Mr. Kerry was a decorated officer.
 Mr. Bush took every opportunity to subject Mr. Kerry to gentle mocking, noting to a crowd in football-crazy Wisconsin that Mr. Kerry had called the Green Bay Packers stadium by the wrong name recently. 
 ''Listen, I've got some advice for him -- if someone offers you a cheesehead, don't say you want some wine,'' Mr. Bush said, playing off of the signature headgear of Packers' fans. 
 To hearty applause, he invoked the support he has gotten from Senator Zell Miller of Georgia, a Democrat who delivered a searing critique of Mr. Kerry at the Republican convention. 
 The president continued to draw sharp distinctions between what he cast as his own steadfastness in confronting terrorism and, by his account, Mr. Kerry's wavering and unprincipled record on national security and the Iraq war. 
 ''Since the terrible morning of Sept. 11, 2001, we have fought the terrorist across the earth, not for pride, not for power, but because the lives of our citizens are at stake,'' Mr. Bush said. ''Our strategy is clear. We're defending the homeland. We're transforming our military. We're strengthening our intelligence services. We're staying on the offensive.''
 Mr. Bush began his burst of campaigning in Moosic, Pa., outside Scranton, an hour after the Labor Department had released figures showing that the economy generated 144,000 jobs last month. 
 That was a bit below what economists had projected but considerably more than in each of the previous few months, when employment growth had all but stalled. The unemployment rate declined, to 5.4 percent form 5.5 percent, in July. 
 ''Our growing economy is spreading prosperity and opportunity, and nothing will hold us back,'' Mr. Bush said in Pennsylvania.
 The employment figure was high enough to be a huge relief to the campaign, which had feared that another month of pronounced weakness in the job market would have left Mr. Bush very much on the defensive. 
 But it was not strong enough to deprive Mr. Kerry of the opportunity to point out that Mr. Bush still stands to become the first president since Herbert Hoover to have a net loss of jobs in his term. Despite a yearlong string of monthly employment increases, some robust and some paltry, the economy has still lost nearly one million jobs since Mr. Bush took office.
 A new poll conducted by Time magazine showed that Mr. Bush had pulled ahead of Mr. Kerry by an 11-point margin. Some experts said that finding was most likely skewed by the fact that it was conducted during the Republican convention. 
 Mr. Bush's campaign manager, Ken Mehlman, said in an interview that it would be several days before any postconvention change in the neck-and-neck race might become apparent. 
 Republicans said Mr. Bush was now just where he wanted to be, talking about his agenda for the next four years while Mr. Kerry was still returning to the debate about service in Vietnam instead of sticking to his main thrust on the economy.
 ''John Kerry's campaign is making personal attacks based on what people did or didn't do 35 years ago, and dividing the American people over it,'' Mr. Mehlman said. ''What's clear is that you have one campaign talking about the next four years and another consumed by the past.''
 Laura Bush introduced her husband at each stop. He was relaxed and his delivery crisp, though he botched a standard applause line in Moosic. He was trying to make the point that Mr. Kerry and his running mate, Senator John Edwards, were two of four senators who voted in 2002 to authorize the use of force in Iraq and voted last year against the $87 billion spending package for military operations there. 
 ''Two of those four,'' Mr. Bush said, ''are my running mate and his opponent.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Shadows of supporters of President Bush showed up on a wall yesterday at a rally in West Allis, Wis. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)Chart/Map: ''Let the General Election Begin''Both President Bush and John Kerry have begun campaign tours through swing states as the general election campaign formally begins with the end of the Republican convention in New York.Map of the United States highlighting swing states that John Kerry, John Edwards, President Bush, and Vice President Dick Cheney plan ot visit through Monday.(Source by Bush and Kerry campaigns)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); TERRORISM (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (61%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (60%); SPORTS (60%) Presidential Election of 2004; Labor; Unemployment; Election Issues; United States Economy; Presidential Election of 2004

COMPANY: GREEN BAY PACKERS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Labor Department (US)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); JOHN KERRY (92%); DICK CHENEY (89%); JOHN EDWARDS (79%) Richard W Stevenson; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: GREEN BAY, WI, USA (71%); CEDAR RAPIDS, IA, USA (56%) WISCONSIN, USA (94%); IOWA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%); VIET NAM (51%) Pennsylvania; Wisconsin; Iowa

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2004



86 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE VICE PRESIDENT; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: Cheney Says Kerry Suffers 'Fundamental Misunderstanding'

BYLINE: By RICK LYMAN

DATELINE: PENDLETON, Ore., Sept. 3 

 BODY:
In his first public appearance after the Republican convention, Vice President Dick Cheney stood by every one of the administration's foreign and economic policies in a speech here on Friday that drew unflattering comparisons with the positions of Senator John Kerry.
 ''A good defense is not enough, so we've gone on offense'' in fighting terrorism, Mr. Cheney told hundreds of enthusiastic supporters. ''Senator Kerry seems to object. He's even said that by using our strength we are creating terrorists and placing ourselves in greater danger.'' 
 Democrats have suggested that the war in Iraq actually destabilized the Mideast by making that country a source of terrorism.
 ''That is a fundamental misunderstanding of the way the world works,'' Mr. Cheney said. ''Terrorist attacks are not created by the use of strength. They are a result of the perception of weakness.''
 He spoke longest about the war on terrorism, the issue on which President Bush enjoys his highest poll ratings, at every point emphasizing the dangers facing the nation.
 ''This is not an enemy that can be negotiated with or reasoned with or appeased,'' Mr. Cheney said. ''This is, to put it simply, an enemy that must be destroyed, and with George Bush as our commander in chief, that is exactly what we're going to do.''
 Mr. Cheney also used the event to spell out what he said were the three themes that Republicans would emphasize in the remainder of the presidential campaign.
 ''The president made it clear last night, if you heard his speech,'' Mr. Cheney said. ''He talked about changing the world we live in, the need to transform the systems of government so that all citizens are equipped and prepared and free to make their own choices and pursue their own dreams. And he also talked about the power of liberty to transform countries and lives to create a future of hope and peace. We're looking forward now to talking about these issues for the next 60 days.''
 Mr. Cheney's unshowy matter-of-fact style goes over well here, matching the taciturn manner of many in his audience in rural eastern Oregon, a region not so far removed from the vice president's own small-town Wyoming background. 
 The crowd at the Pendleton Convention Center grew increasingly enthusiastic as the half-hour speech progressed, and shouted encouragement became more frequent. 
 Arrayed on the stage were veterans in American Legion caps, Boy Scouts whose sashes were thick with merit badges, three young women in fancy cowgirl costumes with fringed vests and, beside them, two people dressed as American Indians, complete with beaded accessories and single-feathered headbands.
 This is cattle, wheat and potatoes country, a treeless valley of sweeping vistas and crenellated buttes 186 miles east of Portland. And unlike Portland and much of the Pacific Coast, it is staunchly Republican.
 Here, the game for the Republicans is to increase turnout in November, to come up with the numbers necessary to offset those Democratic precincts to the west -- on the other side of the mountains, as people here put it. Al Gore beat Mr. Bush by 6,000 votes in Oregon in 2000.
 In its first stage, at least, the vice president's postconvention campaign focuses on places like Pendleton, hard-core Republican areas in swing states. On Saturday morning, Mr. Cheney is to have a similar rally in Roswell, in the southeastern corner of New Mexico known as Little Texas. 
 From there, he plans stops in Minnesota and Iowa.
 A huge American flag provided the familiar backdrop for Mr. Cheney's appearance here, punctuated at the side by a pioneer wagon, its canvas cover removed to expose the arching ribs and stuffed to overflowing with bales of hay. The steady hollow thumping of inflatable noise-making tubes that advertised the campaign's Web site competed with the thrum of recorded music like James Brown's ''Living in America.'' 
 The message that Mr. Cheney and the other speakers put out Friday was that the country is on the right track. 
 As a fellow Republican, Senator Gordon H. Smith of Oregon, put it, Republicans have to overturn misconceptions about ''the growing economy we're restoring or the war that we're winning.''
 ''I have to say that I really like Dick Cheney,'' said Scott Sager, a financial planner in Pendleton who has lived and worked in Montana, New York and Southern California, but happily returned to remote eastern Oregon, where he was raised and feels most at home. ''He seems very fact-driven, and people here like that. He seems very straightforward, very honest. He doesn't worry about his hairdo, you know.''
 Warren Stewart, regional manager for Blue Cross-Blue Shield and the owner of a 20-acre spread outside Pendleton where he raises Arabian show horses -- ''Good a way to lose money as any,'' he said -- also praised Mr. Cheney's campaign style for its very lack of style. 
 ''I think he's brilliant, a very good behind-the-scenes guy,'' Mr. Stewart said. ''He probably has a short fuse, I don't know. And maybe he's not so much of a political, out-front sort of guy. But that's not such a bad thing.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Vice President Dick Cheney in Pendleton, Ore., yesterday for his first public appearance after the Republican convention in New York. (Photo by Don Ryan/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); WAR ON TERROR (76%); IRAQ WAR (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); NATIVE AMERICANS (60%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (60%) Presidential Election of 2004; Terrorism; Election Issues; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Politics and Government; Presidential Election of 2004; Freedom and Human Rights; Conventions, National (US)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (93%); JOHN KERRY (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%) Rick Lyman; Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: OREGON, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%) Pendleton (Ore)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2004



87 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1379 words

HEADLINE: 144,000 Jobs Were Added in August, a Bit of an Uptick

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 3 

 BODY:
The pace of job creation picked up modestly in August and the unemployment rate edged down, the Labor Department said on Friday in a report that offered some political relief to the White House but only tepid signs of a rebound in employment.
 The nation added 144,000 jobs in August, twice as many as in July but just barely enough to keep pace with increases in the adult population. The unemployment rate declined to 5.4 percent from 5.5 percent in July, with new jobs being created in most sectors of the economy.
 The report, coming less than 12 hours after President Bush outlined his goals for an ownership society to the Republican National Convention, provided evidence that employment will continue to grow in the months before the November election, but much more slowly than administration officials had hoped just a few months ago.
 Investors were relieved that the numbers were roughly in line with Wall Street forecasts, but analysts were far from ecstatic. 
 Even with the new jobs created last month, economists said that employment had grown more slowly since the end of the recession of 2001 than during any previous recovery in the last half century.
 The nation still has about one million fewer jobs now than it did when Mr. Bush took office in January 2001, and it needs to generate about 150,000 jobs a month just to keep pace with population growth.
 ''We're all sort of breathing a sigh of relief, but we're not out of the woods just yet,'' said Nariman Behravesh, chief economist at DRI/Global Insight. ''This is just barely enough to keep the recovery going.''
 The good news for the economy and for Mr. Bush was that the pace of job creation and hourly wages was much healthier in August than in July. 
 In addition, the Labor Department raised its estimates for job and wage growth in July, reporting that employment rose by 73,000 jobs rather than the original figure of 32,000.
 Mr. Bush, at a campaign stop in Pennsylvania on Friday morning, said the new report showed that the economy was ''strong and getting stronger'' and declared that ''our growing economy is spreading prosperity and opportunity and nothing will hold us back.''
 Senator John F. Kerry, the Democratic presidential nominee, responded that Mr. Bush's overall record on employment remains the worst of any president since Herbert Hoover.
 ''President Bush is now certain to be the first president since the Great Depression to face re-election without creating a single job,'' Mr. Kerry said in a statement. ''If you believe lost jobs mean that America is heading in the right direction, you should support George Bush and his policies of failure.''
 In practice, no president has more than an indirect effect on unemployment. Companies reduced payrolls as the economy slid into a recession in early 2001, just as Mr. Bush was taking office, and they kept cutting long after the recession officially ended in November 2001.
 Economists cite several reasons, most of them outside the president's control, behind the reluctance of companies to hire even when business is expanding. One factor, they said, is that many companies are still dealing with the overhiring that they pursued in the waning frenzy of the economic boom, much as they are still working their way through their overspending on technology.
 Hiring has also been restrained by sharp increases in productivity, the amount of output that companies can squeeze out of each worker, and by intense competition from manufacturers in low-wage countries, especially China.
 Employers have also become nervous about rapid increases in health insurance benefits, which have raised employment costs even though wages have been climbing slowly or not at all.
 That said, President Bush has opened himself to criticism by insisting that his tax cuts would accelerate growth and create millions of additional jobs.
 In a chart prepared by the White House Council of Economic Advisers in February 2003, the administration predicted that nonfarm payroll employment would climb by more than five million people by the end of 2004 -- an average monthly gain of about 300,000 jobs -- and that the tax cuts would specifically be responsible for more than one million of those new jobs.
 The administration's forecast has fallen well short: since last August, when employment finally began to rise, the nation has added 1.7 million jobs, or an average of fewer than 150,000 a month.
 ''We are not generating anything close to the normal type of employment dynamic,'' said Stephen S. Roach, chief economist at Morgan Stanley. Mr. Roach estimated that personal income, after adjusting for inflation, has climbed about 2.5 percent in the 32 months since the last recession officially ended. ''Normally it would be up about 10 percent by this point in the recovery, and that's about $339 billion in missing income.''
 Beneath the headline numbers, economists said there was some potentially important good news about wages and hours worked. The Labor Department estimated that average hourly wages for nonsupervisory production workers climbed 5 cents, to $15.77, in August, and it revised upward its estimate for wages in July.
 In addition, the Labor Department said its index of the aggregate number of hours worked each week climbed 0.2 percent in August. Taken together, the increases in wages and in hours worked could mean that consumers will have more money to spend than previously thought.
 As in previous months, unemployment in August had less to do with mass layoffs than with a reluctance to hire.
 The total number of unemployed people remained almost unchanged in August, at eight million, the Labor Department said. The unemployment rate declined slightly, but that was primarily because the labor force shrank by 152,000. The Labor Department estimated that 534,000 people were too discouraged to look for work, about the same number as in July but about 30,000 more than in August 2003.
 In August, most sectors of the economy added at least some jobs, with the biggest gains coming in health care, social assistance, financial services and professional services like computer systems design.
 Manufacturing companies, which have shed more than two million jobs over the last three years, continued to add people cautiously. The Labor Department estimated that factories added about 22,000 jobs in August, compared with 10,000 in July.
 But manufacturers have thus far added only 109,000 jobs since they stopped cutting their payrolls, and there are few indications that companies will replace even half the jobs that disappeared.
 The loss of factory jobs is central to the political battle between Mr. Bush and Mr. Kerry, because manufacturing jobs are concentrated in major swing states like Ohio, Michigan, Pennsylvania, Illinois and Missouri.
 Manufacturing jobs tend to pay higher wages than the new jobs being created in service industries, though there is a furious debate among economists about the extent to which new jobs pay less than the old jobs that have been lost.
 One peculiarity of the American job market over the last year has been the persistent reluctance of people to jump back into the labor force as economic growth has improved.
 It is normal during economic downturns for people to drop out of the official work force, taking time to go back to school or to become full-time parents. But the labor participation remains lower today than it was two years ago or at the start of the recession.
 The number of adults who consider themselves available for work but ''not in the labor force'' has climbed steadily, meanwhile, from an annual average of about 1.15 million in 2000 to more than 1.5 million in every month of this year.
 With two months left before the elections, many analysts said on Friday that the new employment report left them as uncertain as before about whether the recent economic swoon will prove to be a temporary dip or lead to a more troubling downturn.
 ''It's milquetoast,'' said Richard Yamarone, chief economist at Argus Research, referring to the labor report. ''Political economists will paint the picture in their respective colors, but you cannot definitively say whether the economy is a glass half full or half empty.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Kenneth Blanton checked out the job board at the Mayor's Office of Workforce Development in Denver on Thursday. Others have not restarted the search since losing a job. (Photo by Matt Staver/Bloomberg News)(pg. C1)
In August, the biggest job gains were in health care, social assistance, financial services and professional services like computer systems design. But manufacturers continued to add people cautiously. (Photo by Brian Branch-Price/Associated Press)
(Photo by Peter Thompson for The New York Time)(pg. C4)Chart:Hiring Was Up a Bit Last Month . . .Graph tracks monthly change in nonfarm payrolls since 2001.AUG.: +144,000And the Jobless Rate Improved . . .Graph tracks unemployment rate since 2001.But Many People Remain Out of Work . . .Graph tracks number of people who want jobs but cannot find them since 2001.And More Are Discouraged.Graph tracks number of people who are discouraged and have stopped looking for work since 2001.(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C1)Chart: ''The Labor Picture in August''UNEMPLOYMENTGraph tracks civilian unemployment from September 2003 to August 2004.Civilian unemployment: 5.4 percentBY DEMOGRAPHICWhiteJuly: 4.8%Aug.: 4.7%BlackJuly: 10.9Aug.: 10.4Hispanic*July: 6.8Aug.: 6.9Asian+July: 4.3Aug.: 3.6Men 20 and overJuly: 4.9Aug.: 5.0Women 20 and overJuly: 4.9Aug.: 4.7Teenagers (16-19)July: 17.6Aug.: 17.0OUT OF WORK (millions)TotalJuly: 8.2Aug.: 8.0Lost jobJuly: 4.2Aug.: 3.9Left jobJuly: 0.9Aug.: 0.9Returning to labor marketJuly: 2.3Aug.: 2.4New to labor marketJuly: 6.8Aug.: 6.9'HIDDEN' UNEMPLOYMENT (millions)Working part-time, but want full-time workJuly: 4.5Aug.: 4.5'Marginally attached' workers$SJuly: 1.6Aug.: 1.6EMPLOYMENTGraph tracks household survey and nonfarm payroll survey from September 2003 to August 2004.Household survey: 139.7 millionNonfarm payroll survey: 131.5 millionBY TYPE OF WORK (millions)NonfarmJuly: 131.3Aug.: 131.5GoodsJuly: 21.9Aug.: 21.9ServicesJuly: 109.4Aug.: 109.5AgricultureJuly: 2.3Aug.: 2.3SHARE OF POPULATIONEmployedJuly: 62.5%Aug.: 62.4%Labor force (workers and unemployed)July: 66.2Aug.: 66.0Figures are seasonally adjusted except where noted.*Hispanics can be of any race.+Not seasonally adjusted.$SPeople not working but not counted as unemployed because they are not currently looking for work
 must have searched in the last 12 months and been available for work when surveyed. Includes discouraged workers. Not seasonally adjusted.(Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (91%); JOB CREATION (91%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (69%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (54%) Labor; Unemployment; United States Economy; Recession and Depression

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%) Labor Department (US)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); JOHN KERRY (79%); NARIMAN BEHRAVESH (50%) Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2004



88 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A2-9

Siege at School in Russia Ends With Hundreds Dead
The siege of a school in southern Russia ended in panic, violence and death. At least 200 people -- most of them students, teachers and parents -- died after two large explosions set off pitched battles between heavily armed captors and Russian forces that continued for hours. Some hostages did survive, staggering from the school even as gunfire sputtered and grenades exploded. A1

Russia's state-owned or controlled networks avoided the bloodiest images of the assault that left scores dead. The two largest and most watched --Channel One and Rossiya -- offered brief updates, but continued with their regular afternoon programming. A8

Iraq Experiences Relative Calm
Guerrillas blew up an oil pipeline in northern Iraq and the state-run oil company halted exports as firefighters battled the huge blaze. Most of Iraq was unusually quiet, with American forces and insurgents apparently taking a pause after months of heavy combat. A6

Four Navy Seal commandos have been charged with assaulting and mistreating an Iraqi detainee who later died during questioning at Abu Ghraib prison, and then lying about it. A6

South Korea Denies Weapons
South Korea continued to try to assure the world that it had no nuclear-arms program, with the nation's top nuclear researcher saying government scientists had enriched a speck of uranium ''smaller than a sesame seed'' merely ''to satisfy their curiosity.'' A3

African Nuclear-Related Arrest
South African police charged a 53-year-old engineer from the country's industrial heartland with buying materials for and assembling gas centrifuges to purify uranium, apparently for Libya's secret nuclear-bomb program. It was the third arrest this year of a South African on nuclear-related charges. A3

NATIONAL A10-15,18

Bill Clinton Is to Undergo Heart Bypass Surgery
Former President Bill Clinton, stricken with chest pains and shortness of breath, checked into a Manhattan hospital for heart bypass surgery after X-rays revealed blockages in three or four coronary arteries. A1

Bush and Kerry on the Trail
Senator John Kerry opened the final 60 days of the presidential campaign with a slashing indictment of President Bush's record on jobs and health care, saying he had misled America into war in Iraq and worsened problems at home. A1

Mr. Bush opened his general election drive, storming through three battleground states, touting new job growth figures and portraying himself as the only safe choice in an age of terrorist threat. A13

Vice President Dick Cheney stood by all of the administration's foreign and economic policies in a speech that drew unflattering comparisons with the positions of Mr. Kerry. A12

Medicare Premiums Spike
Federal officials announced the largest premium increase in the Medicare program's history a day after President Bush touted his efforts to help the elderly cope with increased medical expenses. A1

Florida Braces for Hurricane
Hurricane Frances engulfed the Bahamas, leaving at least one person dead before moving toward Florida, where 2.5 million people have been urged to evacuate their homes. A1

Source of Terror Leak Sought
Justice Department investigators have sought polygraph examinations from senior federal prosecutors to determine who leaked the name of a confidential informant in a Detroit terrorism case, officials said. A14

Liability in Bishop's Death
A federal judge found a retired Salvadoran Air Force captain liable in the 1980 slaying of Archbishop Oscar Romero and ordered him to pay about $10 million in damages. A11

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Protesters and Police Fight One Final Battle
The police and demonstrators disputed why the rallies outside the convention were relatively tame. The police said they averted a violent week, but protest organizers said they had never planned to conduct violence. In the past week, 1,827 protesters were arrested. B1

McGreevey Holds Strong
The effort to get Gov. James E. McGreevey of New Jersey to resign before a deadline that would force a special election ran out of time. B4

Beliefs B6

ARTS & IDEAS B9-16

Rare Books Destroyed in a Fire
Up to 30,000 irreplaceable books were destroyed in a fire at one of Germany's most historic libraries, officials said. Another 40,000 books, damaged by smoke and water, are being frozen in a preservation effort. The cause of the blaze was unclear. B9

EDUCATION

Fewer New York Schools Failing
One out of four New York City public schools failed to meet state proficiency standards last year, 10 percent fewer than the year before. B1

SPORTSSATURDAY D1-7

OBITUARIES B7

Herbert H. Haft
A combative pharmacist who was known for aggressive financial maneuvering and a bitter family legal battle for control of a business empire, he was 84. B7

Anne Coffin Hanson
The first woman hired as a full tenured professor at Yale was 82. B7

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

Job Growth Modest in August
The pace of job creation picked up modestly in August and the unemployment rate edged down, the Labor Department said in a report that offered some political relief to the White House but only tepid signs of a rebound in employment. C1

Stocks were little changed outside the technology sector as investors shrugged off the news that job growth came in as forecast. C1

Phone Service Plan Ended
The founder of a start-up company that on Wednesday begain offering a service that fools caller I.D. systems sold the business after receiving harassing messages. C1

Yukos Tax Bill Raised
The Russian Tax Ministry increased its 2001 back tax bill against the oil giant Yukos to $4.1 billion, bringing its total tax claims against the company to $7.5 billion. C3

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A16-17

Editorials: Deadly stalemate in Chechnya; the police and the protests; Verlyn Klinkenborg on the rural life: catching Nell.

Column: David Brooks.

Bridge B15
TV Listings B16
Crossword B14
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (89%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (86%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (85%); US PRESIDENTS (85%); HEART DISEASE (85%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); TERRORISM (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (77%); HOSTAGE TAKING (76%); ELECTIONS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); IRAQ WAR (72%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (70%); MEDICARE (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); FIRES (68%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (68%); INDICTMENTS (67%); HEALTH CARE (66%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (66%); CENTRIFUGES (64%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (64%); JOB CREATION (64%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (60%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); JOHN KERRY (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); DICK CHENEY (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); IRAQ (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2004



89 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 910 words

HEADLINE: Citing Higher Costs, U.S. Plans Record Rise in Medicare Premium

BYLINE: By GARDINER HARRIS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 3 

 BODY:
A day after President Bush heralded his efforts to help the elderly cope with increased medical expenses, federal officials announced the largest premium increase in dollars in the Medicare program's history, raising the monthly expense by $11.60 to $78.20.
 The increase, which amounts to 17 percent, results largely from increased payments to doctors and reflects rising medical expenses generally, officials said. The rise has nothing to do with a program that will start in 2006 to offer prescription drugs, for which beneficiaries must pay a separate premium.
 The increase immediately became grist for an increasingly contentious presidential campaign. Phil Singer, a spokesman for the Kerry campaign, released a statement saying, ''After doing nothing about the record increases in the cost of health care over the last four years, George Bush is presiding over a Medicare system that is socking seniors with the largest premium hike in the program's 40-year history.'' 
 Scott Stanzel, a spokesman for the Bush campaign, said that ''President Bush has worked to increase health care access and affordability, including guaranteeing Medicare recipients prescription drugs.''
 Dr. Mark McClellan, administrator of the Medicare program, said in an interview that the elderly were receiving improved benefits now and would l have lower out-of-pocket expenses when the new drug benefit began in 2006. Dr. McClellan pointed out that Medicare recently instituted a ''Welcome to Medicare'' physical and screening program, giving the elderly more for their money.
 When Dr. McClellan's predecessor, Thomas A. Scully, announced last year's 14-percent premium increase, he said the increase demonstrated that Congress should give private health plans a larger role in Medicare. Through such private plans, Mr. Scully said, beneficiaries ''would have access to lower premiums and lower costs.''
 Dr. McClellan acknowledged that about $1.75 of this year's $11.60 premium increase results from the billions of dollars Medicare is paying insurers to encourage them to offer private plans. Many in Congress refused last year to support the new Medicare drug benefit legislation unless the program did more to lure patients into such private plans. 
 As Medicare cut costs in recent years, many private health insurers bowed out of the program, leading the number of beneficiaries in private plans to drop to 4.6 million last year, or 11 percent of the beneficiaries, from 6.3 million, or 16 percent of beneficiaries, in 1999. With higher administrative costs, private plans are generally more costly than regular Medicare and thus need subsidies to provide services.
 Dr. McClellan pointed out that private plans often offer additional benefits, including prescription drugs, more preventive care and even dental and vision care. Copayments in the private plans are often lower, he said.
 By law, the federal Medicare program picks up the cost of about 75 percent of the Part B Medicare program, which pays for physician services, hospital outpatient care and medical equipment. Premiums pay for the remaining 25 percent. A significant part of the increased premium announced on Friday will also go to bolster the Medicare trust fund, a short-term reserve used to pay benefits, Dr. McClellan said.
 Most beneficiaries pay their Medicare premiums through deductions from their Social Security checks. In years past, the premium increases have been announced in October at the same time that cost-of-living increases to Social Security checks are announced. The twin announcements allow the elderly to calculate how much they will be receiving the following year. 
 Dr. McClellan said politics played no role in the decision to announce the increase late Friday afternoon, just as much of official Washington was heading out for a three-day weekend and the Republican convention and a hurricane moving toward Florida were dominating the news. He said he simply wanted to make the announcement as soon as he had the information.
 Representative Pete Stark, Democrat of California, scoffed at Dr. McClellan's explanation for the announcement's timing and said, ''This is a cynical attempt to bury bad news by leaking it out when you hope no one is watching.'' 
 Robert Hayes, the president of the Medicare Rights Center, an advocacy group, said the premium increase would be a ''body blow'' to the elderly and resulted from ''profligate management of Medicare.''
 Medical costs have been rising faster than inflation for more than a decade, reflecting innovations and better care for patients. Medicare is not immune to such increases, although program administrators have long tried to slow such increases with measures that often amount to price controls. These controls have so enraged many health care providers that they appeal directly to Congress, where doctor groups and others have sought more money for treatments. Such appeals led Congress last year to roll back expected cuts in many payments to doctors and instead to order that such payments increase 1.5 percent, an important reason for this year's premium increase.
 The latest group to make such an appeal is cancer doctors, who say Medicare will soon sharply reduce payments to them under a new system that changes the way Medicare pays for cancer drugs. Some oncologists have threatened to reduce services to patients or give them older, more toxic therapies unless Congress increases payments to them. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (95%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (89%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (89%); DENTAL INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); INSURANCE (85%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (78%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (77%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (77%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (75%) Medicine and Health; Health Insurance; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Medicare; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Doctors; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; Medicine and Health; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) Gardiner Harris; Mark (Dr) Mcclellan

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2004



90 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: Lebanon Agrees to Extend Term of Leader Imposed by Syria

BYLINE: By JOHN KIFNER

DATELINE: BEIRUT, Lebanon, Sept. 3 

 BODY:
As expected, Lebanon's Parliament on Friday rubber-stamped Syria's order to keep its handpicked president in office, voting in an extraordinary session to amend the Constitution to give him three more years.
 Moments after the 96-to-29 vote, preset fireworks exploded in the darkness around the Parliament headquarters in downtown Beirut, which was already plastered with freshly printed posters of President Emile Lahoud. 
 Syria has long called the political shots in Lebanon since a 15-year civil war ended in 1990. About 20,000 Syrian troops are still stationed here. 
 But what was widely regarded as a heavy-handed effort by Damascus to push the amendment through this week has generated widespread Lebanese resentment. And it has raised questions among political commentators over what they regarded as clumsy miscalculations by Syria's young ruler, Bashar al-Assad, the son of the country's longtime dictator, Hafez al-Assad.
 After weeks of hand-wringing articles in the local news media over the possibility that Mr. Lahoud's time in office would be extended past its constitutionally mandated single six-year term, which is to end in November, the Syrians suddenly clamped down. A cabinet meeting was unexpectedly convened last week, and the constitutional amendment was authorized. The speaker of Parliament, Nabih Berri, head of the Shiite Muslim movement Amal and a close ally of Syria, rushed through procedures to summon Friday night's parliamentary session.
 The rush appeared to be, at least in part, an effort to beat a joint American-French resolution in the United Nations that was approved late Thursday. The measure, passed by a vote of 9 to 0 with six abstentions, warned against outside interference in the Lebanese elections and called for the removal of all foreign troops. Syria was not specifically named in the resolution, but it was clearly aimed at Damascus. 
 In the always complex politics of the Middle East, the American position has created problems for Syria's critics. In the current climate in the Arab world, where America is not only viewed as the unquestioning champion of Israel but also as having caused a mess in Iraq, few want to be associated with the United States. Further, there is a perception that the same administration hawks who pushed the war against Iraq would like to turn their sights on Syria.
 In Beirut's influential daily An Nahar, which has waged a campaign against extending Mr. Lahoud's mandate, Sahar Baasiri, a senior columnist, wrote that one of Syria's main mistakes in the affair was in laying itself open to the Pentagon.
 ''Damascus appeared to be giving Washington a gift,'' she wrote.
 In the international Arabic daily Al Hayat, Walid Shucair wrote that the Syrians had miscalculated the reaction to their pressure, both from the Americans and French, and from within. The move has brought intransigent resistance from figures including Patriarch Nasrullah Sfeir of the Maronite Christians, of which Mr. Lahoud is a member; and from the Druse chieftain, Walid Jumblatt. 
 ''Don't these three miscalculations show how high the price is for extending Lahoud's mandate compared with the election of a new president?'' he wrote.
 Even as the vote was scheduled, a poll published Friday in the Lebanese weekly magazine Ash Shiraa, showed an overwhelming majority opposed to the extension of Mr. Lahoud's term. 
 The sampling of 1,000 people of all Lebanese political, religious, social, factional and economic brackets, the magazine said, showed that 65 percent opposed amending the Constitution and that 74 percent wanted a new president. The poll also showed that 84 percent of the Lebanese believed that foreign and outside parties dictated the results of presidential elections.
 The results were widely regarded as preordained when the parliamentarians gathered in their elegant chamber at 6 p.m. Friday to vote. Most projections said the amendment would get 98 to 103 votes, even though it was opposed by an unlikely alliance of Mr. Jumblatt's leftists and opposition Christian rightists. 
 The legislators who gathered were mostly extraordinarily sleek men in dark suits. Mr. Jumblatt, hereditary feudal leader of the left, in contrast, paired an unaccustomed necktie with his usual leather jacket and stovepipe bluejeans. The Hezbollah legislators from the Shiite fundamentalist party wore suits but no neckties.
 The crucial bloc that could have scuttled the amendment -- a total of 18 votes -- was controlled by Prime Minister Rafik Hariri, who had feuded with Mr. Lahoud and publicly opposed the constitutional extension. His attitude apparently changed after he met with the Syrian officials on Friday evening.
 Mr. Hariri sat in a front-row cabinet seat with his left arm in a sling -- bringing jokes that it had been twisted too hard by the Syrians, although he had actually hurt it in a fall -- as his bloc voted to extend Mr. Lahoud's mandate.
 ''What could he do?'' said a Hariri loyalist, with a shrug. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (90%); POLITICS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); ARMED FORCES (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); CIVIL WAR (70%); IRAQ WAR (70%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (65%); WRITERS (60%) Constitutions; Elections; Public Opinion; United States International Relations; Politics and Government; Armament, Defense and Military Forces; Constitutional Amendments

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%) United Nations

PERSON: EMILE LAHOUD (79%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (73%) John Kifner; Emile (Pres) Lahoud

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (94%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (93%) LEBANON (97%); SYRIA (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (92%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); FRANCE (79%) Lebanon; Syria; France; Lebanon

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2004



91 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; AFTER THE CONVENTION: THE MAYOR -- Political Memo; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: Bloomberg Held the Line And Managed To Walk It, Too

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
In his attempt to carefully position himself between his Republican guests and his reluctant host city, Michael R. Bloomberg showed New York City two mayors this week. 
 One was ostentatiously liberal -- playing host at parties for Republicans who are gay or who support abortion rights, frequently announcing that he disagreed with the president on many issues, avoiding photo-ops with Mr. Bush and inviting people like Congressman Charles B. Rangel, a Democrat, to sit in his private box at Madison Square Garden.
 The other Mayor Bloomberg held the line against protesters who were perceived to be a threat, making it clear that he would tolerate no disorderly dissent. He denied that the city had trampled the rights of protesters who were locked up and drew parallels between verbally abusive demonstrators and the Sept. 11 terrorists. 
 In carefully straddling his roles -- as the Republican host and as a mayor up for re-election next year in a largely Democratic city -- Mr. Bloomberg tried to show the world that New York City can hold what in modern parlance is known as ''a major security event'' while also taking every chance he could get to distance himself from the policies of President Bush and some of the core tenets of his own party. 
 Although it is no secret that Mr. Bloomberg supports abortion and gay rights and is a strong advocate of gun control, he made sure to tell anyone who would listen last week. 
 His applause was loudest -- and, so it seemed to this reporter, who watched him all week, most heartfelt -- for a speaker at a party for gay Republicans who implored other Republicans not to let the party be ''hijacked by the radical right.'' 
 Mr. Bloomberg even declined an offer to sit in Mr. Bush's private box the night of the president's speech, instead sticking to his plan to entertain a guest from the gay Republican group and others in his own box. And the mayor's staff even told Republicans before the convention that he would not be working as a surrogate for the president during the week.
 Mr. Bloomberg's step to the left was particularly stark when compared with former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's glide to the right. Mr. Giuliani did not show up at Mr. Bloomberg's parties for the outlying groups, and he made endless partisan attacks on John Kerry, something Mr. Bloomberg has declined to do. 
 At a news conference near Madison Square Garden yesterday, Mr. Bloomberg declared the Republican convention an unequivocal victory. 
 ''I'm proud to say by any standard, we passed this one with flying colors,'' Mr. Bloomberg said. ''Crime remained at record lows throughout the entire city. Parks were open and safe. There was no change in subway service, and no major disruption to commuters. And the vast majority of protesters said their piece, peacefully.'' 
 ''The relatively few people who used this event as an excuse to break the law were arrested quickly,'' he continued, ''processed as expeditiously as possible, and treated humanely. Our visitors and the world watching on television saw that New York is back -- safer, stronger and more exciting than ever.''
 Indeed, because no calamity befell New York City, because there were few television images of violent protesters, because grass still grows on the Great Lawn, Mr. Bloomberg can easily say that the convention was a success. 
 But whether the convention is a boon or bust for Mr. Bloomberg's political fortune depends less on the opinion of the delegates and more on how New Yorkers felt about the convention's coming here at all, and how they experienced it. 
 For instance, in spite of Mr. Bloomberg's early insistence that the convention would be great for the city's economy, many businesses throughout the city complained as people left town, worried about street closings, delegates or possible terrorist attacks. 
 ''It looks like we will be off 25 percent against the same week last year,'' said Michael Garvey, general manager of the Grand Central Oyster Bar and Restaurant. ''I think that people stayed away from town, and that included tourists as well as our regular clientele.'' Does he have an opinion of Mr. Bloomberg after this? ''None that I'd like to share.''
 Mr. Bloomberg said yesterday that preliminary figures show the city gained $255 million from the convention, but the city was not yet able to account for some of the biggest costs, such as police overtime. 
 The best accounting may come when the city files its tax returns for this fiscal period; Boston's convention has yet to be proved an economic success.
 Some protesters complained bitterly of overly aggressive police tactics and a perceived plot to keep many protesters locked up for as long as possible during the convention. In fact, a state judge had to force the city to release hundreds of protesters.
 Mr. Bloomberg denied that protesters were ill-treated, and took pains to praise those who marched peacefully. 
 Indeed, the group that held the largest protest, United for Peace and Justice -- a bitter adversary of the Bloomberg administration going into the convention because the city would not permit it to rally in Central Park -- became a hero to the mayor in the end, as he and his police commissioner constantly cited the group's members as the antithesis of anarchists. 
 Mr. Bloomberg said yesterday that he did not think the convention would hurt his re-election effort. 
 ''I don't think it will have anything to do with my re-election whatsoever,'' he said. ''But I think that the ways the city handled the convention, our ability to attract it and the results that are all positive for this city, that clearly people will talk about that, and that's what I'm supposed to do and should be judged on it.''
 And he added another refrain from the week. ''We did invite the Democrats to come here,'' Mr. Bloomberg said, ''and I think they made a mistake in not coming here.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg declared the convention a success. (Photo by Frances Roberts for The New York Times)(pg. B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); ABORTION (77%); LGBT RIGHTS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); GUN CONTROL (72%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (70%); RIOTS (69%); TERRORISM (68%) Presidential Election of 2004; Homosexuality; Abortion; Demonstrations and Riots; Conventions, National (US); Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%); CHARLES B RANGEL (58%) Jennifer Steinhauer; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2004



92 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: ECONOMIC PROPOSALS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: Bush Plans Could Raise U.S. Deficits

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
President Bush promised in his nomination acceptance speech to improve the lives of millions of Americans by expanding a variety of existing programs, but neither he nor his aides explained how they would pay for the proposals, some of which promised to accelerate the budget deficit over the next decade.
 ''We have cost estimates and those will be put forward in the coming weeks and months,'' said Trent Duffy, the deputy White House press secretary, declining to offer details. Whatever the costs, the proposals would not go to Congress for approval until February or March, when the presidential budget for the 2006 fiscal year is published. That year begins 13 months from now. 
 Congress has not approved a budget for the fiscal year 2005, which starts in three and a half weeks. Mr. Bush proposed spending increases in that budget, but last spring the Office of Management and Budget instructed federal offices and agencies to cut spending in the requests they submitted for the 2006 budget. 
 ''We can't tell whether the president is now reversing course and actually planning to devote more resources to the areas mentioned in his speech,'' said Robert Greenstein, executive director of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, ''or whether he will remain with temporary increases now to be followed by substantial cuts in such areas as education and job training.''
 In his speech Thursday night, Mr. Bush said he would expand job training programs ''to help workers take advantage of the expanding economy to find better and higher-paying jobs.''
 That would be a shift in policy: During the Bush years, money for a central part of the program, the retraining of millions of laid-off workers, has remained essentially unchanged at about $4 billion annually.
 The most expensive proposals offered tax breaks for three types of savings accounts and various tax credits for health care. These would add roughly $50 billion to $100 billion to the $2.4 trillion in tax cuts now projected over the next decade, Mr. Greenstein estimated. But the trend would continue to be toward sheltering the income of wealthy people and putting more of the tax burden on wage earners.
 During the Bush years, the tax rate on wages and on income from investments has declined, but the decline for investment income is roughly 4 percentage points while that for workers is 2 points, according to estimates by the Congressional Budget Office. 
 ''Some of the president's proposals at the Republican convention may not have immediate fiscal effects, but they are radical changes in the system of taxation that we have,'' said Peter Orszag, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and a special assistant on economic policy in the Clinton administration.
 The Bush administration, in a second term, would provide tax incentives to set up three types of savings accounts. A health savings account would encourage people to pay for their own health care out of these accounts, though the estimated tax breaks would be less than the actual average cost of health care, according to most estimates. 
 A new retirement savings account would in effect replace traditional I.R.A.'s. And a lifetime savings account would shelter up to $7,500 a year for each individual in a household, or $30,000 for a family of four. The savings and interest could be withdrawn at any time tax-free. 
 The retirement accounts might raise revenue initially, Mr. Greenstein said, as people cash out I.R.A.'s and switch the funds to the new accounts. New money going into these accounts would not be deductible and tax revenue would also rise as a result. But none of the earnings would be taxable and that would cut into tax revenue in later years. As for lifetime savings accounts, the accumulated tax savings for a wealthy family putting $30,000 a year into these accounts would increasingly shift the tax burden to wage earners, according to critics.
 Concerning education, Mr. Bush said he would increase testing and reward teachers when their students do well, a proposal that Senator John Kerry, the Democratic nominee, has also made. In particular, the president proposed spending $250 million more to require more statewide exams in reading and math and $200 million to monitor the progress of incoming high school students.
 The increase would be significantly more than what the administration has requested in recent years, though experts deemed it far short of what it would take to conduct more standardized tests nationwide. 
 ''It seemed like the right rhetoric, but not the right solution,'' said Keith Gayler, associate director for the Center on Education Policy, which generally supports testing. ''This seems woefully underfunded and if it is not well funded, it will probably cause more harm than good.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (85%); ELECTIONS (79%); EXECUTIVES (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (73%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (71%); INCOME TAX (67%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (67%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; Taxation; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Tax Credits; Tax Deductions; Conventions, National (US)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (56%); CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); PETER ORSZAG (57%) Louis Uchitelle; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2004



93 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 119 words

HEADLINE: The President's Moment: American Voices

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''Bush, Evoking 9/11, Vows to 'Build a Safer World''' (front page, Sept. 3):
 President Bush promised to be a ''uniter''; his domestic policies have riven the country, and his foreign policy has earned us the ire of the world.
 President Bush promised that his tax cuts would produce an economic boom; he delivered a big deficit and an anemic economic recovery. 
 President Bush promised that no child would be left behind, but his underfinancing of his education initiative has left millions of children behind. 
 President Bush promised ''clear skies,'' but his environmental policy will increase pollution. 
 And George Bush calls John Kerry a flip-flopper?

David Kornhaber
Venice, Calif., Sept. 3, 2004


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Randy Jones)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); ELECTIONS (88%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (86%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (86%); CHILDREN (86%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (85%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (55%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (94%) David Kornhaber; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2004



94 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 636 words

HEADLINE: A Hidden Swing Vote: Evangelicals

BYLINE: By Michael Hout and Andrew M. Greeley. 
Michael Hout is a professor of sociology at the University of California at Berkeley. Andrew M. Greeley, a Roman Catholic priest, is a professor of sociology at the University of Arizona and a research associate at the National Opinion Research Center.

 BODY:
The press has made a big issue of how President Bush and Senator John Kerry are both trying to woo voters from groups that usually support the other side, be they military veterans, Hispanics or Jews. Yet one group that receives almost no attention is Christian evangelicals. We are repeatedly told they form the president's unshakeable electoral base. But in truth, this claim is vastly simplistic: the fashionable image of masses of white evangelical voters, stirred up by the tricks of Karl Rove and led by Bible-thumping clergymen, marching in lock step to deny rights to women and to gays, is hardly born out by the data. Rather, the real Republican base is the same as it was before Richard Nixon's ''Southern strategy'' appealed to religious Protestants in 1968: the wealthy and the powerful. 
 Data about the last two presidential elections drawn from the 1998, 2000 and 2002 General Social Surveys, carried out by the National Opinion Research Center at the University of Chicago, found that the one-fifth of white Americans who belong to ''fundamentalist'' churches (like Southern Baptist, Assembly of God, Holiness, Pentecostal and Missouri Synod Lutheran) are remarkably pluralistic in their political and social attitudes. While it is true that white evangelicals tend to be more conservative socially, as well as religiously, than the average American, there is little correlation between religious conservatism and political conservatism. For example, in the social surveys, about 40 percent of Americans who believe in the literal, word-for-word interpretation of the Bible describe themselves as ''politically conservative.'' 
 In the last two presidential elections, about 62 percent of white evangelicals voted Republican -- or about 7.5 percent more than among other American Protestants. A majority, clearly, but nowhere near unanimity. And in terms of the electorate as a whole, it's hardly fair to say evangelicals are a dominant political force. If we measure their overall political influence as that 7.5 percent differential multiplied by their share of the electorate -- they make up about 21 percent of voters-- it comes to about 1.6 percentage points. Yes, as the 2000 election showed, even an edge that small can be decisive in a close race. But it hardly amounts to an overwhelming base. Moreover, those 1.6 percentage points are spread across all regions, not concentrated in the South, where the evangelicals supposedly contribute to the Republicans' red state advantage.
 Clearly, claims that evangelicals have hijacked the nation's politics are greatly exaggerated. In fact, polling data show that President Bush's real base is not religious but economic, the group he jokingly referred to as ''the haves and the have mores.'' 
 The General Social Survey found that 20 percent of American voters have family incomes of more than $75,000 a year, while twice that many earn $30,000 or less. The high-income group (about the same size as the evangelicals) votes Republican by an 18-point margin, while the low-income group favors Democrats by 24 percentage points. If the Republicans were to lose their 18-point advantage among the affluent, it would cost them about four percentage points nationwide in the election, more than twice the cost if they were to lose their edge among evangelicals.
 And neither region nor religion can override the class divide: if recent patterns hold, a majority (about 52 percent) of poor Southern white evangelicals will vote for Mr. Kerry in November, while only 12 percent of affluent Southern white evangelicals will. 
 Most poorer Americans of every faith -- including evangelical Christians -- vote for Democrats. It's a shame that few pundits, pollsters or politicians seem to notice. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (97%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); STATISTICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); FUNDAMENTALISM (77%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (77%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (77%); JEWS & JUDAISM (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); VETERANS (72%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (55%) Presidential Election of 2004; Public Opinion; Voter Behavior; Christians and Christianity; Conservation (US Politics); Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); KARL ROVE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); RICHARD NIXON (58%) Michael Hout; Andrew M (Rev) Greeley

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (70%) ILLINOIS, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2004



95 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE MASSACHUSETTS SENATOR; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1083 words

HEADLINE: Kerry Urges Voters to Look Past Bush's 'Last-Minute Promises'

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER

DATELINE: NEWARK, Ohio, Sept. 3 

 BODY:
Senator John Kerry opened the final 60 days of the presidential campaign on Friday with a slashing indictment of President Bush's record on jobs and health care, saying he had misled the United States into war in Iraq and left a trail of broken promises and worsened problems at home.
 As his running mate and their wives swept across the electoral battlegrounds of Iowa, Michigan and Wisconsin, Mr. Kerry asked voters in this economically battered state to look past Mr. Bush's ''last-minute promises'' and focus on what he said were the facts: 1.7 million jobs lost since 2000, 1.4 million more people in 2003 without health insurance than the year before and 1.3 million more in poverty. 
 ''Is that a reason to be re-elected?'' Mr. Kerry said. ''Folks, they've had four years. And what they've done is take America backwards.''
 Mr. Kerry also seized on economic data released Friday that showed only modest job growth in August. [Page C1.]
 Since accepting the nomination at the end of July, Mr. Kerry has for the most part avoided harsh political attacks on the president, instead emphasizing his expansive plans and offering gauzy-sounding talk of sunrises and grabbing onto dreams. But he returned to the offensive after his character, voting history and even his patriotism were questioned by Republicans in New York this week, and after Democrats faulted him for a hesitant, halting response last month to televised attacks on his military record.
 Criticizing the Republican convention as bitter and insulting one moment, then calling Mr. Bush dishonest the next, Mr. Kerry attacked against what he called his rivals' distortions and said the president's address Thursday made clear he ''will literally say anything and do anything in order to try to get re-elected'' -- a line stolen from Mr. Bush, who used it regularly against Al Gore.
 ''Yesterday, I read that speech,'' Mr. Kerry told a crowd of thousands here in a heavily Republican county outside Columbus that Mr. Bush won by 22 percentage points in 2000. ''Every time they open their mouths, they can't tell the truth about the things that we want to do. It's the most amazing thing I've ever seen. It's time for us to have a president of the United States who can look you in the eye and when he does, you know you're being told the truth about your lives and about this country.''
 But it was on the economy that Mr. Kerry focused on here in Newark, a rural town of 46,000 where 4,300 people are unemployed and another local factory is set to lay off 784 workers next Thursday.
 ''All these attacks on me, I've been through worse, believe me -- that's not what this is about,'' he said. ''It's their attacks on you, that's what this is all about.''
 ''Just today the secretary of labor stood up and said that 140,000 jobs being announced is something to celebrate in America,'' Mr. Kerry said. ''My friends, at the rate that this administration is creating jobs, you're not going to have a net plus one job in the state of Ohio till the year 2011. I don't think this is something to celebrate, I think this is something to get to work on.''
 Mr. Kerry's focus on jobs, health care and other domestic issues came as a strategic change in a campaign in which he has devoted more attention to foreign policy than any other single issue. His advisers say that for all the damage done by the unsubstantiated attacks on Mr. Kerry's military record, they believe he has passed the threshold test of ''does he have the strength, does he have the resoluteness to be commander in chief,'' as Joe Lockhart, a senior communications adviser, put it.
 ''We have established the credentials we need to,'' Mr. Lockhart said in a conference call with reporters Friday morning, ''and the campaign will turn now in a different direction and go to the economy.''
 As one indication, the Kerry campaign began running six new advertisements in cities that President Bush planned to visit this weekend -- Cleveland; Milwaukee; Scranton and Erie, Pa.; Cedar Rapids, Iowa; and Parkersburg, W.Va. -- highlighting promises he made in 2000 on health insurance and the economy.
 ''Now, Bush is back,'' the spots say. ''But around here, we remember Bush's broken promises.''
 At his rally in Newark, Mr. Kerry drove home that message, recalling that Mr. Bush ''promised Ohio he was going to create jobs by giving a great big tax cut to the wealthiest Americans, right?''
 ''That's a fact -- that doesn't have a Democratic label, doesn't have a Republican label,'' he said. ''You know what happened? Ohio lost 230,000 jobs. Ohio lost 112,000 jobs from November of 2001, when the recession was declared over.''
 He acidly said that Secretary of Labor Elaine L. Chao this week described the outsourcing of jobs as ''good for America.'' 
 ''This president doesn't understand what's happening to communities all across this country,'' he said.
 Ms. Chao said this week that the ''anxiety belies the numbers'' because the number of American jobs lost to other countries was far outweighed by the number of jobs in the United States at foreign-owned companies.
 Mr. Kerry repeatedly cited Census data released last week showing that 1.4 million more people went without health insurance and that 1.3 million people had fallen below the poverty line. But he used outdated figures for the job losses since 2000; the Labor Department now says 1.6 million jobs have been lost, not 1.7 million.
 A new hint of the pressure Mr. Kerry is under to fight back at Mr. Bush came in a Time magazine poll released Friday that showed the president with a 52 percent to 41 percent lead among likely voters. But some experts on surveys cast doubt on the poll's findings because it was conducted as the Republican convention was under way.
 Even Mr. Kerry's comments about Iraq centered on the economics of the war and its potential impact on domestic priorities. 
 ''He told America the war would cost you how much?'' Mr. Kerry said. ''One billion dollars. The war has cost $200 billion, and as you look around this country, think of what that money could have done for schools, for health care, for prescription drugs, for all the things we need to do.''
 Mr. Kerry was upbeat and feisty on the attack, even noting ''this lonely voice over here'' of a Bush supporter on the periphery of his rally. When his supporters yelled, ''Two more months!'' at the man, Mr. Kerry did their barb one better.
 ''A mind is a terrible thing to waste, ladies and gentlemen,'' he said, laughing.


GRAPHIC: Photo: John Kerry, in Bellville, Ohio, and Rick Campbell discussed Mr. Campbell's support of President Bush. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); IRAQ WAR (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); POVERTY RATES (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); TERRORISM (66%); ETHICS (60%) Presidential Election of 2004; Terrorism; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Election Issues ; Labor; Presidential Election of 2004; Unemployment; Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Ethics

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (93%); AL GORE (59%) David M Halbfinger; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (93%) Newark (Ohio); Iraq; Ohio

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2004



96 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 4, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 589 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Medicare Premiums To Rise 17% Next Year
A day after President Bush highlighted his efforts to help the elderly cope with increased medical expenses, federal officials announced the largest premium increase in the Medicare program's history, raising the monthly expense $11.60, to $78.20, next year.
 The 17 percent increase largely results from higher payments to doctors and reflects rising medical expenses generally, officials said. The rise has nothing to do with a program that will start in 2006 to offer prescription drugs, for which beneficiaries must pay a separate premium. [Page A1.]

Firm Requests Enron 'Success Fee'
The firm led by the acting chief executive of Enron asked a bankruptcy judge for a $25 million ''success fee'' for its efforts in shepherding the collapsed energy trader through nearly three years under Chapter 11 bankruptcy. According to the court filing with the United States Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan, Kroll Zolfo Cooper, whose chairman is Stephen F. Cooper, above, is seeking four equal payments of $6.25 million, payable upon Enron's emergence from Chapter 11 and subsequent events. [C2.]

Russia Increases Yukos Tax Bill
The Tax Ministry of Russia increased its 2001 back tax bill against Yukos to $4.1 billion, bringing its total tax claims against the oil company to $7.5 billion. [C3.]

Slower Growth in Service Sector
Growth in the services sector slowed in August although managers seemed more willing to hire new workers, according to the Institute for Supply Management's nonmanufacturing index. [C4.]

Pfizer to Pay $430 Million
Pfizer agreed to pay $430 million to resolve claims against a subsidiary, the Quigley Company, which sold products containing asbestos in the 1970's and filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. [C2.]

Japanese Spending Up 1.1%
Japanese household spending rose 1.1 percent in July compared with last year as consumers spent more on clothing and housing. [C3.]

Hutchison Unit Plans Offering
Hutchison Whampoa said that it planned to raise as much as $2 billion in an initial public offering of its phone business in Hong Kong, India and six other markets. [C3.]

3Com Cuts Revenue Expectation
Shares of 3Com fell 10 percent after the company lowered its revenue and gross margin forecasts for its fiscal first quarter. The company said that it expected to report revenue of $160 million to $164 million for the quarter. It previously forecast that its revenue would be steady with or slightly higher than the $183 million reported in its fourth quarter. Jiong Shao, an analyst at Lehman Brothers, said the decline might be related to the recent departure of several executives who declined to move when the company relocated to Marlborough, Mass. [C2.]

Cypress Earnings to Miss Estimates
Cypress Semiconductor said results for the third quarter would miss analysts' estimates because of higher client inventory and a slowdown in electronics spending. [C2.]

Cantor Fitzgerald Sues Saudi Arabia
Cantor Fitzgerald, the brokerage firm that lost 658 employees in the Sept. 11 attacks, sued Saudi Arabia, contending that the kingdom ''provided funding and material support and substantial assistance'' to terrorists. [B6.]

Allied Domecq Says Earnings Rose
Allied Domecq expects to report increased profit for its fiscal year as a result of growth in Britain and the United States and rising liquor sales in Spain and Central Europe. [C2.]

Markets to Close for Labor Day
Financial markets and banks in the United States will be closed Monday in observance of Labor Day. They will reopen Tuesday.


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,260.20 down 30.08Nasdaq composite -- 1,844.48 down 28.9510-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.29% up 0.08The euro -- $1.2071 down 0.0086The dollar -- 110.60 yen up 1.14Graph tracks the daily closing price of 3Com shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (88%); SENIOR CITIZENS (79%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (79%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (74%); CONSUMER SPENDING (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (73%); ENERGY MARKETS (73%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (71%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (69%); JUDGES (69%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (66%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (66%); TAX AUTHORITIES (66%); RELOCATIONS (60%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: QUIGLEY CO INC (66%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (66%); PFIZER INC (57%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (57%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); OAO NK YUKOS (55%); HUTCHISON WHAMPOA LTD (52%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (52%); CANTOR FITZGERALD LP (50%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (57%); PFEB (BRU) (57%); PFE (NYSE) (57%); 0013 (HKSE) (52%); HPQ (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (57%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (57%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (57%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (55%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (52%); NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (52%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (52%); NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (50%)

PERSON: STEPHEN F COOPER (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2004



97 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 5; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2687 words

HEADLINE: The Mouse in the Antiques Shop

BYLINE: By TANYA MOHN

 BODY:
NOT so long ago, throngs of people used to antique for entire weekend afternoons. Customers would stroll from shop to shop in towns like Tarrytown and Larchmont, to look, touch, hang out, savoring the ritual of the hunt at least as much as the eureka moment of actually finding the item they were hunting for. 
 ''The good old days of the 80's and 90's were wonderful,'' said Peter Fallon, who with his wife, Jenny, runs Fallon's Antiques in Mount Pleasant. The business also exhibits antiques and promotes antiques shows.
 But antiquing isn't what it once was. And those who do it aren't quite the same. 
 ''They have the money, these yuppies, but they don't care if it is old; they only care if it has a 'look,''' Mr. Fallon lamented.
 Mrs. Fallon has her own take on why antiquing has dropped off.
 ''With more and more women working today, there is no time to dust this stuff,'' she said.
 Everything from the sluggish economy and rising real-estate prices to bad taste and lack of time has been credited for the decline in antiquing. And eBay, the online bazaar, has loomed perhaps more significantly than any other factor. The way people collect their collectibles is changing, and some fear that antiquing will become nothing more than a mail-order business. 
 No national or local statistics accurately reflect the status of the antiques and collectibles trade, according to experts in the field, but many believe eBay has taken a toll. ''Shops are closing down, there is no question about it,'' said William C. Ketchum, a Rye resident and author of 40 books on antiques and American art. ''Fifty percent of shops that I knew 15 years ago are gone,'' he said. 
 ''I'm constantly talking to dealers who are about on the brink of closing their shops,'' said Fred Heintz, a Bronxville resident and antiques dealer with a shop, ''Antiques of Darien,'' in Connecticut, who has bought out the contents of five area shops in the last couple of years.
 ''EBay is certainly the reason that so many smaller shops have closed,'' he said. ''There is little need for an antique dealer who has traditionally functioned as a middleman.'' 
 But the Internet, and eBay, may turn out to be the savior of the antiques business rather than the agent of its demise. Since the late 1990's more shops have begun using eBay to sell their wares, and new businesses are springing up to act as go-betweens. 
 Enter the dropoff store, a growing trend around the country, where people can take items they want to sell but for whatever reason, don't want to post on eBay themselves. In the Westchester area, Michael Sheldon, 43, a Greenwich resident, started a business in January called the DropShop Store. ''We're like a broker-dealer,'' said Mr. Sheldon, the founder and chief executive. A former venture capitalist, he compares the company's relationship with eBay to that of a stockbroker with Nasdaq, handling all aspects of the transaction. 
 Auction consultants meet with customers to evaluate items. Once accepted for sale, auction managers write a description, take a photograph and post the item on eBay. They later track, and ultimately pack and ship the purchased item to the buyer.
 The company relocated its processing headquarters and regional processing center to Armonk from Greenwich last month. The store in Greenwich remains open. Two new stores opened last month in Armonk and Larchmont. DropShop also has a bank of stores in Minnesota; five stores opened in the twin cities area earlier in the summer. Within a year, the company hopes to have a total of 20 stores. The stores' SoHo-like interiors by the design firm Gensler, the ease with which products can be sold and the guaranteed anonymity are intended to appeal to affluent communities, the company's intended market. 
 Any item that can sell for more than $100 is considered for sale, with many items selling for much more. The company charges a graduated commission, ranging from 17 percent to 29 percent, depending on the final selling price of the item. 
 On a recent morning, a sampling of items offered for sale through the Greenwich store included silver tiffany candlesticks, a five-piece engraved sterling silver tea service, designer watches and a number of Waterford crystal pieces. 
 Mr. Sheldon is counting on the continued success of eBay, which in 2003 had its biggest year ever, according to Bob Hebeler, divisional merchandise manager and vice president for eBay, who oversees all collectibles. Last year on eBay, sales totaled $1.2 billion in that category, Mr. Hebeler said.
 It's figures like that that suggest the potential preowned goods market has barely been tapped, Mr. Sheldon said.
 Internet sales form only the latest chapter in the long history of antiquing in this country. Americans have been avid collectors since the Civil War. In Philadelphia after the centennial was celebrated in 1876 serious interest in Americana began. Furniture and decorative accessories, like old glass and pottery, quilts and early folk paintings were the focus as people began to look back with nostalgia on the early years of the nation.
 ''It started off having a very scholarly basis,'' said Mr. Heintz, the dealer, and remained an upper-class hobby. After World War II antiquing became popular among the middle and working class, who for the first time had disposable income.
 ''There was an explosion, a collecting boom,'' said Mr. Ketchum, the author and historian. Dealers had to meet the demand of the large number of collectors and eventually the definition of what an antique is broadened informally to include more recent items, often called collectibles. (The United States Customs defines an antique as an object at least 100 years old.) Today, the category of antiques and collectibles has expanded to such an extent that it includes furniture manufactured as recently as the 1950's and 60's, old baseball cards and Super Bowl memorabilia, Mr. Ketchum said. 
 But Westchester, long fertile ground for the antiques trade, has lost some of its luster. Not all dealers blame eBay for the fact that business has taken a nosedive. Joan Silbersher, owner of Antiques & Tools of Business & Kitchen in Pound Ridge, says the poor economy, not the Internet, is responsible for slow sales. 
 ''You don't need a thing in my store,'' Ms. Silbersher said. She sells decorative items, like old egg beaters or coal scuttles, often used as planters. Her customers have included Martha Stewart, Susan Sarandon and Richard Gere. ''Sales are drastically down,'' she said. ''So few customers come in. I believe strongly that my little shop is the true barometer of the country.'' 
 Mr. Sheldon envisions the DropShop Store as a possible solution to the trade's woes, not part of the problem. ''We want to be best friends with antique dealers,'' Mr. Sheldon said. ''What we'd like to do is to actually help them,'' he said, with the store functioning as a kind of distributor for small businesses who provide the product. ''It's a win-win situation.'' Steve Marco, owner of Antiques America in Pelham, is one of a growing number of brick-and-mortar dealers who lists merchandise directly on eBay. ''I think eBay is a wonderful option to selling your stuff,'' Mr. Marco said, with the online market accounting for 10 percent of his profits. ''It's proven to be a very viable outlet financially.'' On a recent afternoon, he photographed and wrote descriptions for a few bronze figurines, some vintage jewelry, a 19th-century French settee, and a hand-painted Italian chest. 
 Sam Lightbody, a third-generation owner of Chatsworth Auction Rooms and Furniture Studios in Mamaroneck, which opened in 1924, began selling on eBay in the late 90's. ''I thought at the time it was one of those new fads that I wasn't going to get involved in,'' Mr. Lightbody said.
 ''It's been huge for Chatsworth -- it gives us a worldwide audience,'' Mr. Lightbody said, with eBay sales accounting for 25 to 30 percent of sales. ''It's created a way for people to find us, find our merchandise.'' Mr. Lightbody says he believes the eBay component of his business will coexist with his store. ''You can't cuddle in a chair with eBay,'' he said. ''Some people prefer to shop in person.'' 
 Colleen A. Lomax, a lawyer who lives and works in the Phoenix area, last month bought a pair of signed 1940 Charak Federal-style, mahogany, inlaid corner cabinets from Chatsworth, which sold for $5,500, plus about $800 in shipping. Ms. Lomax and her husband had been looking for about three months, locally in Phoenix, and in San Diego and Los Angeles, but did not find what they wanted. She said she felt confident about her purchase when she saw Mr. Lightbody's Web site and spoke with him on the phone. ''It was a good experience,'' she said. ''I'd do it again. You jump on eBay, you can do it in a week. Time for us matters.'' 
 Katie Hite, executive director of the Westchester County Historical Society, says eBay has enhanced her organization's ability to obtain historically relevant materials for their collection ''that we would not have unearthed if eBay had not existed.'' On a recent morning she bought a 1911 brewing company stock certificate from a now nonexistent Westchester County business, offered by a seller out of state. (It will appear in the fall edition of the Society's publication in an article on county breweries.) Other purchases have included yearbooks, maps, sometimes a diary or a city directory. As a former antique dealer herself, she sees no downside to eBay. 
 ''It's a heck of a lot easier than to pack a van and travel 100 miles to a show,'' or to hope for the right customer for an item. For the average shop owner, she said, ''your market is pretty small.
 ''The chance of someone interested walking into a store on Main Street in Tarrytown is pretty slim,'' she said. 
 Nonprofit organizations also see the value of the Internet. Trish Feathers, director of retail operations at Sound Shore Medical Center, oversees Accents on Antiques in Pelham, a shop whose proceeds benefit the center. Mrs. Feathers recently met with the center's Web designer and an advertising firm to develop a Web site. ''We recognize that represents a new avenue of exposure and we're going to embrace it and go forward,'' she said. ''We need to be available to shoppers' whims, regardless of when it happens.'' Using eBay is not out of the question, Mrs. Feathers said. ''It would be short-sighted for us to not explore it.'' 
 WHILE a growing number of independent merchants have joined the fray, other segments of the industry have found no reason to do so. ''In all honesty, our numbers are up,'' said John R. Chism, president of the National Flea Market Association. He said the industry had more than $5 billion in retail sales in 2003.
 ''EBay has not hurt our business,'' he said. ''It can't replace the one-on-one contact the vendors have with customers, the entertainment value, the touchy-feely aspect of a flea market.'' 
 Cindy Cromwell, co-owner of Nana's Attic in Scarsdale, said, ''You can't replace an experience with a click of a mouse.'' She has created an atmosphere where she says customers love to shop, providing coffee and goodies, as well as football games on a television set for the husbands to watch while their wives shop. ''EBay's good for research,'' Ms. Cromwell said, but her customers ''like the hunt, being able to come across unexpected treasure, to look and to touch.'' The experience of finding that special piece, she said, is often ''worth more than the piece itself.'' 
 The human angle has advocates on both ends of the spectrum. ''People are not going to spend $50,000 on a painting if they have not held it in their hand,,'' said R. Scudder Smith, publisher and editor of Antiques & The Arts Weekly, a nationally distributed trade publication. ''You have to touch it and see it. The antiques business is a very personal business.
 ''EBay may have hurt the little guy, but most dealers have not been affected one bit. It has not affected the sale of major pieces,'' Mr. Smith said, particularly when authenticity is an issue. 
 Mr. Scudder once purchased a pond boat model on eBay, but neither the painting, mask, rigging nor sails were original, as the seller had indicated.
 Jesse Goldberg, owner of Artemis Gallery in North Salem, a private dealer specializing in American Federal furniture, concurs with Mr. Smith on the matter of authenticity. He said eBay is good for decorative pieces only, but not for authentic period antiques. 
 Mr. Ketchum, the author, says eBay has contributed to ''dumbing down the field.'' The older customer, he said, was more knowledgeable. ''Today, it's how it looks; whether it has any age or was made in Taiwan makes no difference.''
 John Gould, a dealer in Yorktown Heights and specializes in mid-19th-century gilt frames and early 19th-century American furniture, says his business is doing fine without the Internet and eBay, though he is not opposed to considering it in the future.
 ''If you were to apply a business model to it, you'd never do this,'' he said of the antiques business. ''For what employer would you get up at 3 in the morning to drive hours, to traipse through fields full of water to look at a piece? It's great to find something that's early, that has a story, touching them, working with them, telling someone about them. It's a wonderful way to spend your time.''

The County Too, Goes In for Online Auctions
 EVER wonder what Westchester County does with its old furniture or retired computers? Same thing millions of Americas do: sells them on eBay. It began as a kind of experiment with about a dozen items going up for auction on eBay on Aug. 20. A week later, the county had closing bids totaling $8,555. 
 ''We are thrilled,'' said Susan Tolchin, chief adviser for County Executive Andrew J. Spano. Most items sold for much more than expected, she said. 
 Among the objects sold were a set of 39 aluminum interlocking floating lake docks once used at a county camp, Playland commemorative mugs, some old office chairs, golf equipment and ''Fireside Dining'' and ''Lakeside Patio Open'' signs from a Cantina restaurant. 
 The proceeds will go into county coffers.
 Since 1973, when the county formulated a state-mandated law regarding the disposal of surplus goods, it had shed surplus property the traditional way, in public auctions and by advertising in the local newspaper. The county does not plan to abandon live on-site public auctions, which have been profitable, particularly in the area of surplus vehicles, according to Jim Ferrara, deputy purchasing agent for Westchester County, who has been the auctioneer for more than 15 years and now oversees the county's eBay transactions. Over the last nine years, he said, sales have averaged $217,000 a year for bicycles confiscated by the police, retired buses and police cars and turf equipment, like weed wackers. But the practice of advertising in the paper and fielding sealed bids from interested parties did not yield many sales. ''We might sell 6 pieces from 200 items,'' Mr. Ferrera said. ''It was hard.'' Bidders had only one shot at it, and the bids were low. Stuff stockpiled. 
 Mr. Ferrara said: ''People are competitive by nature. Public bidding just raises the bar. The eBay format gives them an opportunity to compete against each other, which drives prices up.'' The floating lake docks were a prime example. The initial price was $25. But seven different bidders engaged in the heated auction. The final price was more than $8,000. 
 Exactly how many governments are using similar strategies is unknown, according to Catherine Hatch, an eBay spokeswoman. Oregon was the first state, she said, listing items like tractors and industrial equipment on eBay in 2000, and since then a number of states, counties and cites have followed. The county plans to list about a dozen items at a time, with the goal of listing daily. Sales will still be listed in the local newspaper, but now readers will be referred to the county's eBay site.
 (To view the county's current offerings, go to www.westchestergov.com and follow links to its eBay page.) TANYA MOHN


GRAPHIC: Photos: Steve Marco of Antiques America lists on eBay. Workers at the Larchmont DropShop. (Photographs by Chris Maynard for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
Michael Sheldon of DropShop stores, where people can take items they want to have sold on eBay. A photographer takes a picture of articles for sale.
 Brick-and-mortar shops still exist, like Antiques & Tools of Business & Kitchen in Pound Ridge, above. After seeing an item on eBay, Jay Meisner, left, went to see it at Chatsworth Auction Rooms and Furniture Studios in Mamaroneck, where he was with Sam Lightbody, center, and John DeGiacomo. Shoppers among the items at Accents on Antiques in Pelham. Below: Mr. Lightbody examined furniture offered for sale by Frann Mauro of Port Chester. (Photographs by Chris Maynard for The New York Times)(pg. 8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (92%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (90%); ANTIQUE COLLECTING (89%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (89%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (73%); TRENDS (71%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (70%); REAL ESTATE (68%); WRITERS (63%) Antiques; Industry Profiles; Computers and the Internet; Antiques

ORGANIZATION: Ebay Inc

PERSON: Tanya Mohn

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Westchester County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2004



98 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; ASSETS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: It Is a Mansion, So Pay the Tax

BYLINE: By VIVIAN MARINO

 BODY:
THE Gramercy Park co-op purchased by the young eye surgeon just three weeks ago has two spacious bedrooms, two and a half bathrooms and a large terrace with unobstructed views of the Empire State Building. It's quite nice by Manhattan standards, but few would confuse it for a mansion.
 ''No way!'' said the 31-year-old doctor, who says he saw his share of estate homes when he was growing up on Long Island's North Shore. ''I consider a mansion something very different than what I have.'' 
 Yet New York State seems to think the co-op is a mansion, at least for tax purposes. Because the 1,850-square-foot apartment sold for $1,065,000, he was required to pay a ''mansion tax'' of $10,650, or 1 percent of the purchase price, as part of his closing costs. All buyers of one-, two- or three-family homes in New York that sell for $1 million or more are subject to this levy. New Jersey began imposing a similar fee on Aug. 1.
 When the tax was instituted under Gov. Mario M. Cuomo in 1989 as a kind of luxury surcharge for the wealthy, $1 million could actually buy a mansion, or something close to one. Today, million-dollar homes are becoming more commonplace, and downright common, especially in the pricier suburbs of Westchester County and in the more desirable neighborhoods in Manhattan, where bidding wars are routinely driving up prices. 
 The average price for all Manhattan condominiums was $1,026,885 at the start of the summer, 21 percent more than the same time last year, according to the Real Estate Board of New York. 
 Widespread as this may be, many buyers feel more than a little uncomfortable about revealing that they have paid seven figures for a home. The doctor from Gramercy Park requested that he not be identified because he said he didn't want any of his patients, whom he described as blue-collar, to ''think I was rich.''
 Real estate brokers, however, say the mansion tax has been little deterrent for buyers of such homes. ''They don't like it, but they know they have to pay it,'' said Benita Cohen, a vice president for the Corcoran Group, who represented the eye doctor in the sale. ''Some people will try to get the seller to pay it or split it, but the seller doesn't want to -- or have to -- in this market.''
 An estimated 5,440 home sales triggered the mansion tax in the last fiscal year, which ended March 31, and about $141.5 million in taxes was collected statewide, according to Thomas Bergin, a spokesman for the New York State Department of Taxation and Finance. That was up from the previous fiscal year when 5,110 homes sold for $1 million or more and $99.3 million in taxes was collected, he said. 
 The first year of the tax, 1990-1, only 559 transactions were affected and $10.4 million collected, he said. 
 With the real estate market still going strong, thanks in part to relatively low mortgage rates, the state is expecting to make even more money from the tax this fiscal year. (And it may very well need to: some fiscal watchdog groups worry that New York faces a projected $6.1 billion shortfall next year.)
 John Logan, a state tax analyst at CCH, a tax research firm in Riverwoods, Ill., says more states are looking for additional revenue sources to help close their spending deficits, and some of them, like New York and New Jersey, have generally targeted high-income taxpayers. ''They make up a smaller percentage of the population, so the political costs are less than, say, increasing the sales tax rate, which would affect everyone,'' he said.
 But tax experts and real estate groups say that more middle-income people are being ensnared by the mansion tax in New York. The true luxury real estate market, they say, starts around $2 million, not $1 million. ''A recalibration needs to be done,'' at least in New York, said Richard J. Roll, president of the American Homeowners Association in Stamford, Conn. ''It's no different than an inflation adjustment. That $1 million house in 1989 is probably worth $2.5 million today.''
 For now, though, there's little home buyers can do, except pay up. ''In New York, strategies evolve and regulations evolve to counter the strategies,'' said Larry M. Elkin, president of the Palisades Hudson Financial Group in Scarsdale, N.Y.
 He and others have heard stories of buyers trying to avoid the mansion tax through all-cash deals or by surreptitiously offering to pay $900,000 for a house and $100,000 for its ''furnishings.'' 
 ''I don't know anything that prevents you from doing that, but the fair market value attributed to the furniture can't be inflated,'' said Alan E. Weiner, a partner in the accounting firm of Holtz Rubenstein & Company in Melville, N.Y. 
 Besides, he added, that same buyer would still be liable to pay the sales tax on that ''$100,000'' worth of furniture. There's a place to enter it on the New York State income tax return (Line 56).
 Buying property with a combined commercial and residential use won't cancel out the mansion tax, either, Mr. Weiner says. The tax would simply be computed based on the value of the residential portion. (If, say, one third of a $1.5 million building is for residential use, the tax would be $5,000, or 1 percent of $500,000.) 
 There is one thing that buyers can do, and that's to simply look for bargains.
 Robert and Allison Gray paid less than $1 million for a new 1,000-square-foot condo on East 29th Street last winter. With some renovations, they figure they can eventually convert the one-bedroom unit into a two-bedroom, thereby pushing the value over $1 million. 
 The condo already has many high-end features, like a Viking stove and granite counters in the kitchen, said Ms. Gray, 33, a lawyer. 
 The doctor from Gramercy Park, meanwhile, wishes he had a little extra money left over to put toward his kitchen renovations. The $10,650 paid for the mansion tax could have been used for that, he said, as well as for new furnishings, ''and to take a vacation and get away from all this unpacking.''


GRAPHIC: Drawings (Illustrations by Doug Ross)(pg. 1, 9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); OPHTHALMOLOGY (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); PROPERTY TAX (76%); HOME PRICES (76%); EXCISE TAX (74%); TAX AUTHORITIES (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%) Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Property Taxes; Excise Taxes

PERSON: Vivian Marino

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City; New York State; New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2004



99 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 4553 words

HEADLINE: All God's Children

BYLINE: By Samantha M. Shapiro. 
Samantha M. Shapiro last wrote for the magazine about the young supporters of Howard Dean.

 BODY:
In a cinder-block classroom at the edge of Biola University's manicured campus in a Los Angeles suburb, Craig Detweiler was blasting the music of Nick Cave at his Intro to Mass Media class. Two dozen students were arranged in a horseshoe of swivel chairs, and they were looking blankly at a photo of Cave, a sullen goth-rocker, which Detweiler's laptop was projecting onto a pull-down screen.
 Intro to Mass Media is a required class for every mass-communications major at Biola. Each week of the course is devoted to a different type of media. This week, in late March, was music. Lesson 1, on Monday, was the history of music; Lesson 2, today's class, focused on contemporary music. 
 ''Soooo . . . any Nick Cave fans?'' Detweiler asked, pacing the room. No one answered. 
 Detweiler has spiky silver hair and exuberant blue eyes, and he was wearing a Hawaiian shirt and trendy shoes. He brings a kind of affable sarcasm to a complicated job; he is the chairman of a mass-media department at a university that until 1977 banned all films. ''This stuff is pretty hard and dark,'' he offered, as Cave growled and howled through the speakers of his laptop. ''But did you know that Nick Cave wrote an introduction to the Gospel of Mark for a special edition of the Bible published in the U.K.? What do we think of that?'' Students spun their chairs and gnawed pen tops. 
 Like a lot of Christian colleges in the United States, Biola has in recent years made serious efforts to compete academically with secular and more mainstream religiously affiliated colleges. That hasn't meant a reduced emphasis on religious teachings. If anything, the school has intensified its commitment to cultivating devout Christians. But it does mean that the school has expanded its curriculum in areas of study like psychology, bioethics and popular culture, and that it is encouraging a new level of engagement with the secular world. Detweiler, a screenwriter who is something of a maverick on campus and in the evangelical Christian community, is on the front lines of that effort at Biola. 
 Detweiler fiddled with his laptop, and an image of Bjork appeared on the projection screen. The music switched to a soothing Bjork ballad called ''All Is Full of Love.'' He turned up the volume. 
 ''What do we think of this?'' he asked. ''Is God in it?''
 ''To be honest, I have a hard time with that,'' a student offered tentatively. 
 Adam Hopkins, a skinny mass-communications major with dark, shaggy hair, said: ''I like the music. It's ethereal and beautiful.''
 ''What's that she's singing?'' Detweiler asked. ''All is full of . . . ? All is full of . . . ? All is full of what?''
 No answer.
 ''Love!'' he shouted triumphantly. ''All is full of love! Anybody in this room with that?''
 Tracy Woodworth, a polished journalism major in the back of the room, shot up her hand and asked, a little indignantly, ''Isn't that just back to the everything-is-love fun, happy relativism?'' 
 Then Christina Young spoke up. She agreed with Tracy. She allowed that the Bjork song reflects ''the concept of common grace -- that everyone has a taste of God's goodness,'' but she pointed out that common grace ''is not enough for salvation.''
 Detweiler had an hour's worth of songs and slides stored on his laptop. He clicked through the Klezmer Conservatory Band and ''The Best of Tito Puente.'' He suggested that a recent concert in Los Angeles by Sigur Ros, the Icelandic postrock band, created a ''sacred space of beauty'' that might be a contemporary ''site of general revelation.''
 The students, all evangelical Christians, were skeptical. ''It's hard to think the artist is completely in the right if they don't say the truth -- that Christ is the only way,'' one remarked. 
 ''This music leads to more music, not to people finding Christ,'' another said.
 Detweiler seemed agitated. He kept raising the volume louder and louder. He banged his eraser against the dry-erase board, where he had written ''truth'' and ''beauty.'' He told the students that creative people who start with a message are propagandists, not artists. The teachings of Jesus, he said, weren't straightfoward moral lessons. ''People had a hard time following Jesus,'' he said. 
 At the end of class, Detweiler sighed. ''What's the point of today, guys?''
 No one had an answer. 
 ''The spread of indigenous cultural music is pushing hard against exclusivism,'' he said. ''Christ is going to be a tough sell in this world, and I think you're not ready for it. I think you might need to figure out where God is in this music crossing the globe.''
Biola, whose 95-acre campus is in La Mirada, 20 miles southeast of downtown Los Angeles, is part of the fast-expanding movement of ''Christ centered'' colleges -- schools that are not loosely affiliated with a church, like Notre Dame or Southern Methodist University, but that integrate Christianity into all aspects of the curriculum and require faculty members, and sometimes students, to sign a pledge of faith in Jesus Christ. The 102 American schools in the Council for Christian Colleges and Universities (many of which, like Biola, are nondenominational) represent just 1.5 percent of the country's total college population, but in the last decade their enrollment has increased 67 percent, compared with an average increase of just 2 percent for American colleges and universities as a whole. 
 Biola's history is entwined with that of evangelical Christianity in the United States. Almost a hundred years ago, the school sponsored a series of pamphlets called ''The Fundamentals,'' which laid out the principles of the fundamentalist movement. ''The Fundamentals'' were a reaction against Darwinism, modernism and liberal strains in Protestantism, all of which were seen as challenges to the authority of the Bible as a literal historic account of reality. Biola, then called the Bible Institute of Los Angeles, saw its mission as training laypeople to preach the Gospel, and later began providing them with tools -- like ''scientific'' arguments that proved the existence of a creator -- to do battle with other faiths and with secular ideas. 
 When I spoke with Clyde Cook, Biola's genial president, he explained that the university is as committed as ever to the principles articulated in ''The Fundamentals,'' although, he said, ''we've found different and more effective ways to deliver those truths.'' For one thing, Cook said, while ''indoctrination'' is ''still valuable,'' the school thinks it is preferable to have students internalize Christian truths through a process of questioning. Cook said he still sees the school's mission as preparing its 5,000 undergraduate and graduate students to spread the Gospel, to argue for Christianity against the tenets of secularism and of other religions. But graduates are no longer necessarily supposed to preach from the pulpit. Instead, Cook said, Biola now aspires ''to incarnate those truths in the professions -- in business, nursing, movies, government.'' Students take seminars in which they discuss how to integrate their academic studies with a ''Christian worldview.'' Where Biola once considered certain disciplines, like philosophy, to be irrelevant to Christians, these days it places graduates in top philosophy Ph.D. programs, hoping they will learn to argue in sophisticated secular terms, for example, on behalf of the rights of fetuses. 
 Over the last 50 years, evangelical Christianity in the United States has moved away from fundamentalism, which is still dedicated to the idea of separation from an ungodly world. Evangelicals believe that the way to change culture is to participate in it, albeit with caution. Particularly in the last decade, as the movement has matured, intellectual institutions -- journals, scholarly presses and advanced academic work -- have quietly budded within evangelical circles. Biola's evolution from a Bible college to an accredited liberal-arts university offering advanced degrees is just one manifestation of this change. 
 There are still some schools whose climates remain closer to Biola's fundamentalist origins. Hyles-Anderson College in Crown Point, Ind., forbids male students to have long hair and female students to wear ''shorts or slacks.'' There are also more liberal Christ-centered colleges, like nearby Azusa Pacific University, which (unlike Biola) accepts nonbelievers and allows men and women to mingle more often in the dorms. Older, more elite Christian colleges, like Wheaton in Illinois, whose foundings predated the fundamentalist revolt against the modern world, have always offered a liberal-arts education, though one guided by Christian principles.
 Ted Olsen, an editor at the evangelical magazine Christianity Today, said that Biola, as an institution, ''pretty much falls dead center in the middle of the evangelical movement.'' Many influential envangelicals have chosen to send their children to Biola. Ryan Dobson, the son of James Dobson, the president of the conservative Christian group Focus on the Family, graduated with the class of 1995, and Amy Warren-Hilliker, the daughter of Rick Warren, the author of the inspirational best seller ''The Purpose-Driven Life,'' attended a few years ago.
 Evangelical Christianity's dance with secular culture has always been a complicated one. Whereas Biola once trained students to use modernism's devices, like the scientific method and rational argument, to undercut modernism, today, in a more postmodern era, it educates its students about the diversity of ideas and cultures and experiences in order to equip them to bring the world a single unchangeable truth. In almost every area of study at Biola, there is some tension between that goal and the academic ideal of free inquiry. But it is in Craig Detweiler's mass-communications department that that tension seems most raw. When the school started a film department 27 years ago, it focused exclusively on making movies for proselytizing purposes. But more recently at the college, and throughout the evangelical movement, there has been a growing interest in the power and influence of Hollywood. And so last year, the school appointed Detweiler, who was born again in college and still keeps a foot planted in the secular world, as the head of the mass-communications department. Detweiler stocked the school's film library with mainstream movies, worked with the administration to draft a policy permitting the viewing of R-rated movies in classrooms and helped recruit Christian executives from Hollywood studios onto a board to finance and advise the department. That board, which includes the producers of the sitcom ''Family Matters'' and the movie ''X-Men,'' paid for a TV studio on campus and helps place Biola students in internships at major studios. 
 In a recent book, ''A Matrix of Meanings: Finding God in Pop Culture,'' Detweiler argued that God is literally revealing himself in mainstream Hollywood movies like ''Magnolia'' and ''The Matrix.'' Detweiler said he thinks Christian films should be able, like those movies, to address dark topics and contain ambiguity, something unresolved or not fully understood. But as he found that day in the classroom, that is a hard quality to combine with the certitudes of evangelical Christianity.
Except for a slightly ominous-looking 60-foot-high photographic-style mural of Jesus painted on the side of a campus building, or the occasional student carrying a large wooden cross from the gymnasium to the student center, the Biola campus appears unremarkable. When I visited last spring, the students looked like typical college kids: there were boys with mod haircuts and girls with eyebrow rings, wearing outfits from Hot Topic and thrift stores. Anywhere that young men and women were allowed to hang out together -- dorm lobbies, the local Denny's, parked cars -- they did, staying up late flicking pennies at one another, trading laborious massages by the hall microwave.
 But the code of conduct each student is required to sign creates a tone on campus that is different from that of most colleges. The code prohibits drinking, dancing at Biola functions, smoking, premarital sex and visiting the dorm rooms of the opposite sex outside of designated hours -- and even then, only with open doors. Students take the code seriously. On the whole, Biola is a preternaturally calm place. The root-beer keg parties can get hyper, but never out of control.
 The emotion that is most strongly manifested on campus is longing. The worship music at the Thursday night coffeehouse and at chapel often sounds like an angsty Top 40 guitar ballad. Students sing along to lyrics like ''Lover, love me'' with eyes closed, arms raised, shoes off. One student I met, Nathan Pearsey, who had been exposed to more effusive worship styles during missionary trips to Mexico and Antigua, liked to prostrate himself on the floor during chapel and kick his feet like flippers. 
 Walking across campus at night, I often had the feeling of stumbling upon something too intimate: small groups of students hunched together, arms laid on one another in prayer, or the occasional pair in a romantic embrace, looking furtively around. Although there are familiar cliques -- ''Star Wars'' dorks, student-government types, surfers -- the typical collegiate social hierarchy does not apply. There are no cheerleaders or frat boys. Students aren't drawn from different economic brackets: tuition alone runs more than $20,000 a year. Campus politics tend to be reflexively conservative. 
 The sharpest distinction I noticed on campus was the one between the more worldly students and the more sheltered ones. At one end of this spectrum are the born-agains. Joshua Warren, 22, was a neo-Nazi when he was a young teenager, and after he recanted those beliefs, he found his way to Biola through the Christian hard-core scene. He now plays with a few other Biola students in Phineas, a hard-core band. The band takes its name from a priest who, in the Book of Numbers, stabs an Israelite and a Midianite when he sees them having sex in public. Joshua lives the Biola life: like many students, he has an annual pass to Disneyland and spends free afternoons strolling Downtown Disney with a home-schooled friend. But like a lot of Biola students who did not come from a Christian home -- who may have fended for themselves in the corridors of public schools, who may have used condoms or drunk margaritas at T.G.I. Friday's before being saved -- Joshua has an ease of social interaction and a kind of restless energy that set him apart from some of his peers. 
 At the other end of the spectrum are the kids who were raised in the Christian-school system -- at private schools, through home-schooling or a combination of the two. They are certain of the advantages of their upbringings, but a little defensive about them too. The home-schooled kids I met often made a point of telling me that they weren't weird or antisocial, like other home-schooled kids. Ashley Romero, 21, a home-schooled biblical-studies major, broke down the stereotypes for me: ''First semester, everyone would make this 'H' hand signal'' -- she held up the first two fingers of one hand and crossed them with the index finger of the other -- ''when you did something dorky. The idea is: 'That's so home-school, so nerdy. You can't cut it; you can't integrate.''' On the other hand, Ashley continued, a sure-fire way to land a ''godly Christian guy'' is to tell him you want to home-school your children. ''He'll be smitten,'' she said confidently. 
 Defying categorization are students whose parents are missionaries and who grew up overseas, cut off from American culture. They're known as missionary kids, or ''third-culture kids.'' Timothy Carroll, who grew up in Latin America, sometimes wears a colorful Bolivian hat and rarely wears shoes. He says he goes barefoot because that's what he grew up doing and because he wants to remind himself that some people don't have shoes.
 One day I was chatting with a communications-studies major named Phil Kilpatrick when a lanky white guy with a crew cut pedaled furiously past us on a dirt bike. ''He's from Nigeria,'' Phil said. ''He has killed two possums and a raccoon on campus, with a stick, I think. Some kids saw him doing it once and were traumatized and called campus police. But I think you have to be understanding that some people didn't grow up in America, you know?'' 
I ate lunch in the cafeteria one afternoon with Laura Walker, a 20-year-old woman with a nose ring, pigtails and a tattoo on the top of her foot that said ''God knows'' in Greek. Between bites of her meal, she looked both ways and then whispered that she was helping a friend make a movie about ''being gay.'' Later in the week, we met at the off-campus apartment where the film was being shot. ''This is the producer's house,'' Laura explained as we climbed over duffel bags of clothes and studio lights into a room decorated with framed puzzles, scented candles and a Garfield phone. The director, John Huntington LaDue Jr., a gregarious, muscular, blond 22-year-old, bustled around, duct-taping cables and cords to the carpet, hiking his jeans up over the waistband of Calvin Klein underwear. 
 John is a film major at Biola, and the movie he was shooting, ''Becoming Peter Pan,'' was his senior thesis. It is the story of his struggles with homosexuality. About a year ago, John came out to his friends and a few teachers. Homosexual activity is strictly forbidden at Biola, but John is not the only gay student there. One gay student dropped out last year. Another, deep in the closet, sought out a secret meeting with me at Biola's back gates just to make sure I didn't leave without realizing he existed. Driving across campus, John pointed out a male student he kissed freshman year. The student had decided to be celibate, John said, an option he said he often considered. 
 Since John came out, his friends told me, he had been ''heavily monitored'' by the school. He was placed in mandatory counseling, which, he said, aimed to teach him that his sexuality is the correctable byproduct of growing up the son of missionaries, a third-culture kid who never knew a real home. John takes his counseling seriously and hopes it will work. ''My gay friends are like, 'Oh, you poor thing, you have to get out of that crazy counseling,''' he said. ''But I am not so sure they're right. Meanwhile, my Christian friends will tell me: 'Don't go to that gay bar. Don't meet that guy.'''
 John is charming and relentlessly enthusiastic on nearly every topic he brings up, from an artsy West Hollywood coffeehouse he recently visited to a six-month-long program he enrolled himself in at a nearby church to cure his gayness. He has made three films during his career at Biola, all of which were considered too outre to be shown at the school film festival. In the first, John personified anorexia as a succubus lesbian demon: a scene in which the succubus licked a girl's ear seductively was deemed inappropriate by the judges. His second film, about a girl who, after a freak car accident, can see people's souls outside their bodies, was too long. ''Becoming Peter Pan'' would not be shown at the film festival, either, because, John said, ''it's too long, and it would offend a lot of people.'' He was nervous about even showing me the movie in the Biola film department, and when we sat down to watch it, he anxiously fast-forwarded over a scene of two men in bed. ''This would make the school die,'' he whispered. ''In Christianity, homosexuality is as bad as murder.''
 A number of the student films I watched at Biola relied heavily on imagined or dreamlike sequences to fuel the narrative. In one, the plot (girl battles pirate) was driven by a hallucination induced by Dr Pepper and cold medication. In another, a group of students believe they are trapped in a Biola building because a gunman is on campus; in fact, they are deluded because they have consumed too much caffeine. ''Becoming Peter Pan'' is an especially telling example of the practice: in the movie, homosexuality is portrayed as an alternate universe -- literally Never-Never Land. The actor who plays the boyfriend of John's character sometimes appears in a Captain Hook costume, for example.
 When I asked John if he planned to look for work as a director after graduation, he grew uncharacteristically wistful: ''I used to be really gung-ho about being a director, but over my time at Biola, I feel less that way.'' 
 I asked him why, and he looked away. ''An artist is supposed to have a voice,'' he said. ''I just don't really think I have a voice.'' 
One morning during my visit, I woke to find that the campus had been transformed into a scene that seemed straight out of a student-film dream sequence. Patches of grass were covered in cardboard and trash. Students wearing torn, dirty clothes pushed shopping carts on loan from the local Albertson's supermarket. There was a pen of goats set up in front of the library, and next to the pen students dressed as Gypsies were selling jewelry. 
 This was the start of the annual three-day Missions Conference, which brought missionary organizations, recruiters and speakers to Biola. In many ways, the event looked like a multicultural consciousness-raising event on any American campus. One school building was renamed Global Awareness, and students were invited to take off their shoes and walk through rooms covered in dirt, where bamboo curtains blocked the bright California sunshine. Each room was based on a country in need of missionary help; Biola students enacted scenes with Indian untouchables or prisoners in a Yemenite jail. A room based on the United States criticized consumerism and promoted shade-grown ''Fair Trade'' coffee. At the end of the journey through the Global Awareness building, students were encouraged to pray on Muslim prayer rugs or yoga mats and to wash the dirt off one another's feet in a spare room where New Age music played quietly.
 In 1983, Biola changed the name of its missionary-studies department to ''intercultural studies.'' It was more than just a name change; the school's approach to the question of missionary work shifted, too. The goal is still to convert non-Christians around the world, but now the program emphasizes respecting and preserving indigenous cultures, even protecting their land. 
 These ideas about understanding the value of other cultures coexist a little uneasily with the idea that there is only one truth and that most of those groovy cultures are missing it. One of the breakout sessions at the Missions Conference, led by Prof. Joshua Lingel, was a teaser for Apologetics to Islam, a class that gives students the tools to convert Muslims and also takes them on field trips to halal restaurants in the area to practice. Lingel, a tall, burly, red-haired Biola grad, addressed a packed room, alternating between a friendly cultural lesson and a fire-and-brimstone sermon. ''Muslims wear white robes when they go on pilgrimage,'' he began, carefully explaining Islamic customs. But when a slide showing masses of robe-clad Muslims at Mecca clicked onto the screen, Lingel's measured tone dissolved, and he shouted: ''Behold the fields of white! The great seed of the lost! Behold, the time for the harvest is nearing!'' 
Evangelizing is not an abstract ideal at Biola, or a mission restricted to a few days out of the year. Phineas, the campus hard-core band, sees itself as reaching out to ''they that are sick,'' as described in the Book of Mark, and invites audience members to come up and speak to them about Jesus after the show. Laura Walker told me that she and her friends go to gay dance clubs partly because that's what Jesus would have done. ''Jesus spent time with lepers,'' she said. Many students I met prayed out loud that Jesus Christ would soon ''collide'' with me and that my reporting would be a vehicle for spreading the Gospel. Students took me to ''The Passion of the Christ,'' the Mel Gibson movie, and offered to pay for my ticket. In the middle of one interview, a teacher told me that he and his students loved me and explained that that was why they hoped I would realize that my ''core beliefs'' are wrong. 
 When I attended church with Biola students, they offered prayers for the salvation of gay neighborhoods in other states, public-school districts near and far, entire Muslim-populated latitudes and longitudes. In church, the students' feelings about the world beyond evangelical Christianity seemed pretty clear-cut; it was going to hell unless it accepted Jesus. But outside church, that relationship seemed more complicated.
 In the dorm where I stayed, I lived across the hall from a 19-year-old woman with long blond hair named Brittany Vanderveer. She was shy and serious; her face turned the color of a pomegranate when a friend invited her on a group date. Every Thursday, she and Krista Walthall, 19, a friend from home, went to a coffee shop to meet new people and bring them to Jesus Christ, carrying Bibles in their shoulder bags. They described their trips as daring adventures during which anything could happen, and their faces lighted up as they talked about them. There was the time they met an ex-con sitting in the parking lot and bought him coffee. And there was the evening when Brittany, after praying for boldness for 15 minutes, approached a group of bikers parked outside Starbucks. ''My legs were shaking, but I could think perfectly clearly,'' she said. Although she and Krista have not converted anyone yet, they clearly cherish every encounter.
 I went with them one Thursday to the Java Co., a coffee shop a mile from campus where they have made one steady friend: Nicole, a chatty 21-year-old from Brooklyn with an 11-month-old daughter. Nicole works behind the counter. Her tone was breezy and casual, and Brittany and Krista could not quite match it. The women always give great consideration to their interactions with Nicole. They had prayed about the trip to the Java Co. together at breakfast and, separately, the evening before. Frequently, they also pray in the parking lot before entering the coffee shop. 
 Brittany and Krista hung on Nicole's every word as if they were lucky to be talking to her at all. They interrupted a story about her daughter's birthday party to ask exactly what kind of cake Nicole ordered. Although their purpose in getting to know Nicole was to save her soul, part of their motivation appeared more mundane: Nicole is simply different from anyone they know. The women's interest in her stories, the way they lingered over the details, seemed to express something about the world -- the unredeemed, unsaved, unchurched part -- that was not evident in their public prayers in church. Going off campus, even just a mile away, was interesting because it was unpredictable. Talking to the Starbucks bikers or Nicole was compelling on its own terms; Brittany and Krista, like many of the Biola students I met, enjoyed not knowing what would happen. On some level, they seemed already to know what Craig Detweiler is trying to teach, and what is evident in the often open-ended, messy tales of the Bible: that the most compelling stories unfold when you don't start out with the answer. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Born Again: Joshua Warren came to Biola via the Christian hard-core music scene.
Third-Culture Kid: Timothy Carroll, whose parents were missionaries in Latin America, grew up not wearing shoes and maintains the habit.
 Ready to Save: Brittany Vanderveer (left) and Krista Walthall regularly head to a coffeehouse near campus in the hope of making friends and winning converts. (Photographs by Catherine Ledner for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (95%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (93%); MUSIC (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CURRICULA (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (78%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (77%); DRAMA LITERATURE (71%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (70%); WRITERS (70%); ETHICS (61%) Colleges and Universities; Christians and Christianity; Evangelical Movement; Colleges and Universities

ORGANIZATION: Biola University

PERSON: Samantha M Shapiro

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%); UNITED KINGDOM (69%); LATIN AMERICA (59%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2004



100 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 5; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1958 words

HEADLINE: Hi, My Name is Sam, and I'll be Your Broker

BYLINE: By ANNA BAHNEY

 BODY:
IN this city's central casting office, few stock characters are more set in their roles than the slick and savvy real estate agent and the starry-eyed starving artist waiting on tables.
 But increasingly, the two high-risk, high-gain professions are becoming a mutually beneficial hybrid. The real estate agent at the open house may have a familiar voice because he was selling shampoo on television the night before. The woman with the megawatt smile whose listings were found online might have several Web sites devoted to her and her character on a daytime soap opera. 
 Some might say that the merging of an actor and an agent is a kind of noxious New York nightmare. But it makes sense. Both are people who need to be able to work flexible schedules and to use maximum-minute cellphone plans to their advantage. 
 And the entry bar to real estate is not terribly high. A 45-hour training course followed by a state licensing test plus the strong residential market have made real estate today's version of waiting on tables or tending bar: it's a way not only to get by, but with a bit of luck to get ahead. 
 ''The grand metaphor of acting and real estate is that the more you get out there, the more you get work,'' said David Oppenheim, 29, whose stage name is David Austin.
 Mr. Oppenheim is at the beginning of his real estate career. He used to support his acting by waiting on tables and teaching swimming, but gave them up because he wanted a more professional job. In the month and a half that he's been a leasing agent with New York Apartments Unlimited, whose offices have a ''Glengarry Glen Ross'' movie poster on the door next to photographs of people in the office, he has rented three apartments and garnered a three-way commission split between a manager, his broker and himself on the first two (which paid him $200 and $700) and a 40/60 split on the last one (his 40 percent was $811).
 ''There is that possibility that you may not close a deal for a couple of weeks,'' he said. ''That can be pretty frightening. But this profession is not as saturated as being an actor.''
 Sometimes, the two worlds collide. Recently, he was looking very much the real estate agent, wearing a pinstriped charcoal suit with red tie and gleaming black shoes and leading a client, Liz Bradley, down West 49th Street to show her a $1,500-a-month, one-bedroom between 10th and 11th Avenues. 
 On the way Mr. Oppenheim ran into an acting colleague, Christopher Denham, in shorts and T-shirt, who is also in the movie ''Headspace,'' being filmed now in New York. Mr. Oppenheim told Mr. Denham about a costume-fitting in Los Angeles for his part as the ''aquatic creature'' in the science fiction thriller and bid him farewell with, ''If you ever need an apartment. . . .''
 Lucy Martin Gianino, a sales agent at Coldwell Banker Hunt Kennedy for eight years who has appeared in several Broadway productions in 35 years as an actress, said she came out of her first year in real estate with little more than a computer headache. ''Real estate is so like show business,'' Ms. Gianino said. ''You have to laugh. It's like, we already have a difficult profession, let's go out and find a more difficult profession.''
 More than 350 people take the state real estate exam at 9:30 a.m. every Tuesday at 123 William Street in New York. According to the New York Department of State, 13,609 people took the sales license test between Jan. 1 and June 25, up from 9,680 for the corresponding period in 2002. There are so many newcomers in the field that another test time has been added to accommodate the overflow.
 While their erratic schedules might seem like a hindrance, several real estate brokerage firms are finding that hiring actors is a good idea. Jimi Economou, the director of human resources at Citi Habitats, said his company welcomes entertainers. ''Real estate is something that can be taught,'' he said. ''Customer service is something for people who have a genuine ability to communicate and connect with someone. For actors and actresses it's innate.''
 Mr. Economou, in fact, places recruiting advertisements in the theater weekly Backstage and estimates that out of a sales force of 800 or so at Citi Habitats, 3 to 5 percent are also involved in the entertainment business. 
 At Dwelling Quest, Jay M. Heydt, the director of leasing, said three of his top leasing agents are actors, and a few others who split their time between showings and shows are doing so well with rentals that they are moving into sales.
 ''More and more, you're going to see actors getting away from bartending,'' Mr. Heydt, 26, said. In real estate, he said, ''you can make quadruple the income of tending bar all night. Are they going to serve somebody's steak or sign a lease and eat their own steak at the end of the day?''
 He'd rather have steak. With his deep, raspy voice that sounds like the actor Colin Quinn, Mr. Heydt has been doing commercial voice-over work since graduating from the University of Rhode Island in 2001. Though he was making enough to live on, he said, he wanted something on the side for financial insurance, and turned to real estate. 
 After becoming a top leasing producer at the East Village branch of Citi Habitats in 2002 and 2003, he was recruited by Dwelling Quest to head its leasing division, while still booming into living rooms with previews for the Discovery Channel's ''American Casino'' series and promos for HBO.
 The obvious draw of real estate for actors is the schedule, which is even more flexible than that of a temporary job or restaurant shift. The challenge, however, is managing it.
 At 2 p.m. on a Tuesday, Brian Keith Lewis, 34, an associate broker with Halstead Property, entered a cavernous loft space on West 15th Street, waiting to be called in for the first of his two auditions for the day. He had already completed walk-throughs on the Upper West Side and Upper East Side, attended two closings in Midtown and stopped at a Banana Republic for a new shirt (''Blue shows up better on camera,'' he said). He would have two apartment showings before heading home to update his Web site, field e-mail messages and return telephone calls. 
 ''You have to have a destination,'' Mr. Lewis said of the focus needed in both acting and selling. ''Uta Hagen taught me that. She'll roll in her grave if she hears me applying it to real estate, but it is the same thing: get to the deal.''
 Mr. Lewis, who sold the most listings for Halstead during the second quarter of 2004, carries a brown leather folder that is worn on the binding where he grips it. Inside is the relevant information for his eight properties in contract, two coming to market, four exclusives and extra head shots of himself.
 ''You don't want to look like a wannabe,'' Mr. Lewis said. ''You show that you're doing both and you're successful and that's who you are.'' 
 Among his clients are Marc and Sabrina Paradis, who are hiring him for the third time this fall because he successfully sold a tricky basement apartment they had owned. They did not know that he was an actor until their second deal when Mrs. Paradis went to see ''A Beautiful Mind'' and saw a close-up of a familiar face. (He played one of the Princeton professors at a ''pen ceremony.'')
 ''Oh my god! That's my Realtor!'' Mrs. Paradis recalled yelling during the movie at a Union Square theater.
 ''I was completely impressed because I had no idea,'' said Mrs. Paradis, who works in the financial department at Pfizer. ''He made it invisible to us, as though this was his primary job.''
 After moving to New York to be an actor in 1991, Mr. Lewis had a successful run at commercial work, (''I was the Head and Shoulders guy in the 90's,'' he said) and didn't get into real estate until 1999 (unless a part in a reading opposite Joan Rivers in a play called ''Killing Real Estate Women'' counts). Mr. Lewis said it was turning 30 that made him reconsider his options as an actor. 
 ''I'm not 'La Boheme'; I'm not 'Rent.' '' Mr. Lewis said. ''I saw that show and I was like, 'Pay your damn rent, you're a bunch of suburban kids acting like bohemians.' ''
 Unlike many actors, Mr. Lewis no longer has to pay rent. Last year, he bought a two-bedroom apartment on the Upper West Side. 
 The money is there to be made, if actors are willing and able. Daren Hornig, president and chief executive of Dwelling Quest, said that all of the actors at his real estate firm, ''are making six digits or a lot more.''
 This explains why many get into the profession to get by and never get out. Stefani Pace, 25, a leasing agent with Dwelling Quest who is also a model, said she hardly has time to book gigs now. ''I hate to go away,'' she said, ''because you lose the knowledge of the inventory.''
 Priorities tipped the other way for Jerry Richardson, 30, who was working as a leasing agent when he went on a vacation to Montana and decided when he returned he would focus on acting because that was why he had come to New York and he did not like fitting it around his work schedule. But he was unable to find enough acting jobs to live on, he said, and so ''that lasted a short time.'' He's now a leasing agent at Dwelling Quest.
 For Victoria Rong, 26, an associate broker for Citi Habitats and a film actress, keeping a foot in movies by continuing to audition opens doors in real estate. Her film social circle keeps her in touch with people looking for high-end real estate.
 ''As an actress, maybe they cannot provide me with a movie job,'' Ms. Rong said. But when they learn she does residential sales, ''they say, 'But I am looking for a co-op.' ''
 Ms. Rong muses that if she continues to excel at selling real estate, she could stop auditioning and finance her own film. She said on some multimillion dollar properties, she makes $120,000. ''Something like this you could never dream of in other jobs.''
 ''It was empowering when I started real estate,'' said David Neiman, a leasing agent at Dwelling Quest. While writing and acting in his own plays, he had been fired from eight restaurant jobs in a year and a half because of scheduling conflicts. When he started leasing, he said, he wasn't making any money, but ''I was just so excited to find a job I could function in.''
 Now he's almost afraid to mention real estate to some of his theater colleagues for fear of future competition.
 Kathy Schrier, managing director of the Actors' Work Program, a division of the Actors' Fund of America, helps people in the industry navigate career transitions and find meaningful sideline work. 
 ''By nature people in the arts have a lot of talents that work for real estate,'' Ms. Schrier said. ''They know New York. They've lived here and worked here. The uncertainty in real estate is common to the entertainment industry. If you did a Myers-Briggs and looked at risk taking -- risk taking is big,'' she said, referring to the personality test.
 But she cautioned it is not for everyone. ''Real estate isn't right for someone who's going to be on the road for six months because you'd lose all your clients.'' Ms. Schrier said.
 For all actor-agents the time comes when they have to be in two places at once and are faced with a tough decision. For Mrs. Gianino it was in early 2002. She was the agent enlisted by former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and Judith Nathan to find them an Upper East Side apartment while simultaneously rehearsing ''The Play About the Baby'' by Edward Albee. In Philadelphia. 
 After a rehearsal Mr. Albee made a surprise appearance to speak to the cast -- but Mrs. Gianino had an appointment with Mr. Giuliani and Ms. Nathan.
 ''Rudy and Judy and the Secret Service were going to be waiting for me,'' Mrs. Gianino recalled. ''I had to say to Mr. Albee, 'Excuse me, but I have to go.' '' 


GRAPHIC: Photos: VICTORIA RONG -- She is an associate broker for Citi Habitats and has appeared in the movies ''Random Hearts,'' ''Thomas Crown Affair'' and ''Keeping the Faith.''
JAY M. HEYDT -- He is director of residential leasing for Dwelling Quest. As an actor he has done voice-overs for MTV, Comedy Central, HBO and Discovery Channel.
DAVID NEIMAN -- He is a leasing agent for Dwelling Quest. He has also written, directed and acted in ''The Viagra Monologues'' and ''Out of the Woods.''
JERRY RICHARDSON -- A leasing agent for Dwelling Quest, he has played featured roles in ''As You Like It'' at the Folger Elizabethan Theater and in the national tour of ''Scooby Doo Live!''
DAVID OPPENHEIM -- He is a leasing agent for New York Apartments Unlimited. He is currently filming ''Headspace.'' (Photo by Nina Roberts for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
LUCY MARTIN GIANINO -- The actress, who has been a sales agent at Coldwell Banker Hunt Kennedy for eight years, said the first year in real estate was so rough that the only thing she ended up with was a headache.
BRIAN KEITH LEWIS -- At far left, he shows an apartment on 87th and Columbus to Nicole Burri. Later, left, he studies a script at an audition for a commercial.
DAVID OPPENHEIM -- The actor, who goes by the stage name of David Austin, has one of his monster eyes in place as he gets ready for his acting job in the movie ''Headspace,'' which is now being filmed. (Photos by top left and right, Librado Romero/The New York Times
bottom left, Stephanie Diani for The New York Times
 bottom right, Phil Marino for The New York Times)(pg. 9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (78%); DAYTIME TELEVISION (71%); FLEXIBLE WORK ARRANGEMENTS (68%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (53%); LICENSES & PERMITS (52%) Housing; Actors and Actresses; Brokers and Brokerage Firms

PERSON: Anna Bahney

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2004



101 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 13; Column 1; Television; CRITIC'S CHOICE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 585 words

BYLINE: By Anita Gates

 BODY:
STEPHEN GLASS (Hayden Christensen, a k a the young Anakin Skywalker) tells his editor at The New Republic that he feels awful because he's made a ''huge error'' in an article. The young Republicans weren't drinking booze from a hotel mini-bar; it actually came from a rented fridge. But in SHATTERED GLASS (2003), that's the least of young Stephen's sins. He's the nicest guy in the world, it seems, but he, uh, makes up half of his articles. And he gets caught. Peter Sarsgaard plays the editor who digs out the truth. Billy Ray wrote, directed and proved that backstage journalism can make entertaining moral drama and fact-checking can be fun-- Friday at 5 p.m. on Cinemax. 
 There's good news and bad for Ann Darrow (Fay Wray, who died last month at 96) in the sci-fi classic of classics KING KONG (1933). Ann, an unemployed New York actress, has reached the point of stealing food when she's spotted by a filmmaker (Robert Armstrong) and hired for his mysterious new project. He buys her a new wardrobe, and they set sail on a ship bound for an East Indies island where the natives live in fear of something called Kong. You know the rest. Kong turns out to be a big ape, falls in love with Ann at first sight, carries her away (the ship's first mate, played by Bruce Cabot, saves her), is captured and exhibited on Broadway, breaks his chains and makes movie history by carrying Ann up the Empire State Building. 
 Merian C. Cooper and Ernest B. Schoedsack directed -- Friday at 10:15 p.m. on TCM. 
 Dr. David Hurst (Campbell Scott) seems to have an enviable life. David, the protagonist of Alan Rudolph's scarily realistic domestic comedy THE SECRET LIVES OF DENTISTS (2002), is married to and shares his practice with a beautiful dentist (Hope Davis) who also sings opera. They have a lovely home, a country house and three adorable little daughters, but David spends the film trapped in tortured fantasy after he sees his wife kissing another man. Denis Leary plays the world's most annoying patient (finally, a role that lets Mr. Leary put his innate obnoxiousness to full use) -- Thursday at 9 p.m. and Saturday at 6:15 p.m. on Showtime. 
 Mr. Rudolph looks at another tortured soul in MRS. PARKER AND THE VICIOUS CIRCLE (1994), about Dorothy Parker (Jennifer Jason Leigh), cynical theater critic, poet, screenwriter and queen of the Algonquin Round Table. This is bleak stuff, but Ms. Leigh captures the essence of witty, sophisticated loneliness. (''You don't want to become the town drunk, Eddie,'' she tells her first husband. ''Not in Manhattan.'') And Campbell Scott (apparently a Rudolph favorite) is exceptional as the humorist Robert Benchley, Parker's platonic love. There's a huge ensemble cast, and those who look hard will see Gwyneth Paltrow in a small role as a starlet, Paula Hunt -- Sunday at 10 p.m. and Sunday/Early Monday at 3:55 a.m. on IFC. 
 It's a love story and a tale of personal determination and courage. In Taylor Hackford's absorbing drama AN OFFICER AND A GENTLEMAN (1982), Richard Gere stars as Zack Mayo, a poor kid intent on becoming a Navy flier, no matter how tough the training, because he has nowhere else to go. Debra Winger plays a local girl doomed to a drab lifelong factory job unless someone takes her away from all this. The most memorable supporting performance is Louis Gossett Jr.'s Oscar-winning one as Zack's intense drill sergeant, who tells him he'll never make it and calls him Mayo-naisse -- Friday at 7:30 and 11 p.m. and Saturday at 3:30 p.m. on WE. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Hope Davis and Campbell Scott in ''The Secret Lives of Dentists.'' (Photo by Sundance Channel)
 Richard Gere and Debra Winger in ''An Officer and a Gentleman.'' (Photo by Paramount)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (89%); FILM (87%); JOURNALISM (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (75%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (75%); FILM DIRECTORS (74%); SCIENCE FICTION & FANTASY FILMS (72%); FILM HISTORY (66%); DENTISTRY (66%); VISUAL ARTISTS (66%); THEATER (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2004



102 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; The Nation: Swing-State Distortions; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1130 words

HEADLINE: A Presidential Campaign Tinged With Rust

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO

 BODY:
THE names must seem like mantras for schedulers on the Bush and Kerry campaigns: Ohio, West Virginia, Pennsylvania, Michigan, Wisconsin. Those great swing states of the aging industrial heartland have become the tape loop of the 2004 campaign, linked by their Rust Belt tribulations and stodgy disavowal of permanent Red or Blue status. Having fallen behind economically, they have surged to the forefront politically this year on the wings of their industrial frailty.
 But if the candidates or their running mates seem to be in one of those states every other day -- which, in fact, they are, if not every day -- what has the focus on the Rust Belt meant for the rest of the union? Has the national debate been distorted by one region? 
 Politicians and analysts from the Midwest insist that it has not. States like Ohio and Michigan are perfect microcosms of the nation, they argue, with liberal cities and conservative Bible belts, diverse immigrant communities alongside all-white suburbs, clean high-tech industries replacing belching smokestacks. 
 ''You could save a lot of money if we just held the presidential election in Ohio,'' joked John Green, director of the Bliss Institute of Applied Politics at the University of Akron. ''Utah is not getting the attention that Ohio is, but there are parts of Ohio that are as conservative as Utah. And there are parts that are as liberal as New York. The very competitive states do represent a diversity of views, and that's one reason they are so competitive.''
 But talk to political analysts in Utah, New York or California, and you are likely to get a very different perspective. The electoral map has slanted the debate this year, they contend, leaving issues ignored or overplayed. 
 ''States like California and New York are essentially left out of the election, which means our interests don't get as much discussion,'' said Bruce Cain, the director of the Institute of Governmental Studies at the University of California, Berkeley.
 Much attention has been paid, for instance, to the needs of old-line manufacturers that have been pummeled by foreign competition, from steel to bearings. Some of those industries have been pressing for trade barriers, while their unions demand pension protections and restrictions on outsourcing. 
 In West Virginia last week, President Bush made a point of reminding steel-producing states of his efforts to protect them, by imposing tariffs on imported steel for nearly two years ending in December 2003. But a hearty debate on industrial modernization and free trade might be more pertinent to the nation as a whole, many economists say. 
 ''Anyone campaigning in that part of the world is going to be torn between two worlds,'' said Richard Feinberg, an economist at the University of California at San Diego and a former Clinton administration official. ''For a national audience, the candidates talk about economic modernism, global mobility and open markets. But in that part of the world, there is a temptation to appeal to the romanticism of the industrial Midwest, with its memories of a faded golden era when they had a virtual global monopoly.''
 Many analysts also say the Democrats have tiptoed around several hot-button issues, including the environment, gun control and gay rights, that are important to core Democrats but do not play well with conservative swing voters in the Midwest.
 ''The environment in these industrial states is always a problem,'' said G. Terry Madonna, a pollster and professor of public affairs at Franklin & Marshall College in Lancaster, Pa. ''Strong environmental changes means losing jobs to many people here.''
 No surprise, then, that President Bush used a trip to Michigan just before the Republican convention to praise the auto industry for making ''the cleanest cars and trucks in history'' and accuse Senator John Kerry of proposing ''arbitrary, unfair fuel standards that could cost Michigan thousands of jobs.''
 Certainly independent advocacy groups would spend millions of dollars to spotlight those issues in the swing states, even if the candidates did not. But that has not lessened the frustration of people in other regions who would like to hear a more full-throated debate between the candidates. 
 ''On certain social issues, there are huge differences between California swing voters and Rust Belt swing voters,'' Professor Cain said. ''And there is a frustration here that the Democrats can't bring up those issues because of that disagreement.''
 There is a more pertinent question for the Rust Belt itself: Will the lavish attention it is getting translate into lasting benefits once the courtship is over? Probably not, experts say. 
 Years ago, when political machines could deliver cities and even states, presidents were more likely to reward them with contracts, patronage and post offices, said John Petrocik, chairman of the political science department at the University of Missouri. But with the demise of political machines, the shrinkage of labor unions and the rise of independent 527 groups, there have been fewer spoils of victory, he said.
 ''My impression is that there is relatively little tangible benefit that a state gets by virtue of being a target state,'' he said. ''Today, there is much more of an appeal directly to the voter, and that doesn't lead to as much of a payout.''
 There is, of course, nothing new about the industrial Midwest being a presidential battleground. That is a result, analysts say, of the region's demographic diversity and political independence, traits that have made it harder to categorize than the reliably Republican Mountain States or the Democratic Northeast.
 The region's large number of blue-collar social conservatives are emblematic of that independence. Once die-hard New Deal Democrats, they drifted away from the national party over civil rights, urban crime, affirmative action, gun control, abortion and national defense. In 1972, disgust with Vietnam protesters drove many into the arms of Richard Nixon. In 1980, they became the Reagan Democrats. 
 But they have been known to return to the Democratic fold during economic downturns, as happened with Bill Clinton's victory in 1992. Mr. Kerry's fortunes depend on that happening again, analysts say, but his campaign has been thrown off-message lately by attacks on his Vietnam War record. If Mr. Bush can keep the debate focused on terrorism, national security and the war in Iraq -- and away from the Rust Belt's woes -- the region is more likely to tilt Republican, analysts say. 
 ''People here are waiting for someone to talk to them about health care and jobs,'' said Ed Sarpolus, vice president of EPIC/MRA, a Michigan consulting firm. ''And if Kerry and Edwards don't talk to them, they won't vote for change.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by David Plunkert) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); POLITICS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); IMMIGRATION (67%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (66%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (63%) Presidential Election of 2004; United States Economy; Election Issues ; Presidential Election of 2004; United States Economy; Election Issues 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF AKRON (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%) James Dao; James Dao

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); AKRON, OH, USA (58%) OHIO, USA (98%); MICHIGAN, USA (94%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (94%); UTAH, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MIDWEST USA (93%) UNITED STATES (98%) Ohio; West Virginia; Pennsylvania; Michigan; Wisconsin; Midwestern States (US); Ohio; West Virginia; Pennsylvania; Michigan; Wisconsin; Midwestern States (US)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2004



103 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 4; Real Estate Desk; BIG DEAL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1495 words

HEADLINE: Chelsea Building Swaps Muses, From Photography to Dance

BYLINE: By WILLIAM NEUMAN

 BODY:
A DECIDEDLY blurry real estate picture is finally coming into focus for the photographer Annie Leibovitz.
 Ms. Leibovitz, best known for her photos of celebrities in the magazine Vanity Fair, has sold her Chelsea studio and an adjoining building for $11.37 million to a fledgling dance and theater company sponsored by an heir to the Wal-Mart fortune. 
 At the same time, she has decided to forge ahead with the stalled renovation of a pair of Greenwich Village town houses, which turned famously disastrous two years ago when a damaged wall adjoining a neighboring building threatened to collapse. 
 Ms. Leibovitz, who currently lives in a penthouse in London Terrace in Chelsea, said she hoped to have structural problems with the town houses fixed by the end of the month, clearing the way for her to move forward with the renovation. 
 The sale last month of her Chelsea studio and office, she said, is a turning point that will finally make her move to Greenwich Village possible. 
 Ms. Leibovitz bought the Chelsea buildings at 537-547 West 26th Street -- twin one-story garages -- in August 1999. She declined to discuss the purchase price, but calculations based on city tax records indicate that the buildings cost $2.1 million.
 She converted one of them into a studio and left the other vacant.
 It became clear, however, that she didn't need so much space (the two buildings total nearly 14,000 square feet) and earlier this year, she decided to put them up for sale. She listed the property with Alf Naman, an independent broker, at an initial asking price of $13 million. It was later dropped to $11.75 million.
 Mr. Naman said Ms. Leibovitz received offers to split the property but preferred a buyer who would use both buildings. ''Annie really felt the buildings had a lot of integrity as a pair,'' he said.
 In the meantime, Lucy J. Ballard, the executive and artistic director of the newly established Cedar Lake Ensemble, had spent months fruitlessly searching for a theater the company could call home.
 In late July, Ms. Ballard's broker, Ian Keate of the Corcoran Group, took her to see the twin garages, with their voluminous, column-free interiors. 
 ''I was so elated,'' Ms. Ballard said. ''As soon as I walked in, bingo, it was absolutely the right place.'
 Ms. Ballard called Nancy Walton Laurie, the owner of the Cedar Lake company. The two moved quickly, agreeing by the middle of August to buy the property for $11.37 million. On Aug. 27 Ms. Laurie closed the deal with a cash payment. 
 She is the daughter of James L. Walton, who helped his brother Sam start the Wal-Mart Stores chain. Ms. Laurie, who lives in Columbia, Mo., was ranked at No. 61 last year on the Forbes magazine list of the richest Americans, with a fortune estimated at $2.9 billion.
 Two years ago, she persuaded Ms. Ballard to join her in starting Cedar Lake. 
 Today, the company consists of a ballet ensemble with 22 dancers and some 15 performances under its belt, as well as a nascent theatrical group that has yet to put on a production. 
 Ms. Ballard hopes to raise the curtain on the dance ensemble's first show in the new space next March. She has hired the architect Paul Byard of Platt Byard Dovell White, to create a theater with about 250 seats in the property's eastern half. That will involve raising the roof some 30 feet to accommodate technical needs. They plan to preserve the peaked facade of the garages, which were built in about 1915. The western structure will house offices and rehearsal studios. Ms. Ballard declined to say how much the renovation will cost. 
 As for Ms. Leibovitz, she also faces a complex renovation, but one with a more complicated history. 
 She bought the two 1830's town houses at 755 and 757 Greenwich Street in April 2002, for $4.15 million. The buildings had been carved up into rooming houses long before, and she began a renovation project intended to turn one building into a residence and the other into a combination office and nanny's apartment.
 But in October 2002, work to excavate the basement of 755 Greenwich Street undermined a party wall with the building at 311 West 11th Street. The wall shifted (Ms. Leibovitz says it dropped four inches) and forced the evacuation of the family living next door. 
 The house's owner sued Ms. Leibovitz, charging her with trying to pressure him to sell his home at a below-market price. Local preservationists accused her of carrying out a reckless renovation that threatened to destroy the historical value of the homes in the landmark neighborhood. They even picketed her town houses.
 Finally, after a rancorous year of charges and countercharges, in which Ms. Leibovitz was fined $1,000 for excavating her basement without a permit and was forced to shore up the damaged structures with hefty steel buttresses, she settled with her neighbor and agreed to buy his house for $1.87 million. (He had bought it for $712,500 in 1995). 
 On the advice of her lawyers, Ms. Leibovitz then put all three town houses on the market, through Mr. Naman, at a combined asking price of $7 million. Yet, despite all the difficulty, she had become attached to them, and eventually decided to push ahead with the work. 
 ''I've always had a dream about living in the West Village,'' she said.
 ''I went out and looked at 12 other buildings, and I came back to these buildings and I said, 'I like this.' '' She added, ''I still believe in them.''
 She dismissed any accusations that she had intentionally triggered the structural damage as a way of forcing out her neighbor. She said that once the renovation was done, she would either sell the house she bought from him or keep it as a rental property. 
 Of the construction mishap, she said: ''It's just the kind of thing that happens sometimes when you renovate old buildings. I have nothing but respect for the neighborhood. I was trying to do a very nice renovation that was totally by the boards. The landmarks people were totally overjoyed with our plans. It was just bad luck that this thing happened.''
 Ultimately, she said, the work on the town houses will prove her good intentions. 
 ''Once I move in there, I hope to get to know people and get along with people,'' she said. ''I'm a staunch preservationist myself.''

Chelsea Condo Draws Celebrities
 The actress Kate Winslet and her husband, the director Sam Mendes, paid $4.9 million in July for a duplex penthouse condominium in a converted Chelsea building that is becoming a de facto celebrity boarding house.
 The 12-unit building, tucked inconspicuously among the neighborhood's art galleries and fashion boutiques, is also home to Martie Maguire of the Dixie Chicks, who bought an apartment there in December 2002 for $2.15 million. 
 The Icelandic pop star Bjork also owns an apartment in the building, although a broker familiar with the property said she does not live there. 
 The actor Alan Cumming owned an apartment in the building until he sold it for $2.75 million in late July, according to city records. (He bought it 16 months earlier for $1.92 million, records show.) Mr. Cumming came to prominence in the United States with his star turn in the Broadway revival of ''Cabaret,'' which was directed by Mr. Mendes.
 Simon Halls, a publicist for Ms. Winslet and Mr. Mendes, said the British-born power couple plan to use the three-bedroom apartment with a terrace as their home during stays in New York. Their primary residence is a stone house in a village in the Cotswold area in the south of England.

More Inventory Expected In Quieter Luxury Market
 Has the overheated real estate market started to cool? 
 Kirk Henckels, the director of Stribling Private Brokerage, writes in a midyear report on luxury residential sales that New York is experiencing ''a market in transition, a market past its peak.''
 In an analysis of sales of Manhattan co-ops and town houses for more than $4 million, Mr. Henckels concluded the booming market that began in mid- to late 2003 and surged through the first few months of this year was ''the hottest market in New York's luxury residential real estate history.'' 
 By the end of April, however, the market started to show ''erratic behavior,'' a new ''quietness'' and a less-frenzied pace. 
 But that doesn't mean prices will plummet. ''The last half of 2004 should be a more stable and balanced market than the hysteria of the first half,'' he said. He predicts that prices will level off and inventory will rise.
 ''We really follow consumer confidence and the economy,'' he said in an interview. ''We don't know where this economy is going right now.'' 
 The Stribling report says there were 73 co-op apartments sold for $4 million and above in the first six months of this year, compared with 41 in the same period last year and 51 in the first six months of 2002. The numbers are for completed sales. 
 The report also logs 48 town house sales from January through June, compared with 20 in the first six months of 2003 and 24 in the first half of 2002.


GRAPHIC: Photos (Photos by Frances Roberts for The New York Times
top, Mark Mainz/Getty Images)
 (Photo by Giulio Marcocchi/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (89%); THEATER (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (77%); THEATER COMPANIES (77%); DANCE (77%); HOME PRICES (75%); THEATER & DRAMA (72%) Photography; Restoration and Rehabilitation; Housing ; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Condominiums; Theaters (Buildings); Photography; Sales

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Cedar lake ensemble; stribling private brokerage 

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (57%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (57%)

PERSON: KATE WINSLET (57%) Kate Winslet; Sam Mendes; kirk henckels; William Neuman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (58%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2004



104 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1190 words

HEADLINE: Does a Tiger Lurk in the Middle of a Fearful Symmetry?

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI

DATELINE: CHORWON, South Korea 

 BODY:
From atop an observatory hard on the southern limit of the demilitarized zone between North and South Korea, Lim Sun Nam peered through binoculars at the cold-war spectacle below. He paid no attention to the barbed wire fences, the guard posts with rifle-toting soldiers, or the propaganda billboards on the northern side exclaiming ''Against America'' and ''Prosperity of the People.''
 No, Mr. Lim took in the verdant hills undulating across the 2.5-mile-wide strip of land and the river snaking through it here in one of the DMZ's most scenic points. His eyes searched for the deer, wild pigs and pheasants living in the zone as well as the elusive animal whose existence here he has spent the last seven years trying to prove: the tiger.
 Although Mr. Lim may or may not find the tiger, environmentalists have recognized this area -- one of the most enduring symbols of the cold war and one of the most fortified and heavily mined stretches on earth -- as the Korean peninsula's, and possibly East Asia's, most important wildlife refuge. They have been pressing to preserve it but are feeling a special urgency now because of the growing reconciliation between the North and the South. 
 The environmentalists fear that a South Korea that puts economic development first and a North Korea that has no environmental movement could together lead to the zone's rapid destruction as a refuge.
 This natural barrier traverses wetlands, rice paddies, prairies, hills, forests and mountains for more than 150 miles. Enclosed by barbed wire and left virtually untouched since it was created in 1953, the zone has become a haven for animals, birds and plants that are seldom seen elsewhere on the peninsula. 
 Migratory birds, including the endangered black-faced spoonbill and the white-naped and red-crowned cranes, fly in and out, oblivious to land barriers. Rare animals like the Asiatic black bear, the Eurasian lynx, goral antelopes -- and maybe even the tiger -- make this area their year-round home.
 But these days, thousands of South Koreans pass every week through an eastern corridor to a resort in North Korea; on the western side, a new highway and a railroad linking the two sides have been built. 
 ''The DMZ is the last major vestige of Korea's natural heritage,'' said Kim Ke Chung, a professor at the Center for BioDiversity Research at Penn State and chairman of the DMZ Forum, an organization based in the United States that is dedicated to preserving the zone. ''It's probably the only good thing to come out of the Korean War and cold war. So we have to preserve this as a nature reserve.''
 The DMZ Forum recently held a conference in Seoul to gather support for designating the zone a Unesco World Heritage Site, a classification that would curb all development. William B. Shore, secretary of the forum and a former fellow at the Regional Plan Association of New York, said the zone should become a center for eco-tourism as an alternative to turning it into a weekend getaway for residents of Seoul.
 ''People are now willing to pay large sums to see wild animals in the proper setting,'' Mr. Shore said. ''Eco-tourism would protect the DMZ from becoming the Hamptons of South Korea.''
 South Korea and North Korea, however, would have to ask for World Heritage status. North Korea has shown no interest in the issue, said Sohn Hak Kyu, governor of Kyonggi Province, which abuts the zone and was host for the conference. A unified peninsula would focus on North Korea's economic development, and prewar landowners could lay claim to pieces of the zone, Mr. Sohn said.
 ''There will be strong resistance from North and South Korea to such a designation,'' he said.
 Although South Korea has not expressed support for the designation, it has begun recognizing the zone's natural legacy. Early this year, South Korea's National Tourism Organization proposed creating an eco-tourism center here in Chorwon, an area about 60 miles northeast of Seoul and famous for its bird-watching. Tourists would be permitted just south of the zone in a so-called civilian-controlled area, a heavily militarized zone that includes cordoned-off minefields and roads flanked by antitank defenses. 
 South Korea built ecologically friendly safeguards into the new road and railroads, with so-called eco-bridges and eco-tunnels to allow animals to cross safely over or under the roads. North Korea, which initially suspected that the crossings served some military purpose, has not shown any interest in building similar safeguards into its portions of the roads, Mr. Sohn said.
 For some South Koreans, the zone represents something deeper than a natural paradise. It is the only tract of land that has remained intact from before Korea was divided. As a last refuge for species no longer seen elsewhere, but off limits to all but a few Koreans, it represents a spiritual loss to some.
 The tiger symbolizes that loss more than any other animal. Tigers once populated the peninsula and, in traditional culture, were considered holy animals embodying a mountain deity. The tiger's importance in Korean culture was underscored during the 1988 Seoul Olympics, when it was chosen as South Korea's mascot. The last tigers were believed to have been hunted down by Japanese colonial rulers, which adds to the animal's symbolic importance.
 Mr. Lim, who has been searching for the tiger for seven years but has yet to see one, described his quest in a recent visit here.
 ''I am searching not only for the tiger, but the spirit and soul of Korea,'' he said. ''Because the DMZ is not polluted -- it's preserved -- the Korean spirit is still alive there.''
 Mr. Lim, 48, a former television cameraman and documentary filmmaker, has found and videotaped what appeared to be tiger footprints inside the restricted civilian-controlled zone just south of the DMZ. Since doing research on the tiger in the late 1990's, Mr. Lim has devoted his life to his quest. Children call him Tiger Man. He quit his job in 2001 and sold his house. He and his family moved in with his older brother, who supports him but has also pressed him to get a new job. 
 Some wildlife experts in South Korea believe that the tiger is extinct and that footprints seen by Mr. Lim belong to wild dogs. Mr. Lim waves away such criticism, saying, ''You won't find tiger footprints on college campuses.''
 He went to Siberia to learn how to track tigers and has searched for them across stretches south of the zone, typically combing mountains for footprints during the winter. His goal is to film one. But the futility of the last seven years has sometimes taken its toll, plunging Mr. Lim into bouts of uncertainty that were alleviated only by outside interest in his efforts.
 ''One time I was in despair and told the tiger, 'I don't care if you become extinct,''' Mr. Lim said, recalling a fruitless search over several days in the mountain snow. ''I said, 'If you are a spiritual animal, you should help me.' I decided to give up my search for the tiger. But when I started going down the mountain, I got a call on my mobile phone. It was an invitation to speak at a special conference on the tiger.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The heavily mined demilitarized zone between North and South Korea, as seen from a military observation post on the South Korean side. It has become a haven for wildlife rarely seen elsewhere on the peninsula.
 Lim Sun Nam believes an elusive tiger or two may live in the uninhabited and unspoiled DMZ. ''The Korean spirit is still alive there,'' he says. (Photographs by Seokyong Lee for The New York Times)Map of South Korea highlighting Chorwon: South Korea wants to build an eco-tourism center in Chorwon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WILD CATS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); MAMMALS (90%); ANIMALS (89%); COLD WAR (89%); BIRDS (89%); WILDLIFE (88%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); KOREAN WAR (78%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (75%); BIODIVERSITY (75%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (74%); ZOOLOGY (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (68%); WETLANDS (68%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%) Tigers; Endangered and Extinct Species

ORGANIZATION: DMZ Forum

PERSON: Norimitsu Onishi; Sun Nam Lim

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (73%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); ASIA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%) South Korea; North Korea; Japan

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2004



105 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Society Desk; WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 382 words

HEADLINE: Stephanie Hill, Benjamin Wilchfort

 BODY:
Stephanie Frederica Hill, the daughter of Lyn Stiefel Hill and Forbes I. Hill of Brooklyn, is to be married in Manhattan today to Benjamin Simon Wilchfort, the son of Blanka and Dr. David Wilchfort of Munich. Rabbi Gerald I. Weider is to officiate at the Rainbow Room. 
 The bride, 28, works in Manhattan as the director of fund-raising for the New York area for CARE, the international relief organization. She graduated from the State University at Binghamton, N.Y., and received a master's in international economic policy from Columbia. Her father retired as a professor of communication at Queens College in Flushing. Her mother is the vice president for planning, public affairs and fund-raising at New York Methodist Hospital in Brooklyn.
 Mr. Wilchfort, 35, is a Web site designer, an interactive media producer and a producer of industrial videos and documentary films in Manhattan. He was a researcher for the documentary ''September Songs: The Music of Kurt Weill,'' and is now producing , ''The Last Generation: German Jews in New York,''a documentary about the prewar period. He graduated with honors from York University in Toronto. His mother, a psychotherapist, and his father, a psychiatrist, practice together in Munich. His mother is also a sculptor whose work is on exhibit in Kaiserslautern, Germany.
 The couple met in 2000 at a service at Congregation Habonim, a West Side synagogue founded in 1939 for Jewish refugees from Germany. He was doing research for ''The Last Generation,'' and she was there as the guest of a woman she had met through work and because her grandparents had been longtime members.
 She remembers that he was surrounded by elderly women who were eager to have their stories told on television and that one of them seized her and marched her up for an introduction. ''It could be because we were the only two people who were under 75,'' Ms. Hill said.
 He was ''very impressed with her looks,'' he said.
 They spoke briefly, and he asked for her card on the pretext of wanting to learn more about her family's German Jewish history. But he says now that his real motive was not in the least documentary.
 ''I really wanted to ask her out,'' Mr. Wilchfort said, ''but I thought, somehow, a synagogue was a respectable place where you don't pick up girls.''


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Kelly Guenther) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); SCULPTURE (77%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (76%); FUNDRAISING (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); PSYCHOLOGY (73%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); REFUGEES (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); SENIOR CITIZENS (70%); VISUAL ARTISTS (68%); ECONOMIC POLICY (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (57%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); RHEINLAND-PFALZ, GERMANY (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2004



106 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; HOME FRONT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: A Phone Venture: Calling All Prisoners

BYLINE: By Ian Urbina. 
This column about the local economy appears every other week. E-mail address: homefront@nytimes.com

 BODY:
BRIAN PRINS's motto is this: One man's monopoly is another man's opportunity. After being released from prison in May 2002, the first thing he did was to make a business of pulling customers from under MCI's exclusive control of New York States prison phone system.
 Last year, his company, Outside Connection, based in Bellmore, N.Y., made nearly $2 million. It is among a handful of new ''remote-call forwarding'' services around the country that provide people with a way around the monopolies that many states grant to large phone companies for control over collect calls coming from inside state prisons. 
 These services provide the families of inmates with a phone number that is local to where their relative is in prison. When the inmate dials the number, the call is redirected to the family's home number and expensive long-distance charges are avoided. In New York, that means $5.80 for a half-hour call using Mr. Prins's service rather than the $8.10 charged by MCI.
 ''I know from first-hand experience what a huge difference these savings can make,'' Mr. Prins said.
 After serving five years in Clinton Correctional Facility in Dannemora, N.Y., on charges of aggravated assault and criminal possession of stolen-car parts, Mr. Prins said he returned home to find his family thousands of dollars in debt. ''They had been paying close to $1,000 a month to receive my calls,'' he said.
 For every one of the 67,000 or so inmates in New York prisons, Mr. Prins said, there is a mother, son or a sister who wants to keep in touch. Few of these families can afford to travel to the prison and even fewer can afford the expensive phone rates, he said.
 But prison officials oppose remote-call forwarding services, claiming that these services limit the ability for authorities to monitor calls and ensure that inmates are not using the phones to make drug deals or threats. State officials are equally dismayed because these services drain part of the nearly 60 percent in commission that New York makes on prison collect calls. In 2003, New York made more than $20 million from prison calls.
 Mr. Prins pointed out that Outside Connection is a licensed telecommunications company and that remote-call forwarding is legal. He said his company provided the same security checks that MCI offered, including the recording of all conversations and lists of approved numbers and addresses where inmate calls can be directed. ''We explained our security capabilities but the state still rejects anyone other than MCI entering this market,'' he said. 
 Last year, prison officials and the phone company stepped up their opposition to remote call forwarding services.
 In July, correctional authorities told inmates that using the services was strictly forbidden, and many inmates reported being threatened with solitary confinement for breaking the rules. But Mr. Prins said the threats did not put a dent in his business. Most inmates are willing to take their chances breaking the rules, he said, if it means saving money for families who are struggling in their absence.
 In late August of last year, MCI changed its billing plan, imposing a flat 16-cents-perminute rate for all local and long-distance calls in state. ''This tactic hit us really hard,'' said Mr. Prins, explaining that the rate change undercut the amount of savings he could offer in-state customers. Within three months his company lost nearly a million dollars in sales and he had to lay off five of his six employees.
 So Mr. Prins turned to greener pastures.
 First, he began plumbing ''blocked lists'' that include people MCI has cut from being able to receive calls from inmates. Most of the people on these lists, Mr. Prins explained, are there because they got their phone service through AT&T, a cable company, or an internet provider, none of which have billing agreements with MCI and therefore are automatically prevented from receiving calls from New York inmates. 
 Mr. Prins also began looking out of state for customers. MCI's new billing plan had flattened prices for in-state calls, but it did not drop out-of-state rates.
 Revenue has since rebounded and Mr. Prins said he has been able to rehire most of his original employees. Nevertheless, he remains cautious about the future.
 ''It's only a matter of time before the state and MCI try to find ways to close down these new areas of competition,'' Mr. Prins said. But the bottom line is that I'll just move to another corner of the monopoly.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: NOW HEAR THIS -- Brian Prins heads Outside Connection, which provides inmates in state prisons and their families ways to save on existing long-distance telephone service. (Photo by Hiroko Masuike for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEPHONE RATES (90%); PRISONS (90%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (77%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (73%); RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY (73%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (73%); LARCENY & THEFT (71%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (67%) Prisons and Prisoners; Telephones and Telecommunications; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Company and Organization Profiles; Prisons and Prisoners

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (85%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (85%); VZ (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (85%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (85%)

PERSON: Ian Urbina; Brian Prins

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2004



107 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; L.I. @ WORK; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 379 words

BYLINE: Compiled by Warren Strugatch. 
E-mail: libiz@nytimes.com

 BODY:

Game, Set and Match For Acclaim Entertainment
 Edward Slezak, a vice president and the general counsel of Acclaim Entertainment (Nasdaq: AKLM.PK), the troubled Glen Cove video game publisher, refused Wednesday to deny a report in Newsday that the company had ceased operations. 
 Mr. Slezak said he would not reply to questions concerning the company.
 Michael Davidson, the executive director of the Glen Cove Chamber of Commerce, said he stopped by Acclaim's building on Wednesday afternoon and found the front door locked. Only a few cars were in the parking lot, he added.
 On Tuesday, the company reported a $25.4 million loss for the quarter that ended March 31. Revenues dropped below $29 million for the quarter, the company said, a decline of about 26 percent from the previous quarter when revenues totaled $39.3 million.
 Newsday reported on Tuesday that the company had dismissed most of its employees and had ceased operations. Throughout the summer, the company struggled to arrange loans that would forestall a bankruptcy filing. Last month, it told the Securities and Exchange Commission that it had failed to do so. 
 Acclaim said in a regulatory filing in March that it had 585 employees in Glen Cove; Austin, Tex.; and Manchester, England.

Layoffs for GreenPoint Workers
 The North Fork Bancorp (NYSE: NFB) of Melville said Wednesday it would lay off about 300 employees of the GreenPoint Financial Corporation, whose assets it bought earlier this year.
 Most of the workers who will lose their jobs are back-office employees, said John A. Kanas, North Fork's chairman. Mr. Kanas said the bank had not yet decided on branch closings. GreenPoint has about 1,500 employees, most of them in New York City and Nassau County, Mr. Kanas said.

Incentives for Paint Company
 The Nassau County Industrial Development Authority said last week that it planned to offer an economic incentive package to the Paint Applicator Corporation of America, a paint wholesaler in Maspeth, Queens. 
 The company has signed a contract to buy the Bernstein Display's 81,000-square-foot building in the Port Washington Industrial Park. Paint Applicator has about 100 employees, the Nassau agency said. Terms of the incentive package have not yet been determined. Compiled by Warren Strugatch

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (89%); COMPUTER GAMES (79%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (77%); PAINTS & COATINGS MFG (77%); CLOSINGS (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); COMPANY LOSSES (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); LAWYERS (71%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%); PAINT & WALLPAPER WHOLESALERS (63%) 

COMPANY: CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORP (93%); NEWSDAY INC (85%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%) Acclaim Entertainment Inc

TICKER: COF (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (85%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (85%)

PERSON: Edward Slezak; Warren Strugatch

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (78%); MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (54%) TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); ENGLAND (68%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2004



108 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 4; Long Island Weekly Desk; L.I. @ WORK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1465 words

HEADLINE: Trying to Clean House at the Federation of Labor

BYLINE: By WARREN STRUGATCH

 BODY:
THIS weekend, at the parades and barbecues, at the rallies and the picnics that local unions will hold for members and their families, one familiar face will be missing: Jack Caffey's.
 A spending scandal now playing out at the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s Long Island council, the regional umbrella group, has resulted in the suspension of Mr. Caffey, the local's president and one of the region's most powerful labor leaders. The council, known as the Long Island Federation of Labor, is in receivership, and the union's national leadership is weighing Mr. Caffey's future.
 Mr. Caffey, a former seafarers' union official, was suspended in June without pay by the union, after the local's trustees reported evidence that as much as $200,000 had been misspent in a training program administered by the council's headquarters in Farmingdale. 
 The union's national representatives, who are currently running the local's day-to-day operations, sought to play down any long-lasting damage to organized labor's image on Long Island that might result from the scandal. Others, including organizers, allies and adversaries, were less sanguine.
 ''It's a step backwards'' for organized labor on Long Island, said Judy Pannullo, who through much of the last decade was the executive director of the Long Island Progressive Coalition, an organization that rallied civic and religious groups to support organized labor. 
 Last month, Jose Alvarez, a national A.F.L.-C.I.O. trustee and the acting administrator of the council, handed over the results of an independent audit to the Suffolk County district attorney, along with files related to the questionable expenditures. The report concluded that a training program employee who had reported to Mr. Caffey had used a union credit card for multiple purchases that were of no clear value to the union.
 The employee was fired, Mr. Alvarez said, but he would not identify her. No charges have yet been filed against the employee or Mr. Caffey, who said through his lawyer he would not respond to questions about the incident. 
 In a series of interviews conducted over the last several weeks, labor leaders and others who have dealt with Mr. Caffey suggested that the scandal had cut short the career of one of the region's most influential and most enigmatic labor leaders.
 Their recollections and opinions painted a picture of a man who largely kept his own counsel as he worked his way up through the ranks of the Seafarers International Union of North America and through leadership positions in the A.F.L.-C.I.O., never quite losing the brusqueness and sometimes crusty style that accompanied, and perhaps facilitated, his rise from the waterfront. 
 ''Jack would tell it like it is, to the point that some found him offensive,'' said Thomas F. Germano, the director of the Center for Labor Management Relations & Dispute Resolution at Dowling College and a longtime colleague of Mr. Caffey. ''Jack wouldn't spare your feelings. He definitely had his rough edges.''
 Former colleagues, movement supporters and others who dealt with him said that Mr. Caffey maintained an independent streak, offering a chilly welcome at best to other labor leaders. That posture may have undermined his leadership, several labor leaders said, because the union's national leadership wanted the federation to serve as a Big Tent, attracting as many of the union's local members as possible. 
 Ninety-two union locals representing about 110,000 workers are dues-paying members of the Fed, Mr. Alvarez said. The other 140,000 workers on Long Island that the Fed claims it represents belong to the national union, but not the local council.
 Mr. Caffey's track record in recruiting locals did not escape the union's national leadership.
 ''The national A.F.L.-C.I.O has been doing efforts to reunify the labor movement on Long Island, including trying to work with unions that over the years had stepped back and not participated'' in the Fed, Mr. Alvarez said. ''We are making efforts to try to reinvolve them.''
 In the weeks following Mr. Caffey's suspension, few labor leaders have rushed to defend him publicly, and several spoke with open enthusiasm of the prospects for a change in leadership.
 ''I think it's going to be a golden opportunity to make us stronger,'' said Jack Kennedy, the president of the Building and Construction Trades Council of Nassau and Suffolk Counties, the largest affiliate in the Fed, with 60,000 members. 
 Describing the state of Long Island organized labor in recent years, Mr. Kennedy said, ''we were too fragmented before and too many egos were involved.'' But with new leadership in place, Mr. Kennedy said, ''I see the whole thing coming out stronger and better.''
 The turmoil at the Fed comes at a time when unions are struggling to reposition themselves to remain relevant in a changing economy. ''A big problem for organized labor is the fact that manufacturing is being reduced at a very rapid rate,'' said Murray Portnoy, a founder of Portnoy, Messenger, Pearl & Associates, a Syosset consulting firm that helps management in labor disputes.
 While much of labor's traditional organizing territory is shrinking on Long Island, the ranks of government employees are growing, but the Fed has made little progress in bringing them into the fold. By some accounts, feuds between the Fed's leadership and the leaders of locals representing government employees go back a generation or more. 
 Through the mid-70's, the Nassau and Suffolk locals of the New York State United Teachers union did belong to the Fed, said John DeGregorio, who served as the teachers' regional leader until his retirement last year, after nearly 40 years.
 The teachers dropped out around 1975, Mr. DeGregorio said, but he did not remember why. Over the years, he often encountered Mr. Caffey at labor functions, he said, but Mr. Caffey never suggested that the two locals patch up their differences. ''He never brought it up with me,'' Mr. DeGregorio said.
 Gary Dela Raba, the president of the Nassau Police Benevolent Association, reported a similar experience. ''I've been here as president since 1988, and we were never invited to join,'' he said.
 Mr. Caffey distanced himself from most of the alliances being formed on Long Island during the 1990's between organized labor and community, religious and left-leaning political groups, said Ms. Pannullo, the former Long Island Progressive Coalition leader who is now the executive director of the Suffolk County Community Council. 
 ''There were some progressive unions we worked closely with, but the Fed was not one of them,'' she said. ''The problem with the Fed was that it was a conservative body. At the other labor organizations, the leaders were with us.'' 
 Mr. Germano, the labor center director at Dowling, sought to defend Mr. Caffey's reputation. ''Jack raised the bar in the political arena,'' he said. ''He had very strong relationships with elected officials. When Jack Caffey called, they responded immediately. He had real influence. He instituted a Congressional night where every Long Island member of Congress would appear.'' 
 Mr. Germano said he was impressed with Mr. Caffey's political prowess, which signaled a radical reversal of the relationship between the Fed and the Congressional delegation in the 1990's. The situation ''was totally different from what came before him,'' Mr. Germano said.
 Leaders of several locals suggested that a new leader of the Fed, especially one with a more pronounced bent toward inclusiveness, might ultimately benefit Long Island labor. Nick LaMorte, the president of the Civil Service Employees Association on Long Island, attributed what he described as the Fed's fractiousness to poor communications.
 ''There are a lot of union members who don't even know what local they belong to,'' Mr. LaMorte said. ''Communication at the local level is probably the biggest problem unions have. But now we have the opportunity to be innovative and change the face of Long Island labor, and maybe even its structure. We can take it from a one-man show to a show of many faces and many people. People will now have an opportunity to belong to a larger and more inclusive federation.''
 Mr. Alvarez, the local's interim president, said he expected that the Fed would soon heal from the spending scandal. ''We will use the fact that there was this unfortunate situation to better align the organization with the needs of our member organizations,'' he said. ''The Fed has been very successful in terms of political activism. The five Congressional seats from Long Island have moved from the majority being either oppositional to labor, or weakly supportive, to being overwhelmingly pro-labor. The union is recognized as an effective lobbying force. I think we can build on that.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Members of the Local 66 of the Laborers' International Union of North America, part of the Long Island Federation of Labor, picketing to protest the use of nonunion workers at Hicksville High School. (Photo by Phil Marino for The New York Times)(pg. 6)
 IN JUNE, Jack Caffey was suspended as president of the Federation of Labor. (Photo by Phil Marino for The New York Times)(pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (90%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (90%); SCANDALS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); ETHICS (72%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (70%); LAWYERS (70%); AUDITS (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); DISMISSALS (65%); EMBEZZLEMENT (63%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (62%); RELIGION (50%) Labor; Ethics; Embezzlement

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (84%); LABORERS' INTERNATIONAL UNION OF NORTH AMERICA (59%) American Federation of Labor-Congress of Industrial Organizations; Long Island Federation of Labor

PERSON: Jack Caffey; Warren Strugatch

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%) Long Island (NY)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2004



109 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1104 words

HEADLINE: In Sea Cliff, the Battle of the Tower

BYLINE: By NANCY H. TILGHMAN

 BODY:
SINCE January, Katie Seiden, a sculptor in Sea Cliff, has been peppering her village with petitions and appeals opposing its plan to build a 12-story cellphone tower disguised as a flagpole. 
 The Seidens and about 30 other Sea Cliff residents living near the proposed tower, on Altamont Street at the village public works department's yard, claim the tower would violate local zoning ordinances and possibly create health risks. They are asking the village to offer wireless carriers space on an existing 100-foot water tower nearby, or to wait until next year when the water tower is scheduled to be rebuilt and could be configured to allow up to six cellular carriers to install antennas.
 Mayor Irene Krieb and the village trustees argue that the proposed tower would produce rental income for the village, provide better reception than the water tower and, by accommodating all the wireless carriers now offering service in the area, prevent a profusion of smaller antennas from going up in the future. 
 ''We could ensure that it looked like a flagpole as opposed to an erector set,'' Dan Maddock, the village administrator, said of the proposed tower, ''and the residents would get substantial revenue from it, at least $100,000 a year. It's a win-win situation.'' 
 If the water tower is used instead, the revenue would flow to Acquarion, a Connecticut-based private company that owns the Sea Cliff Water Company. But Mr. Maddock said that whatever the resolution, some residents will be upset.
 Sea Cliff, described by another anti-tower resident, Herb Coston, as ''a town of Victorian houses, painters, old hippies and Range Rover Republicans,'' is only one of many local battlegrounds over cell towers, the building blocks of a network used by more than half of Long Islanders. Because federal law allows municipalities to control general placement, construction and modification of cellphone towers but does not allow them to ban towers outright, local disputes over cell towers can drag on for years. In Orient, negotiations between residents and local officials about whether to build a tower in their village have lasted almost 14 years.
 Most of the disputes boil down to which tradeoffs are acceptable and which aren't. Residents want better cell service, but to get it the wireless carriers have to build more towers. And when it comes to looking at a huge artificial tree or flagpole, many residents tend to favor solutions that provide lower-quality service, like attaching smaller antennas to church steeples, clock towers or buildings. 
 Low-capacity rooftop transmitters usually work well in urban areas and are more palatable to most residents. But in many suburban areas the best option is to build a free-standing tower. Residents tend to favor the shortest tower possible, but the lower the tower, the fewer carriers that can use it. Colocation, or the ganging of several carriers on one tower, consolidates the environmental impact and increases the rental income, which can be a substantial factor. For example, Anne Hopkins, president of the Orient Association, a civic group, said the local Congregational church gets roughly $3,000 a month for the antenna Sprint built inside its steeple. (The question of whether there will be a tower in Orient is still under discussion. The 120-foot proposed tower with four carriers colocated could provide as much as $72,000 a year.)
 All these issues are in play in Sea Cliff. Julia Cagney, a Bayville resident who tutors in Sea Cliff, said: ''I was one of the last people on the planet to buy a cellphone. When I got one I thought, 'Great, now it doesn't work.' But it wasn't that my cellphone didn't work, it was the reception was terrible. I started using it out of Sea Cliff and the area, and it worked fine. This whole area has terrible reception.'' 
 Jean Marie Stalzer, a real estate broker living in Sea Cliff, complains that cellphone reception on the North Shore is at best frustrating. ''I have 1,200 minutes a month,'' she said, ''but I can't use it inside my house or outside.'' Ms. Stalzer wants a cell tower built in Sea Cliff. 
 But many others do not want a 120-foot tower nearby. ''They say flagpole, but really it is a fiberglass stealth tower that would dwarf everybody in the neighborhood,'' Ms. Seiden said.
 The cellphone works on basic radio technology. When a cellphone call is made, its signal is usually picked up by a local antenna operated by the subscriber's company. If a caller moves out of range -- one to seven miles, depending on local terrain and traffic volume, a Verizon Wireless spokeswoman said -- the cellphone's signal is normally picked up by another antenna. But if too many trees or buildings are in the way, or if the antenna is overloaded with calls, the call won't go through, or will be lost. Although capacity varies according to tower height and location, typically one tower can accommodate between 100 and 250 calls at one time.
 Overloading increases as the number of wireless subscribers rises. Jo Bradshaw, chief executive of a Web site called wirelessadvisor.com, said there were nearly 1.5 million cellphone users in Nassau and Suffolk Counties, which have a combined population of 2.7 million. 
 Vince Cannuscio, former Southampton town supervisor and president of Beacon Wireless Management, a company based in Hampton Bays that develops cell sites on the Island, said seamless service becomes even more important as more and more people use wireless as their primary phones to replace traditional land-line phones. And Sgt. John Johnson, a spokesman for the Suffolk County Police Department, said that more than 50 percent of calls to its 911 operators come from cellphones.
 Steve Powell, a Verizon Wireless technician who drives around the Island in a test vehicle looking for dead spots, dropped calls and areas that need better signal strength, said, ''If there are dead spots, I'm willing to bet there was an attempt at coverage in those areas.'' 
 Deep pockets may be why some of the neighboring towns have avoided towers.
 ''I think influential resistance has thwarted the cell tower incursion,'' Mr. Coston said.
 Mike Kulak, a contractor engineer who asked that the wireless companies he works for not be named because he wants to continue getting jobs from them, cited economics as the main reason cellphone reception may be weak in certain areas. ''It's simple: the richer your neighborhood, the poorer your reception is going to be,'' he said. ''The poorer your neighborhood -- look at Queens. Great reception. The politics of cell towers has nothing to do with technology or the laws of physics.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Katie Seiden, a Sea Cliff sculptor, is opposed to plans to build a 12-story cellphone tower shaped like a flagpole. A similar tower rises above the Hagerman Fire Department, near East Patchogue. (Photographs by Chris Maynard for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (91%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); ZONING (78%); ORDINANCES (78%); POWER & COMMUNICATION SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); MAYORS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); BROADCAST EQUIPMENT (77%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (72%); SUBURBS (72%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (71%) Telephones and Telecommunications; Antennas; Cellular Telephones

COMPANY: SEA CLIFF WATER CO (85%)

PERSON: Nancy H Tilghman

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%) Sea Cliff (NY)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2004



110 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1132 words

HEADLINE: Downtown Milford Is Now Hip In Months With or Without an R

BYLINE: By JEFF HOLTZ

 BODY:
BOATS from a nearby island docking in the harbor. Groups of 20-and 30-somethings making the rounds of crowded patio bars. The sounds of a live Mariachi band coming from an open-air restaurant. Tourists browsing local shops and trendy boutiques and relaxing in hip coffee shops.
 While it may sound like a resort town in Mexico, the Caribbean or some other exotic spot, it is actually downtown Milford. 
 Through what city officials and business leaders said was a well-executed plan, downtown Milford has turned itself from a rather nondescript cluster of stores into a destination for nightlife, a place for a weekend getaway and desirable place to live.
 According to the city's chamber of commerce, there are now 20 restaurants, 35 retail shops and 59 of what it considered service businesses downtown, many having moved in within the last five years.
 And the Milford police estimated average nightly crowds downtown this summer on Thursdays, Fridays and Saturdays with good weather have been around 3,000.
 The Stonebridge Restaurant on Daniel Street was at the heart of the emergence. The owner, Richard Conine, whose father started the Milford Seafood fish market at the same location in the 1940's, said his annual sales have gone from $700,000 in 1997 to $3 million. He said most of it came from his outdoor bar, which often draws 1,200 people on weekend nights in the summer.
 ''A lot of people on the Connecticut shore were always going over to Port Jefferson on Long Island for fun and excitement,'' said Mr. Conine, who will soon be opening a nightclub across from the restaurant. ''I've always viewed Milford Harbor as a possible Port Jeff. And I' think we've passed what they've done.''
 And it appears many Long Islanders have agreed. According to Dick Hosking, the director of operations at Lisman's Landing, a city-owned marina with 40 slips, which opened nine years ago on the former site of a sewer treatment plant in the downtown's harbor, 50 percent of the boats docking there had come from Long Island. He said the rest had come from Connecticut, New York, New Jersey and even Philadelphia.
 Mr. Hosking said the marina, which allows only hourly and overnight docking, averaged 2,000 guests in 2003 and was 20 percent ahead of that pace this year. He said weekends were ''packed'' and required reservations. He said the weekend of the annual oyster festival was usually sold out by January.
 ''Every year it gets bigger and bigger,'' Mr. Hosking said. ''People like the fact that we're so close to town. There's probably nine restaurants within two blocks of here.''
 And people who said they were driving to downtown also said they enjoyed being able to walk from place to place.
 Alberto Gonzales, an engineer from East Haven, said he and his friends drove there regularly on Friday nights.
 ''We usually go to about five places,'' he said, while relaxing at an outdoor table at Stonebridge Restaurant. ''It's a big plus to not have to worry about driving around. The green is nice. There's a lot of beautiful women. What more could you ask for?''
 Robert Smith Jr., the president of the Smith Craft Real Estate Corporation, which owns 11 commercial and residential properties downtown and has been the neighborhood's main developer, said the price of rental space has nearly tripled there in the last few years and the price of real estate has doubled.
 Mr. Smith credited city leaders, who consulted with Yale University's School of Urban Design on the redevelopment, for spurring the growth by allowing more residential properties to be built downtown, which increased business for merchants.
 ''We had a definite vision,'' he said. ''However, we needed zoning regulations to be amended or changed. They were open to our ideas, many of which didn't conform to the regulations at the time.''
 According to Robert B. Gregory, the city's economic development director, there are about 2,000 people living downtown. He said condominiums were being built that were expected to sell for around $500,000.
 Retailers have begun to notice downtown Milford, too. Mr. Smith said he is negotiating with a national clothier for a downtown location. In April, Pink By the Harbor, a boutique that specializes in the Lily Pulitzer line, opened across from the marina.
 ''Lily Pulitzer is mostly coastal-themed, so this is a perfect location,'' said Stacie Liao, the owner. ''Business has been great. It's been even better than I expected.''
 The development has not come without some minor problem. Some visitors said parking was difficult at times. Officer Vaughn Dumas, a spokesman for the Milford Police, said there have been a small number of fights and drug arrests in parking lots.
 Mayor James L. Richetelli Jr. said the city has formed a '''parking task force'' to address the downtown situation. He said the city planned to improve signs to better direct people to parking areas they don't know about.
 ''We know we need to improve the flow of traffic and improve pedestrian safety,'' he said. ''We want people to come down, park their cars, dock their boats and be able to walk around.''
 Richard Platt, official historian for the city, said the redevelopment has revived downtown.
 ''There are new restaurants doing well, and older businesses like Harrison's Hardware, which has been there for 100 years, is doing well,'' Mr. Platt said. ''About the only negative was the demise of the Capitol Theater, which was torn down years ago and which was located on what is now the parking lot for Stonebridge Restaurant.'' 
 Win Smith, a Republican state senator representing Milford, had praise for the redevelopment. However, he said there is some concern about new buildings ''pressing into some historically significant neighborhoods'' in the downtown area. ''With more development, the pressure is going to increase,'' said Mr. Smith, who is looking into the issue as a member of the city's Historic District Study Commission.
 ''There's a little bit of tension that we're trying to absolve in a positive way.''
 Over all, city officials are extremely pleased and looking toward the future. Mr. Gregory said a small river walk along the Wepawaug River, which includes waterfalls and runs through downtown and into the harbor, was being considered. And a New Year's eve celebration with family events, a parade and fireworks will take place downtown this year.
 And it hasn't just been out of towners taking advantage of downtown Milford's transformation. Natives said they were, too.
 ''Milford has changed,'' Stephanie Ancillai, 27, who was in between jobs in public relations, said on the outdoor patio at Amberjacks restaurant on a recent Friday night. ''It's a lot different than the Milford I grew up in. I want to hang out here, more than I did when I was 16 or 17 and couldn't wait to leave.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: No longer sleepy: Downtown Milford, top as seen from the water, is now home to crowded patio bars.
The Milford police estimate average nightly crowds downtown this summer, on most Thursdays, Fridays and Saturdays, to be about 3,000.
 ''Milford has changed,'' said Stephanie Ancillai, 27. ''It's a lot different than the Milford I grew up in.'' (Photographs by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); MARINAS (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); FESTIVALS (73%); CITIES (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); FISH & SEAFOOD STORES (57%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (50%) Retail Stores and Trade; Restaurants ; Geographic Profiles

PERSON: Jeff Holtz

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%) Milford (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2004



111 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 680 words

HEADLINE: France Takes Reins of NATO Force in Kosovo at Trying Time

BYLINE: By CRAIG S. SMITH

DATELINE: PRISTINA, Kosovo, Sept. 1 

 BODY:
France took command of NATO peacekeeping operations in this Serbian province on Wednesday. The move puts French generals in charge of NATO's two major current operations, here in Kosovo and in Afghanistan, where a French officer took command of NATO forces in August.
 The voluntary commands are seen by American and European diplomats as a sort of antidote for France's poisoning of American-led NATO ambitions in Iraq, where France has only reluctantly agreed to allow a tiny NATO training program. France has refused to participate in the program. 
 ''It's impressive to NATO allies that France has stepped forward to lead these two missions,'' said a British official in Brussels, where NATO has headquarters. The official, who insisted on anonymity, called the French move a ''sea change'' in the country's recent attitude toward the trans-Atlantic alliance. France has sought to block NATO from engaging in a broader mission in Iraq.
 France's command is beginning at a difficult time for Kosovo, shortly before the province holds parliamentary elections and just six months after the delicate peace imposed by NATO after the 1998-99 war was punctured by widespread violence between Serbs and ethnic Albanians. The arson and shootings left 19 people dead and forced more than 4,000 people from their homes.
 ''We're entering a period of maximum risk,'' said France's defense minister, Michele Alliot-Marie, who attended the transfer ceremony on Wednesday from German to French command. ''The situation is calm but extremely fragile.''
 Human rights organizations criticized NATO peacekeepers for failing to stem the violence, in many cases having remained in their compounds while rioting took place outside. The worst of the violence took place in the zone under French control.
 ''U.S. forces, Swedes and Norwegians were in the streets but some countries' troops didn't leave their barracks,'' a senior NATO official in Brussels, who would not be identified by name, complained Wednesday.
 Adm. Gregory Johnson, commander of NATO forces in Southern Europe, praised the departing German commander, Gen. Holger Kammerhoff, at the transfer ceremony, but not before delivering a general rebuke to the peacekeepers for failing to prevent the violence in March.
 ''The standards of those days don't meet the expectations of the North Atlantic alliance,'' Admiral Johnson said, adding that the response to the rioting was complicated by ''national caveats'' among the multinational peacekeeping force -- a reference to varying rules of engagement between participating countries that prevented some troops from reacting promptly and effectively.
 General Kammerhoff said in his departure speech, ''I've enjoyed every day that I was here, except, perhaps, those three days in March.'' 
 Maj. Gen. Yves de Kermabon of France, who has served two previous tours in Kosovo, took over the command for a one-year term. NATO members volunteer for command of the operation on a rotating basis.
 The transfer took place at the peacekeepers' headquarters, surrounded by concertina wire and wood-frame buildings beyond which lie the red-tile roofs of Film City, named for its former ambition to be Yugoslavia's Hollywood. The peacekeepers' presence drives the local economy. On the road to the headquarters, My Thai Massage, promising ''relaxation,'' is thriving.
 After five years of United Nations administration, Kosovo still has displaced families, chronic unemployment and a crippled economy dominated in many areas by organized crime. Its ultimate status, either as a province of Serbia or independent state, has yet to be resolved.
 ''Now there's an effort to speed up the political timetable for final status talks, which could take place in 2005,'' the NATO official said, adding that NATO has decided to keep its peacekeeping force at nearly 20,000.
 At the transfer ceremony, Kosovo's president, Ibrahim Rugova, said he was looking forward to the day that Kosovo could ''enjoy recognition of its independence and integration into the European Union and NATO'' -- goals that remain a distant dream.


GRAPHIC: Map of Kosovo highlighting Pristina: NATO's peacekeeping operations in Kosovo are based in Pristina. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACEKEEPING (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); RIOTS (87%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); ARSON (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (70%); TERRORISM (66%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (66%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (52%) United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%) North Atlantic Treaty Organization

PERSON: MICHELE ALLIOT-MARIE (59%) Craig S Smith; Yves (Maj Gen) De Kermabon

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (92%) FRANCE (99%); SERBIA (98%); KOSOVO (97%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); EUROPE (93%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); BELGIUM (92%); GERMANY (92%); NORWAY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); ALBANIA (78%) Serbia; Kosovo (Serbia); France; Iraq; Afghanistan

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2004



112 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1265 words

HEADLINE: Coming This Fall: The Romanovs Visit Newark

BYLINE: By BENJAMIN GENOCCHIO

 BODY:
WHILE politics will be center stage in New Jersey this fall, many necessary diversions await in the art museums as the new season begins. The offerings include snazzy touring exhibitions, chancy curatorial endeavors and an informal focus on grass-roots, up-and-coming contemporary artists. This is all glad news for art lovers.
 The season's marquee exhibit is a touring cache of Romanov baubles at the Newark Museum. Americans love royalty, and this collection of Russian imperial knickknacks, including works by Faberge, should be a smash. It also ties in nicely with a Russian photography exhibition at the Zimmerli Art Museum in New Brunswick. 
 Elsewhere, worth noting is the depth, richness and diversity of contemporary art exhibitions throughout the state. The spotlight of the moment belongs to ''jersey (new),'' a brash, zappy survey of the state's emerging and lesser-known artists at the Jersey City Museum. We need more of these hearty, full-blooded surveys. 
 We also need more gutsy curatorial efforts, like the Montclair Art Museum's survey of the talented if forgotten modernist Jan Matulka. Lately, some of our museums have become too corporate and gate-fixated, their exhibition programs seemingly commercially -- not aesthetically -- driven.
 Despite the sluggish economy, a handful of museums are also building. The New Jersey Center for Visual Arts in Summit has begun a $5.6 million expansion, while Aljira in Newark is set to double its exhibition space by late next year. The main building at the State Museum in Trenton is also closed for remodeling.
 Money and ambition are also in evidence at the Shore Institute of the Contemporary Arts down in Long Branch, the state's newest art center. Beyond the story line of its spring opening, it has been getting attention with its bold program. Already it has attracted a coterie of Shore artists, savvy patrons and appreciative fans.
 Twelve months ago the larger public museums were in the doldrums, facing state budget cuts to the arts and soft corporate contributions. To survive, many were forced to trim programs and hastily assemble collection shows. Unexpectedly, the outcome was a celebration of great artworks often left in the shadows.
 This year many museums are again presenting exhibitions of valuable collection material. The highlight is a selection of the Princeton University Art Museum's renowned collection of American drawings and watercolors, which will tour nationally, and then travel on to Giverny, in France, where it will stay through 2005. Catch it before it flies.
 Here is a sampling of what's being offered in New Jersey's museums this season.

Newark Museum
 Touching down at this museum is the fall's most captivating, intensely delightful exhibition. ''Nicholas and Alexandra: At Home with the Last Tsar and His Family'' offers peasants (and New Jerseyans) a rare chance to gawk at the dizzying riches of Russia's last imperial dynasty. The lavish spread offers up some 250 of the Romanov family's belongings from their living quarters in the Alexander Palace, outside St. Petersburg. The show opens Sept. 29.
 This is the first time many of these objects have left Russia. Among the treasures are a Faberge decorative basket, and the Marie Antoinette Gobelin tapestry presented by the president of France to Czar Nicholas II and Czarina Alexandra. 
 For more information: (973)596-6550 or www.newarkmuseum.org.

Zimmerli Art Museum
 In keeping with its well-known focus on Russian and Soviet-era art, this museum is presenting ''Beyond Memory: Soviet Nonconformist Photography and Photo-Related Works of Art.'' The show, guest-curated by Diane Neumaier, a Rutgers art professor, and opening Sept. 18, examines the varied and often resourceful uses of photography in the unofficial art of the Soviet era. 
 In addition, the museum has plucked from storage more than 40 of its rarely seen, turn-of-the-century French pastels. ''Pastels in Paris,'' which is already open, looks at the uses of pastels by late-19th-century French avant-garde artists. Included are pastels by many well-known artists, as well as some lesser-known figures who were nonetheless once highly regarded.
 For more information: (732)932-7237 or www.zimmerlimuseum.rutgers.edu.

Grounds for Sculpture
 Things are lively here, where the renowned sculptor Patrick Dougherty will create one of his monumental tree sculptures inside the museum building. The sculpture, ''Twisted Logic,'' will consist of a large organic form made from thousands of tightly woven tree saplings. The sculpture will be available for viewing starting Oct. 10.
 Aside from being dazzlingly beautiful, Mr. Dougherty's sculptures are also devilishly clever. He uses the natural grab and snagging properties of the branches to thread and weave them into a tightly bound structure. Leading up to the opening, visitors will be able to see the work in progress and meet the artist.
 For more information: (609)586-0616 or www.groundsforsculpture.org.

Jersey City Museum
 This museum is one of the state's dynamic contemporary art spaces. Through the fall it is offering ''jersey (new),'' a smorgasbord of emerging and lesser-known artists from five New Jersey counties. There is no overall theme, though the works emphasize the importance that questions of place and identity continue to play in the lives of artists living and working here. The show opened this past week.
 To complement the exhibition, the museum plans to post an online catalog with artist interviews by the curators, Pamela Ford and Rocio Aranda-Alvarado; images of artwork from the exhibition; and images of the artists in their studios. The site will open in November.
 For more information: (201)413-0303 or www.jerseycitymuseum.org.

Montclair Art Museum
 One of the season's worthiest exhibitions is ''Jan Matulka: The Global Modernist,'' a retrospective of the work of this forgotten, early-20th-century Czech-American modernist. Drawn from the artist's estate, private and public collections, it includes 66 paintings, drawings, prints and illustrations produced between 1916 and 1950, some of them inspired by American Indian art. Opening Sept. 19, the exhibition will tour to a dozen spaces during the next two years.
 Alongside this exhibition, the museum will present works from its collection by other early-20th-century American artists inspired by American Indian art forms and symbols. Among the pieces in the show, ''Indian Space Works From the Montclair Art Museum's Permanent Collection,'' are works by Will Barnet, Peter Busa, Richard Pousette-Dart, Steve Wheeler and Howard Daum. 
 Fore more information: (973)746-5555 or www.montclair-art.com.

Princeton University Art Museum
 Organized by the Princeton art historian John Wilmerding, with Laura M. Giles, curator of prints and drawings at the Princeton University Art Museum, ''West to Wesselmann: American Drawings and Watercolors in the Princeton University Art Museum,'' opening Oct. 16, features 77 works on paper by American artists from the 18th through the 20th centuries. All works are from the museum's acclaimed collection of American drawings and watercolors.
 The exhibition shows off the depth, range and quality of the collection. Highlights include a group of early landscape drawings by artists of the Hudson River School, fine watercolors by Homer, Eakins, Sargent and La Farge, and a positively dreamy O'Keeffe pastel. There are also excellent pieces by artists of the Ash Can School, Stieglitz circle and a bevy of Pop and Abstract Expressionist painters.
 For more information: (609)258-3788 or www.princetonartmuseum.org.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The treasures of Czar Nicholas and his family will be on display at the Newark Museum in the ''Nicholas and Alexandra'' exhibit.
Yoko Motomiya's ''Plastic Notes,'' from ''jersey (new),'' the Jersey City Museum.
 Clockwise from left, Georgia O'Keeffe's ''Narcissa's Last Orchid'' will be at Princeton University Art Museum, a tree sculpture by Patrick Dougherty will be at Grounds for Sculpture, and Edward Hopper's ''Universalist Church'' will also be in Princeton. (Photo by State Archive of the Russian Federation, Moscow) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY (78%); VISUAL ARTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); TRADE SHOWS (77%); FAMILY (70%); BUDGETS (70%); BUDGET CUTS (61%) Art; Royal Family; Photography; Art

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (91%) Newark Museum; Zimmerli Art Museum; Princeton University Art Museum; Jersey City Museum; Montclair Art Museum (NJ)

PERSON: Romanov Family (Russia); Benjamin Genocchio; Patrick Dougherty; Jan Matulka; Nicholas II (Czar) (1868-1918)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (58%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (57%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (55%) Russia

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2004



113 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; IN PERSON; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1365 words

HEADLINE: One Key to the State's Future? This Woman Says It's the Horse

BYLINE: By GEORGE JAMES

DATELINE: NEW BRUNSWICK 

 BODY:
KARYN MALINOWSKI'S path in life was most likely set by the time she was 7 or 8. That was when she took her first pony ride and began her lifelong fascination with horses. 
 Now, some 42 years later, as an equine researcher who is an expert on the aging of horses, dean of outreach and extension programs at Rutgers University, founding director of its Equine Science Center and even a late-blooming harness racer, Dr. Malinowski has become one of the most passionate and outspoken advocates for New Jersey's horse industry.
 For instance, appearing before the Assembly Committee on Gaming last year, Ms. Malinowski, who is an imposing 6 feet 1 inch, argued that if horse racing in the state does not remain competitive, its failure will have an impact on other agricultural industries, like crop farming and veterinary clinics. 
 ''Besides the economic importance of the industry, the 7,100 horse farms maintain open space of 81,000 acres in the state,'' she said. ''Horse operations tend to be more viable than other types of agricultural businesses, making the horse industry critical to the growth and land-use strategy of the state.'' 
 Sitting in her Cook College office, which, of course, shows off photographs and paintings of horses, and even some of her in her racing colors, Dr. Malinowski rattled off some surprising information. 
 New Jersey's official animal, for instance, is the horse.
 That's in part, she says, because New Jersey is the No.1 horse state in the country, even though it does not have the most horses. 
 ''It has many more horses per square mile than any other state,'' she said. ''We are the most densely populated with people, and the most densely populated with horses.'' 
 It also does not hurt that two of the country's pre-eminent horse facilities are situated in New Jersey: the headquarters for the United States Equestrian Team in Somerset County, and the Horse Park of New Jersey in Monmouth County.
 In fact, the horse industry ranks third in New Jersey in value of agricultural products, after greenhouse/nursery products and vegetables. The industry's assets amount to $3.2 billion; it employs 6,000 people; and it generates $698 million in annual revenue, excluding parimutuel betting. 
 Yet, the industry, especially racing, is in danger, Dr. Malinowski said. From 1983 to 1996, the state lost 40,000 acres of open space because of the loss of racehorse breeding farms, and that could continue, she says, if New Jersey does not begin to take racing more seriously. 
 It should, she said, because even though racehorses account for only one-third of the state's horses -- the other two-thirds being sport and recreation horses -- they account for two-thirds of the economic impact of the horse industry in New Jersey. 
 The state's major tracks -- Meadowlands Racetrack, Monmouth Park and Freehold Raceway -- have been losing business and face strong competition from surrounding states, like New York and Delaware, which have installed video lottery terminals at their tracks, and Pennsylvania, which intends to.
 Dr. Malinowski favors such terminals as one way to draw people to the tracks, but the casino industry in Atlantic City, which sees them as a threat, defeated such a proposal. In return, the casinos promised to give $86 million over four years to supplement racing purses and keep New Jersey racing competitive. But she sees that promise and the terminals, too, as Band-Aids; in testimony, she has suggested that the state create an economic development authority for racing. In all of these efforts, she sees the Equine Science Center playing an important supporting role. 
 Kenneth H. McKeever, a nationally-known equine exercise physiologist who left a teaching position at Ohio State University to join the faculty of the equine program 10 years ago, said that Dr. Malinowski has made the center a model for other states and helped to unify the diverse factions of the state's horse industry. ''You won't find another state where the equine industry is as well organized or pulled together like the one in New Jersey,'' Dr. McKeever said. ''And the reason is because of one person. Karyn Malinowski is a leader, organizer and anchor for the horse industry.'' 
 Dr. Malinowski's passion behind the statistics comes from growing up in Manville, where her grandparents moved at the turn of the 20th century to work at Johns Manville. It was in this industrial town, where she recalls that the asbestos fibers drifted down in July like snow in winter, that there was a riding stable not far from her home where her father used to ride. 
 ''When I was young, he took me once for a ride,'' she said. ''And that was it.'' ''That'' being her love of horses.
 The riding led to horse activities in a 4-H Club, the purchase of her first horse at age 15, participation in horse shows and finally full-time study at Rutgers, where she got bachelor's and master's degrees in animal science; she got a Ph.D. in zoology from Rutgers and the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey. 
 In 1978, she was hired as an extension equine specialist at Cook College at Rutgers. ''At the time I was hired, there were about 40 extension horse specialists in the United States,'' she said. ''And I was the first one who was a female.'' 
 As a federal land-grant college, Cook provides instruction and applied research, and shares that research with the state's residents. In the Equine Center's case, that means supplying horse breeders, trainers, veterinarians and farmers with information in areas like immunology, nutrition, water quality and pasture management. Noting that county agents and extension specialists are always sharing ideas with farmers and others, she said: ''That's the beauty of extension. It's a two-way street.''
 When she joined the Rutgers Department of Animal Sciences as its only equine specialist (another was not hired until 1989), the equine science program essentially began. There were no horses on campus, and one of the first things she did was to get racehorse owners to donate 25 standard-bred horses. There are now more than twice that number and the facility has grown to include barns, stalls and a $450,000 treadmill and exercise physiology lab. 
 In the mid-1970's prominent members of the alumni and other people in the horse industry saw that the dairy industry was declining and that the state's livestock future was the horse. With Dr. Malinowski, they pushed for the creation of a full-fledged center devoted to equine science. 
 In 2001, they got their wish when the university board of governors officially established it. Dr. Malinowski was named its first director. She now has a staff of 11, including three faculty members/researchers and is in the forefront of a drive to raise $20 million to place its classroom and lab facilities in a central learning center on a 45-acre tract. 
 David A. Meirs II, a veterinarian and president of Walnridge Farm, a standard-bred breeding farm in Upper Freehold Township, said Rutgers probably headed the list of land-grant colleges that placed such a strong emphasis on equine science; he gave much of the credit to Dr. Malinowski. ''She certainly has everyone's admiration as a person,'' said Dr. Meirs, who is chairman of the equine center's advisory board. 
 In 2002, Dr. Malinowski was named dean of outreach and extension programs. In that post she oversees 200 faculty and staff members in the state's 21 counties and an annual budget of $16 million, which includes, county, state and federal funds.
 Her early association with standard-bred horses whose ''sane, sound, and durable'' temperament endeared them to her, prompted her to take up harness racing 18 months ago. ''I'm too tall to compete as a jockey on a thoroughbred,'' she said, joking. 
 She has raced a dozen times, and come in fifth and third in races at the Meadowlands. 
 ''I wasn't doing it for the competition,'' she said. ''Sure you want to win. I mean it was exciting. But to do it, just to do it -- just unbelievable, just unbelievable.''
 The same could be said about her career, except, she said, ''I've never, ever, since I was a kid, just never felt there was nothing I couldn't do, if I wanted to.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Karyn Malinowski, director of the Equine Science Center at Rutgers (and a harness racer), is a one-woman lobby for the state's horse industry. (Photo by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORSES (90%); HORSE & PONY PRODUCTION (90%); HORSE RACING (89%); AGRICULTURE (88%); POPULATION DENSITY (88%); EQUESTRIAN SPORTS (78%); VETERINARY SERVICES (77%); ANIMALS (77%); RANKINGS (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (74%); GAMING (70%) Horses; Industry Profiles; Horses

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (91%) Rutgers, the State University

PERSON: Karyn Malinowski

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2004



114 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; PORTFOLIOS, ETC.; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 683 words

HEADLINE: To Get Out of a Stall, Apply Lift. An Election May Work.

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
THERE seems to be little that could lift stocks these days, with the market just about a week away from stumbling through its fifth-longest stall since 1983.
 The economy is growing, but there appear to be more signs that the pace is slowing rather than picking up. Job growth is still sluggish, even though 144,000 payroll jobs were created last month. Automakers are cutting production. And retailers, like Wal-Mart Stores, are reporting disappointing sales for August. 
 But with the political conventions over and the presidential campaign swinging into even higher gear, there could be a little election-year boost for equities.
 Normally, September offers no hope for investors, and October offers little. Historically, September is the worst month for the Dow Jones industrial average, with an average decline of 1.57 percent from 1928 through 2003, according to Birinyi Associates, a research and money management firm in Westport, Conn. It is also the worst month for the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, with an average decline of 1.28 percent, according to S.&P. October, meanwhile, is the fourth-worst month for the Dow and the fifth-worst for the S.&P.
 But in presidential election years since 1928, the market has done better in these two months. In September of those years, the Dow and S.&P. have declined less than one-quarter of 1 percent, on average. In election-year Octobers, they have risen -- by less than a percentage point, to be sure, but by more than they have in an average October. 
 If history is any guide, the Dow could have an additional lift in November and December, though the benefits for the S.&P. 500 tail off a bit at the end of the year.
 This all boils down to the fact that 13 times in the last 19 presidential election years, the Dow has ended December higher than it was at the end of August -- 3.23 percent higher, on average. For the S.&P. 500, the scorecard reads 15 out of 19, with an average gain of 2.9 percent. 
 That could be some comfort for investors who saw the Dow and the S.&P. 500 hit their 2004 highs in February and the Nasdaq top out in late January. If the Dow climbs by the September-to-December average of the last 19 election years, it would be up 1.3 percent for the year, based on Friday's close. The S.&P. would also be up for the year, by 3.1 percent.
 But there are also signs that investors are becoming even less interested in stocks as this market pause lengthens. 
 Using the Dow as a proxy, the market has been in a pause, meandering up and down without any clear directional trend for 207 days through today. In just eight more calendar days, this pause will become the fifth longest since 1983. If it continues until Oct. 18, it will move to No.2; if it lasts until Dec. 18, it will become No.1.
 The Dow's high this year was 10,737.70, reached on Feb. 11. It has since fallen as much as 1,130 points, or 8.6 percent. The Dow was at 10,260.20 on Friday, about 478 points below that 2004 peak.
 A signal that investors are becoming less interested in stocks is the equity risk premium, which is the difference between the expected return on stocks and the actual return on government bonds. The bigger the premium, the more worried investors are.
 As of Thursday, the premium was 9.1 percentage points, up from 8.4 in mid-June, according to Thomson Financial. And it is not far below the 9.7-point premium in September 2002, the highest in the Thomson data going back to 1985. That peak came just before the stock market hit bottom in October 2002.
 OMAR AQUILAR, director of quantitative equity research at ING Investment Management, is surprised by the recent surge in the equity risk premium because other measures of risk, like market volatility, are still quite low.
 He says the risk premium has been driven higher by the recent surge in the price of oil, which reached $47.64 a barrel last month. And he concludes that the price climb has sapped investor enthusiasm.
 ''Investors,'' he said in an analysis last week, ''must be thinking that the high oil prices will have a negative impact on future economic and earnings growth.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Electoral Effect''The September-to-December performance of the stock market is generally better in presidential election years.Graphs track the average change in each month since 1928. The graphs track election years and all years from Sept. through Dec. for both the Standard &Poor's 500-stock index and the Dow Jones industrial average.(Sources by Standard & Poor's
 Birinyi Associates)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); TRENDS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); RETAILERS (76%); BONDS (74%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (73%); JOB CREATION (72%); AUTOMAKERS (71%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (71%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (71%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (70%) Stocks and Bonds; Presidential Election of 2004; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (57%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (57%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (57%)

PERSON: Jonathan Fuerbringer

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2004



115 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 4; Real Estate Desk; STREETSCAPES/133 East 80th Street; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1186 words

HEADLINE: An Elegant 1920's Building At an Unshowy Address

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER GRAY

 BODY:
ROSARIO CANDELA'S 1929 design for the apartment house at 133 East 80th Street is as good as any of his luxury buildings on Park and Fifth Avenues -- but it is nestled on homely little Lexington. A cleaning program is under way that reveals its unusual details -- and also shows some of the problems presented in renovating even one of the best buildings of the 1920's. 
 The boom years of the 20's covered much of Fifth, Madison and Park with high-end co-op apartment houses, leaving Lexington like a wayward child written out of the will, with only a ragtag architectural miscellany. But nearly invisible among the crumbling brownstones, 1920's commercial buildings and midrise apartment houses lies a subgroup of 20's co-ops, with all the costliness but little of the show of the fancier addresses farther west. 
 At 64th Street, the Beaux-Arts architect Kenneth Murchison designed the Federal-style 133 East 64th, which has most of the trademark elements of the type: an elegantly finished lobby of very modest dimensions, a sun-washed site -- well away from the blocky ranges of tall apartment buildings to the west -- and an elegant run of bronze storefronts. These buyers went east not for showy addresses and lobbies, but for a simpler household economy -- including the income from store rentals. 
 The architects Rouse & Goldstone made a specialty of these buildings, like 141 East 72nd and 151 East 79th, both on the northeast corners of their intersections. In both buildings every apartment took up a full floor, another indicator of wealth, even though they were hidden behind simple Georgian-style facades as discreet as any bank's. Indeed, banks were the ground-floor tenants. Financial institutions are generally trouble-free compared with other retail tenants.
 Although addresses like 200 West 57th Street and 1 East 72nd would immediately indicate the intersecting avenues to a veteran New Yorker, few would be likely to know whether numbers like 133, 141 and 151 are at the corner of Lexington and their respective streets. So without a common identifier, this little real estate microboom flew under the radar, even through the last year of the 1920's -- when its defining constituent, 133 East 80th, was planned. 
 CANDELA, whom many consider the quintessential 1920's apartment house architect, designed the building in October 1929, after zoning-law changes permitted tower-type apartment buildings, of which the twin-tower variety on Central Park West is best known. Working for the developer Moses Ginsberg -- whose biggest project was the Carlyle Hotel at 76th and Madison, built in 1930 -- Candela gave 133 East 80th a craggy, romantic top that could double as a mountain castle redoubt in a Harry Potter movie, with crenelations, lookouts, buttresses and spires. 
 The architect did the same with other buildings, including 770 and 778 Park Avenue, on the western corners of 73rd Street, but those buildings followed his usual Georgian-style design. 
 Candela gave 133 East 80th a brooding, medieval character. The ground floor has limestone blocks in varied sizes, shapes and textures, as if assembled piecemeal from older ruins. This pattern is continued up the corner of the building to the top, with its staggered setbacks, through the Gothic-style tower. 
 There are jester heads on the fourth floor, gargoyles projecting out high up, and eagles, chimneys and other picturesque details, like the crisscross patterning in the brickwork at the lower and upper floors. 
 The Lexington Avenue storefronts retain most of their anthemion cresting and hardware for retractable awnings, although the features are lost underneath the modern-style box awnings. And several rolldown gates damage what was once an elegant work of architecture.
 On Park or Fifth Avenue, the building might have appeared gimmicky, but Lexington marches to several different drummers, and the fantasy of 133 East 80th is hardly noticeable. 
 The 13-story building was divided into widely varying apartments for 20 families -- simplexes and duplexes, from 6 to 13 rooms. Advertisements in The New York Times offered a 6-room apartment for $16,000 and an 11-room apartment for $47,000. The larger apartment, on the corner of the seventh floor, had four bedrooms, four baths, two servant's rooms, a servants' hall, a library with a corner fireplace and a wide gallery connecting the library with the dining and living rooms. 
 When the co-op was finished in late summer of 1930, only 60 percent of the apartments had been sold. Perhaps the market was already weakening, especially since the discreet location of a building like 133 East 80th is, in New York, an infrequently acquired taste. In November of 1930, The New Yorker columnist Marcia Davenport, writing under her pseudonym, Penthouse, said the building had ''a peculiarly simple sort of charm, and therefore has appealed to some delightful people.'' 
 Although she mourned the appearance of bathrooms without windows -- another change in the building law of 1929 -- she did note appreciatively that there was ''ample storage space for linen, bridge tables and golf bags.''
 On a sunny morning several weeks ago, a half dozen men, some in work clothes, some in suits, gathered across Lexington from 133 East 80th as work crews were ranging over the building's facade in a big repair project. With evident concern, they were all pointing and looking at an unpleasantness that had appeared the day before, several floors up at the corner. 
 In one location, bricks above the windows had been replaced. This was followed by a cleaning of the entire section of the facade -- which unmistakably revealed the new bricks as far lighter in color than the newly cleaned original masonry. The streetscape of New York is a very public stage on which to flub your lines, and dark looks were visible among those present on the sidewalk. Within a few days the bricks were darkened with rubbed-in soil. 
 Robert J. Quirk, a member of the co-op board, is coordinating the project with the architectural and engineering firm Lawless & Mangione. ''We're going from subbasement to the highest chimney,'' he said. The problem with the bricks arose when they cleaned some of the original bricks, bought new ones to match and then cherry-picked the shipment for an absolutely uniform shade.
 Once installed, the uniform patch stood out from the rest of the wall, which has subtle variations. So, Mr. Quirk said, the workers went back and made a random selection for another patch, with better, although not perfect, results. The masonry work will be finished next year, and later in the project the co-op will hire a specialist to tint the replacement brick for a better fit. ''That should last for another five years,'' Mr. Quirk said. ''And after that New York's air will take care of the rest.''

Look For
The projecting figure of an eagle at the corner of the third floor. A variety of such picturesque details, including jester heads and gargoyles, help to give the building a medieval character.

BUILT -- 1930
ADDRESS -- 133 East 80th Street
HOW TO GET THERE -- No. 6 train to 77th and Lexington


GRAPHIC: Photos: TOWER WITH A CRAGGY TOP -- Rosario Candela's building at 80th and Lexington, shown in 1942, is undergoing a cleaning. (Photo by Office for Metropolitan History)
 (Photo by Frances Roberts for The New York Times)Graphs: ''Mortgage Rates'' shows mortgage rates for the New York region since 2001.(Sources by HSH Associates)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (88%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); ZONING (78%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (78%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (74%); RETAIL PROPERTY (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (67%); RETAILERS (65%) Housing

PERSON: Rosario Candela; Christopher Gray

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2004



116 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Society Desk; WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 224 words

HEADLINE: Ruth Shalit, Robertson Barrett

 BODY:
Ruth Shalit and Henry Robertson Barrett IV were married yesterday evening at the Four Seasons restaurant in New York. Rabbi Kenneth J. Chasen officiated. 
 The bride, 33, is a contributing writer for Elle magazine, based in Los Angeles, and a freelance writer. She graduated magna cum laude from Princeton. She is a daughter of Elizabeth and Sol Shalit of Washington. Her father is an emeritus professor of economics at the University of Wisconsin.
 The bridegroom, 38, is known as Robertson. He is a producer for Reality Pictures in Los Angeles, which produced ''American Candidate,'' the new reality series on Showtime. He graduated from Duke and received a master's degree in public policy from Harvard.
 He is the son of Delores Barrett of New York and Henry R. Barrett III of Holly Springs, N.C., and the stepson of Jane Bastian Barrett and Edward Klein. His mother, formerly a vice president for public relations at Polo Ralph Lauren in New York, is a public relations consultant in New York to fashion companies. His father, who retired as a senior partner at Bleakley Platt & Schmidt, a law firm in White Plains, is the chairman of the Kensico Cemetery and Sharon Gardens in Valhalla, N.Y. The bridegroom's stepfather is a former editor of The New York Times Magazine and a writer; his most recent book is ''Farewell, Jackie'' (Viking, 2004).


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Krasner/Trebitz Photography) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (74%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); BOOK REVIEWS (70%); REALITY TELEVISION (70%); STEPPARENTS (68%); FASHION & APPAREL (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: BLEAKLEY PLATT & SCHMIDT LLP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (55%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: RALPH LAUREN (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2004



117 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3096 words

HEADLINE: Always on the Job, Employees Pay With Health

BYLINE: By JOHN SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
American workers are stressed out, and in an unforgiving economy, they are becoming more so every day.
 Sixty-two percent say their workload has increased over the last six months; 53 percent say work leaves them ''overtired and overwhelmed.'' 
 Even at home, in the soccer bleachers or at the Labor Day picnic, workers are never really off the clock, bound to BlackBerries, cellphones and laptops. Add iffy job security, rising health care costs, ailing pension plans and the fear that a financial setback could put mortgage payments out of reach, and the office has become, for many, an echo chamber of angst. 
 It is enough to make workers sick -- and it does. 
 Decades of research have linked stress to everything from heart attacks and stroke to diabetes and a weakened immune system. Now, however, researchers are connecting the dots, finding that the growing stress and uncertainty of the office have a measurable impact on workers' health and, by extension, on companies' bottom lines. 
 Workplace stress costs the nation more than $300 billion each year in health care, missed work and the stress-reduction industry that has grown up to soothe workers and keep production high, according to estimates by the American Institute of Stress in New York. And workers who report that they are stressed, said Steven L. Sauter, chief of the Organizational Science and Human Factors Branch of the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, incur health care costs that are 46 percent higher, or an average of $600 more per person, than other employees. 
 ''The costs are significant,'' Dr. Sauter said, adding, ''Those are just the costs to the organization, and not the burden to individuals and to society.'' 
 American workers are not the only ones grappling with escalating stress and ever greater job demands. European companies are changing once-generous vacation policies, and stress-related illnesses cost England 13 million working days each year, one British health official said. 
 ''It's an issue everywhere you go in the world,'' said Dr. Guy Standing, the lead author of ''Economic Security for a Better World,'' a new report from the International Labor Office, an agency of the United Nations. 
 White-collar workers are particularly at risk, Dr. Standing said, because ''we tend to take our work home.''
 Most stress-related health problems are a far cry from the phenomenon known in Japan as karoshi, or ''death from overwork.'' But downsizing, rapid business expansion, outsourcing -- trends that some have credited with increasing the nation's economic health -- translate into increases in sick days, hospitalization, the risk of heart attack and a host of other stress-related problems, researchers find. 
 The changing workplace, said Hugo Westerlund, a researcher at the National Institute for Psychosocial Medicine in Stockholm, ''does pose a threat to people's health.''

Growth of the Untraditional Job
 The days when an employer said ''if you do your job, you'll have a job'' are long gone.
 The traditional career, progressing step by step through the corridors of one or two institutions, ''is finished,'' said Dr. Richard Sennett, a sociologist at New York University. He has calculated that a young American today with at least two years of college can expect to change jobs at least 11 times before retirement. 
 Business has moved away from traditional employment, now an almost quaint concept described in a recent RAND Corporation study as ''full-time jobs of indefinite duration at a facility owned or rented by the employer.'' 
 Instead, that study found, one in every four workers in the United States is ''in some nontraditional employment relationship,'' including part-time work and self-employment. Four out of 10 Americans now work ''mostly at nonstandard time,'' according to figures cited by Harriet Presser of the University of Maryland. The odd hours include evenings, nights, rotating shifts and weekends to meet the demands of global supply chains and customers in every time zone. 
 These jobs require an increasing amount of time as well. Workers in the United States already put in more than 1,800 hours on the job a year: 350 hours more than the Germans and slightly more than the Japanese, according to the International Labor Office. 
 Nonwork hours have also been increasingly invaded by technologies that act like a virtual leash.
 ''The distinction between work and nonwork time is getting fuzzier all the time,'' said Donald I. Tepas, professor emeritus of industrial psychology at the University of Connecticut, who has studied the health and safety effects of overwork and sleeplessness.
 One result is an office culture where too much work is not enough. 
 And while some workers thrive in the changing workplace, others find their workplaces ruled by what one expert, Joanne B. Ciulla of the University of Richmond, calls ''the work ethic of fear.'' 
 More than 30 percent of workers say they are ''always'' or ''often'' under stress at work, according to the National Opinion Research Center at the University of Chicago, and a quarter of those surveyed in 2002 said there often were not enough co-workers to get the job done.
 Other surveys show no end in sight. In a new report, Kronos Inc., a human resources firm, found that 62 percent of American workers said that their job activities and responsibilities had increased over the past six months and that they had not used all of their allotted vacation time in the past year. And 60 percent of those surveyed said they did not expect any respite from increased working hours in the next six months.
 Little wonder, then, that Dr. Richard A. Chaifetz, chief executive of ComPsych, the largest provider of employee assistance programs, said ''the stress levels today are clearly higher than they were a few years ago.'' 
 The strain of working in an uncertain economic world weighed heavily on Sergey Shevchuk, a former programmer for financial services companies. He said he was caught in an emotional vise while the companies tried to weather the post-2000 stock slump by purging the ranks and looking toward cheaper labor through outsourcing.
 ''I was depressed and getting easily sick very often,'' he recalled. ''I was coming home empty.'' 
 Mr. Shevchuk has since left the world of programming, where his work could bring $135,000 a year, and started Distinct Construction Service, a home contracting business in Fairlawn, N.J. 
 Diane Knorr, a former dot-com executive, said she believed that the stress of her job contributed to persistent stomach pain and sleeplessness. At first, she said, the feeling of being on call at all hours was exciting.
 ''The first time I got a call way after hours from a senior manager, I remember being really flattered'' and thinking, ''Wow! I'm really getting up there now.''
 But gradually, her work and family life became a blur with hours that were hard to scale back.
 ''If I leave at 5 and everyone else leaves at 6:30, I might look like the one who is not pulling his weight,'' she said.
 In college, Ms. Knorr set a goal of making a six-figure salary by the time she was 49. She reached it at 35, and ''nothing happened; no balloons dropped,'' she said. ''That's when I really became aware of that hollow feeling.''
 A doctor suggested that she begin taking an antidepressant for the stomach pain, ''which struck me as bizarre,'' she said.
 The doctor described it as a treatment to increase the amount of serotonin in the digestive tract, but Ms. Knorr said she now realized he might have been giving her a subtle message about her own level of anxiety and depression. She eventually quit her job, and used her savings to start a nonprofit group, Wonder Inc., which provides mentors and activities for foster children.
 Work can be seductive, said Dr. Arlie Hochschild, a sociologist at the University of California, Berkeley. One in five of the people she interviewed in the course of research for her book ''The Time Bind'' said the rewards of work could actually become stronger than the comforts of home, so ''home became work, and work became home.'' 
 Dr. Hochschild warns of ''the splintered self,'' a state of constant distraction, doing one thing and expecting another.
 ''It's not just time'' that is lost, she said, ''it's basically attention: what we give to one another.''

Stress Equals Illness
 Researchers are beginning to document the toll that the changing nature of work takes on health. The National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, which has studied the links for decades, began a major initiative two years ago to study ''the changing organization of work'' and has worked with the American Psychological Association to build up the field of occupational health psychology at a dozen academic institutions nationwide. 
 Downsizing, studies find, is associated with poorer health, whether workers are fired or survive the downsizing and continue in their jobs.
 Pioneering studies in Scandinavia, where centralized health care allows researchers access to vast databases of medical conditions and treatment, also have shown a strong link between downsizing and illness. A study by Finnish researchers published in February in the British Medical Journal, for example, found the risk of dying from a heart attack doubled among permanent employees after a major round of downsizing, with the risk growing to five times normal after four years. 
 Two other studies, led by Dr. Westerlund, the Swedish researcher, suggest that other forms of strain in the workplace can also affect health. An analysis of medical records for 24,036 Swedish workers from 1991 to 1996 found that in workplaces that underwent large-scale expansions, the workers were 7 percent more likely to take sick leave of 90 days or more and 9 percent more likely to enter a hospital for some reason. 
 Health risks rose if the expansion, defined in the study as more than 18 percent annual job growth, continued year after year, he said. Employees in companies experiencing moderate growth, on the other hand, were slightly less likely to take extended leave, perhaps because the growth rate was more manageable.
 One explanation for why expansion might lead to poor health, Dr. Westerlund said, is that it often involves tumult: in some cases, offices expand when the parent company centralizes operations or merges offices through downsizing. 
 In another study, Dr. Westerlund and colleagues gave a series of medical tests to 3,904 white-collar employees working in stable businesses and workers in other companies in various states of stressful transition, including reorganization, downsizing and outsourcing, in some cases because the companies were threatened by the difficulties of competing in a global marketplace. 
 The workers in organizations that were in transition had higher-than-average levels of cholesterol, high blood pressure and other biochemical markers of heart disease risk, the researchers found.
 ''All forms of structural insecurity or instability may pose risks for the health of the employees,'' Dr. Westerlund and his colleagues wrote, ''although the mechanisms may vary.'' 
 One result of this uncertainty, experts say, is that employees are increasingly turning to medication like antidepressants and anti-anxiety drugs to help them cope with the added pressures.
 ''Medication has, for some people, become a coping mechanism to help them feel better so they can perform better,'' Dr. Chaifetz of ComPsych said. 
 Some researchers are trying to tease out the types of stress that are most detrimental to workers. In a large study conducted in the 1990's, Dr. David M. Almeida, a developmental psychologist and associate professor of human development and family studies at Penn State, interviewed 1,500 people, asking about their ''daily hassles'' and ''chronic stressors'' at work and at home over a period of eight days.
 Different types of stress produced different reactions, Dr. Almeida found. Tension with co-workers and overbearing bosses was more likely to lead to psychological and physical health symptoms, he said, while deadline pressure could actually ''make you feel masterful.'' 
 Central to understanding how much stress the workers experienced, he said, was whether they felt in control. Citing research by Robert A. Karasek of the University of Massachusetts and colleagues, he said workers who felt that they had a measure of control over their environment were far less likely to find work stressful than those who felt utterly at the mercy of a capricious boss, a child's illness or a lurching economy.
 That combination effect is well known to psychiatrists like Jeffrey P. Kahn, president of WorkPsych Associates, a consulting firm in New York. ''Stress at home plus stress at work doesn't equal two units'' of stress, he said. ''It equals five.''
 Dr. Almeida is now starting a second round of surveys, with an additional biological dimension: the interviews about daily stress levels will be augmented with a twice-a-day self-administered test for levels of a stress hormone, cortisol. 
 The physiological changes associated with stress are part of a complex system that once saved the lives of human ancestors, warning them of danger, said Dr. Bruce S. McEwen, director of the neuroendocrinology laboratory at Rockefeller University. The quick flood of hormones like adrenaline and cortisol pump up the body for fight or flight.
 ''We wouldn't do very well without our stress hormones,'' he said. 
 But human physiology, Dr. McEwen said, was not intended to handle the chronic stress that is an inescapable accompaniment of modern life. The wear and tear of long hours, ringing phones, uncertain working conditions and family demands lead to what he calls ''allostatic load,'' a stress switch stuck in the half-on position. The result: fatigue, frustration, anger and burnout. 
 Dr. McEwen and other stress researchers have linked persistent stress to a variety of conditions, including obesity, impaired memory, suppressed immune function and hardening of the arteries. 
 What is more, chronic stress contributes to behavior that makes it harder to recover, he said. For example, sleep deprivation may increase hunger, causing a stressed-out worker to seek comfort in a midnight bowl of pasta or a nightcap, which can lead to further weight gain or cardiovascular troubles.
 Researchers are also finding links between stress and disease at the molecular level. At Ohio State University, for example, Dr. Ronald Glaser, a viral immunologist, and his wife, Dr. Janice Kiecolt-Glaser, a psychologist, are reaching across disciplines to understand how stress causes illness.
 Working with other researchers at Ohio State, they have studied the immune response of people who live with an enormous burden of stress: people who care for a spouse who is suffering from Alzheimer's disease, and who are, on average, 70 years old. The immune systems of the caregivers are clearly compromised, they found. 
 ''What we know about stress is that it's probably even worse than we thought,'' Dr. Kiecolt-Glaser said.
 Their most recent work focuses on cytokines, molecules produced by white blood cells, and in particular interleukin 6, which plays a beneficial role in cell communication. Like cortisol and adrenaline, interleukin 6 can damage the body in large and persistent doses, slowing the return to normal after stressful events. It has been linked to conditions that include arthritis, cardiovascular disease, delayed healing and cancer, Dr. Glaser said. 
 The immune systems of the highly stressed subjects, Dr. Glaser said, ''had the levels of Il-6 that we saw in the controls that were 90 years old,'' which suggests that their experiences ''seemed to be aging the immune system'' drastically. 
 These results might be especially important for older workers.
 ''If you're 50 years old and you hate your job, you're going to be stressed; that probably translates into immune changes,'' he said. 
 Stressful working conditions can have more indirect effects, worsening illnesses that are already present. 
 Libbi Lepow, who lives in Kensington, Calif., worked at a dot-com that epitomized the 24/7 lifestyle. Her days, she said, were dominated by ''action junkies,'' who she said lived on adrenaline. 
 ''There has to be a crisis, or these folks feel that they aren't doing anything,'' she said.
 Before long, Ms. Lepow said she was gaining weight and getting by on junk food and soda. 
 By March 2001, the combination of stress, lack of sleep and poor nutrition apparently contributed to a flare-up of multiple sclerosis, a condition that she had lived with at a low level for years. 
 The company, she said, was ''very kind to me,'' and allowed her to continue working from home, but work continued to affect her.
 ''I never took a nap without the two phones in the room,'' she said, and people called constantly. ''It was still exhausting,'' she said. She resigned in June 2002 and now lives on disability.

The Benefits of Slowing Down
 Recognizing workplace stress might be as simple as counting the broken pencils on a desk, but doing something about it is harder. 
 ''We cannot stop change,'' Dr. Westerlund said, although it may be possible to ''help the people cope with the environment.''
 The advice that most experts offer is deceptively simple: Dr. McEwen, for example, recommends getting enough sleep, avoiding cigarettes and alcohol, eating sensibly and exercising.
 Emotional support can also make a difference, Dr. Kiecolt-Glaser said.
 By ''overworking, not spending time with family and friends, you're limiting the things that are most likely to do you good,'' she said.
 Career consultants tell clients to examine the degree to which they themselves are the ones cracking the whip. 
 ''Consider the possibility that you are colluding in your own demise,'' said Rayona Sharpnack, founder of the Institute for Women's Leadership in Redwood City, Calif. ''Suffering,'' she said, ''is optional.''
 Ms. Lepow, whose work stress contributed to her disability, calls her illness ''a kind of gift,'' because without it, she said, ''I could have lived my whole life without stopping.'' 
 She recalled striding across her deck to her home office without ever taking in the view. 
 ''It took something like this disease to make me stop and slow down,'' she said.

Sick of Work
 First of three articles. Later articles will examine whether the booming stress-reduction industry is really helping workers cope and why some people thrive in high-stress work environments.
 The articles will be online at nytimes.com/health.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Sergey Shevchuk said working as a programmer for financial services companies led him to become depressed and ill.
Libbi Lepow said working at a dot-com caused stress and lack of sleep, apparently contributing to a flare-up of multiple sclerosis symptoms. (Photo by Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)
(Photo by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)Chart: ''Sickness When Business is Bad ...''A Finnish study found that workers in downsizing firms were more likely to have sick time and heart disease.COMPANIES UNDERGOING:SICK TIME (4 OR MORE DAYS)Number of absences beyond those in stable firms, per 100 workers.MINOR DOWNSIZING: 8MAJOR DOWNSIZING: 18HEART DISEASEIncrease in disease rates beyond those of stable firms.MINOR DOWNSIZING: 1.5 TIMES AS GREATMAJOR DOWNSIZING: 2 TIMES AS GREAT... And When It's GoodA study in Sweden found that workers in rapidly expanding firms also had increased health problems.COMPANIES UNDERGOING:LONG ABSENCES (90 OR MORE DAYS)MODERATE EXPANSION: DECREASE 3%MAJOR EXPANSION: 7% INCREASEHOSPITAL ADMISSIONSMODERATE EXPANSION: DECREASE 9%MAJOR EXPANSION: 9% INCREASE(Sources by Dr. Hugo Westerlund, National Institute for Psychosocial Medicine [Sweden]
 Jussi Vahtera, Finnish Institute of Occupational Health)(pg. 22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WORKPLACE STRESS (90%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TRENDS (78%); OUTSOURCING (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); HEART DISEASE (74%); US LABOR DAY (74%); SICK LEAVE (74%); HUMAN FACTORS ENGINEERING (73%); STROKES (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (71%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (66%); DIABETES (54%) Labor; Surveys and Series; Stress (Human); Research; Industrial and Occupational Hazards; Labor

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY & HEALTH (54%)

PERSON: John Schwartz

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); SWEDEN (92%); FINLAND (90%); JAPAN (79%); ENGLAND (78%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2004



118 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; SundayBusiness; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: The Next Shock: Not Oil, but Debt

BYLINE: By DANIEL GROSS

 BODY:
WITH oil prices hovering above $40 a barrel, experts have calmed frayed nerves by noting that today's services-driven American economy is much less addicted to the black stuff than yesterday's industrial economy. From 1973 to 2003, after all, the amount of oil and gas needed to create a dollar of gross domestic product fell by half. Structural changes in the economy have let the nation absorb the recent shock of rising crude. 
 That's the good news. The bad news is that other recent structural changes in the economy -- the federal government's shift from surpluses to huge deficits, the national predilection for consumption over saving and housing prices that climb faster than incomes -- have increased the country's reliance on another kind of fuel: credit. 
 As a result, the American economic ship, which has weathered the recent run-up in crude oil prices, may be more vulnerable to sudden surges in the price of money. If the rate on 30-year fixed mortgages were to rise from 5.4 percent today to 7.5 percent next February, homeowners could get walloped. 
 ''Rather go to bed supperless than rise in debt,'' Benjamin Franklin wrote in Poor Richard's Almanac. Well, in recent years, American consumers, businesses and governments have been hitting the sack with their stomachs bloated and their charge cards maxed out. From 1988 to 2000, the ratio of nonfinancial debt to gross domestic product held steady at about 1.8 to 1. But recently, consumer, business and government credit has bulged like the belly of a contestant at a hot-dog eating contest at Coney Island. 
 From the beginning of 2001 to the end of 2003, the economy added $1.317 trillion in gross domestic product and $4.2 trillion in debt. 
 That means that each new dollar of economic output was accompanied by $3.19 in new debt. So now, for the first time, the debt-to-G.D.P. ratio stands at more than two to one.
 Throw in financial credit -- the debt that investment banks and others use to finance trading activities and the like -- and total debt has more than doubled since 1994. The mere existence of huge debt needn't be a source of panic. You and I may view debt as an economic input -- we borrow so we can spend and invest, and hence, as politicians like to say, ''grow the economy.'' Academic economists view it more as a byproduct. Debt is created when people, governments and companies spend money, trade and produce. 
 VIEWED that way, the sharp rise in credit in recent years isn't surprising or even, in and of itself, alarming. ''When interest rates are low, you'd expect people to pile on more debt per G.D.P. because it's cheap,'' said J.Bradford DeLong, an economist at the University of California at Berkeley. 
 What's more, as anyone who has ever used a mortgage calculator knows, lower debt-service costs can make higher levels of debt seem eminently manageable. Here is a gigantic example: 
 In 1997, when the total national debt stood at $5.4 trillion, Washington paid $356 billion in interest. In 2003, when the national debt grew to $6.8 trillion, Uncle Sam's interest bill fell to $318 billion. The environment of ultralow interest rates engineered by Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, thus sharply muted the impact of Washington's fiscal recklessness. 
 But the economy's apparent reliance on credit to fuel everything from home buying to the military budget is troublesome. If incomes and revenues fail to rise, stressed consumers may have a tough time keeping up with payments. ''It's been much more a matter of households borrowing than businesses,'' said Benjamin M. Friedman, a Harvard economist. ''You have to hope that people are going to be able to service the obligations they've taken on.''
 An economy hooked on debt also is vulnerable to the seemingly inevitable rise in interest rates. And in a period when prudence would seem to dictate locking in rates, Americans have rushed to assume greater interest-rate risk. Borrowers -- especially homebuyers -- haven't reacted to recent increases by borrowing less. 
 In the first quarter of 2004, debt rose at an annual clip of 8.6 percent, more than double the growth rate of the economy. No, we've kept the interest bill down by swapping fixed-rate for adjustable-rate financing. The Mortgage Bankers Association reported that adjustable-rate mortgages constituted 35 percent of new mortgages in the second quarter this year, up from 27 percent in the fourth quarter of 2003. 
 Consumers, whose maxed-out credit cards generally bear floating interest rates, and the federal government, which skews its borrowing to short-term instruments, have essentially done the same thing. So if interest rates rise, we'll all have to spend more dollars on debt service, leaving fewer dollars for more productive uses -- like buying 90-inch flat-screen TV's. If money becomes more expensive, we may have to downshift our spending and consumption, like drivers trading in expensive Hummers for gas-sipping imports. And that may shrink the economy.
 HIGHER collective leverage, in turn, means that we're more susceptible to external shocks. ''The bigger the debt, the smaller the margin for error,'' said Austan D. Goolsbee, a University of Chicago economist. Companies with no debt can weather several lean quarters; companies with piles of debt often find that a single bad quarter spells disaster. 
 The same holds for consumers. All kinds of wild cards that are scary even in placid times -- another spike in gas prices, a rupture of the housing bubble, fresh job losses, a period of sustained inflation -- become nightmares during times of greater leverage. So as we go to bed with our suppers and our home-equity lines of credit, Professor Goolsbee says: ''I think we should be a little nervous.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Bulging Debt''Graph tracks the ratio of nonfinancial debt to gross domestic product since the 1940's.(Source by Federal Reserve Board)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); INTEREST RATES (87%); REAL ESTATE (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (74%); HOMEOWNERS (74%); CONSUMER LENDING (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (72%); MORTGAGE RATES (67%); MORTGAGE LOANS (67%); INVESTMENT BANKING (60%) United States Economy; Interest Rates; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Credit; Consumer Credit

PERSON: Daniel Gross

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2004



119 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; POLITICS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1113 words

HEADLINE: The Delegate as Commuter

BYLINE: By CARIN RUBENSTEIN

 BODY:
TEN Westchester Republicans, rewarded for their loyalty and hard work for the party, as well as for their telegenic diversity, attended the Republican National Convention last week, four as delegates and six as alternates.
 Six of the representatives from Westchester County were women, the most ever. In addition, three were Hispanic, one Asian-American and one African-American. In terms of percentages, the group was more diverse than the 2,509 delegates and 2,344 alternates nationwide, 44 percent of whom were women, and 6 percent of whom were Hispanic, 6 percent African-American and 2 percent Asian-American, according to Nicol Andrews, a spokeswoman for the Republican National Convention. 
 ''It's the most diverse delegation we've ever had,'' said RoseMarie Panio, 63, chairwoman of the Westchester County Republican Committee and an alternate at the convention from Yorktown. 
 ''It was done intentionally,'' she said, adding that she was looking for diversity on behalf of the state committee. Delegates are chosen at the local level by state Assembly districts. In Westchester, there are almost twice as many registered Democrats compared with Republicans: 208,761 Democrats versus 144,679 Republicans. In the 2000 election, the county voted 58 percent for Al Gore to just 37 percent for President Bush. More than half of the Westchester delegates were convention veterans. 
 Many of the chosen 10 said they were eager and excited about attending the convention and about meeting likeminded Republicans from around the country, attending speeches, meetings and briefings. They were also glad to see a show, go to parties and dinners, and even shop.
 ''I'm trying to spend money to stimulate the economy,'' said Linda Doherty, 42, a convention alternate from Tuckahoe, and the elected town clerk in Eastchester. ''Boston lost money on the convention, Athens lost money with the Olympics, so we all have an obligation to do some shopping to be good Americans.'' 
 Mrs. Doherty, a mother of two teenage boys, bought a pair of gray slacks for $21.62 at H&M on Fifth Avenue. She was dressed not in the red, white and blue button-laden garb of her colleagues, but in a lime green pants suit. ''No crazy hat, no buttons, that's just not my style,'' she said.
 Damp with perspiration from the humidity and the shopping, Mrs. Doherty had removed her official convention credentials after she left the security zone near Madison Square Garden. ''Because I'm an elected official, I don't like to be in people's faces,'' she said, ''since much of the work world is not political.'' Indeed, she was distressed that on the train home after her first day at the convention, commuters who saw her official Republican goodie bag wanted to debate her, ''I just wanted to go home,'' she said.
 Mrs. Doherty said that the New York convention felt very different than the 2000 Republican convention in San Diego, which she also attended. Then she was a tourist, but in New York, she's just a commuter. ''It's really a perk to stay in Manhattan when you are just a half-hour train ride away,'' she said. ''I can't justify it in my mind.''
 On Monday, Mrs. Doherty attended a meeting of the Log Cabin Republicans, a gay rights organization, ''as a heterosexual,'' she said, and was especially excited at the prospect of seeing Gov. George E. Pataki introduce President Bush on Thursday. Mrs. Panio echoed that sentiment, calling Mr. Pataki ''my governor.'' She feels proprietary about Mr. Pataki because she was among the local politicians who helped get him elected, she said. She was a member of a local group that she called the ''914's'' that worked in Mr. Pataki's first gubernatorial election. 
 ''I knew him when, I knew him then and I know him now,'' she said.
 PROTESTERS, she said, were a source of irritation.
 Coming out of the theater after seeing ''The Lion King'' last Sunday night, ''they followed us, and had loud conversations about Republicans and what terrible people we are,'' Mrs. Panio said. 
 ''They said I should not be in New York, I should get out of their city, as though we do not have any right to be here,'' she said, noting that she was born in New York and grew up in Yonkers.
 Franklin Chu, 48, an elected member of the Rye City Council, and a convention alternate, was also annoyed by the protesters.
 ''To say 'get out of our city,' I get offended by that,'' Mr. Chu said. He was born in Taiwan, but moved to Manhattan when he was 7 and has lived in or near New York City ever since.
 Mr. Chu, a money manager with his own business in Rye, said he was thrilled and honored to have an insider's look at a national convention, his first. He was also delighted by the way the credentials hanging around his neck parted waves of police officers as if he were Moses dismissing the Red Sea. Mr. Chu attended a meeting of the Asian Pacific Americans for Bush-Cheney 2004 at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel, at which nearly all of the Asian-American convention delegates were present, he said, and was glad to see how involved and powerful the group was at the national level.
 ''Doing something in public service is held in high regard in Chinese tradition,'' Mr. Chu said, and as an insider, ''you get a better perspective on how things work.''
 Mr. Chu, who stayed in Manhattan with friends during the convention, sent his wife and two youngest children to his vacation home in Quebec for the week. But Anita Delgado, 51, a delegate from White Plains, brought her husband along, although he had to work in their White Plains law office during the day. They stayed at the Sheraton Manhattan Hotel, for $170 a night, with a five-night minimum. 
 Ms. Delgado was selected as a delegate, in part, she said, because ''they want the Hispanic vote.'' Ms. Delgado is chairwoman of the Westchester Hispanic Republican Club and an immigration lawyer in White Plains. Highlights of the convention for her were hearing Barbara Bush speak, meeting delegates from Colorado and Massachusetts, and being in the thick of it when delegates booed Michael Moore, the Bush-bashing documentary film maker, who was reporting on the convention for USA Today.
 But Ms. Delgado couldn't figure out why security officers made her remove the cap from her bottled water that she bought outside Madison Square Garden. 
 Ms. Doherty hit a more expensive security glitch than topless water.
 Guards at Madison Square Garden went through her handbag, examined Ms. Doherty's makeup thoroughly, and confiscated an expensive bottle of foundation, because it was in a glass container, she said.
 There was an upside, however, to this odd loss.
 ''You have to feel it's a very safe environment, there's no anxiousness,'' she said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Franklin Chu, of Rye, and Priscilla Parameswaran, of Scarsdale, conferred at a meeting at the Waldorf Astoria, above. It was not all meetings for Linda Doherty, left, who went shopping on Fifth Avenue. (Photographs by Michael Nagle for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (93%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (92%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); WOMEN (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); TRAINS (60%) Presidential Election of 2004; Conventions, National (US)

PERSON: AL GORE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%) Carin Rubenstein; Franklin Chu; Linda Doherty; Anita Delgado

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%) Westchester County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2004



120 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: Casinohampton

 BODY:
Next on the docket in the court of ironic justice: Shinnecock Indian Nation v. Hamptons. 
 The Shinnecocks, among the poorer inhabitants of the South Fork, have tied their rich neighbors in knots with a campaign to build a casino in Hampton Bays. Where tribal leaders see a chance for self-sufficiency, their critics see pawn shops on Sunrise Highway, sewage slicks in the Great Peconic Bay and a string of gamblers' brake lights blinking as far as the eye can see. 
 Whoever is right, nothing much will happen soon. The Shinnecocks must clear major hurdles before ordering the bingo cards and skimpy cocktail outfits. The first is federal status; although the Shinnecocks have been recognized by New York State for 200 years, they cannot exercise a sovereign right to build a casino until the federal government recognizes them, too. Then there is the inevitable litigation -- when the tribe tried last year to clear land for the casino on a 79-acre site it owns, the state sued to stop it temporarily. With construction delayed and the court case continuing, a rhetorical battle has raged on Web sites, in the press and in community meetings. The anger and suspicion between the tribe and local officials, particularly in the Town of Southampton, are enough to guarantee that any Foxwoods-style gambling mecca would have to rise from the ashes of an epic legal struggle. 
 A Hamptons casino would be a cash pipeline, of course. The Shinnecocks say they would use the money to secure their futures and to make generous contributions to the surrounding community's well-being and infrastructure. They have already offered to bail out a debt-plagued local institution, Southampton College, with casino riches. 
 Tempting as those promises may be, gambling is a bad idea in the Hamptons, as it is most anywhere. It is no less corrosive to the community fabric when a tribe cashes in than when a state does. But it does no good to demonize the Shinnecocks, who -- so far, anyway -- have worked within the system to pursue a legitimate goal of self-sufficiency. They were responsible stewards of their lands long before white people came, and have remained so even after town-approved subdivisions began cropping up all around their 800-acre reservation. 
 If the next steps in this struggle were left only to the Bureau of Indian Affairs, they would be a long time in coming. The chronically understaffed agency only recently accepted the Shinnecocks' complete application for federal recognition, which has been brewing in some form or other since 1978. Agency officials say it is ready for review, which means that a decision might come sometime in the next decade.
 Unfortunately, a federal district judge, Thomas Platt, does not want the Indians to wait that long, and he has threatened to decide the Shinnecocks' status himself. This proposed end run around the administrative process is a doubly bad idea. Not only would it add fuel to the legal battle in the Hamptons, it would also very likely provoke a flood of status claims in the courts from other casino-coveting would-be tribes.
 It's understandable that the Shinnecocks are tired of waiting. But because of the hostility and distrust surrounding their plans, a slow approach is needed now. Those most likely to be harmed by a Shinnecock casino need time to find a way to talk the tribe out of it, by offering some other, less-noxious means of economic development. Some have suggested the sale of lucrative development rights on a portion of the tribe's reservation. Others have floated other ideas for the casino site, like a conference or retreat center, or a museum. 
 The Shinnecocks themselves say they have discussed all manner of money-making ventures, including a cellphone tower, waste management plant, windmills and a paint factory, but none have materialized. An oyster hatchery failed. The tribe should keep brainstorming, and local officials should help. That will be difficult -- tribal leaders seem to have burned bridges with every politician in the area. But there are potential intermediaries, like the Group for the South Fork, a respected environmental nonprofit that once fought alongside the tribe in resisting encroaching development, but has since parted ways with it over the casino. The group could be an honest broker of a face-saving way out of this casino dead end. Extracting sustainable wealth from the Shinnecocks' prime real estate should not be impossible. These are the Hamptons, after all, not the Mississippi Delta or Pine Ridge. 
 The unpredictable Judge Platt holds one key to a sensible outcome of this high-stakes confrontation. By deferring to the Bureau of Indian Affairs, slowing the rush to bulldoze and build, he could forestall a devastating court battle and the permanent loss of good will between the parties. The Shinnecocks may yet be convinced that a casino is bad for everybody in the Hamptons -- themselves included. It's time for their critics to make the case vigorously and respectfully, and for the Shinnecock leadership to listen. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (91%); GAMING (90%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); NATIVE AMERICANS (78%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (76%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (73%); JUDGES (73%); LITIGATION (73%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Gambling; Casinos; Indians, American; Shinnecock Tribe; Editorials

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Hampton Bays (NY)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2004



121 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 158 words

HEADLINE: Can a Label Sum Up a Heritage?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 As people of color, we find it very disappointing that people in the 21st century are still concerned with ethnic labels. All blacks share the same legacy of slavery, prejudice and discrimination, whether they came from Africa, South America, the West Indies or the United States. 
 Instead of using geography to divide us, we should use our shared legacy as a foundation to create a unified community whose aim is to elevate blacks into higher social, economic and political realms.
 It is unimportant how Barack Obama and Alan Keyes, the two candidates for an Illinois Senate seat, identify themselves. What is important is that they identify and present solutions to the issues that affect all people of color in our country.
 If they do that, they will establish a connection to the constituency of the America that they and all our ancestors helped to build and continue to create.

Milton Tucker
Erica Woods Tucker
New York, Aug. 29, 2004


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); DISCRIMINATION (73%) Blacks; Blacks

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%) Milton Tucker; Erica Woods Tucker; Milton Tucker; Erica Woods Tucker

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH AMERICA (91%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (87%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2004



122 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 2361 words

HEADLINE: Emerging From The Mist

BYLINE: By HERBERT BUCHSBAUM. 
HERBERT BUCHSBAUM is a writer and photographer based in Mexico City.

 BODY:
THE taxi driver crosses himself as we enter the winding two-lane highway and start to rise out of San Cristobal de las Casas into the clouds. We look out the windows in silence, the first pangs of post-vacation blues creeping in.
 It's one of those mythical, mystical San Cristobal afternoons -- the sun is bright enough to make you squint, but earthbound clouds reduce visibility to 20 feet. Roadside tableaus pop up out of nowhere and disappear just as quickly: A Tzotzil Indian girl watches a flock of black sheep nibble the roadside vegetation, a pair of bare baby feet poking out of the green-and-indigo rebozo slung across her back. A band appears, two marimbas and a gleaming red electric guitar, atop a flatbed trailer in a strip mall parking lot, while a row of Indian men in pink-and-blue floral tunics sit on the curb listening. 
 And now something else: a white-haired man with a bundle of blue orchids on his back, their green stems, a yard long, tied together with rope. Then he, too, disappears into the mist. 
 We speed away, but the images linger, leaving me with the essence of this place: its otherworldly beauty and enduring poverty, its ancient indigenous ways and modern anachronisms, its brilliant color and diffuse light.
 Today, San Cristobal, a city of about 100,000 in Mexico's southern highlands, is rising from a different sort of mist. Although the remote colonial capital has always drawn a certain kind of traveler -- mainly Pan-American backpackers and the anthropologically inclined -- a more conventional tourist trade was emerging when, on Jan. 1, 1994, the city made international news. A thousand or so Indians armed with machetes, farm implements and battered carbines, their faces hidden in black ski masks, marched down from the surrounding hills and took the city, launching an audacious uprising for Indian rights and the world's first major strike against economic globalization. Mexican troops drove the rebels out 10 days later, leaving an estimated 150 rebels and soldiers dead. 
 The city's new image as a combat zone drove a stake through the heart of regional tourism. Foreign governments, including the United States, warned their citizens to stay away. When my wife and I first visited in 1995, the city was devoid of all but the hardiest travelers.
 A decade later, tourism has rebounded to record levels. According to the latest official tally, the number of tourists visiting San Cristobal increased 37 percent between 2001 and 2003. When we returned in May, we found the historic center buzzing with a lively cafe scene, a thriving pedestrian shopping and dining strip and a number of elegant hotels in colonial mansions. The Zapatista rebels had become less an armed menace than a radical-chic tourist attraction, but prices remained near conflict-era lows. 
 The city still attracts its share of backpackers, bohemians and revolutionary wannabes, but increasing numbers of older, affluent travelers also come to take in the city's colonial architecture, rugged mountain setting and traditional Maya culture.
 Tourism officials expect these trends to continue, if not accelerate. A new highway to the regional airport at Tuxtla Guttierez, scheduled to open in December, will cut travel time to the city by half, to less than an hour. A large mall and chain motels are rising on the outskirts. And a Domino's pizza (although discreetly signed) now fronts the 16th century zocalo, so far the only American franchise visible in the city center.
 While San Cristobal will soon make a larger mark for itself on the tourist map, the town is in no danger of losing the feel of a Spanish colonial outpost deep in the heart of Indian territory. Although the city is officially 35 percent indigenous, that figure is misleadingly low. The surrounding mountains are dotted with dozens of Indian villages for which San Cristobal is the main trading center. So across the graceful colonial squares and arcades, under the cast-iron balconies and ocher-and-rust-colored churches, passes a constant pageant of women in intricately woven scarlet and indigo shawls, men in ribboned sombreros and floral tunics and girls in blue satin blouses and long black braids tied together in back with colored yarn.
 Each costume signifies the wearer's village, and it is in the villages that Maya life continues on its own terms, on its own turf. On our first visit, we took a day trip to two Tzotzil Maya villages, Zinacantan and San Juan Chamula. In Zinacantan, we watched women weaving on backstrap looms, the centuries-old technique that produces the region's rich textiles, with symbolic patterns drawn from Maya cosmology.
 But it was the church of San Juan Chamula that cracked a mind-boggling window into the spiritual side of this extraordinary culture. Ostensibly Catholic (although no ordained priest has been allowed to say Mass there since 1968), the dark, candlelit church is far closer to its animistic pagan roots than to anything ever conjured by Rome. Copal burned in pumice censers and knots of worshipers sat on a pine-needle-covered floor surrounded by sacramental objects -- eggs, pox (a homemade cane and pineapple liquor pronounced posh), a gutted sacrificial chicken or two and bottles of Coca-Cola. Curanderos, traditional healers, rub the eggs and chickens on the infirm to draw out illness. Coke produces burps, which are believed to expel evil spirits. 
 This year, with only a long weekend at our disposal, we had no time for out-of-town excursions. Having previously gotten a taste of the villages (which, we were assured by guides and other travelers, haven't changed since) and museums (Na Balom, in particular, has a small but amazing collection of historical photographs and artifacts of Maya life), we sought nothing more culturally edifying than a relaxing getaway. We wanted only to take leisurely strolls along narrow flagstone streets, sip cappuccino in outdoor cafes and eat in good restaurants, and do all that in a town that still feels more like real Mexico than suburban Santa Fe.
 We checked into the Posada el Paraiso, a small hotel operated by a Swiss-Mexican couple in a restored colonial town house on a quiet street in the city center. Our room, with exposed wooden beams and washed sienna walls, was simple and tasteful. The bathroom of rough gray stone and Talavera tile reflected a seamless melding of modern European and traditional Mexican styles. 
 We immediately headed for the two central plazas, half a block from our hotel. San Cristobal is a great walking city. Its gentle hills, compact center, grid layout and cool climate make getting around on foot an easy pleasure, rewarding the visitor with startling new mountain vistas around each corner. We began at the center, the leafy Plaza 31 de Marzo, the town's zocalo, or central square.
 A two-story Art Nouveau gazebo, which houses a pleasant cafe, anchors the plaza, its 19th-century ironwork painted Crayola green to match the surrounding cast-iron benches and trident-shaped street lamps. Its yellow and white masonry picks up the birthday cake colors of the 1885 Palacio Municipal to the west, which served briefly as the Chiapas state capitol until Mexico City authorities yanked the designation to punish the San Cristobal elite for their royalist ways. To the north lies the city's impressive ocher-and-red cathedral, begun in the 16th century.
 If our wandering had any objective, it was to make it eventually to the two Indian markets on the north side of town. We walked north on 20 de Noviembre, which, since our last visit, had been converted into a pedestrian mall lined with restaurants, cafes and shops, until we reached the 16th-century Templo de Santo Domingo, whose Baroque facade glows pink in the late-afternoon sun. 
 Surrounding the church and an adjoining former monastery is an informal market where Indian artisans from nearby villages sell their wares directly to tourists. The steps and plazas are piled high with woven belts, blankets and tablecloths, embroidered peasant blouses, leather belts and briefcases, and handmade jewelry. The quality ranges from cheap to masterful, and prices, after the requisite bargaining, from cheap to reasonable.
 On our first trip, we bought a finely embroidered tablecloth and a few little effigies of the popular Zapatista leader Subcomandante Marcos, wearing his trademark ski mask and brandishing a crudely carved wooden rifle. This time we couldn't resist some colorful stuffed toy serpents, scrunchies made of Guatemalan-style fabric for my teenage daughter and a few embroidered pillowcases.
 Around the corner from the monastery's main entrance and easy to miss, lies a small gallery called Sna Jolobil (Weavers' House in Tzotzil), an indigenous weavers' cooperative where both prices and quality are significantly higher, worth a look even if you're not buying.
 Two blocks north and east, the Mercado Central functions as the city farmers' market, where Indians come from their villages to sell their produce. Tourists rarely venture in, hotel dwellers having no practical reason to food shop, but they're missing one of the best shows in town.
 Even among the poorest farmers here, presentation is paramount. Figs, plums, guayabas, limes and tejocotes are arranged in perfect pyramids in plastic buckets. Mounds of mangoes and piles of green beans fill wide straw baskets. Chilies, dried and fresh, crown conical brown ceramic bowls. Buckets of long-stemmed calla lilies, birds of paradise and roses line the shelves of flower stalls. The chickens are live, their feet tied together with plastic twine so a shopper can simply slip her arm between the legs and carry the occasionally flapping bird upside-down next to her shopping bag.
 We spent nothing there except time, and enjoyed every minute.
 Our only disappointment was on the culinary front. The first night, we tried a highly recommended French-Mexican restaurant, which was disastrous. Our second night, risking fusion cuisine again, we dined at our hotel's Swiss-Mexican restaurant, L'Eden, out of sheer convenience, and were pleasantly surprised. The ingredients were fresh and the binational combinations innovative. The tomato-basil sopa Azteca, for instance, was a delicious spin off the classic Mexican soup, with submerged avocado slices and crisp tortilla chips, served au gratin. After dinner we strolled around the zocalo, not once feeling uncomfortable or concerned for our well-being. 
 The only time we did fear for our safety was on the drive in from Tuxtla. The shuttles to San Cristobal are often piloted by young drivers who, despite the plastic Virgins dangling from the rearview mirror, or perhaps because of them, display little concern for their own mortality, much less their passengers'. As we careered along mountain roads, tires screeching to keep their grip on hairpin turns, our driver treated us to a particularly profane American rap tune, played at high volume and on repeat. As the speakers blared obscenities and the van sailed nonchalantly across the solid yellow line, I glanced at our fellow passengers, all Indians, staring ahead impassively. How do they do that, I wondered.
 We whipped around another curve, our bumper nearly scraping a stubby guardrail, beyond which the land dropped away some 1,500 feet. I considered the possibility that I might die flying into oblivion, accompanied by the jackhammer soundtrack of a potty-mouthed rapper.
 The new highway, when completed, will smooth out some of the curves and, if not eliminate the risks or the rap, at least halve your exposure to them. Until then, however, we improved our odds at shuttle roulette by choosing a private taxi with an older driver for the return trip. As we left the city, he crossed himself and we soared into the clouds.

Up in Chiapas
 Traveling to San Cristobal from the United States usually means flying to Mexico City, catching a Mexicana flight, (800) 531-7921, www.mexicana.com, to Tuxtla-Guttierez, the state capital, then taking a taxi ($47, at 11.5 pesos to the dollar) or collectivo (shared taxi, $16 a person). San Cristobal is considered safe. Hiking between Indian villages should not be tried alone or at night; some tourists have been robbed.

Where to Stay
 These hotels, in restored colonial buildings and centrally located, have private baths. Prices include tax.
 Posada el Paraiso, 5 de Febrero 19, (52-967) 678-0085, or visit www.hotelposadaparaiso.com, has 14 rooms that open onto a quiet street or courtyard and have phones but no TV. Doubles are $40.
 Hotel Flamboyant, 1 de Marzo 15, (52-967) 678-0045, from elsewhere in Mexico (01-800) 280-0500, has 82 rooms with cable TV and Talavera tile bathrooms. Doubles, $75.
 Casa Mexicana, 28 de Agosto 1, (52-967) 678-0698, or visit www.hotelcasamexicana.com, has a lush courtyard, folk-art decor, spa and an elegant restaurant. Doubles, $73.

Where to Eat and Drink
 Restaurant L'Eden, 5 de Febrero 19 (Posada el Paraiso hotel), (52-967) 678-0085, serves good Swiss-Mexican cuisine and generous steaks. Dinner for two $35, including its noted margaritas.
 Madre Tierra, Insurgentes 19, is a vegetarian restaurant with courtyard seating. Wonderful breakfasts, $7 for two, include excellent coffee, fresh tropical fruit and whole wheat pancakes with yogurt and honey. Also serves lunch and dinner, live music at night. 
 La Casa del Pan, Dr. Navarro 10, (52-967) 678-5895, also offers artfully prepared breakfasts, $11 for two, that include homemade breads, locally grown organic coffee and huevos a la Mexicana. Lunch and dinner, live music at night.

Maya Village Visits
 Several organizations offer four- to five-hour English-language tours by minivan to the Maya villages of San Juan Chamula and Zinacantan. Na Balom, the museum and guest house, Guerrero 33, (52-967) 678-1418, has tours leaving at 10 a.m. daily ($14). An independent guide, Mercedes Hernandez Gomez, leaves from the gazebo in Plaza 31 de Marzo daily at 9 a.m.; look for her multicolored golf umbrella ($10). Alex Aranda and Raul Garcia, (52-967) 678-3741, leave from the huge cross in front of the cathedral at 9:30 a.m. daily ($11). No reservations required. HERBERT BUCHSBAUM


GRAPHIC: Photos: Outside the cathedral in San Cristobal de las Casas. The market. Sweets for sale. Candles for a religious ceremony. Templo de Santo Domingo. (Photographs by Marcela Taboada for The New York Times)(pg. 7)
 Taking a break in San Cristobal de las Casas. (Photo by Marcela Taboada for The New York Times)(pg. 11)Map of Mexico highlighting San Cristobal de las Casas. (pg. 7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOURISM (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (87%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (86%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (77%); MAMMALS (75%); HOTELS & MOTELS (72%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (72%); PERCUSSION INSTRUMENTS (72%); GLOBALIZATION (68%); RETAILERS (68%); ARCHAEOLOGY (65%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (53%) Travel and Vacations; Archaeology and Anthropology; Mayans

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (66%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (66%)

PERSON: Herbert Buchsbaum

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (92%) Mexico; San Cristobal De Las Casas (Mex)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2004



123 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; NEWS AND ANALYSIS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1551 words

HEADLINE: Does RAND Walk the Talk on Labor Policy?

BYLINE: By KAREN DONOVAN

 BODY:
SINCE the late 1980's, the RAND Corporation has done a fair amount of thinking for the Labor Department on topics like employee health benefits, pensions and sex discrimination, and whether giving patients the right to sue their managed-care plans for denying coverage would result in ''a flood of litigation.'' (It concluded that the results would be less than a deluge.)
 This year, RAND also published ''The 21st Century at Work,'' a sweeping study of how population changes, technology and globalization will affect the work force. Among its conclusions was that the loss of lifetime jobs and the shift toward self-employment ''call attention to the need for benefits that are portable across jobs.''
 But these weighty analyses have not been RAND's only contacts with the Labor Department, or with controversies over employee relations. RAND now faces a sex-discrimination class action filed by a group of women on its research staff, and three years ago it paid almost $200,000 to settle a government claim that it was violating the federal law that governs health and pension benefits. 
 In 1998, RAND settled Labor Department claims that its affirmative action plan, which federal contractors are required to maintain, was inadequate. The department found 12 violations that RAND agreed to fix -- without admitting or denying liability -- including the failure to keep the data needed to analyze the number and positions of the women or members of minorities it had hired. RAND agreed to compile the data and do the required analysis.
 Despite these problems with federal labor laws, RAND continues to get the bulk of its contracts from Washington -- more than $100 million last year.
 That may sound surprising. But RAND is not unique among government contractors in continuing to do business with the government after being found in violation of labor law.
 RAND, like all federal contractors, is subject to an executive order, dating to the Johnson administration, requiring it to create and put into effect an affirmative-action plan. The Labor Department, however, monitors just 8 percent of the companies it hires, according to the Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, the arm of the Labor Department that conducts these investigations, mostly by asking contractors to mail in a copy of their plans.
 The ultimate punishment, debarment from working for federal agencies, has never been invoked against a major contractor.
 Boeing, one of the largest federal contractors, was the subject of a Labor Department investigation in 1998 over whether it was meeting its affirmative-action obligations. The issue arose in an on-site audit, and was settled in 1999 when Boeing offered $4.5 million in back pay and future pay adjustments to female and minority workers.
 But Boeing refused to turn over internal studies showing that it had been aware of pay disparities between men and women since at least 1994, saying the studies were subject to attorney-client privilege. It was later forced to turn over those studies in a class-action lawsuit, which it settled in July by agreeing to pay the class members -- as many as 29,000 current and former employees -- up to $72.5 million.
 To some people, the pay studies suggested that the problems at Boeing might have been deeper than the Labor Department realized when it settled with the company. But the lawyer for the Boeing plaintiffs, Joseph Sellers, said the Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs had never contacted him to review the information. 
 ''I think it underscores the importance of private enforcement,'' Mr. Sellers said, referring to the pursuit of a class-action suit.
 RAND traces its origins to 1945, when the Pentagon -- then the headquarters of the War Department -- concluded from its experience in World War II that independent research was vital. Project RAND, which stands for ''research and development,'' was set up under an Air Force contract with the Douglas Aircraft Company.
 It now splits its research between military and domestic policy topics, but for most of its history, RAND was devoted to military and national security issues. Several plaintiffs in the lawsuit said men were favored on what they called the ''military side of the house.''
 The suit, covering a period from 1995 to 1998, contends that job assignments, pay decisions, training and mentoring at RAND were all ''highly subjective'' and discriminated against women. Problems in mentoring were especially important, the plaintiffs say, because mentoring was crucial to getting high-profile research projects and moving up the corporate ladder.
 When Jeanne Jarvaise, one of the lead plaintiffs in the sex-discrimination suit, complained to her boss, Dr. David S.C. Chu, the director of research at RAND's office in Washington, about her difficulties in finding a mentor, she said, he told her that ''finding a mentor is like having a romance: it just happens.'' At a deposition in February 1998, Dr. Chu, now an under secretary of defense in the Bush administration, testified that he could not recollect saying anything to that effect.
 Ms. Jarvaise also complained to Dr. Chu that a male colleague undermined her by shutting her out of meetings with a client at the Defense Department when discussing their work on a project she had initiated. In the deposition, Dr. Chu testified that he did not think Ms. Jarvaise's concern was valid ''because association with individuals of your choice is still a right in this country.''
 RAND's defense counsel, Karen Kubin, said she believed that the only relevant issue in the case was whether the women in the class received unequal pay for equal work, and that lack of mentoring and getting shut out of meetings were ''irrelevant.'' 
 But Michael Lieder, the plaintiffs' lawyer, said these factors were ''all likely to have an impact on pay.''
 The case may come down to statistical evidence, filed with the court, on pay differences between men and women -- numbers that RAND, like most companies in its position, would prefer to keep away from the public. In July, Morgan Stanley paid $54 million to settle sex-discrimination claims on the eve of a trial, avoiding the prospect of evidence on pay becoming public. Boeing was forced to disclose internal pay studies to the plaintiffs suing it, but still insisted that the numbers not be made public.
 ''These companies are very eager to keep whatever shortcomings they have confidential,'' said Mr. Sellers, who represents the Boeing women. ''It's one thing to have this stuff subject to discovery; it's another thing to make them public.''
 Ms. Kubin, RAND's lawyer, has been aggressive in protecting pay statistics. At a hearing in January, she accused the plaintiffs' lawyers of violating a judge's order on confidentiality when they sent out a letter to the class members -- their own clients -- that referred to the company's numbers. 
 In 2002, Judge Richard W. Roberts of the Federal District Court in Washington agreed to approve a class action for 373 women who worked at RAND from 1995 to 1998, saying that the plaintiffs had used statistical evidence to establish a ''systemwide practice'' of paying women less than men.
 In a 1998 brief -- filed under seal, but obtained before plaintiffs' lawyers removed it from a Web site about the case -- the plaintiffs called women researchers ''shockingly underpaid'' in the 1990's. Their statistician, after examining RAND pay scales from 1992 to 1997, found that women researchers were paid, on average, $22,488 less than male counterparts in 1992. The gap narrowed to $21,408 by 1997 -- but men were still paid 33 percent more, on average.
 The statistician concluded that the pay disparities had been systemic even when considering factors like education and seniority. As of 1997, he said, the difference in annual pay attributed solely to being a woman was $5,907. 
 BUT RAND asserts that pay differences between men and women can be explained by differences in work experience. Ms. Kubin said that overlooking experience is ''the oldest mistake in the book.'' Since Judge Roberts approved the class action, the plaintiffs have hired a labor economist who they say will be better able to deal with the issue of what sorts of experience employees had.
 Federal contractors are not required to tell the government when they are sued on allegations of discrimination, and RAND has not formally notified Washington. ''It's a civil lawsuit,'' Ms. Kubin said, ''and they are unproven allegations.'' (Allison Elder, a RAND staffing manager, was similarly dismissive of the company's 1998 run-in with the Labor Department over affirmative action. She called that case a ''routine audit'' that found only ''technical record-keeping and reporting deficiencies.'' She added that the government did not find fault with RAND's treatment of its employees.)
 Although Labor Department investigators asserted labor law violations against the company and settled the claims in 2001, the department continues to contract with RAND. A department spokesman -- the Labor Department does not allow its spokesmen and spokeswomen to be identified by name -- said that breaking the rules did not necessarily disqualify a contractor.
 ''If someone gets a speeding ticket,'' he said, ''it doesn't mean they can't ever drive again.''


CORRECTION-DATE: October 10, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sept. 5 about the RAND Corporation's labor policies referred imprecisely to a judicial finding in a sex discrimination lawsuit against the company. Judge Richard W. Roberts of the Federal District Court in Washington ruled in 2002 that the plaintiffs' statistical evidence had satisfied one prerequisite for the class action to proceed; he did not rule on the substance of their complaint, which, as the article said, is still waiting to be adjudicated. This correction was delayed for discussions with RAND about several aspects of the article.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jeanne Jarvaise, left, with her lawyer, Cynthia Totten, said she had encountered problems finding a mentor at RAND. (Photo by Lauren Victoria Burke for The New York Times)Chart: ''Gender Gap''The average salary of researchers at the RAND Corporation in 1997, according to a plaintiffs' statistical analysis.MEN: $86,688WOMEN: $65,280DIFFERENCE: $21,408(Source by plaintiffs' brief)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (89%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (89%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (89%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (89%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (89%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (78%); WAGE DISCRIMINATION (77%); EQUAL PAY (77%); LITIGATION (77%); CLASS ACTIONS (76%); LAYOFFS (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); BACK PAY (73%); DENIAL OF INSURANCE COVERAGE (72%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (66%) Research; Discrimination; Women; Men

COMPANY: RAND CORP (91%); BOEING CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Rand Corp; Labor Department (US)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (51%); BAB (BRU) (51%); BA (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (91%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (51%)

PERSON: Karen Donovan

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2004



124 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 2; Travel Desk; TRAVEL ADVISORY: CORRESPONDENT'S REPORT; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 788 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Low-Fare Airlines Branch Out Abroad

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD

 BODY:
NOT long ago, traveling to winter vacation spots like the Bahamas and Mexico meant paying top prices on major airlines. Now, low-fare airlines are jumping in with new international service, hoping to steal customers from more established rivals just as they have in the United States.
 JetBlue Airways and Song, the low-fare wing of Delta Air Lines, plan to start flights to the Bahamas this fall. Another low-fare carrier, Ted, has gained official approval to fly to Mexico, and will begin service in December. 
 JetBlue, Song and Ted join other low-fare players such as Frontier Airlines, America West, Spirit Airlines and ATA Airlines, which already fly outside the United States. And many of these airlines are looking at expanding service beyond Caribbean and Central America -- to Canada and even to Europe.
 The reasons behind the low-fare airlines' rush outside the United States is twofold. First, the carriers want routes to destinations popular with Americans.
 Second, they sense a demand in other countries for cheaper flights to the United States, particularly in Puerto Rico and the Dominican Republic where families often travel back and forth. 
 Among the likely results will be lower fares and expanded choices for travelers. ''The deals are going to get very good for consumers,'' said Robert W. Mann Jr., an airline industry consultant based in Port Washington, N.Y.
 JetBlue, which has been flying to Puerto Rico since 2002, has been rapidly expanding its international flights this year. In June, it began serving Santiago and Santo Domingo in the Dominican Republic.
 Starting Nov. 1, it plans to offer one flight a day from Kennedy Airport in New York to Nassau in the Bahamas. ''It's a place where people want to go,'' said David F. Ulmer, JetBlue's vice president for planning. ''At our prices, we hope there will be a lot of repeat visiting.''
 JetBlue has announced introductory fares of $99 to $249 each way, depending on flight times and departure day. And if there is enough demand, JetBlue will consider adding flights to Nassau from Boston and Washington, too, Mr. Ulmer said. A check of random dates in September and October on www.itasoftware.com and American Airlines' Web site yielded round-trip fares of about $320 to $390 for major carriers. 
 Song is already taking reservations for direct daily service between New York and Nassau, which begins Dec. 1. Song's service is in addition to the Delta flights, but those require a change of planes.
 On its Web site, Song is offering round-trip fares, purchased in advance, from New York to Nassau for $336. A similar flight on Delta listed at $815 round trip, with a connection through Atlanta.
 Competition is heating up among low-fare carriers for flights to Mexico. On Aug. 30, the federal government granted permission for Ted, a subsidiary of United, to operate flights from Denver to Mexico, a route already flown by Frontier.
 Ted plans to fly from Denver to Puerto Vallarta and Cancun, seasonally from December through April, beginning Dec. 16. Ted's Web site lists a round trip fare of $632 for the route. United has also been granted approval to start Ted service between San Francisco and Puerto Vallarta, beginning Dec. 16. 
 It would compete with another low-fare carrier, ATA, which already flies from Denver to Mexico and also serves Cancun from San Francisco.
 JetBlue is eager to fly to Cancun, too, said Mr. Ulmer. It is also looking to expand its routes to Canada from New York. 
 That expansion most likely will wait until JetBlue takes delivery on the first of 100 business jets from the Brazilian aircraft maker Embraer, due next year. The Embraer planes will seat 100 passengers, twice as many as conventional regional jets, and have a range of 2,000 miles. JetBlue has options on 100 jets beyond those, and a long list of cities clamoring for the airline to start service.
 That list does not include overseas destinations. But ATA plans to serve Europe starting in mid-2005. The airline hasn't said what its destinations will be, but the flights will have both economy and business-class sections, which it offers in the United States.
 ATA is experienced flying overseas as a charter carrier. But it has also run into financial difficulties. In mid-August, it warned that it could encounter a cash crisis early next year, due to rising fuel costs and other expenses, and analysts think those problems could delay its overseas expansion efforts.
 On Aug. 23, US Airways announced that it would turn Fort Lauderdale into a mini-hub in February for its service to the Caribbean and Latin America. The move, which depends on concessions by its unions, is in response to the invasion of low-fare airlines on those lucrative vacation routes.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Museo Alcazar de Colon in Santo Domingo, now a JetBlue destination. ABOVE RIGHT Ted, part of United, plans to fly to Mexico. (Photo by Neal Ulevich/Bloomberg News)
 (Photo by Alfredo Maiquez/Lonely Planet Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (99%); AIR FARES (92%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); AIR SERVICE (89%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); APPROVALS (76%); BUSINESS EXPANSION (74%); WEB SITES (60%) Airlines and Airplanes

COMPANY: JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (94%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (92%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); SPIRIT AIRLINES INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Jetblue Airways ; Song (Airline); Ted (Airline)

TICKER: JBLU (NASDAQ) (94%); DAL (NYSE) (92%); SAVE (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (94%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (94%)

PERSON: Micheline Maynard

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); MEXICO (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (92%); CANADA (92%); PUERTO RICO (92%); BAHAMAS (92%); LATIN AMERICA (73%); CENTRAL AMERICA (58%) Bahama Islands; Mexico; Caribbean Area; Latin America; Canada; Europe

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2004



125 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: Amnesia In the Garden

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD. 
E-mail: liberties@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The Manichaean Candidate sees the world only in terms of good and evil, black and white. 
 He scorns gray, nuance, complexity, context, changing circumstances and inconvenient facts. Real men make their own reality. 
 Trying to match John Kerry, who roused the base at his convention with a line bashing the House of Bush-House of Saud coziness, George W. Bush roused the base at his convention with a liberal-media-elite-bashing line. 
 Painting himself as the noble agent for ''the transformational power of liberty'' abroad, he said ''there have always been doubters'' when America uses its ''strength'' to ''advance freedom'': ''In 1946, 18 months after the fall of Berlin to Allied forces, a journalist in The New York Times wrote this: 'Germany is a land in an acute stage of economic, political and moral crisis. European capitals are frightened. In every military headquarters, one meets alarmed officials doing their utmost to deal with the consequences of the occupation policy that they admit has failed.' End quote. Maybe that same person's still around, writing editorials.''
 She isn't. Anne O'Hare McCormick, who died in 1954, was The Times's pioneering foreign affairs correspondent who covered the real Axis of Evil, interviewing Hitler, Stalin, Mussolini and Patton. She was hardly a left-wing radical or defeatist. In 1937, she became the first woman to win a Pulitzer Prize in journalism, and she was the first woman to be a member of The Times's editorial board.
 The president distorted the columnist's dispatch. The ''moral crisis'' and failure she described were in the British and French sectors. She reported that the Americans were doing better because of their policy to ''encourage initiative and develop self-government.'' She wanted the U.S. to commit more troops and stay the course -- not cut and run. 
 Mr. Bush Swift-boated her.
 The Manichaean Candidate's convention was a brazen bizarro masterpiece. The case to sack John Kerry featured the same shady tactics used to build the case to whack Saddam -- cherry-picked facts, selective claims and warped contexts. 
 W. took a page from Arnold Schwarzenegger's ''Total Recall,'' a futuristic movie about inserting fully formed memories into the minds of unsuspecting victims.
 The president and vice president ignored all the expert evidence now compiled indicating no link between 9/11 and Saddam, and no Saddam threat to U.S. security. After talking about ''the fanatics who killed some 3,000 of our fellow Americans,'' Dick Cheney boasted: ''In Iraq, we dealt with a gathering threat, and removed the regime of Saddam Hussein.''
 Though the convention mythologized Mr. Bush's bullhorn moment at ground zero, there was no mention of Osama, the fiend W. vowed to catch that day. The speakers did not acknowledge the brutal spiral in Afghanistan and Iraq, or the re-emergence of the Taliban, now finding sanctuary with our ally, Pakistan. 
 Mr. Cheney, king of hooey, bragged about a ''Taliban driven from power,'' even though just as the convention got under way, at least seven people, including two Americans, were killed by Taliban fighters in Kabul.
 W. stormed ahead with the discredited domino theory of democracy promoted by the neocons and Ahmad Chalabi -- ignoring the widening F.B.I. probe into alleged leaks from neocon central at the Pentagon to Mr. Chalabi, an accused Iranian spy, and to an Israeli lobby. ''Because we acted to defend our country, the murderous regimes of Saddam Hussein and the Taliban are history,'' the president said, adding that ''democracy is coming to the broader Middle East.''
 The $445 billion deficit? Mr. Bush and Mr. Cheney erased it. In their inside-out universe, the economy is blossoming, there's money to pay for Mr. Bush's to-do list and No Child Left Behind is more than an empty slogan. 
 W. suddenly proclaimed himself a compassionate conservative again, even though extra-chromosome conservatives, as Lee Atwater called them, were in closed meetings calling for a culture war to curb the rights of women and gays. 
 Mr. Bush even tried to implant in our heads that he is the son of Reagan. He didn't give his dad a speaking slot, though the last two Democratic presidents spoke in Boston, and he spent more time in his speech lionizing Gip than Pop.
 Inside Madison Square Garden, W. kept insisting he'd made the world safer. Outside, the exploding world didn't seem safe at all. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); JOURNALISM (89%); WRITERS (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ARMED FORCES (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (67%) Presidential Election of 2004; Conventions, National (US); News and News Media; Pulitzer Prizes

ORGANIZATION: New York Times

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (89%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (71%); GEORGE W BUSH (68%); DICK CHENEY (54%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (52%) Maureen Dowd; George W (Pres) Bush; Anne O'Hare Mccormick

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2004



126 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Week in Review Desk; The Nation; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 992 words

HEADLINE: It's Not Just About Jobs, but Where the Jobs Are

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
WITH Americans giving President Bush a big edge over Senator John Kerry on matters of national security, the hopes of the Kerry campaign rest on what they view as Mr. Bush's Achilles' heel: the loss of 900,000 jobs since Mr. Bush took office. 
 The situation seemed scarcely better after Friday's job report. Though the Labor Department report showed that the nation gained 144,000 jobs in August -- an increase Mr. Bush quickly trumpeted on the campaign trail -- Democrats noted that over all, the job loss is still the worst of any president since Herbert Hoover. Mr. Bush's supporters, however, have pointed out that nearly 1.7 million jobs have been created in the last year. But after increasing by nearly 300,000 jobs a month from March through May, the pace of the job creation has slowed sharply. During the economic expansion of the 1990's, job growth averaged 201,000 a month. 
 For Mr. Kerry and his campaign advisers, the jobs picture is more mixed than they care to acknowledge, and the nuances may help Mr. Bush. To borrow a phrase from a certain vice presidential candidate, what might help Mr. Bush is that there are two Americas -- one that has lost many jobs since he took office, and another that is doing just fine. 
 Among swing states, some, like Ohio and Michigan, have suffered large net job losses since January 2001, while others -- like Florida, Nevada and New Mexico -- have had large job gains. 
 ''The national job market is the sum of many regional job markets that have performed very differently,'' said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Economy.com, a consulting firm. ''Some areas have struggled and continue to struggle, while others have thrived, and all this can cut very differently for the presidential candidates in different states.''
 The two states where the electoral battle is particularly fierce -- Ohio and Florida -- are on different ends of the spectrum. Ohio has lost 230,000 jobs, or 4.1 percent of its jobs, since Mr. Bush took office, while Florida has gained 290,000 jobs, a 4 percent increase. While Mr. Bush won Ohio four years ago, the jobs picture has hurt his standing. 
 And Democrats, feeling they were cheated out of winning Florida in 2000, are campaigning feverishly to capture the state, but many Republicans say the strong economy could keep Florida in the Republican column. 
 ''The economy here is outstanding,'' said Mark Lang, chief executive of Workers Temporary Staffing, an Orlando company that provides labor to a booming construction industry. ''We've seen more jobs and higher pay for our workers. There's no doubt in my mind that the president will win Florida.''
 Hurricanes aside, Florida has received a lift from many quarters: the boom in defense spending, the influx of dollars from Latin America and the continuous arrival of old and not-so-old Americans and Canadians. This has produced a surge of jobs in construction, tourism, health care, education and retailing.
 Even though wage growth in Florida has been weak and even though job creation has not kept pace with population increases, Mr. Zandi, said, ''The president has a strong economic tailwind at his back in Florida.'' 
 Ohio is at the other pole. The state has lost 170,000 manufacturing jobs (a 17 percent drop since January 2001) -- including 22,000 in machinery manufacturing (a 20 percent loss) and 5,300 in steel (a 28 percent drop). 
 ''Our longest-serving governor, Jim Rhodes, always use to say there are three critical issues in the election: the first is jobs, the second is jobs and the third is jobs,'' said Andrew Doehrel, president of the Ohio Chamber of Commerce. ''Our jobs picture is not as strong as we would like.'' 
 Take Stark County, long the bellwether county in a bellwether state: as Stark County goes, so goes Ohio, and as Ohio goes, so goes the nation. In April, the Timken Company announced plans to close three ball-bearing factories and lay off 1,300 workers, while the Hoover Company, the vacuum cleaner maker, has laid off 500 workers. The announcements follow the layoff of 700 steelworkers at Republic Technologies and the loss of 200 jobs when the nation's lone rubber glove factory shut, moving production to India and Malaysia. In late July, Mr. Bush campaigned in Canton, the county seat, just three days after World Kitchen in nearby Massillon announced that it was closing its 200-employee bake ware factory in favor of importing bake ware from China. Since Mr. Bush took office, the Stark County area has lost 26 percent of its factory jobs, which are typically among the highest paying. 
 ''A lot of workers are upset about Bush,'' said Dan Sciury, president of the Greater Stark County A.F.L.-C.I.O. ''They see a lot of jobs going abroad, and he doesn't seem to be doing anything to stop the bleeding.''
 Still, as the campaign moves ahead, national security concerns could outweigh the job situation in enough crucial places to become the deciding factor in the race. 
 ''Bush is going into this election with people not feeling good about the economy and the job market,'' said Andrew Kohut, director of the Pew Research Center, who pointed to surveys showing that 66 percent of Americans say the economy is in poor or fair shape. ''But Bush has a lot of strength on the issue of terrorism, and that might offset the strong feelings people have about the economy.''
 Who wins in Florida and Ohio could hinge on some last-minute economic twists and turns. The recent drop in sales for Detroit's Big Three could cause layoffs at auto plants in Ohio and other Midwestern states in the next month. The calamitous hurricane season has run up huge costs, but it is also creating construction jobs by the thousands. 
 ''There's an ever-changing dynamic,'' said Mr. Doehrel of the chamber of commerce. ''If we continue to see the improvement that we've seen, it can be positive for the president. But if there's more of a downturn, it's going to make it tougher for him. No doubt about that.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: In Florida, storm damage has helped spur a rise in construction jobs. In Ohio, layoffs like those at the Timken plant in Canton have led to job losses. (Photo by Tony Dejak/Associated Press)
 (Photo by Joe Raedle/Getty Images)Chart: ''Gains And Losses''Since 2001, Ohio has lost over 230,000 jobs, while Florida has gained about 300,000.Graph tracks jobs lost and gained in Ohio and Florida since 2001.(Source by U.S. Dept. of Labor)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); LAYOFFS (77%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); DISMISSALS (72%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (72%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (67%); CONSTRUCTION (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Labor; Unemployment; United States Economy; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (59%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%) Steven Greenhouse; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (95%); OHIO, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%) Ohio; Michigan; Florida; Nevada; New Mexico

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2004



127 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1437 words

HEADLINE: Counting Down to the New Armageddon

BYLINE: By James Hoge. 
James Hoge is the editor of Foreign Affairs magazine.

 BODY:

NUCLEAR TERRORISM
The Ultimate Preventable Catastrophe.
By Graham Allison.
263 pp. Times Books/
Henry Holt & Company. $24.
 TERRORISTS are striving to acquire and then use nuclear weapons against the United States. Success, as defined by Osama bin Laden, would be four million dead Americans. Mounting evidence makes this much abundantly clear. Documents discovered in Afghanistan seem to reveal Al Qaeda's detailed knowledge of nuclear weaponry, while intelligence confirms the terrorists' attempts to acquire nuclear material on the black market. 
 In reaction, President George W. Bush and Senator John Kerry are giving pride of place to catastrophic terrorism in their foreign policy platforms. Both proclaim it the nation's No. 1 security challenge. Meanwhile, policy analysts have urgently recommended preventive measures in a flurry of reports, books, journal articles and Congressional testimony.
 Now the Harvard scholar Graham Allison is sounding his own warning in ''Nuclear Terrorism'' -- a well-written report for general readers on the threat and what it will take to reduce it. He addresses all the big questions: who could be planning an attack; how they might acquire and deliver the weapons; when they might launch the first assault. Allison touches on chemical and biological dangers, but he separates out the far more lethal nuclear threat for special attention. Nonnuclear radioactive (''dirty'') bombs and chemical or biological devices would kill in the thousands. A 10-kiloton nuclear bomb, delivered to Times Square by truck and then detonated, could kill up to one million New Yorkers. 
 Some experts think a terrorist attack with nuclear weapons is already unstoppable. Allison disagrees -- up to a point. He argues that prevention is still possible, and he gives the Bush administration some credit for several post-9/11 initiatives meant to tighten the security of nuclear weapons and material. However, he calls for far bolder measures, more money and forceful American leadership to improve what is at present rather lax international cooperation. His bottom line is blunt: anything less will make nuclear terrorism inevitable. 
 Allison blames both the White House and the Congress for falling short of meeting the challenge. To take one example, since 9/11 the rate of funding has hardly changed for the Nunn-Lugar program, which was established to destroy or secure Russia's enormous stockpile of fissile material and nuclear weapons. Much remains to be done. Of special concern is Russia's large supply of suitcase-size nuclear bombs, which terrorists could smuggle into the United States in cargo containers or as airline baggage. The safeguards on these weapons are loose at best. (In 1997, Russia acknowledged that 84 of some 132 such weapons were missing.) 
 At present, it will take 13 years, in Allison's estimation, to secure Russia's fissile material. Allison's position, adopted by the Kerry campaign, is to spend whatever dollars are necessary to complete the job in four years, though achieving this objective would also require elimination of Congressionally imposed impediments to Nunn-Lugar and overcoming Russian resistance to intrusion into their facilities.
 We face many vulnerabilities -- limited intelligence of the terrorists' plans; poorly protected ports, borders and nuclear power plants. But the most urgent danger is that terrorists could acquire the fissile material with which to construct a nuclear weapon in a relatively short period of time. Russia presents the greatest problem; 90 percent of all existing fissile material outside the United States is stored within the former Soviet Union. Still, it's not the only region we need to focus on. At least 32 countries possess weapons-grade fissile material.
 Allison would round up all fissile material and ban the creation of any more. This is a daunting task. Allison himself observes that there are some 200 locations around the world where nuclear weapons or fissile material could be acquired, and he pinpoints the most dangerous -- Russia because of its huge supplies, shaky safeguards and extensive corruption; Pakistan because of its indiscriminate spreading of nuclear know-how and equipment; North Korea because of its history of selling missile systems and its apparent nuclear development program; and lastly, the research reactors (some 20-odd) with significant quantities of bomb-grade uranium located in developing countries.
 Allison's other remedies -- like imposing intrusive nuclear power plant inspections and sanctioning violators -- may also prove difficult to implement in the real world of suspicious governments and corrupt officials. Because the United States is widely viewed with hostility these days, it may not be able to marshal the international support needed to shut down black markets or block the emergence of new nuclear weapons states. And then there is the question of money. Governments are reluctant to spend lavishly on prospective threats when tax-conscious citizens have not yet experienced any consequences. 
 As a champion of the idea that nuclear terrorism is preventable, Allison emphasizes the elements of an offense -- improved intelligence, tighter treaties, more transparency and intrusion. But a stronger homeland defense is also needed in case prevention by offense fails. And currently, homeland security is getting short shrift. For the 2005 budget, Congress has allotted $7.6 billion to improve the security of military bases but only $2.6 billion to protect the nation's vital infrastructure. Within the Department of Defense, $10 billion is spent annually on missile defense, compared with only a few billion on all other counterproliferation programs. 
 Homeland security becomes an even higher priority if one broadens one's thinking about the potential damage from nonnuclear weapons to include more than simply the number who would die. Allison is less concerned with biological and chemical weapons and so-called dirty bombs because they kill in the thousands, not millions. But these unconventional arms can still cause mass disruption; a few anthrax incidents, after all, virtually shut down the Congress. The release of pathogens in a public space, or a biological attack on the food supply system, or a dirty bomb set off in a seaport could have enormous economic consequences. Large-scale government efforts are needed to minimize the danger of such attacks.
 What makes the job of prevention all the more difficult is that the threat of nuclear terrorism is growing at the same time as the need for nuclear-generated electricity. Allison points out that all signatories to the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty are permitted to enrich uranium and reprocess plutonium to make fuel for peaceful power reactors, provided they declare what they are doing and submit to periodic inspections. In other words, states can come to the brink of nuclear weapons capability without explicitly violating the treaty. Then, without penalty, they can withdraw from the treaty and turn enriched uranium or plutonium into bombs. 
 This is a loophole that both Iran and North Korea have sought to take advantage of. Allison and other experts argue that the United States should not discard the treaty but take the lead in fixing it. Their preferred solution is to distinguish ''fuel cycle'' states from ''user states.'' Those states where fuel-producing facilities already exist would provide enriched fuel to other states that wish to generate electricity from nuclear reactors. Coupling this with stiffer inspection provisions and penalties for withdrawal from the treaty would return the nonproliferation treaty to an important (if limited) role in countering proliferation. 
 Nuclear dangers come in several forms, those that might be mounted by states and those from terrorists that cannot be contained by treaties alone, no matter how strict. Allison covers all the potential eventualities but might have been clearer in setting priorities, since resources are limited. Rogue states, capable of launching nuclear-tipped missiles, may ultimately be a threat. But the evidence indicates that the danger currently lies elsewhere. The urgent threat is nuclear terrorism, and funds need to be freed up to fill the considerable holes remaining in our counterterrorism programs. 
 Allison's comprehensive but accessible treatment of this vital subject is a major contribution to public understanding. In turn, an informed public could spur the government to complete the counterterrorism agenda. Only then, as Allison argues, will nuclear terror against America prove preventable.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Ray Bartkus)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (96%); TERRORISM (95%); BOOK REVIEWS (92%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); SMUGGLING (79%); AL-QAEDA (78%); LITERATURE (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); TESTIMONY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%) Books and Literature; Reviews 

COMPANY: HENRY HOLT & CO PUBLISHING (58%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (57%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (58%) Graham Allison; James Hoge

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2004



128 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 54

LENGTH: 6931 words

HEADLINE: Jobs

BYLINE: By Roger Lowenstein. 
Roger Lowenstein, a contributing writer for the magazine, is the author of ''Origins of the Crash: The Great Bubble and Its Undoing.''

 BODY:
If nothing else, John Kerry has revived the public's memory of Herbert Hoover. Again and again, the Democratic candidate has reminded people that George W. Bush has ''the worst record on jobs since Herbert Hoover,'' that Bush is in line to become the first president ''since Hoover'' to preside over a shrinking payroll, that he has ''stood by,'' Hoover-like, while the good honest folk who make up the backbone of the country have lost their jobs.
 But if Hoover has come to mean a president who fiddled while people went jobless, Bush has been working overtime to repudiate the tag. Everything the president pushes, from limiting jury awards to expanding offshore drilling, he cloaks in the garb of creating jobs, and Bush's advisers have taken to boasting that, thanks to his tax cuts, America has two and a half million more jobs than it otherwise would. The more numerate Kerry, meanwhile, has unveiled a plan to create 10 million jobs; indeed, he has made that plan the centerpiece of his campaign. 
 An intelligent voter could be forgiven for thinking that the most important domestic consideration in the election is how many jobs the candidates would create over the next four years. And writers who in another season were buzzing over interest rates, or Monica, now swarm over the monthly jobs report as if it were a running report card on the president -- the Beltway equivalent of the stock market.
 This mind-set has come to frame the way we think about virtually every economic issue, even those -- like the budget deficit -- that have little impact on employment. It has colored our sense of history, so that a reader of campaign news might reasonably conclude that Bill Clinton ''created'' 22 million jobs and that Bush first ''lost'' nearly 3 million and, then -- wonder of wonders -- won half of them back.
 There is one problem with such thinking: virtually no one involved with presidential politics, and virtually no economist, believes it. Robert Barbera, chief economist at the brokerage firm of ITG/Hoenig, says that in his 30 years in the business, ''the notion that presidents create and lose jobs is the most grotesque mischaracterization of the economic backdrop'' that he has witnessed.
 The emphasis on jobs is likely to intensify during the campaign's final weeks, especially given that in August the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported the weakest monthly job totals in a year. The news, predictably, was treated as if the president had taken home a D. So it is striking that neither Bush's economists nor Kerry's nor many who have served in administrations past really believe that job numbers are a reflection of presidential performance. Robert Reich, secretary of labor under Clinton, says bluntly, ''Job numbers are largely a function of population and the business cycle, and the business cycle has its own rhythm.'' Administrations should be able to improve the quality of jobs -- shorthand for raising both the requisite skill level and the compensation -- Reich argues, but the lead time is so great that presidents have little political incentive to try.
 There are three problems with the breathless, scorecard approach to job numbers. First, most jobs are in the private sector, and the president is only one of many influences over whether a manager decides to hire or fire. Some of the others that come to mind: Alan Greenspan, the stock market, the strength of international economies, technological change, oil prices and the weather (try legislating that).
 Another problem is that, assuming Washington does have some influence, attributing it to the appropriate officeholder is next to impossible. The labor market does not correspond to neat, quadrennial cycles, and the notion that the Bush team, which took office when the economy was already cooling, precipitated a decline in the job market that began 10 weeks later is simply implausible. Governmental decisions have a long half-life. The balanced budget achieved by Clinton in 1998 owed much to the 1990 budget agreement forged by the first President Bush, who had been kicked out of office as a failure. If you want to blame the current president for a recession, argues Jeffrey Frankel, a Harvard economist, blame him for the next recession, because the Bush deficits will seriously narrow the options available to whoever is unlucky enough to be presiding then.
 The third, and most serious, flaw is that focusing on the number of jobs fosters a simplistic and illusory sense of what a president can do. It misdirects policy toward ''creating'' jobs, which are, if anything, an outcome of good policy rather than an end. As Randy Kroszner, a former member of the Bush White House Council of Economic Advisers, puts it, ''To think we have a magic lever, blue for jobs, red for growth, that's mistaken.'' His real point is that the levers are not, in the long term, distinguishable. Jobs result from growth -- from employers' desire to increase profits, not from their desire to increase payrolls. Countries that have tried to target jobs specifically -- say in Europe, by restricting the freedom of businesses to lay off workers -- have discovered an unpleasant paradox. Lessened flexibility in the labor market leads to more tentative hiring and fewer jobs.
 Moreover, since the economy benefits when companies are able to produce more goods and services with fewer workers, maximizing the number of jobs is not always in society's interest. If it were, we would all have wonderful memories of the Carter administration, which recorded the fastest job growth of any president since the 1960's.
 But we don't. Which means that job numbers are one, but only one, indicator of economic well-being. Productivity -- how much each job accomplishes -- matters, too.
There is no doubt that Bush has presided over some very bad stats. After peaking in March 2001, the number of Americans with jobs fell steadily for more than two years -- a period that encompassed a stock market plunge, the Sept. 11 attacks, three tax cuts, repeated easings of interest rates by Greenspan, the invasions of Afghanistan and Iraq and a recovery on Wall Street and in the economy. What hit the great American job machine? Even Kerry advisers admit to being puzzled. The 29-month drop, which didn't finally end until August 2003, was the longest, though not the steepest, decline since the Great Depression, when the president was -- you guessed it -- Herbert Hoover. Moreover, the ensuing rebound has been anemic.
 In total, since the start of Bush's term, payrolls have shrunk by 1.1 million. Kerry advisers are quick to point out that the economy normally adds about 150,000 jobs a month, which over four years would total 7 million. Bush has yet to get to the starting line.
 This was Kerry's theme when I caught up with him early this summer. He was addressing a rally in a high-school gymnasium in Massillon, Ohio, a depressed region in a battleground state that Bush carried narrowly in 2000 and that has been pounded by layoff notices since. The big news in Massillon was that the Timken Company, a steel and bearings manufacturer founded by a German-born inventor in 1899, had announced it would close a trio of plants in nearby Canton. As a symbol, Kerry couldn't have done better. Timken's chairman, Timothy Timken, is a major contributor to the Bush campaign. In 2003, while campaigning for his third tax cut, Bush came out to Timken and praised its workers and promised that his package would help ''create the conditions for job growth, so people can find work.''
 Timken's announcement, which put 1,300 jobs in jeopardy, made Bush look foolish. It is absurd to think, as a Timken official tried to persuade me, that Bush's economic package had been the ''most appropriate'' one possible for Timken. Eliminating the tax on wealthy estates hardly helped its bearings plants. But the notion loosely floating about the gym -- that Bush was to blame for the shutdown -- is equally absurd.
 One thing to understand about the job numbers is that while they squiggle around from month to month and year to year in response to what happens at companies like Timken, over the long term they tend to keep pace with the growth in the labor force. In fact, if you look at the 111 1/82 years of the Clinton and Bush II administrations as a whole, employers have added 21.5 million jobs, or 156,000 a month -- right in step with demographic trends. As Lawrence Katz, a Harvard economist working for Kerry, puts it, ''Labor markets have equilibrating forces.''
 When presidents or the Congress try to do something for the economy, the most readily available lever at their disposal is the budget. However, in terms of its long-run effect on the job market, budget policy is overrated. The issues that consume politicians, like how to tailor a stimulus or which group to favor with a tax break, tend to affect the ''squiggle'' -- the short-term job numbers -- but not much more. To influence the long-term makeup of the labor force, what matters is how the money is spent (on retraining, for instance), not whether the government taxes or spends a little more or a little less.
The gym in Massillon was packed with people in union T-shirts: firemen, painters, nurses, steelworkers. A banner depicted working people in various trades: carpentry, construction, manufacturing. Save for the lone image of a worker at a computer terminal, it was as if the 21st century hadn't arrived. ''If Bush gets another term, this country won't have any jobs left,'' a woman in the bleachers told me.
 Kerry spoke to the crowd, town-meeting style, from a stool near one of the baskets. He started on what he hoped would be an empathetic note. ''Your stories are the thread of my life. As I go in and out of your living rooms, as I travel across this country. . . .'' It fell flat. Then he switched gears: ''My goal is to put people to work.'' A cheer went up. ''I don't have to tell you what has happened to jobs in Ohio!''
 Anti-Nafta signs dotted the gym, and Kerry delicately maneuvered around the issue of trade. He admitted, courageously, that he couldn't promise to hang onto every job that goes overseas. Switching gears again, he exclaimed that he had heard from workers whose last assignment had been to ''pack their equipment into crates and ship them to China'' and that this would ''never'' happen under a Kerry administration. Big cheer.
 Then Kerry described how he would ensure this -- his plan for 10 million jobs. The central points include subsidizing health care, tightening the tax treatment of U.S. companies that operate overseas, reducing the general corporate tax rate and giving manufacturers and firms affected by outsourcing an incentive to hire. How does that add up to 10 million? Actually, it doesn't. Kerry's ''plan'' isn't an industry-by-industry summation; it's simply a forecast, based on population trends, for what will occur in the labor force if the economy returns to health. Any economics student could have come up with that number or with some other one.
 I asked the company how many jobs the Kerry plan would save. ''It's a wrongheaded approach,'' Robert Lapp, a vice president for government affairs, responded. ''Companies are created to supply a product or a service that somebody wants -- [not] to supply jobs.'' O.K., so Lapp's boss is Bush's buddy. But others -- officials at the United Steelworkers local, Wall Street analysts -- confirm that the employment picture at Timken is more complicated than the simple layoff story suggests. For one, Timken isn't cutting jobs overall. It has added jobs at some locations and cut them elsewhere. (Timken has 42 plants in the United States in addition to operations overseas.) The Canton facilities are simply the dinosaurs of the lot. They are old and inefficient, and the workers earn more than those at competitive plants. Average pay is just above $50,000 a year, plus full health care coverage.
 So, ever conscious of Wall Street, Timken is going to make its bearings at other, more efficient, plants (mostly, but not entirely, in the United States). When you boil it down, Timken's policy seems to be that the Canton jobs shouldn't be saved, at least not if Timken can't wring some serious concessions from the union. 
As hard-hearted as that sounds, it's a pretty good microcosm of what's happening in the U.S. economy: some jobs being lost; some other ones, perhaps for the moment lower-paying ones, being gained. (The evidence on how good the new jobs are is inconclusive.) But despite the gloomy headlines, America has not been losing jobs at an unusual rate. The widely watched jobs stat registers only the net change in employment; it obscures the furious process of both creation and destruction, the dynamism that we witness every time a friend or neighbor loses one job and finds another. In a typical year, some 32 million Americans are hired and about 30 million lose or leave their jobs. And job destruction has been occurring at a normal rate since the end of the recession. The problem is, first, the loss of quality jobs like those at Timken. And, second, job creation -- hiring -- has been atypically slow. What can government do about these ills?
 It helps to understand what Alan B. Krueger, a former Labor Department economist under Reich, bills as ''the Krueger conjecture.'' It goes like this: ''Big countries have more jobs.'' Krueger has a serious, even a surprising, point. For reasons that are not entirely understood, over the long term economies adapt to the supply of productive workers. For instance, Israel absorbed a million Russians, France a wave of Algerians and South Florida a tide of Cubans without depressing wages. (Wages being the price of labor, you would expect them to fall as the supply of workers rises.) A partial explanation comes to mind: those Spanish-speaking Floridians had to buy clothing, cars and cafeteras and in general consume their fair share of goods and services, adding to the demand for labor, not just the supply.
 But that does not explain how, in the decades after the Korean War, the United States adjusted to an influx of women in the work force without any discernible rise in unemployment. After all, American women did not exactly discover shopping when they entered the labor force. The only conclusion is that employers gradually took note of the pool of available workers and found productive uses for them. To some extent, the supply of labor also fuels the demand for it.
 ''How does the U.S. economy manage to provide so many jobs for a growing population?'' Krueger and his co-author, Jorn-Steffen Pischke, ask. ''U.S. employment growth is as much a mystery as a miracle.'' But Krueger chalks it up in part to our flexibility. It takes far less time and far less paperwork to set up a business in the United States than almost anywhere else. (Five days in America, 18 in Britain and 45 in Germany, according to one estimate.) In parts of Europe, you can't even open a new drugstore without getting permission from the other drugstores in town. This doesn't mean that restrictions on businesses are always undesirable; most Americans are probably glad that restaurants need a certificate from the board of health before they open. But such restrictions do come at a cost. Fewer luncheonettes means fewer jobs. More restrictive environmental laws means less offshore drilling, higher gas prices and, presumably, more firms like Alcoa opening facilities in countries with cheaper energy. The general point is that any long-term jobs policy, in order to improve people's chance of finding work, ought to maintain a high degree of flexibility in the economy.
 Not that this is easy. The first instinct of most politicians, indeed of most citizens, is to worry about where the new jobs will come from. With a few exceptions, that isn't knowable. Remember the 1967 movie ''The Graduate,'' in which Dustin Hoffman is advised to focus on ''plastics''? Since then, employment in that industry has tumbled by 40 percent. Don't blame Mike Nichols, the film's director. He couldn't have foreseen that plastics would tank any more than he could have predicted that two geeks would invent Apple. In fact, a quarter of all jobs today are in categories that didn't exist when ''The Graduate'' was made.
 Presidents can promote jobs via basic research, though the effects will not appear until they are writing their memoirs. For instance, there is a government initiative in nanotechnology, the science of downsizing industrial operations to molecular levels. In the future, this could lead to new and high-paying companies -- just like what happened when the Department of Defense developed the Internet or as may occur in the federally financed genome project. But mostly the jobs of the future aren't foreseeable.
 The Krueger conjecture reassures us that as long as the ''graduate'' gets a decent education, he will adapt to opportunities as they evolve. But given how hard it is to visualize those future jobs, people's second instinct is to demand that we hang on to the familiar jobs that are disappearing. (Think Canton.) This is almost always a mistake.
 Just before World War II, nearly 20 percent of Americans worked in agriculture; today, fewer than 2 percent do. Had we ''protected'' the displaced 18 percent -- had we kept them on the farm -- our agriculture would be less productive and our economy would be weaker. The agriculture of 2004 is, of course, manufacturing. At Timken, it once took 17 hours to produce a ton of steel; today, only 2 hours.
 Such improvements, replicated across the country, help to reshape the labor market in lasting ways. Since 1998, the United States has lost three million jobs in manufacturing. Reinforcing the idea that the economy is being fundamentally retailored, Erica Groshen, an economist at the New York Fed, reports that the recent economic cycle has not followed the familiar pattern in which firms announce layoffs and then gradually rehire. Instead, some industries have permanently shed jobs; others have been net winners.
 However, it's important to recognize that structural change is itself cyclical; while the economy is always evolving, every generation or so some technological innovation will spark a temporary, but alarming-seeming, acceleration. In the late 19th century, as railroad tracks were knitting the country together, lumber mills in Ohio suddenly found that they were competing with the Pacific Northwest. Armies of unemployed roamed the middle states angrily demanding that the government provide them with work. If you can imagine the tracks stretching to Shanghai or Bangalore, you get a sense of the anxiety in the labor market today. This is why, after a period of liberalism under Clinton, the pressure to legislate trade is also at a cyclical high.
 Intellectually, protecting the United States from Asia or Europe is akin to protecting Ohio from Oregon a century ago. Tactically, it's like fighting a war of attrition in which two billion Chinese and Indians are on the other side. I asked Jacob Jabs, a Colorado retailer who imports furniture from the Far East, what the government could do to save the jobs of domestic furniture makers. ''It's a lost cause,'' he said. ''Protectionism is a lost cause.'' Jabs went on to describe, with unconcealed delight, the ''gorgeous'' eight-million-square-foot factories where 10,000 Chinese churn out quality bed sets 70 hours a week. This is why American unions have steadily declined; they can't organize in China. Nor does punishing companies for doing business overseas look like a promising fix. It turns out that the U.S. multinationals hiring abroad are also the companies adding fastest to their payrolls at home.
 Trade law is Byzantine, the details of which are understood by only a few grunts on Capitol Hill. Its weird, prejudicial nature may be illuminated by the Byrd Amendment, which entitles victims of ''unfair'' trade to collect penalties from importers. But only victimized corporations -- not their employees -- collect. In steel, Tim Timken's corporation has received more than $100 million; Ohio workers, nada. It's dubious whether this will promote more jobs -- or better jobs.
 The one sensible trade lever at the U.S. president's disposal is the dollar. It's seriously overvalued against China's currency and probably against the Japanese yen. An overvalued dollar, of course, hurts our competitiveness. Sooner or later, the dollar will have to adjust, and any president should use his political influence to make it sooner.
 Nonetheless, America will continue to deal with an expanding presence of Asians -- and particularly of educated Asians -- in the global economy. U.S. workers aren't competing with only low-skilled workers; Intel India is advertising for high-level electrical engineers, and so forth.
 The alternative to protecting jobs is to protect the engineers who might compete for those jobs -- that is, to invest in their education, their training, potentially their health care. Jeffrey Garten, dean of the Yale School of Management, says he believes the time is ripe for a total rethinking of the safety net. ''I'm looking for a safety net that adds to flexibility, not to the status quo,'' he notes. This prescription follows from the Krueger conjecture: more quality workers means more quality work.
The first postwar president to try to retool the work force was Lyndon Johnson. L.B.J. practically invented the idea of government training -- the Job Corps. He started broad-based student loans too. ''We sent hundreds of thousands of people to trade schools,'' recalls Joseph A. Califano Jr., L.B.J.'s chief domestic adviser. The Great Society did foster a lot of jobs, though it's hard to say what credit is due to the vigor of domestic spending and what to the Vietnam War and what to the red-hot private economy. But in the darker economic climate of the 70's, the jobs numbers worsened.
 And Richard Nixon, Johnson's successor, made the cardinal error of presidents who do not understand that their control over such things is limited. Nixon's education began in January 1971: after months of a weakening jobs picture, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported a slight dip in unemployment, from 6.2 percent to 6 percent. The labor secretary pounced on it as ''very significant.'' The experts at the Bureau of Labor Statistics did not agree. In his regular press briefing, Harold Goldstein, an assistant bureau commissioner, called the drop only ''marginally significant.''
 That March, the labor secretary terminated the bureau press conferences, a staple of Washington news dissemination. Then, in July, the bureau reported another drop in unemployment, but added that the decline might be overstated due to ''technical'' problems. Nixon was furious, especially with Goldstein. ''I have had it,'' he said. ''He is an all out son of a bitch who has been against us for 20 years.'' Not only was Goldstein transferred; Nixon ordered an aide, Frederic Malek, to count the number of Jews among the upper ranks at the bureau.
 Though that, presumably, was the low point for government statistical work, it did not end the latent tension between elected politicians and civil servants. Reagan's labor secretary, Raymond Donovan, also tried to muzzle the bureau, but Janet Norwood, then the commissioner, backed him off. Eventually, the bureau began to release data at a hearing before the Joint Economic Committee. Senator William Proxmire explained the reason for the change: ''I go through this review to remind us that the unemployment data constitute political dynamite. . . . The most obvious practical proof of the wisdom of a president's economic policies is what those policies do to jobs.''
 Although presidents still labor under the threat of Proxmire's ''dynamite,'' notice that he put the emphasis on unemployment, a hangover from the Depression, when joblessness was the primary concern. Today, when growth is the central issue, politicians focus on the number of employed. The two sets of statistics are intimately related, of course, but they often send divergent signals. For instance, while the jobs number is signaling a weak labor market, the current unemployment rate, which is 5.5 percent, has been steadily improving.
 The inconsistency arises from the fact that the two statistics are compiled separately. The Bureau of Labor Statistics estimates total jobs by asking 400,000 work sites to report their payroll numbers every month. Like any survey, it is inexact. Meanwhile, a different set of pollsters call 60,000 households and ask whether the occupants are employed, if they have a job, and if they don't, whether they are looking or are on disability and so on. The household survey gives a grainy, close-up view of the labor market that complements the aerial image in the payroll survey.
 Lately, the household numbers have been more bullish, perhaps because they alone capture the growing number of self-employed. Predictably, the Bush administration has been stressing that number. But the payroll number is considered more reliable. When the labor market is soft, people tend not to look for work. Officially, they drop out of the labor force and out of the ''unemployed.'' Right now, the two surveys are signaling that the low rate of hiring has turned off workers; people are dropping out. As Joseph Stiglitz, a former Clinton appointee and Nobel Prize-winning economist, says with disgust, ''People have found it's easier to get on disability than to get a job.''
Bush Republicans have a remarkably doctrinaire approach to jobs: cut taxes. It's classic Keynes that releasing money into the economy will give it a temporary jolt, and the Bush campaign, naturally, has highlighted the stimulative effect of the tax cuts. When I visited Bush-Cheney headquarters last spring, Tim Adams, head of policy for the campaign, cheerily asked what I had done with my ''rebate'' check. ''I used mine for a new washer and dryer,'' Adams added, as if to conjure up an image of millions of wage earners descending upon white-goods sales and spurring new jobs. Then, after the bad numbers in July, Bush went scurrying back to Canton, where he rode on a bus with Timken workers and assured a rally, ''Because we acted, America has added 1.5 million new jobs since last August.''
 But Bush is only an accidental Keynesian; he campaigned to cut taxes in 2000, when the economy was still growing. R. Glenn Hubbard, Bush's top economic adviser during his first three years and now the dean of the Columbia Business School, emphasizes that Keynesian tinkering was not the administration's aim. ''The president would call when the job numbers came out and ask if there was anything we could do,'' Hubbard recalls. Hubbard urged him not to let short-term numbers throw him off course.
 The Bush-Hubbard agenda is a long-term one: to lower tax rates, especially the top marginal rate, which is applied to the highest incomes. The catechism goes like this: lower rates will induce taxpayers to work longer and harder, fueling more investment. That will raise worker productivity, leading to better-paying jobs and possibly to more jobs. 
 Other things being equal, societies with lower tax rates probably do perform better. But again, tax rates are not the all-powerful jobs lever that Republicans suggest. In the 1960's, the marginal rate was fearfully high -- between 70 and 90 percent -- and employment boomed. Reagan lowered the marginal rate to 28 percent; because the change was so pronounced, it surely had an effect. Doctors had an incentive to treat more patients. But simple math suggests that the Bush cuts, which reduced marginal rates by far less, from 39.6 percent to 35 percent, will not have as big an effect. Those doctors are already working.
 What is little appreciated is that low-income workers have not gotten a tax cut over the past 25 years, because the reduction in their rates has been offset by higher Social Security and health insurance taxes. (Such taxes fall most heavily on low-wage workers.) ''The notion that low-wage earners have gotten a big cut -- it simply isn't so,'' says Michael Mussa, a former Reagan adviser. This is no small point. The tax code can be used to tease out more work, but its effects are most striking on lower-income workers, and they are precisely the ones the tax-cutters have ignored.
Democrats have an alternate jobs mythology: that by trimming the deficit, Clinton and his highly visible treasury secretary, Robert Rubin, brought down interest rates, which in turn kicked off the great jobs boom of the 90's. Their detractors correctly note that Clinton and Rubin were very fortunate. The budget benefited from the strong economy, which fueled tax receipts, and from the end of the cold war, which enabled Congress to cut defense spending. At the heart of this debate rests a chicken and egg: did the strong economy produce higher tax revenues and plug the hole in the budget or did Clinton's budgetary discipline ease the fears of an anxious bond market and jump-start the economy?
 Since the 90's cannot be rerun, we'll never know. But common sense suggests that Rubin was hardly the only factor influencing interest rates, and interest rates weren't the only reason that the job numbers took off. (After all, rates are even lower today.) As Robert Samuelson pointed out in The New Republic, though Clinton's landmark budget pact occurred in 1993, growth remained modest. It wasn't until 1996, when Internet mania was in full swing, that the economy really started to boom. So it seems reasonable to give credit to Clinton and Rubin for successfully tending the economic expansion, but not for causing it.
 Kerry advisers frankly admit that in a long-term sense, they will not be ''creating'' jobs either. Consider Kerry's most sweeping idea: that the government cover 75 percent of the costs of catastrophic illnesses of employees at corporations with health plans. Jason Furman, Kerry's 34-year-old director of economic policy, estimates that it would cut premiums for a typical worker's family by $1,000 a year. Since employers pay the lion's share of premiums, the proposal would save them money. On Day 1, a company like Timken might even be able to afford a larger payroll.
 So would a government health plan lead to more jobs? Maybe a few, but private economies have a way of making their own adjustments. According to Furman, since all companies would get the same benefit under the Kerry plan, they would tend to bid up wages and pass the savings to employees. Over time, the workers would pocket the $1,000. Because the Timkens of the world wouldn't be better off, they wouldn't have any reason to expand their payrolls. This is a good example of why it's hard for the government to push the numbers. ''In the short run, you'd create jobs,'' Furman says. ''In the long run, it's more about the quality of jobs.''
 The catastrophic care proposal is intriguing; it would definitely help workers, especially lower-wage workers. However, in an economic sense, it wouldn't improve the quality of the job market; it would simply transfer $1,000 per job from Washington.
 Since the government can only make so many transfers, the real question is how to prod the labor market so that firms will, on their own, pay better rewards. This is most important for lower-wage workers. Adjusted for inflation, over the last three decades the bottom half of American households have done little better than tread water. Alleviating this nagging problem won't be easy, in part because of America's justly prized flexibility. Elected officials don't like to admit it, but lower wages are probably a price that Americans pay for having more jobs; that is, America's greater flexibility, including its willingness to work for less, results in more work.
 There is a highly negative consequence to slow-rising, or ''sticky,'' wages: people get discouraged from looking for work or from working as hard. This is a bigger deal than you might suppose. According to a study by Goldman Sachs, the reason America's living standard has risen relative to Europe's over the last decade is, simply, that we work more. Despite what you may have read about America's vaunted productivity, it is not the reason for our superior performance. Europeans are increasing their productivity -- the output per hour of work -- at a slightly faster rate. But our population is growing faster, and it is aging more slowly, thanks to a greater birth rate and higher immigration. And Europeans simply do not work as long, says Kevin Daly, the study's author. A result of all these factors is that on a per capita basis, Europeans work a startling 28 percent fewer hours. You can call them lazy, or you can say, as an economist would, that they prefer to ''spend'' their increased productivity to acquire more leisure.
 Whichever, politicians who want to make America more like itself and less like Europe should be thinking not just about creating jobs but also about policies that would motivate people to seek work -- in other words, expanding the labor force. This is especially relevant now because after rising for four decades, the labor-force participation rate, or the proportion of adults over 16 who either have a job or want one, has peaked. It topped 67 percent in 2000 and has been shrinking for four years. That is the most sustained slump since the early 60's. And when you invert the problem to focus on workers rather than on ''work,'' you arrive at some surprising solutions. It turns out to be a good thing to raise the minimum wage, as Kerry advocates, because people at the bottom will be more interested in working. Well, not so surprising: the minimum wage was raised in the 90's and job numbers soared.
 Broadening the earned income tax credit -- a government payout to low-wage workers that, in effect, supplements the minimum wage -- produced a similar effect. In the 90's, when Clinton expanded the credit, the participation rate of female heads of households rose by 15 percent. It's important to distinguish this program from a more traditional entitlement, like unemployment insurance, which provides a bare-bones supplement to people who lose their jobs. Unemployment insurance certainly helps the unemployed, but it does not reduce their number. It simply makes being out of work more palatable. And that is a mixed blessing.
 Studies show that people are most likely to find work in the week before their benefits expire and that longer-lasting benefits lengthen the period of unemployment. This is the kind of finding that makes neoconservatives giddy; it demonstrates that the out-of-work (like everyone else) respond to rational incentives. Bush has proposed reworking unemployment insurance, which would allow workers to invest the proceeds in retraining or to keep the balance if they were hired earlier. However, the idea has stalled.
 Congress has experimented with another alternative for workers affected by foreign trade. It's called ''wage insurance,'' and it works like this: if you lose a job to imports and you then find a new job at a lower wage, as most displaced workers do, the government will shell out up to half the difference. The point, of course, is to reward people for re-entering the work force. It is still an idea waiting for a constituency. Republicans are disinclined to bankroll a program that smells like an entitlement, and unions are afraid of anything that lessens opposition to trade.
 However, in 2002, when Bush was seeking authority to negotiate trade agreements, Democrats (then in control of the Senate) made it conditional on expanding what is called trade adjustment assistance. On paper, what Congress approved was the most exciting reform to hit labor policy in a long time. It coupled wage insurance of up to $10,000 with health coverage, longer unemployment insurance benefits and -- importantly -- retraining and job-search assistance for workers hurt by overseas competition.
 Unfortunately, Congress wrote the legislation so ambiguously and the Labor Department has interpreted it so restrictively that wage insurance was effectively stillborn. The application process was forbidding, and only workers displaced by competitors in certain countries and only those in certain industries qualify. If your employer competes with a Chinese firm or if you work in a service industry, you're out of luck. Also, the money allocated for retraining was woefully short.
 Opponents of trade adjustment assistance are afraid that the program, if allowed to blossom, could get out of hand. How do you determine if a worker was laid off due to imports or just to bad luck?
 Here's an answer: maybe we shouldn't distinguish. Give it to everyone. The amount the United States devotes to the jobless in the form of unemployment insurance is meager -- only 0.3 percent of gross domestic product. (France devotes four times as much, and Germany six times.) Trade adjustment help -- in a nutshell, motivating people to return to work, giving them the necessary retraining and subsidizing their health care along the way -- ''could be a model for the labor safety net of the future,'' says Howard Rosen, an economist who has been lobbying for such changes. At least in theory, luring old workers into new jobs would enhance flexibility and boost participation in the labor force. Get the guy from plastics into genomes. And if it worked for someone who lost his job to Indonesia, why not for a guy on the line at Timken? 
 Retraining seems to be one of those ideas that is popular at all times except when the president (or Congress) is making appropriations. My hunch is that Reich is correct: for presidents obsessed with monthly job-count numbers, the lead time is just too long. When Clinton took office, Reich was brimming with ideas for turning the local unemployment insurance office into a retraining center. He wanted money for training, health care and education, but the deficit hawks handcuffed him. ''I still feel the same way,'' Reich told me recently. ''By the end of the 90's we had giant surpluses. We could have used some of that. The irony is, those budget surpluses were eventually given away for tax breaks for the wealthy.'' (Under Bush, funds for training were cut by 10 percent.)
 To be fair, retraining requires enormous resources as well as patience, and the results are uneven. ''If the investment is so beneficial,'' wonders Cecilia Rouse, a Princeton scholar, ''why don't people do it for themselves?'' One answer is that students at community colleges, where a lot of the retraining occurs, typically are holding down jobs, commuting from home and often raising families. They become overwhelmed.
 Retraining works better when the environment is more supportive. Every economist's favorite example is on-the-job training; people seem to learn best when they are working. Another example is the Job Corps, a Great Society program with legs. It takes young adults from the inner city and plunks them into rural centers where they get round-the-clock training in basic skills. A Massachusetts study reported that Job Corps pupils earn $2,200 more a year than peers who don't participate. Finally, there is the armed forces. My 20-year-old cousin just shipped off for Iraq, where he expects to be teaching locals how to set up small businesses. What does he know about small business? He's learning.
The most basic form of job training is education. There is a big paradox here: nothing Bush or Kerry does to boost the level of education will move the job numbers during either's presidency. Yet over the long term, nothing affects the labor market, and the quality of the jobs that it offers, more.
 Since World War II, the United States has had a big lead in average years of schooling over other countries. Lately, however, it's been shrinking. Since the wage premium in the United States has been widening -- college graduates are doing better and better, relative to nongraduates -- you would think that more people would be finishing college. But they aren't. This suggests that the area to focus on is primary education. Bush's No Child Left Behind, even if wanting in its implementation, pointed in the right direction.
 If the next president wants to make the job numbers in 2012 look better, he could start thinking about all of these: education, comprehensive retraining along the model of the Army and the Job Corps and wage insurance-type incentives. Will this ''create'' jobs? The U.S. economy is a big liner; it isn't easily turned. But thinking in such terms will accomplish more than the never-ending tinkering with the tax code. And it is surely better than the alternatives that try to freeze the economy in place by restricting trade or supporting shrinking industries.
 Improving our skills -- perhaps, as Garten suggests, by rethinking the safety net for workers -- seems the only other choice. It's useful to recall that the United States did this at other times when the labor market faced particular challenges: work programs during the Depression, the G.I. Bill of Rights after World War II, the Great Society in the 60's. And if presidents and candidates spoke frankly about the job market, they would admit, as did President Howard Taft two months before he lost the election of 1912, that ''a national government cannot create good times. It cannot make the rain to fall, the sun to shine or the crops to grow.'' At most, a president can help to set the conditions. Investing in workers would be doing just that. 


GRAPHIC: Photos (Photographs by Phillip Toledano)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); OVERTIME (76%); LAYOFFS (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); BUDGETS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); DISMISSALS (72%); STATISTICS (65%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Labor; Election Issues; Unemployment; Presidential Election of 2004; Labor

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN KERRY (92%); BILL CLINTON (73%) Roger Lowenstein; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush; Herbert Clark (1874-1964) Hoover

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2004



129 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 2; Arts and Leisure Desk; ARCHITECTURE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2899 words

HEADLINE: The New New York Skyline

BYLINE: By NICOLAI OUROUSSOFF

 BODY:
THE skyline is back.
 For the last three years, our collective focus has been on ground zero. Meanwhile, some of the world's most prominent architects have been quietly pressing ahead with plans that will remake the city's skyline on a level not seen since the World Trade Center was built in the 1970's. The most remarkable expression of that shift is a growing list of stunning residential towers designed by celebrated talents like Richard Meier, Santiago Calatrava, Christian Portzamparc and Enrique Norten. But it also includes visions of corporate gluttony: colossal mega-structures that are essentially hybrids of residential skyscrapers and suburban office parks. And it coincides with the slow but inevitable erosion of the boundaries that have defined the edges of the Manhattan skyline for a century.
 For New Yorkers who still feel stirrings of nostalgia for the prewar city, such sweeping changes are apt to provoke mild hysteria. But cities derive their meaning from the influx of new ideas, and the flowering of the new skyline reaffirms that New York's creative energy has not yet been entirely spent. 
 A more legitimate reason for anxiety is that the majority of the towers built in New York in recent memory have been so dismal. Manhattan's skyline was once a monument to the relentless force of modernity, but for decades now the city's reputation as a center of architectural experimentation has been losing ground to London, Barcelona, Beijing, and Shanghai -- cities whose civic leaders seem less frightened of the future. The best of the current crop of projects suggest an effort, however fitful, to break out of that creative malaise.
 The roots of that malaise predate Sept. 11. They can be traced back to the late 1970's -- to the fall of late Modernism and the subsequent rise of a view of history that often favored a mindless repetition of the past over confronting the anxieties of an uncertain future. What it mostly produced were buildings whose faux historical decor was used to cloak generic development formulas.
 The low point may have come during the final year of Rudolph W. Giuliani's administration, when the Department of City Planning unveiled a proposal that would have forced most new building to conform to the scale of existing neighborhoods. Dubbed ''uniform bulk,'' the proposal was conceived in response to projects like Donald Trump's 72-story residential high-rise at First Avenue between 47th and 48th Streets. The plan's intent was to force developers to respect the city's existing historical fabric. What it would have produced is a deadening uniformity, particularly in the skyline. 
 Fortunately, the plan was rejected after furious objections by local real estate developers. Meanwhile, Mr. Trump's tower was built and the sky didn't fall. Designed by Costas Kondylis, the building's slender rectangular form could not be more benign. Its taut, tinted glass exterior plays off the blue-green glass of the United Nations Secretariat building and the repetitive grid of windows that decorate the twin 38-story towers of United Nations Plaza. Together, they form a graceful composition of transparent and reflective surfaces.
 As it turns out, the future of the city's skyline may have as much to do with the increasingly cosmopolitan tastes of the city's affluent classes as with zoning issues. The first projects to capitalize on that trend were Richard Meier's Perry Street towers, completed in 2002. Mr. Meier's pristine glass-and-steel designs, which look out over the Hudson River esplanade, were ridiculed for construction problems and leaky roofs. But they also set a model of skyline architecture as a work of art, to be collected by the city's rich. A third tower a block away on Charles Street, which is currently under design, is a luxurious twist on the old Modernist notion of gesamtkunstwerk -- an environment conceived as a total work of art. In this version, Mr. Meier will design the interiors and furniture as well as the building itself.
 That model has been pushed to its extreme with a new plan by the Spanish architect Santiago Calatrava for a building that would rise at 80 South Street, near the foot of the Brooklyn Bridge. The tower, which may be approved by the city planning department later this month, would be anchored by an 835-foot-tall concrete core, with 12 four-story cubes cantilevered off its sides, each of which would house a single 10,000-square-foot apartment. The design is reminiscent of a well-known proposal from the 1970's: the Japanese Metabolist towers, never built, in which entire housing blocks sprouted out of vertical columns like the branches of a tree. In Mr. Calatrava's hands, however, that vision is far more elegant. The apartments appear as crystalline glass town houses floating above the city. Their beauty stems as much from their aura of poetic isolation as from their structural purity.
 But what's mind-boggling about the scheme are the economics that make it possible. Like Mr. Meier's Charles Street tower, each of Mr. Calatrava's apartments is conceived as a self-contained urban refuge, a $30,000,000 prestige object for the global elites. If they like, Mr. Calatrava will even custom design each of the apartments to suit them.
 This notion -- that architecture is a luxury to be consumed, like an Hermes bag or a private jet -- may soon transform the skyline as much as the expansion of American corporate power did a generation ago. Several blocks west of the Calatrava tower, Frank Gehry is working on a luxury high-rise for the Ratner Development Company, the same developer he is teamed with to design the proposed Nets stadium in Brooklyn.
 Whatever the interiors are like, the public will most likely get the best view. Mr. Gehry's 75-story tower -- which could not be shown here, because it is still in the earliest stages of design -- is conceived as a series of undulating glass panels that hang down over the building's structural frame like flowing drapery. The curtain-like surfaces split apart at various points, then peel open at the top to create an almost classical crown. In its way, the tower is as elaborate as the nearby Woolworth Building, whose soaring neo-gothic stone facades set a standard of aesthetic excess and visual splendor nearly a century ago.
 Even the building's location reflects the increasing value of such architectural status symbols. Historically, the reason the bulk of Manhattan's towers were concentrated near Wall Street and in Midtown was because the bedrock there is especially solid. Both Mr. Gehry's and Mr. Calatrava's towers would be built in an area just north of Wall Street, where the bedrock is less firm. To support them, engineers will have to drive pylons more than 150 feet into the earth, adding millions to construction costs.
 Such considerations no longer seem to matter. The celebrated French architect Christian Portzamparc and Gary Handel, of New York, are currently completing a design for a luxury residential tower farther north at 28th Street and Lexington Avenue, overlooking Madison Square. The tower's faceted glass form will have the sharp edges of a cut diamond.
 And in Harlem, similar projects are being used as tools for urban renewal. The Mexican architect Enrique Norten, for example, is now working on a proposal for an office, hotel and residential tower at 125th Street and Park Avenue. The structure's office space is a solid five-story container that rests on the more delicate glass-enclosed base of the two-story retail space, creating a palpable sense of compression. The hotel and residential tower rises another 38 stories above this base, overlooking the elevated tracks that run along Park Avenue.
 The tower's design is meant to evoke the energy of the passing trains. Slender horizontal steel bands give shape to the facade's exterior, which bulges slightly at its center, as if the building were taking a deep breath of air. A series of thin, fin-like columns carry the tower down to the ground. Seen from Manhattan, the structure will conjure a fragment of Midtown that has somehow splintered off -- an apt metaphor for a building that is being seen as a symbol of Harlem's rapid gentrification.
 Taken as a whole, these projects represent a level of architectural creativity that the skyline hasn't seen in a generation. Despite their range of styles, their lightness suggests a more ephemeral city, a skyline whose delicacy would stand in sharp contrast to the muscular upward thrust of older skyscrapers. Just as important, they refuse to conform to the period styles of their neighbors. Instead, they offer a more sophisticated view of context, one that acknowledges that the city's beauty stems from the frictions that occur when competing visions of urbanity are allowed to coexist.
 But they also connect to a tradition of social striving that may not have been so overt since the days of the robber barons. In their aesthetic purity, they speak of a world removed from the little miseries of everyday life. If they differ in spirit from the Vanderbilt mansions of the past, it is only in that they promise to be more conspicuous. They are paradises for aesthetes.
 Not all the new high-rises are so delicately conceived. The new corporate paradise, by comparison, is more utilitarian, and brutal, in its expression. The demands of global corporations -- what were once quaintly called multinationals -- have created a new kind of superstructure, as imposing in its way as the commercial Superblocks that were one of the most maligned cliches of the 1970's. The enormous floor plates of these hulking new structures -- some will stretch to the equivalent of two city blocks -- are made to accommodate the need for increasingly open, free-flowing work spaces.
 The most visible example is Bloomberg Media's new headquarters, designed by Cesar Pelli and currently under construction between 58th and 59th streets and Lexington and Third Avenues. Covering an entire city block, the building is shaped by the collision between the expanding scale of global corporations and the immense value of Manhattan air rights. Rising 85 feet, the base is a solid block of office space, with a womb-like oval atrium carved out of its core to allow public access to ground-floor retail shops. The offices will be vast, loft-like spaces, lined with hundreds of employees hunched over their computer screens. Designed for maximum efficiency, these spaces are the information age's answer to Ford's assembly line.
 The building's exterior steps back as it rises, eventually forming a single residential tower along Lexington that will allow the developer to exploit the value of the air rights above the offices. But despite the public pretensions of its atrium, what the project resembles most is a suburban office park plunked down on the island of Manhattan. Its reflective glass envelope is the architectural equivalent of a generic wrapper.
 By comparison, a similar proposal for Goldman Sachs at the northern edge of Battery Park City has the virtue of clarity. Designed by Harry Cobb of Pei Cobb Freed, the tower's 18-story trapezoidal base will include gargantuan 75,000-square-foot floor plates -- significantly larger than those on the Bloomberg building, and nearly twice the size of those in the former World Trade Center -- to accommodate the hordes of Goldman Sachs employees. A residential tower is set on top of this base, its curved facade overlooking the Hudson. But along West Street, the structure is a vast 55-story expanse of glass, its uniform surface interrupted only by a single vertical slot. The distinction between the private world of the tenants above and the corporate masses below has essentially been obliterated. (Employees, one assumes, can now bed down peacefully above their corporate masters.)
 This hybrid formula is now being adopted by the Department of City Planning, which sees it as a way to keep big corporations from fleeing for the suburbs. In its current zoning guidelines for the Hudson Yards, for example, the city agency is planning to propose the creation of two development corridors -- one along 11th Avenue, the other extending west from Ninth Avenue -- parts of which could accommodate structures with footprints between 40,000 and 80,000 square feet, or two entire city blocks. The plan, which will be presented to the city for certification later this month, will also create setbacks for residential towers to allow developers to take advantage of the valuable air rights.
 The scale of such projects alone could significantly alter the city's character. Visually, they are reminiscent of the Metropolis imagined by the architectural renderer Hugh Ferriss at the end of the 1920's: a city of mountain-like angular surfaces so dense and opaque it seems to be chiseled out of stone. At their most poetic, they evoke primordial caves illuminated by a few stray rays of light.
 But the projects also reflect a deeper fear: that the urban pull of Manhattan is losing its ongoing battle with suburbia. That fear is rekindled whenever corporate executives threaten to escape to the safe, open spaces of Westchester County, Jersey City and Stamford, Conn. In recent years, it has been exacerbated by both the spiraling costs of Manhattan real estate and the insecurities caused by Sept. 11. The response is the creation of a kind architectural mongrel: a view of urbanity that is rooted in suburban notions of isolation and conformity.
 The greatest threat to Manhattan's identity, however, may no longer be the suburbanization of the city but the urbanization of the outlying boroughs. And by far the most ambitious proposals for a new urban skyline today are in Queens. Together, they stretch along more than two miles of the East River waterfront, creating a dense ribbon of towers that could one day rival Manhattan's.
 Of these, the design by the Miami-based Arquitectonica is the furthest along. Dubbed Queens West, the project would transform 22 acres of abandoned waterfront warehouses into a playful mix of high-rise and low-rise buildings, commercial development and waterfront parks. The project's residential towers, some of which would reach 45 stories, are lined up along the esplanade. The design would fit nicely in a department at Target: hip, affordable versions of high-concept buildings. The waterfront towers are a variety of heights and sizes, like boxes playfully stacked on top of each other. What's most disturbing about the project, in fact, is not its scale but its decor. In a bizarre effort to break down the composition's visual scale, the buildings are decorated with crisscrossing patterns of window mullions in a variety of colors: burgundy, blue, green and yellow. Together, the surfaces look like Scottish plaid.
 Just to the south, the Los Angeles-based firm Morphosis is working on a less conventional housing development originally conceived as part of New York's bid for the 2012 Olympic games. It would include a series of low-rise housing complexes whose sinuous forms trace the water's edge and frame one side of a lush public park. Three rectangular towers anchor the complex's northern edge.
 The development's snake-like forms vaguely evoke the work of the British group Archigram -- the 1970's firm that once proposed the creation of machine-like ''Walking Cities.'' But in urban planning terms, the proposal is a throwback to Le Corbusier's 1952 Unite d'Habitation in Marseille, a grid of apartments raised up on columns and set in a vast park -- a rational antidote to the chaos and congestion of Manhattan. As such, the Morphosis project represents a kind of revenge by the great Swiss Modernist, who was famously tossed aside in the competition to design the United Nations headquarters nearly 50 years ago.
 Morphosis' vision may soon be joined by Richard Rogers's design for Silvercup Studios at the foot of the 59th Street bridge, whose symmetrical high-tech towers are a more muscular take on similar themes. Mr. Rogers is best-known for his design of high-tech Modernist structures like Lloyd's bank in London and as the co-architect of the Pompidou Center in Paris. In Manhattan, he is currently working on a waterfront esplanade that would extend from the tip of Battery Park to the Manhattan Bridge.
 It is only as one begins to consider these Queens developments as a single mass that their effect becomes clear. In obliterating the distinction between vertical and horizontal cities that once separated Manhattan from the outlying boroughs, the new skyline will shift the city's center. The East River will essentially be re-imagined as a spine, binding Manhattan to Brooklyn and Queens rather than defining Manhattan's outer limits.
 Such a shift would mean the lowering of one of the city's most rigid psychological barriers. It is apt to raise other fears: the steady erosion of Manhattan's primacy as a center of cultural production, the fleeing of the city's creative class to Brooklyn, and the transformation of Manhattan into an enclave for the rich. But it could also reinvigorate the city's architecture. Instability is good for culture. And just as the Manhattan grid embodies the rational order of modernity, its skyline has always symbolized the urge to break free of those creative constraints. To regain its ascendancy, the city must summon that spirit of imaginative freedom once again.


CORRECTION-DATE: October 10, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sept. 5 about new skyscrapers proposed or under construction in New York referred incorrectly to the owner of a London building designed by Richard Rogers, who is working on a development project in Queens with Silvercup Studios. It is the Lloyd's insurance exchange, not the Lloyd's bank. 
An article on Sept. 5 about skyscrapers proposed or under construction in New York misstated the function of part of a headquarters proposed for Goldman Sachs at Battery Park City. A tower atop its 18-story base would be office space, not residential. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Morphosis housing development, at left, was originally conceived as part of New York's bid for the 2012 Olympics. (Photo by Morphosis Architects)
A housing development in Queens being designed by Morphosis Architects of Los Angeles would trace the East River shoreline. (Photo by Morphosis Architects)(pg. 23)
New towers being designed by celebrated architects -- from left, Enrique Norten, Cesar Pelli, Richard Meier, Harry Cobb and Santiago Calatrava -- will contribute to a radical reshaping of the New York skyline. (Photos by Buildings left to right: Ten Arquitectos
Cesar Pelli & Associates/dbox Studios
Richard Meier & Partners
T. Kelly Wilson for Pei Cobb Freed & Partners
photomontage by Santiago Calatrava S.A.
skyline photograph by Melvin Levine/Getty Images)
Arquitectonica's proposal for Queens West, above and below, is a 22-acre mixed-use project that includes 45-story residential towers along a waterfront esplanade facing Manhattan. (Photographs courtesy of Arquitectonica)(pg. 22)
Santiago Calatrava's South Street tower sprouts four-story town houses
Enrique Norten's design for an office and residential building at 125th Street, below, looks like a fragment of Midtown. (Photo by David Sundberg/Esto [background photograph]
montage by Santiago Calatrava S.A.)
 (Photo by TEN Arquitectos)(pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (74%); CITIES (72%); SUBURBS (69%) Architecture; Architecture

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (73%); RUDY GIULIANI (53%) Nicolai Ouroussoff

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (69%); BEIJING, CHINA (69%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (54%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); EAST CHINA (75%) UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (69%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2004



130 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 634 words

HEADLINE: Working Your Way Down

 BODY:
As they so often do, economic reality and political expediency parted ways with the release of August's employment report on Friday. The reality is that unless President Bush pulls nearly one million jobs out of a hat in the next four months, he will indeed become the first president since Herbert Hoover to preside over a decline in employment in a single term in the White House. But Mr. Bush is determined to act as if nothing bad is happening on, as he likes to put it, ''my watch.'' And so in his first appearance after the Republican National Convention -- in a corner of the sliver of undecided America -- he declared that the numbers showed that the economy is ''spreading prosperity and opportunity and nothing will hold us back.''
 Nothing, perhaps, except the actual state of the job market. The United States gained 144,000 jobs last month, which is just barely enough to keep up with the number of people entering the work force. True, the job numbers for June and July were revised upward, but they were still weak, and much lower than August's. There was a tiny reduction in the unemployment rate -- because the work force became smaller, not because of job creation. Eight million people were unemployed in August, all told, the same as in the month before. 
 Dig beyond the numbers, and the situation is even worse. Even with a slight acceleration in August, average hourly wages for the month are not likely to keep up with inflation (that number comes out in mid-September). As has been the case throughout the current economic recovery, wages are held down by the slow pace of job creation and, to a lesser extent, by the mainly service-oriented jobs available. 
 With ordinary Americans' wages eaten up by inflation and their debt at nosebleed heights, consumer spending -- which accounts for two-thirds of economic activity -- will not be able to get the economy humming. July's summer sales on cars accounted for virtually all of that month's big-ticket spending -- most of it on credit. Already, economic growth in the second quarter has been revised downward a bit and consumer confidence registered an unexpectedly steep decline in August. 
 All of this makes Mr. Bush's assertion in his acceptance speech at the convention last week that what workers and the economy really need most is some new tax-sheltered savings accounts seem seriously beside the point.
 Mr. Bush's preferred explanation is that workers' problems are just part of the normal business cycle, in which employment typically rises after corporations get enough money to make investments, and wages rise after corporations are satisfied with their profits. That means the problem will be self-correcting, justifying Mr. Bush's lack of economic policy prescriptions. 
 But this recovery is now nearly three years old, and employment and wages are not so much trailing business success as diverging from it. A new study of recent Commerce Department data by the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities confirms that wage and salary growth has been exceptionally poor, while profits have been unusually robust. 
 Mr. Bush tends to attribute the unevenness of the economic recovery to the shocks that were already developing before his election (the stock market meltdown and corporate scandals) and those beyond his control (the 9/11 terrorist attacks). But this is the first time in more than 50 years that workers have for so long and so deeply failed to share in the benefits of growth. 
 Mr. Bush owes it to voters to look beyond the business cycle and his tax cuts and offer a way out of this economic sluggishness. Senator John Kerry would likewise do voters a favor by focusing the contest on ideas that might alter the status quo. No one is served by the current low level of the economic debate. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (71%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); PERSONAL FINANCE (67%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (64%) Presidential Election of 2004; Editorials; Labor; Unemployment; Election Issues; United States Economy; Presidential Election of 2004; Editorials; Labor; Unemployment; Election Issues; United States Economy

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) George W (Pres) Bush; Herbert Clark (1874-1964) Hoover; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush; Herbert Clark (1874-1964) Hoover; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2004



131 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Tasting the Apple, and Liking It; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1524 words

HEADLINE: New York Makes a Good Impression on Delegates

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR; Anna Bahney and John Holl contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
Jan Sweeney, a delegate from St. Paul, seems like the kind of steadfast Republican who would go through Hades itself to support her president, but she was not so sure about New York. Ms. Sweeney eventually decided to risk it, but first she put her affairs in order.
 ''I have a 7-year-old son, and I actually had a will made up for the first time,'' she said on the convention floor before President Bush accepted the nomination on Thursday night. ''You have to do it in case you get nuked or gassed or whatever.''
 But after almost a week, Ms. Sweeney was sad about leaving and eager to come back. She cried at ground zero, marveled at the protesters from a distance, and spent a lot of time bonding with New Yorkers, especially the ones wearing badges. 
 ''I felt like if I asked someone to rob me, they would have turned me down,'' she said. ''It was a life-altering experience.'' 
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg is hoping that along with all their shopping bags and political paraphernalia, Ms. Sweeney and her compatriots will take home a new respect for a city they feared and thought they hated..
 ''I think that people would generally agree that New York is an exciting place,'' he said, sitting in the basement of the Farley Building, the city's temporary quarters for visiting journalists. But, he added, ''Not everyone would say that New York is a safe place, even though it is one of the safest cities in America.'' 
 The police not only kept a lid on things -- sometimes in ways that protesters and civil libertarians found transgressive -- but they also served as ad hoc street concierges.
 In dozens of interviews, delegates and their fellow travelers heaped unstinting praise on police officers, not just for keeping them safe, but for giving them lavish directions or even walking them to their destinations.
 While many New Yorkers seem to regard the police as a necessary evil of urban living, much of the country sees the Police Department as a heroic part of America's post-Sept. 11 narrative. And police officers who were walking picket lines and violating noise ordinances over their contract a few weeks ago seemed to feed off the regard heaped on them.
 Gayle Belkengren, an alternate delegate from Minnesota, was among the impressed. ''You have police who are working 14-hour shifts without a contract, and they had a smile on their face every time I saw them,'' she said. ''They were absolutely wonderful.''
 More often than not, Ms. Belkengren saw the same face. Police officials made sure that the same officers showed up at the same corners for their shifts for the four days of the convention. ''It is the little things like that that end up making a big difference,'' said Kevin Sheekey, president of the New York host committee for the convention.
 In a city where events come and go like subways -- is it Fashion Week already? -- the size and peculiar majesty of a political event seemed to elicit its own response. The self-selected group of New Yorkers who stuck around for the August heat and the Republican invasion actually paid it some heed, either through protests or by coming down from their offices to see the presidential motorcade on Lexington Avenue on Thursday night.
 Jana DiMartino, 42, an alternate delegate from Maui, Hawaii, wearing the delegation's trademark leis on Wednesday evening at the convention hall, is a restaurant manager who knows something about hospitality -- and hostility -- toward visitors. 
 ''In Hawaii, we have what we call 'stink-eye,''' Mrs. DiMartino explained, narrowing her eyes in a vivid demonstration. ''We haven't gotten any stink-eye here.''
 To some degree, the delegates, many of whom were visiting New York for the first time, romped in a city that does not truly exist. Corseted by a frozen zone in its very middle and semi-deserted elsewhere, Manhattan became a kind of theme park, with delegates and party officials whisked among sparkly functions where their names were always on the list. By design, they lived in a hermetic bubble that was interrupted only by demonstrators at their hotels or on the way to the convention center. And those encounters often seemed more like a thrill ride than a genuine threat. 
 Don and Brigitt Peterson of Yorkville, Ill., found themselves in a debate at Eighth Avenue and 34th Street with a young man whose shirt suggested that the president was an ''international terrorist.''
 ''The protesters don't scare us,'' Mr. Peterson said later. ''They have as much right to be here as we do.''
 The protester finished, suggested that the city would be a better place without them and walked off. Then a bystander leaned in, according to Mr. Peterson, and said: ''Don't listen to that knucklehead. He's probably not even from New York. I am, and you guys are welcome here.''
 But civic courtesy had its limits. Marolyn Scheffel, a delegate from Parker, Colo., was disappointed that she had been advised by party officials to leave her memorabilia, including a sequined Bush vest and a red, white and blue hat, at home. 
 ''They told us not to wear any of it,'' Mrs. Scheffel said, ''and not to wear our delegate badges, either.'' 
 Gordon R. Pederson, 77, a state representative from South Dakota who stands about six-and-a-half feet tall in his white cowboy hat, took the subway to Lower Manhattan to ride the Staten Island Ferry. On the way, he said, a woman interrupted a conversation he was having with a pro-Bush volunteer firefighter from New York. ''She gave us an earful from 42nd Street all the way down to the Battery,'' Mr. Pederson said. ''You couldn't print what she said, but she kept going on about big oil, that's why we're in Iraq. And you couldn't even talk to her about it.''
 But in a city built on the contrary imperatives of strongly held opinions and habitually open minds, a lot of other people found much to talk about. It may not have occurred to New Yorkers who fled the convention that the dread was mutual, but small bridges were built by those who remained. ''I went to 'Hairspray,' and I saw it with four demonstrators from California. And so we were sitting there a half-hour early, and we started chatting,'' said Fran Wendelboe from New Hampton, N.H. ''They said, 'We've never met a delegate,' and I said, 'I've never met a protester.' And then we started talking about the issues like abortion and the economy and gay marriage.''
 The message that New York is both more interesting and much safer than most places was pounded in with a velvet hammer at the media center, where visiting reporters were treated to a spa, complete with hair stylists, masseuses and makeup artists. City officials said they were less concerned about impressing national media outlets than the local reporters from all over the country. 
 The mayor, in his role as chief marketing officer for the city's tourism industry, dropped by media headquarters for impromptu interviews with radio broadcasters and spent time talking to television reporters from small markets. By using a captive news media, here for the convention, in unconventional ways, the city created a parallel infomercial to match the one the Republicans were creating on behalf of their candidate. 
 ''When it's said that 70 percent of Americans get their news from television, they don't mean CNN and ABC,'' Mr. Sheekey of the host committee said. ''For a lot of Americans, this convention will be what appears on the two minutes of their local evening news.''
 Some of those reporters made room for coverage of the various functions to which the delegates had been invited -- outings to hit balls at Shea Stadium with the mayor or a visit to the Bronx Zoo. And those who were too busy to cover Mr. Bloomberg's convention curtain-raiser on Broadway were handed broadcast-ready tapes of it soon after it ended. The festivities, along with a convention that was generally seen as a home run for their party, went a long way toward altering perceptions.
 ''We had delegates who were very apprehensive about coming here,'' said Pat Kessler, a reporter for WCCO-TV, the CBS affiliate in Minneapolis. ''But once they got a couple of days under their belt, the fears evaporated.''
 Dennis B. Roddy, a columnist for The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, said New York was paradise for a visiting reporter. ''Even the bums are media savvy here,'' he said. But he was amazed that the city even felt a need to burnish its image. ''In some inchoate but very real way, everyone in the country is a New Yorker,'' he said. ''After what happened on 9/11, New York may need a hug, but it doesn't need a P.R. campaign.''
 The city's primary posture, one of engagement no matter who comes to town, remained in place to the end. At 12:30 on Friday morning in front of the New Yorker Hotel, Jerry Caffarello, a gay New Yorker, was having a chat with the Rev. Rob Schenck of Faith and Action, a Washington-based conservative political group.
 It was a kind of street kabuki, full of ornate gestures but little finger-pointing between men who seemed to have exactly nothing in common.
 ''We have a lot in common,'' Mr. Schenck countered. ''We have age, culture and history in common. And we both love New York.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: When the G.O.P. convention was over, workers cleaned up Madison Square Garden, while Corey Miltimore made off with his delegation's marker. (Photo by David Karp/Associated Press)
(Photo by Dean Cox/Associated Press)(pg. 33)
 Ana Trinque, a Florida delegate, on the last night of the convention. (Photo by Chip Litherland/Sarasota Herald-Tribune)(pg. 36) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (88%); POLICE FORCES (88%); CITY GOVERNMENT (87%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ELECTIONS (73%); ORDINANCES (71%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (71%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (70%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (69%); CITY LIFE (66%); NOISE POLLUTION (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Police; Conventions, National (US); News and News Media; Travel and Vacations

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) David Carr; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2004



132 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 5; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 159 words

HEADLINE: Homeland Security Funds: Is New York Getting Its Fair Share?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton did not mention other problems concerning the amount of taxes New Yorkers send to Washington and amount of aid we get back.
 Many states could make the same argument about inequities. Since this imbalance will never change, tax levies should be left to local governments. This would save administrative costs and keep more locally generated revenues in our communities.
 Abolishing irrelevant city government offices like public advocate, borough president and the New York City Council would save funds.
 Furthermore, with Republicans controlling the White House and Congress, it was a mistake for New York City (with the exception of Staten Island) to elect all Democrats.
 Taxpayers live within their means, and so must government. Growth in government spending must be held below inflation. With their deficits, Washington and Albany are in no position to solve our problems now!

Larry Penner
Great Neck, N.Y.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (88%); TAX LAW (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE (87%); CITIES (86%); TERRORISM (74%) Terrorism; Finances

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%) Hillary Rodham (Sen) Clinton; Larry Penner

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); ALBANY, NY, USA (69%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2004



133 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; SundayBusiness; OPENERS: SUITS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 242 words

HEADLINE: Outsourcing Corner Offices

BYLINE: By Mark A. Stein

 BODY:
A gag popular with cartoonists -- replacing highly paid American executives with lower-cost foreign managers abroad -- is getting a little attention in the public policy realm.
 The idea, an extension of the outsourcing of jobs, was posited last week in a report by the Institute for Policy Studies, a left-leaning research center, and United for a Fair Economy, a group seeking to narrow the gap between rich and poor. 
 Specifically, it said that George A. David, the chief of United Technologies, received $70 million last year -- all but about $4 million from stock options -- and speculated that shareholder value could be increased by hiring an executive in India to do his job for less. After all, it noted, the highest-paid executive there, Vivek Paul of Wipro -- a major beneficiary of outsourcing, as it happens -- pulled in a relatively puny $1.1 million.
 Why pick on Mr. David? The report said he was the highest-paid chief of any of the 15 companies it deemed ''leading outsourcers.'' Others include Sanford I. Weill of Citigroup, Lawrence J. Ellison of Oracle and Kenneth D. Lewis of Bank of America. If lower labor costs are their ultimate goal, ''U.S. executives might consider outsourcing themselves,'' the report suggested. Unsaid was how those hypothetical savings might be affected by the golden parachutes that many executives have packed for themselves. Often, the pacts require chiefs to be paid whether or not they work. Mark A. Stein


GRAPHIC: Photo: PROFITS IN COURAGE -- J.Russell Denson of Gruner & Jahr USA, left, John Byrne of Fast Company magazine and Senator John McCain at a Manhattan party on Thursday for the magazine's ''courage'' issue, something Mr. Denson may want to read in trying to revive G.&J.'s fortunes. (Photo by Frances Roberts for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (77%); STOCK OPTIONS (70%) Executives and Management; Labor; Wages and Salaries

COMPANY: UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (57%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (55%); CITIGROUP INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE FOR POLICY STUDIES (58%) Institute for Public Policy Studies; United for A Fair Economy (Orgn); United Technologies Corp

TICKER: UTX (NYSE) (57%); BAC (NYSE) (55%); BAC (LSE) (55%); 8648 (TSE) (55%); C (NYSE) (55%); C (BMV) (55%); 8710 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE DAVID (75%); JOHN MCCAIN (72%); SANDY WEILL (55%); KENNETH D LEWIS (54%); LAWRENCE J ELLISON (50%) George David; Mark A Stein

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (79%) India

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2004



134 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; The Nation: Working Class Warfare; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: How 'Flex Time' Became a Republican Idea

BYLINE: By PAM BELLUCK

 BODY:
FOR more than three decades, feminists and other liberals have championed the idea of flex time -- the concept that employees should have more freedom to adjust their work schedules to their families' needs. Such freedom would be a boon, they say, for working mothers, who may need to leave work early on one day, but could stay late on another.
 On the campaign trail recently, President Bush touted his own proposal that he says would reach the same goal. It would allow employees in the private sector to choose time off instead of overtime pay, and to work more than 40 hours one week and fewer the next. 
 Mr. Bush explained the proposal this way during a campaign stop in Columbus, Ohio: ''I think the government ought to allow employers to say to an employee: 'If you want some time off, and work different hours, you're allowed to do so. If you want to accumulate time to spend with your family, spend with your parents, spend for being re-educated, you're allowed to do so.'''
 The problem with this approach, feminists and other liberals say, is that it would require changing a law that guarantees unskilled workers extra pay for overtime work. ''It's the abolition of overtime,'' said Ellen Bravo, national director of 9 to 5, an association of working women. ''This is the employer flexibility protection act.'' 
 It turns out that both sides have different definitions of flex time -- not to mention radically different notions about the 40-hour workweek.
 For the women's groups, the emphasis has been on freedom to work less one day and more another, within a 40-hour week, which they consider a reasonable limit on how much a parent should be expected to work. 
 The president's program, a resurrection of similar proposals in the late 1990's by John Ashcroft, then a senator, among others, would change the Fair Labor Standards Act, which dates to 1938. The law generally requires that workers receive time-and-a-half pay when they work more than 40 hours a week, although a big exception is made for salaried employees in some executive, administrative or professional positions. 
 Under the law, workers cannot save overtime and use it weeks or months later as paid time off, unless they are union members with such provisions in their contracts. That is what the Bush plan would allow them to do. 
 Federal employees have worked under the more flexible rules since 1978, and President Bush argues that all workers should be able to enjoy the same choice of paid time off or the overtime pay. 
 But opponents of the plan say the kind of freedom they're seeking doesn't require a change in the law -- and that President Bush's proposal is intended primarily to save employers the cost of paying overtime.
 Their concept of flex time, imported from Europe in the 1970's, would basically allow workers to adjust their schedules within a 40-hour week by coming in late or leaving early some days, or working four 10-hour shifts. 
 That flexibility, Ms. Bravo said, is something that employers can offer now, voluntarily. 
 She and others are worried that the Bush proposal would undermine the 40-hour week as the standard for when a person deserves overtime pay, and that it could leave some employees susceptible to coercion. They say that employers, for example, might choose to give extra work only to those employees who want compensatory time off, not those who want to be paid overtime. 
 ''I'm all for flexibility, but this would sort of institutionalize the norm that working more than 40 hours a week is fine,'' said Vicky Lovell, a study director at the Institute for Women's Policy Research, a group in Washington that supports women in the work force. 
 Supporters of Mr. Bush's plan say the fears are overblown, noting that overtime pay would still be available to those who didn't want the compensatory time off. 
 Ed Potter, president of the Employment Policy Foundation, a business-oriented research group, said he believed the savings would be marginal for a company giving compensatory time instead of overtime. Employers would have to find substitute workers, he said, and assign administrators to organize employee schedules. 
 ''If you're worried that that's simply a scam to avoid overtime payment, I just can't imagine any company doing that,'' Mr. Potter said. ''If they didn't intend to implement it in good faith, they would end up with a very unhappy work force, it seems to me.''
 Then again, there is a question of how many employees would actually be affected by any flex-time proposal. Currently, only 4 percent of employers offer the kind of flex time that the liberal groups support.
 Lonnie Golden, an associate professor of economics at Penn State University, Abington College, and a critic of the president's plan, said that the people most likely to want time off instead of extra money are relatively well-paid employees in administrative and professional jobs, most of whom aren't eligible for overtime now anyway. 
 Critics of the president's proposal say it has little chance of getting through Congress any time soon, especially since a recent rules change about who qualifies for overtime has drawn heated debate. 
 Mr. Golden has his own proposal, one that could seem like a compromise: Pay overtime at the same rate as an employee's salary, instead of time and a half, but give the employee a half-hour off for each hour of overtime.
 ''I have no problem with reforming the overtime law,'' he said. ''Just make sure it promotes true flex time.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Helene Silverman) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OVERTIME (91%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (90%); FLEXTIME (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); WORK WEEK (89%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (89%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (89%); WOMEN (89%); WOMEN WORKERS (78%); WORKING MOTHERS (78%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CIVIL SERVICES (74%); LABOR UNIONS (73%) Labor; Feminist Movement; Women; Working Hours; Families and Family Life; Election Issues; Overtime; Wages and Salaries; Labor; Labor; Feminist Movement; Women; Working Hours; Families and Family Life; Election Issues; Overtime; Wages and Salaries

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%) Pam Belluck; George W (Pres) Bush; Pam Belluck; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2004



135 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; CAMPAIGN 2004: STRATEGIES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1699 words

HEADLINE: Worried, Democrats Urge Kerry To Turn Up Intensity of Campaign

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY and JODI WILGOREN; Elisabeth Bumiller contributed reporting from Washington for this article.

 BODY:
President Bush roared out of his New York convention last week, leaving many Democrats nervous about the state of the presidential race and pressing Senator John Kerry to torque up what they described as a wandering and low-energy campaign.
 In interviews, leading Democrats -- governors, senators, fund-raisers and veteran strategists -- said they had urged Mr. Kerry's campaign aides to concentrate almost exclusively on challenging President Bush on domestic issues from here on out, saying he had spent too much of the summer on national security, Mr. Bush's strongest turf. 
 As the Labor Day weekend began, Mr. Kerry appeared to be heeding the advice with an aggressive attack on Mr. Bush's economic leadership. But many supporters also said they wanted to see Mr. Kerry respond more forcefully to the sort of attacks they said had undercut his standing and to offer a broad and convincing case for his candidacy. 
 ''He's got to become more engaged,'' said Harold Ickes, a former political lieutenant to President Bill Clinton who is now running an independent Democratic organization that has spent millions of dollars on advertisements attacking President Bush. ''Kerry is by nature a cautious politician, but he's got to throw caution to the wind.''
 Senator Bob Graham of Florida, a former rival of Mr. Kerry for the Democratic nomination, said Mr. Kerry still had not settled on a defining theme to counter what Democrats called the compelling theme of security hammered into viewers of the Republican convention.
 ''The people are there, the candidate is there; it's the reason to vote for the candidate that's still a little out of focus,'' Mr. Graham said.
 Gov. Edward G. Rendell of Pennsylvania said Mr. Kerry ''has got to start smacking back.''
 And Senator Christopher J. Dodd, an influential Democrat from Connecticut, said his party's standard-bearer had ''a very confused message in August, and the Republicans had a very clear and concise one.'' 
 Mr. Dodd was one of several Democrats who said they now thought Mr. Kerry had made a mistake at his convention in July by talking mainly about his history as a Vietnam War veteran and criticizing Mr. Bush's policies, without offering a vision of what a Kerry term would be like.
 ''We did not adequately lay out the contrast, compare and contrast what a Kerry administration would do and what the Bush administration has done,'' Mr. Dodd said of the Democrats' convention in Boston. ''That was a mistake. Vietnam, in terms of John Kerry's service, that was a good point to make, but making it such a central point sort of invited the kind of response you've seen.''
 If nervous about the state of play going into Labor Day, Democrats were far from ready to concede defeat in a contest that typically does not engage until the start of September. They pointed to polls showing continued unhappiness with the direction of the country and Mr. Bush's mediocre job approval ratings.
 And not incidentally, they invoked Mr. Kerry's history of getting more focused on a contest only when he was faced with the prospect of imminent defeat; that is what happened when he ran for re-election to the Senate from Massachusetts in 1996 and when he won the Iowa caucuses this year after many Democrats had dismissed his candidacy as finished.
 ''John Kerry had a great July and George Bush had a good August,'' said Gov. Tom Vilsack of Iowa, one of a handful of Democrats who said they were not concerned by the turn of events. ''It doesn't mean a thing. This battle starts right now.''
 Still, Democrats said Mr. Bush's convention, combined with an aggressive advertising effort by former Vietnam veterans with ties to Mr. Bush's supporters to discredit Mr. Kerry's war record, had turned this contest away from a referendum on Mr. Bush's presidency and into a referendum on Mr. Kerry's character, war record and stand on Iraq.
 Some Democrats described this as an ominous development that Mr. Kerry had to address. 
 ''What they did is they lost control of the ball,'' said Representative Rahm Emanuel of Illinois, who was a senior political adviser in the Clinton White House. ''They allowed the election to not be about George Bush but to be about themselves. They have to get back on their game.''
 And Mr. Graham said, ''It's become a referendum on the challenger.''
 The remarks suggested something of a reassessment by many Democratic leaders who had, almost unanimously, praised Mr. Kerry's convention when he left Boston in July. 
 Their concern has mounted as Mr. Kerry has fended off an attack on his Vietnam record, and seem to have come to a head after a convention in New York where the Republicans systematically sought to take advantage of what they saw as lapses in Mr. Kerry's own convention. Those included the decision by Mr. Kerry and his aides to focus almost entirely on promoting his biography, for the most part avoiding the kind of sharp attacks on his opponent that were a dominant theme of Mr. Bush's convention.
 ''If you give me a hundred dollars, I couldn't tell you a single policy thing they talked about,'' Ed Gillespie, the national Republican chairman, said. ''They gave us a huge opening, and we jumped on it.''
 Mr. Kerry's situation is complicated by the fact that because the Republicans scheduled their convention so late, there is relatively little time to turn things around. 
 The questions about Mr. Kerry's campaign came as the candidate has beefed up his staff, bringing in some longtime party veterans, and shown signs of what aides said would be a new aggressiveness on the stump and on television. In a break from tradition, Mr. Kerry held a rally at midnight soon after Mr. Bush accepted his nomination to lash into Mr. Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney for questioning his combat record, noting that both Republicans had not served in Vietnam.
 ''You're seeing a different John Kerry,'' Mr. Vilsack said. ''He was up at 12 o'clock at night. He was saying, 'I am ready to rock and roll.'''
 Kerry is taking today off at his wife's farm in Fox Chapel, Pa., to celebrate the 31st birthday of his eldest daughter, Alexandra. Some of the criticism of Mr. Kerry's campaign was cosmetic. Several Democrats said they were not happy to see news photographs of Mr. Kerry windsurfing in the Atlantic waters off Nantucket during the convention, suggesting that it underlined the very image of Mr. Kerry -- as a wealthy, culturally out-of-touch liberal -- that the Republicans were trying to convey. 
 ''I might have gone windsurfing -- you certainly have a right to clear your head,'' said Mr. Rendell, a former head of the Democratic National Committee. ''But I'm not sure I would have taken the press with me.''
 Mr. Kerry's aides defended their strategy, saying the campaign would change, as planned, in tone and substance now that the Republicans were finished.
 ''There are stages in this race and the fall has always been about painting stark difference between the two candidates,'' said Stephanie Cutter, Mr. Kerry's communications director. ''You're just going to see an aggressive campaign that will go right at the real issues in this race.''
 And while taking questions in Ohio on Saturday, Mr. Kerry said he was not worried about how the campaign was going.
 ''We're doing good,'' he said. ''They are going to get a bounce out of the convention. But we'll be coming back.''
 And Democrats said all of this would be forgotten at what was shaping up as the next critical moment of the campaign: the two or three presidential debates, starting at the end of September. Aides to both sides said the encounters could be decisive, suggesting that many more undecided voters would watch them than had seen Mr. Kerry or Mr. Bush at their conventions.
 In questioning the Kerry campaign, some Democrats offered challenges to some of its most fundamental strategic decisions.
 Senator Evan Bayh of Indiana said Mr. Kerry had spent too much time talking about national security, including his own views on the Iraq war, and overplayed Mr. Kerry's Vietnam war experience, inviting the attacks that have dominated debate in recent weeks. 
 The focus on security was calculated to erase Mr. Bush's advantage on the issue. But Democratic leaders said the Kerry campaign had become ensnared in a debate that played to Mr. Bush's strength, and diverted him from challenging Mr. Bush on his domestic record.
 ''He needs to define this election,'' Mr. Bayh said of Mr. Kerry. ''So much of the convention was focused on national security -- if that's where the election is, I don't think he can win.''
 Most of all, Democrats were perturbed with what they described as the Kerry campaign's unsteady response to the Vietnam veterans groups making unsubstantiated charges about the combat medals Mr. Kerry won while in Vietnam.
 They expressed sympathy with the political dilemma Mr. Kerry confronted in trying to determine whether to respond to such charges would serve only to draw attention to them, but said they were astonished to see him struggling with what was supposed to be his strength.
 ''All of a sudden Kerry is on the defensive about his service and Bush is on the offensive about his service,'' Senator John B. Breaux of Louisiana said. ''It's absolutely amazing.''
 Gov. Jennifer M. Granholm of Michigan said: ''I think it is very critical that you don't answer a tuba with a piccolo. If he's hit, and he will be, he needs to stand up and fight.''
 Mr. Rendell said the mood of Democrats had swung sharply since Mr. Kerry's nominating convention.
 ''I think there is real concern,'' he said. But he added, ''Everybody has a level of optimism that it can turn around and will turn around.''
 Howard Dean, the former governor of Vermont who lost the Democratic nomination to Mr. Kerry, said Democrats were overreacting, noting Mr. Kerry's come-from-behind victories against William Weld in the 1996 race for Senate in Massachusetts and Mr. Kerry's decisive defeat of Dr. Dean in Iowa.
 ''They've been very aggressive and they've really turned withering fire on John Kerry and clearly we have to respond to that,'' Dr. Dean said. ''I tell you, I'm the one person in America other than Bill Weld that knows John Kerry can respond.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Democrats say the Republican convention has helped turn the race into a referendum on John Kerry's past. (Photo by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. 30)Chart: ''Offering Advice to Kerry''''If I've said it once, I'll say it a thousand times. Never defend, always attack. Once you start defending yourself, people think there must be something wrong.''Senator Tom Harkin of Iowa''He just needs to hammer home jobs, the economy, health care and education. Just day and night and just flail Bush with that.''Harold Ickes, former White House chief of staff''He has to, in my judgment, express a little bit more of righteous indignation. He's got to start smacking back. And No. 2, we have to fight back and show some of the hypocrisy.''Gov. Edward G. Rendell of Pennsylvania''Any time were talking about national security issues, any time we're talking about that, were on their field. We've got to move off of that.''Senator Evan Bayh of Indiana''John has got to control his natural desire to have something to say on a whole array of issues and focus on those two which are going to be determinative.''Senator Bob Graham of Florida''The more straightforward and the simpler you are with respect to your message the better it will be heard. If you're amplifying one or two issues it will be heard
 if youre amplifying 10 or 20 issues it will be diffuse.''Gov. Jennifer M. Granholm of Michigan (pg. 30)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); INTERVIEWS (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); VIETNAM WAR (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (75%); US LABOR DAY (75%); FUNDRAISING (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (70%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (94%); JOHN KERRY (93%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); TOM HARKIN (73%); EVAN BAYH (59%); JENNIFER GRANHOLM (58%); ED RENDELL (58%) Adam Nagourney; Jodi Wilgoren; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2004



136 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; The World; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1669 words

HEADLINE: A Global War: Many Fronts, Little Unity

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN. 
Roger Cohen writes the ''Globalist'' column for The International Herald Tribune

 BODY:
WHETHER or not the war on terror is winnable, it can determine who wins an election. President Bush went back and forth on the first question last week, but was relentless in setting a drastic paradigm for the November vote, portraying the election as a historic choice between a wobbly Democrat whose indecision could bring cataclysm and his own unwavering direction in America's hour of need.
 The chants of ''U.S.A., U.S.A., U.S.A.'' that accompanied this message at the culmination of the Republican National Convention -- and the anger in John Kerry's voice as he retorted that he is more qualified, not less, to lead a war -- gave a fair indication of the bristling strain in the post-9/11 national mood. Uncertain economy notwithstanding, this vote has a theme: the war. 
 Mr. Bush clearly thinks he can win on that terrain. But outside Midtown Manhattan, which was transformed into an obstacle course of checkpoints redolent of a war zone, the truths of the world's various battlegrounds looked less susceptible to crisp sound bites. 
 Russia, already rocked by two crashed planes and a suicide bombing, ended the armed takeover of a school by Chechen fighters with the loss of 200 lives or more. ''War has been declared on us, where the enemy is unseen and there is no front,'' said Defense Minister Sergei B. Ivanov. That sounded familiar.
 Months of calm in Israel were shattered by a bus bombing that killed 16 people; Hamas, the militant Palestinian group, claimed responsibility. At the same time, Hamas, well disposed toward France because of its opposition to the American venture in Iraq, joined a chorus of Arab voices calling for the release of two French journalists kidnapped in Iraq.
 The cold war, at least from the distance of history, was straightforward enough: the free world against Communism. Aware of the force, and familiarity, of simple ideas, Mr. Bush has placed America once again in the throes of ''a struggle of historic proportions.'' As he described it last week, that struggle is being waged by the ''greatest force for good on Earth,'' against terrorists bent on America's destruction. Responding to ''a calling from beyond the stars,'' America will, he insisted, liberate and democratize the Middle East.
 Live from Madison Square Garden, that vision had a ring to it. It was couched in the religious idiom of the Republican Party base but calibrated to stir broader subliminal feelings: America as the vehicle of liberty against Nazism, Communism and now jihadism. At the very least it has put Senator Kerry, the windsurfing Democratic candidate, on the defensive. But as Hamas's double message backing France and bombing Israel suggests, neat geostrategic equations tend to unravel pretty fast these days.
 Terror is not an enemy, but a method, used in different ways by different movements. The war on terror is a useful label. Most Americans know what it means and what a victory in that war would be: keeping their families safe from a reprise, perhaps nuclearized, of Al Qaeda's murderous assault on Manhattan and Washington.
 But it is also a label that has been seized on by President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, by Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel and, in various shades, by leaders from Italy to Pakistan to set their own agendas. It has become the reference for our age. But what does it mean?
 Perhaps great struggles are always cast in Manichaean terms of good and evil, with uglier truths, and nuances, concealed within that readily intelligible and readily exploitable model. This was true of the cold war. But it seems even more true of the war on terror, sometimes a Machiavellian construct tending to facilitate a might-is-right approach to governance.
 Mr. Putin, invoking ''the war on terror,'' is in fact confronting a war of decolonization. Chechens are fighting, with brutal methods equaled only by their adversary, to emerge from the Russian yoke. Max Boot, a conservative foreign policy analyst, said, ''Russia is waging the kind of scorched-earth campaign that Michael Moore only dreams we are waging in Iraq.''
 Because of Russia's authoritarian past, and because of the West's willingness to turn a blind eye to Russia's more egregious acts, in the interest of improved ties with Moscow and a semblance of anti-terror unity, Mr. Putin can act with relative impunity.
 In Israel, Palestinians have adopted the most abhorrent of methods for their fight -- blowing up busloads of children -- but that does not alter the fact that they are engaged in a national struggle for a homeland. The war-on-terror label has been useful for Mr. Sharon because it has perfectly aligned him with the United States. But, especially in the broader Arab world, America's enemy and Israel's are not always the same, whatever links may exist between Islamic terror networks.
 America's principal enemy, the one Mr. Bush was invoking so insistently but also so vaguely last week, is in fact Osama bin Laden and Al Qaeda, a terrorist grouping that benefits from images of the plight of Palestinians, but whose true objective is the destruction of the West and the United States as its personification. As Ian Buruma and Avishai Margalit wrote in a recent book, ''Occidentalism: The West in the Eyes of Its Enemies,'' the target here is ''the idea of America itself, as a rootless, cosmopolitan, superficial, trivial, materialistic, racially mixed, fashion-addicted civilization.''
 Perhaps it does not matter, in strategic terms, that the war on terror has become such a catchall phrase. As the Republican electoral platform published last week put it, ''Only total and complete destruction of terrorism will allow freedom to flourish.'' No matter the group or the aim, the platform argues, terrorists are all murderers for whom the only solution is eradication.
 But perhaps it does matter. Henri Laurens, a French historian of the Middle East, argues that the American lumping-together of the nihilists of Al Qaeda with the terrorists of Hamas, Hezbollah and even Chechnya, who are engaged in what they see as national liberation movements, was ''a fundamental error that has given greater margin to bin Laden's international jihad.'' He suggested that Mr. bin Laden had won the first three-year phase of the war since Sept. 11, having succeeded in ''destabilizing the politics of the Middle East, getting the American military out of Saudi Arabia, and opening a front in Iraq that stands at the center of the region that interests him and is a tremendous source of recruitment.''
 The problem with such arguments, of course, is that quantifying anything in the war on terror is very difficult. There is no real way of knowing if, since the invasion of Iraq, more or fewer young Arabs are now opting for terrorism as a career choice. Statistics on Soviet missiles were a lot simpler and more scientific.
 Richard Haass, the president of the Council on Foreign Relations and a former official in Mr. Bush's State Department, took a different view from Mr. Laurens. ''A largely unheralded accomplishment,'' he said, ''is that the last three years have made the world a far more difficult place for terrorists.'' Their bases have been destroyed, their finances disrupted, their sponsors discouraged. He suggested that the Bush administration's bold focus on reforming the Middle East was significant not least because it would bring new pressure on Egypt, where one-third of the Arab world lives.
 What is now clear is that the war on terror, however it progresses or is exploited outside America, is a galvanizing domestic political issue. Speaker after speaker at the convention came close to portraying Mr. Bush as a savior-president, spoken of in the same breath as Lincoln and Roosevelt, compared in inspiration to the Statue of Liberty, cast as the man standing between America and disaster, all of mankind and mayhem.
 Will Americans buy this portrayal in sufficient numbers to re-elect Mr. Bush? That remains an open question. But the power of the presidency, of being the commander in chief in a time of war, was evident last week, and Mr. Kerry now faces the fact that the Republicans have framed the debate in ways that may be difficult to shake. ''Freedom is on the march,'' President Bush claimed, with himself as engine. What the Democrats need, and have not found, is the wrench they can toss in those relentless Republican mechanics.
 A crossroads had been reached, it seems, not just in the election campaign but in the war on terror. On the one hand, there are forces driving the world to buy into Mr. Bush's vision: Even tiny Nepal now finds itself facing anti-Muslim riots in Katmandu because 12 Nepalese who went to Iraq to work alongside Americans were slaughtered.
 On the other hand, resistance to the American view is growing, spurred by what many see as the provocative drift of rhetoric and actions under the Bush administration.
 ''France has always resisted the vision of a clash between Islam and the West,'' Michel Barnier, the French foreign minister, said pointedly last week as Yasir Arafat, among others, insisted that France is a friend of Islam and that its journalists should be released. But Ayad Allawi, the American-backed interim prime minister of Iraq, challenged France. ''No neutrality is possible,'' he said, and France would not be spared because it was not fighting alongside his government.
 That fight, for Mr. Bush, goes beyond Iraq. It was clear last week that he has sought to get a big part of the United States pumped up to demonstrate in the Middle East what he called ''the transformative power of liberty.'' 
 America has entered another epic struggle. It does so even as Europe puts its faith in international institutions and laws. Transformative upheaval, especially on the old colonial terrain of the Middle East, is not the European thing these days. So the continent, like much of the world, is worried, groping for a common understanding of how the various targets of terror might best cooperate to define, resist and crush it.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Running from terror in Russia. (Photo by Anatoly Zhdanov/Komsomolskaya via European Pressphoto Agency)(pg. 1)
 In Nepal, a Katmandu mosque was attacked after 12 Nepalese hostages were killed in Iraq. (Photo by Binod Joshi/Associated Press)(pg. 7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (96%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); HIJACKING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); WAR ON TERROR (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); HAMAS (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); AL-QAEDA (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); COLD WAR (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (73%); AIRLINES (71%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (70%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (69%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (64%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (55%) Terrorism; Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; World Trade Center (NYC); Airlines and Airplanes; Hijacking; Terrorism; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Pentagon Building; Terrorism; Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; World Trade Center (NYC); Airlines and Airplanes; Hijacking; Terrorism; Pentagon Building; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (84%) Al Qaeda (Terrorist Group); Al Qaeda (Terrorist Group)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN KERRY (89%); SERGEI IVANOV (58%) Roger Cohen; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry; Vladimir V (Pres) Putin; Ariel (Prime Min) Sharon; Roger Cohen; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry; Vladimir V (Pres) Putin; Ariel (Prime Min) Sharon

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%); ISRAEL (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); IRAQ (93%); NEPAL (92%); FRANCE (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) New York City; Russia; Israel; Washington (DC); New York City; Washington (DC); Russia; Israel

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2004



137 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 3; Society Desk; WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 262 words

HEADLINE: Kate Solomon, Dan Slivjanovski

 BODY:
Kate Jenny Solomon and Dan Slivjanovski are to be married today on Martha's Vineyard. Judge Miriam Cedarbaum of United States District in New York will officiate at the Beach Plum Inn in Chilmark, Mass. 
 The couple, both 32, met at Northwestern University, where they each received a master's degree in business administration.
 The bride is a senior marketing manager at L'Oreal U.S.A., the cosmetics company, in New York. From 1995 to 1998, she was a Peace Corps volunteer in Caaguazu, Paraguay, where she taught beekeeping. She graduated from Harvard. She is a daughter of Peter J. Solomon and Linda N. Schapiro of New York, and a stepdaughter of Susan Solomon and Donald Schapiro. Her father is the founder and chairman of Peter J. Solomon Company, an investment bank in New York. From 1978 to 1980, he was the deputy mayor of New York for economic policy and development under Mayor Edward I. Koch. Her mother is the director of fund-raising for the Dalton School, the private school in New York. The bride's stepfather is a senior partner at Chadbourne & Parke, the law firm in New York. Her stepmother is a former chairwoman of the board of Safe Horizon, a nonprofit program in New York that supports victims of violence.
 The bridegroom is a senior vice president for strategy and analytics at HNW, a marketing consulting firm for financial service companies in New York. He graduated from Georgetown. He is the son of Dunja Slivjanovski of Santa Fe, N.M., and the late Rush Slivjanovski. His father was an owner of Windsoft, a computer software company in Lincoln, N.J.


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Nicole Friedler) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); STEPPARENTS (74%); LAWYERS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (72%); TOILETRIES MFG (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); COSMETICS (71%); VOLUNTEERS (70%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (68%); APICULTURE (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: L'OREAL USA INC (57%); CHADBOURNE & PARKE LLP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (58%); PEACE CORPS (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (57%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (55%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SANTA FE, NM, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); PARAGUAY (90%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2004



138 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; CAMPAIGN 2004: THE CANDIDATES; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1347 words

HEADLINE: With Polls on the Move, Bush and Kerry Take Their Economic Message to Ohio

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER and RICHARD W. STEVENSON; David M. Halbfinger reported from Steubenville, Ohio, and Richard W. Stevenson from Erie, Pa.

DATELINE: STEUBENVILLE, Ohio, Sept. 4 

 BODY:
Fortified by new polls showing him with a clear lead over Senator John Kerry, President Bush talked of economic renewal and tried to blunt Democratic attacks on his economic record as both he and Mr. Kerry campaigned Saturday across northeastern Ohio.
 ''In order to make sure this economy grows, we've got to make sure we keep your taxes low,'' Mr. Bush said in Kirtland, Ohio, lampooning Mr. Kerry, the Democratic presidential candidate, as a big-government liberal ''who has already promised over $2 trillion of new federal programs.''
 ''That's a lot, even for a senator from Massachusetts,'' Mr. Bush said, as the crowd booed. 
 Mr. Kerry, cruising by bus from Akron to Steubenville, criticized Mr. Bush over job losses and health care as he campaigned in this economically battered state for a second straight day. His aides also released a hard-hitting new advertisement showing Mr. Bush promising on Thursday night at the Republican convention to help the elderly, a day before federal officials announced the biggest-ever dollar increase in Medicare premiums, raising the monthly cost by $11.60, to $78.20.
 ''I believe we have a moral responsibility to honor America's seniors,'' Mr. Bush is shown saying in his acceptance speech. ''Now seniors are getting immediate help.''
 ''The very next day,'' an announcer intones, ''George Bush imposes the biggest Medicare premium increase in history while prescription drug costs still skyrocket. The wrong direction for America.''
 In Akron, Mr. Kerry told a blue-collar crowd that he would ''take the wood'' to Mr. Bush in November, saying the administration had ignored the problems of working people and skyrocketing health care costs for four years.
 ''Let me ask you something: Who are they going to send the bill to?'' he said of the Medicare rate increase. ''Are they going to send it to Halliburton? Are they going to send it to Ken Lay and Enron? You bet they're not; they're going to send the bill to our senior citizens.''
 Mr. Kerry, who has been urged by some Democrats to step up his attacks on Mr. Bush, suggested he had only begun to fight back. ''If they think they've seen the wood -- we're going to take the wood to them over the course of these next few months,'' he said. ''And we'll do it nicely.''
 Mr. Bush's aides said they intended to play offense, too, by venturing regularly onto Democratic turf, as Mr. Bush did on Friday and again on Saturday in four hotly contested states, three of which -- Pennsylvania, Wisconsin and Iowa -- went to Al Gore in 2000.
 On Saturday in Ohio, Mr. Bush, who was also campaigning by bus, made stops in Cuyahoga County, which includes Cleveland and which Mr. Gore won four years ago, and Lake County, which Mr. Bush won in 2000. Mr. Bush's stop later on Saturday in Erie, Pa., also put him in a region the Democratic ticket took last time.
 ''We are aggressively fighting for votes in areas where John Kerry's support should be strong,'' said Scott Stanzel, a Bush campaign spokesman.
 But Mr. Bush's events, as ever, were overwhelmingly filled with people already supporting him, and at his first stop, at an ''Ask President Bush'' event in Broadview Heights, Ohio, few of the questions seemed to speak directly to the issues most likely to be on the minds of undecided voters.
 ''Do you like broccoli?'' one person asked him. ''I'm not nearly as turned off by it as my dad is,'' he answered.
 Mr. Bush planned to campaign throughout the Labor Day weekend, the traditional kickoff for the general election race. But both of the Democratic Party candidates intended to take Sunday off. Mr. Kerry planned to spend the day in Pittsburgh to celebrate his daughter Alexandra's 31st birthday. And his running mate, Senator John Edwards, planned to spend Sunday with his family in Wisconsin, a spokesman said.
 Both presidential campaigns spent at least part of Saturday responding to recent polls.
 A Newsweek poll, conducted on Thursday and Friday, found that Mr. Bush was backed by 52 percent of registered voters, with Mr. Kerry at 41 percent and Ralph Nader at 3 percent. The poll had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus four percentage points.
 The poll's results were similar to those of one by Time, which also gave Mr. Bush an 11-point lead.
 While strategists on both sides said the polls most likely overstated Mr. Bush's support because they were taken in part during the convention, they suggested that the president had broken the deadlock that had defined the race for months.
 When asked about the polls during a stop in Chagrin Falls, Ohio, Mr. Bush told reporters, ''Got a lot of work to do.''
 Mr. Kerry did not respond to a question about the polls. But when asked how he was doing by a supporter in Edinburgh, Ohio, where he had stopped at a farm to shoot skeet, he said: ''We're doing good. They're going to get a bounce out of the convention, but we'll be coming back.''
 Mr. Bush's campaign manager, Ken Mehlman, said it would be next week before polls gave a clear view of the postconvention race.
 Tad Devine, a senior strategist for Mr. Kerry, said that he was not surprised by the gains for Mr. Bush in the polls but that he did not expect them to last.
 ''Typically, incumbent presidents reach a high in terms of the horse race right after their conventions,'' he said, adding that Mr. Bush's edge should start slipping away quickly.
 Mr. Kerry, meanwhile, who responded to the Republican convention on Friday by saying the president was ''unfit to lead this country'' for avoiding combat during the Vietnam War, left the attacks on Mr. Bush's military record to surrogates on Saturday.
 ''The simple truth is John Kerry was in Vietnam,'' said the mayor of Akron, Don Plusquellic. ''George Bush was hiding in the woods in Alabama and John Kerry was defending our country. That's the truth.''
 At long distance, Mr. Bush and Mr. Kerry pressed the issues that have shaped both their campaigns so far and are likely to dominate their face-to-face debates.
 Mr. Bush continued to emphasize what he said was his determination to keep the nation safe from terrorism and to portray Mr. Kerry as wavering when it came to national security.
 Responding to a question about his proposal to overhaul the tax code, he said he would not rule out a single-rate flat tax, an approach that would be sure to set off political fireworks if he pursued it. But, visiting areas that have been hard hit by job loss and foreign competition, he put special focus on his argument that his policies would best prepare American businesses to succeed and keep jobs in America.
 In particular, he talked about his proposal, unveiled in his acceptance speech at the convention on Thursday, to create ''opportunity zones'' that would give hard-hit areas special federal help for job training and economic development.
 ''It will be an intensive, holistic effort to address the fact that the economy is changing,'' he said.
 In Akron, Mr. Kerry recalled that Mr. Bush had run in 2000 promising ''help is on the way'' on several issues. 
 ''Four years later, where's the health care plan?'' Mr. Kerry asked. ''Four years later, have we had a big fight with Congress that you can remember over how we're going to provide health care to all Americans? Can the president come to you and say how much progress we've made, that we've actually covered all the children in America?
 ''No,'' he said. ''They haven't even tried.''
 Mr. Kerry said the administration had ignored countless opportunities to ''fight for people.''
 ''You'd think that a compassionate conservative, or a compassionate government, would actually reach out, say we're going to help you with your health care, we're going to help you with your unemployment,'' he said. ''But oh no, not this crowd. They're the first administration not to extend unemployment benefits when people needed it.
 ''They cut the job training by $1 billion, and now it's an election year and they turn around and say, 'Oh, we're going to do some job training,''' Mr. Kerry said.
 ''We've got to tell them on Nov. 2, 'You're four years too late, and it's over,''' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Both candidates spent time in Ohio yesterday. President Bush and his family took the stage in Kirtland. In Stratton, Senator John Kerry went to a bar and spoke with steelworkers. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)
 (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (88%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); LIBERALISM (75%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (71%); DRUG PRICES (69%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (64%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Medicine and Health; Presidential Election of 2004; Medicare; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Public Opinion; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Presidential Election of 2000

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (93%); AL GORE (58%) David M Halbfinger; Richard W Stevenson; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry; Al Gore

GEOGRAPHIC: AKRON, OH, USA (73%) OHIO, USA (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) Ohio; United States

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2004



139 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine Desk; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 9-5-04; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1645 words

HEADLINE: Welcome To Iraq, Mr. President

BYLINE: By David Rieff. 
David Rieff, a contributing writer, has reported extensively from Iraq for the magazine.

 BODY:
Even as the 2004 political campaign continues to focus on refighting the Vietnam War, one thing is certain: whoever wins the presidency will have other priorities. It will be the war in Iraq, the war that this generation of Americans is actually fighting and dying in, that George W. Bush or John Kerry will have to confront. Either man will have to do so at a time when Iraq poses difficult, perhaps even impossible, options for United States policymakers.
 In terms of policy, it is in no way clear that the president and Senator Kerry are all that far apart on Iraq. What is clear, even in the depths of a political campaign, is that many hard choices await the winner -- and he won't have much time to make them. There is a broad consensus that Iraq has reached what the military calls an inflection point, a crucial period when things could get a lot worse or a lot better very quickly. The next administration's first decisions may well determine the outcome. 
 For the moment, though, the hardest of these decisions are being postponed. The United States military has battled Moktada al-Sadr's Mahdi army in Najaf, and the president has reaffirmed to anyone who will listen his belief that things are improving in Iraq. Privately, however, people close to the administration concede that much will have to be decided upon once the November election is over. For his part, Senator Kerry has criticized the administration but has said little about the concrete decisions a Kerry administration would make once in office. These delayed reckonings seem to have had little or no political cost. Americans at summer's end were preoccupied with the Swift-boat controversy, not with the fighting in Najaf. And even the summer's steady toll of roughly two American combat deaths per day has neither seemed to resonate all that much with the public nor received anything like the coverage in the media or on the campaign trail that might have been expected. Certainly, American fatalities have received far less attention on local TV news, in the tabloids and on the cable networks than the Scott Peterson case or the Kobe Bryant trial.
 Even as fatalities go unacknowledged, the mounting American death toll is emblematic of the growing crisis on the ground in Iraq. This is not only a matter of Moktada al-Sadr's on-and-off rebellion in the Shiite heartland of southern Iraq. If anything, the fighting in Najaf has temporarily obscured the fact that much of the population of the so-called Sunni Triangle remains as unreconciled as ever to either the new political realities in Iraq or the continued presence of American troops. Just this April, U.S. marines seemed on the verge of taking control of Falluja -- a city that had remained a de facto ''no go'' area for U.S. forces after the fall of Saddam Hussein. But today, Falluja remains dominated by insurgent fighters, radical Sunni clerics and former members of Saddam Hussein's Republican Guard who were installed by the Americans after Washington decided not to risk the heavy civilian casualties that a Marine assault on the city would most likely have entailed.
 The administration seems to believe that it can wait until after the November election to do something about Falluja. Whether this means a renewal of full-scale hostilities is another matter. For as recent events in Najaf have demonstrated, an interim government whose senior officials were appointed with Washington's blessing and depend on the United States for their security is nonetheless deeply divided over the use of massive force by Americans against Iraqis, even Iraqi rebels. In other words, the domestic political risks in the United States of large-scale offensive may diminish after the election, but the domestic political risks in Iraq will not. And, as president, either Bush or Kerry would have to take those Iraqi concerns into account in order to ensure the viability of democratic elections in early 2005 -- a cornerstone of both America's strategy for Iraq and its exit strategy from Iraq.
 Whatever happens in Najaf or Falluja, United States officials continue to face a considerable difficulty: how to reconcile what an effective counterinsurgency strategy requires with what is politically acceptable to an interim regime whose continued political legitimacy and viability is also a strategic necessity for the United States. Use too much force and you alienate the very people you want to win over to the side of Prime Minister Ayad Allawi's government. Use too little force and you allow Shiite and Sunni insurgents alike to become more powerful, and more of a threat to the Allawi regime.
The recent fighting in Najaf has illustrated the problem. Leaving religious sensibilities aside (and the effect of seeing mostly Christian soldiers conduct military operations in the holiest cemetery of Shiite Islam cannot be overstated, at least to anyone who follows the news on Al Jazeera or Al Arabiya), the damage the recent fighting has done to Najaf and its surrounding area has been incalculable. For some time, Najaf's economy has been based on what is locally called the coffin trade (pious Shiites are enjoined to buy burial space in Najaf) and on Shiite pilgrims, above all from Iran. The combat has destroyed most of the hotels that were refurbished after Saddam's fall and were, until recently, doing a roaring business.
 If anything, the economic aftershocks of the clashes may be greater than the religious aftershocks. After all, Moktada al-Sadr's appeal is more populist than religious. (The Iraqi Shiite hierarchy views his claims to Islamic learning as specious and his calls for an Islamic state, presumably with himself at its helm, as ludicrous.) His followers are the unemployed young men of the Shiite south and the Baghdad slums. Give these people jobs, and many would probably abandon Sadr for more mainstream organizations like the Supreme Council for the Islamic Revolution in Iraq and other Shiite political parties.
 ''Reconstruction and security are two sides of the same coin,'' Secretary of State Colin Powell said during his visit to Baghdad in late July. Strange as it may sound, U.S. officials on the ground have had more success in meeting the security challenge than the economic challenge of building infrastructure and creating jobs. The continuation of hostage-taking and sabotage hasn't helped, but it is only part of the story. Inquiries are under way into allegations that millions of dollars have been misspent or wasted by occupation authorities and contractors. But the most serious problem is that of the $18 billion appropriated by Congress for Iraqi reconstruction last year, only about 3 percent has actually been spent.
 The next president will have to make Iraqi reconstruction a central priority. Today, the debate over whether the security cart comes before the reconstruction cart has become something of a blame game in Washington policy circles, with former members of the civilian Coalition Provisional Authority blaming the U.S. military and vice versa. Under these circumstances, getting Iraqi reconstruction off the ground will be no mean feat, even if Secretary of State Powell's promise to speed up the flow of money can be realized. Reconstruction efforts are bound to be halting. Without them, however, no military success against the Shiite youths who make up the Mahdi army will have the kind of lasting effect American planners are hoping for.
 Support for reconstruction must come from President Bush, once he is freed from the political demands of an election season, or from a President Kerry. There is simply no other option -- after all, reconstruction aid has no natural constituency in Washington and no powerful bureaucracy pushing for it. Effective as it is, the U.S. Agency for International Development does not and will never have the clout of the Department of Defense.
 Starkly put, if the next president does not push for it, it will not get done. And if things seem challenging in Iraq now, imagine another year of soaring unemployment, insufficient gasoline supplies and not enough power for Iraqis to air-condition their homes and refrigerate their food. 
The morale of the military in Iraq is also an issue the president will have to confront sooner rather than later. The continued use of the Army Reserve and National Guard poses a difficult problem. But almost as difficult will be the U.S. military's own sense of what is expected of it in Iraq. Trained as war fighters, American forces have again and again been committed to battle, in Falluja last spring and in Najaf more recently, only to be told that they could not play the role they had trained to play because of political considerations. Although occupation in a hostile environment saps soldiers' morale, it is far from a given that morale will crack. But morale may well become an issue that the next president cannot ignore. Complaints about an incoherent mission are already plentiful on Web sites and chat rooms oriented toward military issues. And yet, it will be a long time before an Iraqi military can fight credibly. (Iraqification, last year's big idea in Washington, has been a mixed bag: politically, it has worked; militarily, it has not.) Whatever fighting is to be done will largely be done by United States armed forces.
 None of these problems are insurmountable. With luck, most of them may even stay at a simmer until the U.S. election results come in. Perhaps it is unfortunate that we have to survive our partisan fevers before the next president can make decisions that, if they are to be successful, must be both rapid and essentially nonpartisan. But that is exactly where we find ourselves, and where President Bush will find himself if he is elected on Nov. 2 and where a President Kerry will find himself if it is his inauguration that takes place on Jan. 20, 2005. 


GRAPHIC: Photos (Photograph by Benjamin Lowy, Corbis)
 Iraqi crews building a water-treatment plant near Baghdad, March 2004. All sides agree that reconstruction is vital to the security of Iraq. Actually doing it is another matter. (Photograph by Scott Nelson/Getty Images)Chart: ''TABLES OF THE RECONSTRUCTION''Allocation of money for Iraqi reconstruction, as of April 2004 (in millions of U.S. dollars)Ministry Operations/Expenses (U.S. operating costs, etc.) $10,523Essential Services (power, water, sanitation) $5,447Humanitarian and Human Services $3,678Security $2,147Regional Programs (emergency projects) Governance$981 (judicial facilities, etc.) Economic$490 Reconstruction Public$362 Buildings and Other Reconstruction $55 Source: U.S. General Accounting Office

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); VIETNAM WAR (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ARMIES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (72%); ARMED FORCES (68%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (65%); TERRORISM (62%) United States Armament and Defense; Election Issues; United States International Relations; Terrorism; Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (59%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (69%); MOQTADA AL-SADR (57%); KOBE BRYANT (52%) David Rieff; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (78%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (95%) Iraq; Falluja (Iraq); Iraq

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2004



140 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Week in Review Desk; 58 Days to Go; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 523 words

HEADLINE: What Matters Now

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

 BODY:
FIRST it was going to be the $80 million in Republican television advertisements unloaded on Senator John Kerry this spring -- quickly matched by a barrage of television attacks dumped on President Bush by Democrats.
 Next up was the two-week pageant of Mr. Kerry's selection of a vice president, leading up to his nomination at the Democratic convention. After that, it was President Bush's nonstop month of campaigning in August, with a new stump speech, culminating in his renomination at a lavish convention in New York. 
 This presidential campaign has been marked by a succession of what were considered Big Moments, anticipated by both sides as a way of unlocking a stubbornly deadlocked contest. And while the verdict is out on Mr. Bush's convention -- beware polls taken over the Labor Day weekend, which can be quite unreliable -- it seems safe to say that at least going into last week, none of these once reliable big moments have proved to be very big at all.
 Even some Republicans were conceding that Mr. Bush's convention -- described by Republicans and Democrats alike as a success -- might not ultimately make that much of a difference. 
 ''When it comes to actually affecting undecided voters, conventions are probably a draw for both parties,'' said Scott Reed, a Republican consultant who managed Bob Dole's 1996 campaign. 
 The small group of undecided voters are, pollsters say, people who are not interested in politics, and thus not paying much attention to what is going on. What that means is that this election could end up being decided in the final days.
 All of which is worth keeping in mind as Mr. Bush and Mr. Kerry head into the fall campaign. There are a few predictable Big Moments left that bear close attention. Leading the list are the debates. There will be two or three presidential debates, depending on how many Mr. Bush agrees to, and one vice-presidential debate. The debates are likely to draw far more viewers than either convention -- and a lot more undecided voters.
 ''I would put my money on the debates as being the next big moment -- if not the defining moment -- of the campaign,'' said Andrew Kohut, director of the nonpartisan Pew Research Center for the People and the Press.
 Beyond that, by this time next week, the number of battleground states -- now 19 or 20 -- will have shrunk to probably a dozen or so, aides to both campaigns say, as each side does a realistic, post-convention assessment of which are really in play. (Two easy guesses: Republicans say goodbye to New Jersey, while Democrats dump North Carolina.)
 And some questions that have hung over the race this year are about to be answered. How aggressively will Ralph Nader campaign? Which candidate will -- given all the maneuvering to get around the strictures of the campaign finance laws -- end up with the financial advantage? Have Mr. Bush and Mr. Kerry really succeeded in setting up the turn-out-the-vote operations that both sides have said is critical to success? 
 Setting aside imponderables like Iraq and the economy, here's a guide to the landscape ahead, from New York Times correspondents covering the race.


GRAPHIC: Photo: VOTER GUIDE -- Money, polls, ads, debates, running mates, spouses and early voting.Drawing (Drawing by MK Mabry)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); US LABOR DAY (68%) Presidential Election of 2004; Debating; Presidential Election of 2004; Debating

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); JOHN KERRY (92%); RALPH NADER (79%) Adam Nagourney; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry; Adam Nagourney; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2004



141 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 5, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; SundayBusiness; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2671 words

HEADLINE: Schlepping to Moguldom

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
HAIM SABAN, one of the nation's richest and most improbable media magnates, was slouched in a leather seat aboard his Gulfstream jet during a trip from Los Angeles to New York this spring, rattling on about his support for Israel. After devouring a bagel covered in lox, he leaned forward and launched into his favorite story from the Democratic presidential primaries. 
 ''Did I tell you what Howard Dean told me?'' he asked, knowing full well that he had not, at least not yet today. ''Do you know how he tells me that he is going to support Israel?'' he recounted, with a look of incredulity. ''He tells me, 'Don't you know my wife is Jewish?''' 
 Mr. Saban, 59, let out a sharp laugh, pausing for effect, before delivering his punch line. ''Do you know what I told him? I said, 'Governor, the fact that your wife is Jewish is your problem.''' 
 A self-described ''cartoon schlepper,'' Mr. Saban became a billionaire by turning the Mighty Morphin Power Rangers into a global franchise that he merged with Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation and, in 2001, sold to the Walt Disney Company for $5.3 billion. He has since emerged as perhaps the most politically connected mogul in Hollywood, throwing his weight and money around Washington and, increasingly, the world, trying to influence all things Israeli. 
 ''I'm a one-issue guy and my issue is Israel,'' he said in his first extensive interview in years.
 To that end, he has become one of the largest individual donors in the country to the Democratic Party and its candidates, giving millions over the past decade -- $7 million in just one donation to the Democratic National Committee in 2002. He recently had Senator John Kerry over to his chateau-style home in Beverly Hills. (''We played guitar and kibitzed,'' he said.) He regularly spends hours at a time on the phone with Ariel Sharon, the Israeli prime minister. He vacations with Bill Clinton.
 At the same time, Mr. Saban has been bidding -- or at least kicking the tires -- on media properties around the world as he looks to expand his empire and, by extension, his political reach.
 But what really has people talking in Hollywood and Washington is his most ambitious project yet: he is the proud owner of the largest television broadcaster in Germany. ''I know, I know. I get the irony,'' he said with a smile.
 A year ago, Mr. Saban beat out his one-time partner, Mr. Murdoch, and many other media titans to buy the broadcaster, ProSiebenSat.1 Media, putting him in control of a company that owns the rough equivalent of CBS, ABC, TBS and Nickelodeon. 
 ''That level of ownership would never be allowed in the U.S.,'' he acknowledged. ''It would be too much concentration.''
 Since taking over the broadcaster, he has turned it around -- cutting costs and sending it American hits like ''The OC,'' a Fox Network series about teenage tribulations, and ''Nip/Tuck,'' a drama centered in a plastic surgery clinic. Not only is the company making money, but Mr. Saban may finally be shaking a reputation that has long dogged him: that he has gone further on luck than talent.
 ''It's easy to be jealous of someone like Haim,'' said Peter Chernin, president and chief executive of the News Corporation. ''But I think the Germany situation has the potential to be not just a financial score but serve as the cornerstone of something bigger.''
 That, Mr. Saban readily acknowledged, is the plan. As one of the richest people in Hollywood, he hears about possible deals constantly. He is toying with the idea of buying The Jerusalem Post from Hollinger International, which has been canvassing for buyers. ''If they ever come to earth with the price, I would be interested in it,'' he said. 
 He has also stirred controversy in Britain, where he publicly expressed interest in buying ITV, the country's biggest commercial network, while accusing its competitors, BBC News and Sky News, the news arm of the pay-TV provider British Sky Broadcasting, of pro-Arab coverage. 
 Of course, not every deal has panned out. Last year, he joined a consortium led by Edgar Bronfman Jr. that was bidding on Warner Music, only to drop out at the 11th hour, worried that the group was overpaying. Now that Warner Music is on an upswing, it looks as if he may have missed an opportunity. But Mr. Saban says he has moved on. 
 ''I don't even think about it,'' he said.
 Mr. Saban said he had other deals up his sleeve, but he refused to tip his hand. You can count on him to pursue them tirelessly. ''I don't play golf and I don't collect stamps,'' he said. ''I don't ride horses. I don't go mountain hiking, I don't go star gazing. I don't do any of that.''
 Don't bother asking him what his hobby is. ''I have none. Zero. It's my family and work.''
 Mr. Saban's path to moguldom has certainly been unusual. He was born in Egypt but fled to Tel Aviv with his parents, his brother and his grandmother after the 1956 Suez War. Struggling to get by, the family lived in a one-room apartment and shared a bathroom, he recalled, ''with a hooker and a pimp.'' 
 As a teenager, he took up the bass guitar and began managing bands and promoting concerts. But his business was wiped out by the 1973 Yom Kippur War and he decided to move to Paris with his business partner, Shuki Levy.
 HIS big break came soon after that. While vacationing in Tel Aviv, he got a call from a producer in Paris who wanted one of Mr. Saban's clients, Noam Kaniel, a child singer, to record the theme song for a cartoon called ''Goldorak,'' which was wildly popular in France in the 70's. So he flew back to France and headed to the studio. 
 ''It was just one of the worst songs I ever heard in my life,'' he recalled. ''But we schlepped all the way there so I said, 'Let's do it so we can get out of here and get back to the pool at the Sheraton in Tel Aviv.''' About a month later, Mr. Saban got a copy of the master and a bill for $2,000 from the producer. 
 ''I said: 'I do you a favor and you want $2,000. I don't want the master,''' he remembered. ''So now I'm schlepping around to record companies looking for someone to give me a licensing deal and pay me an advance of $2,000. But the song is so awful nobody wants to give it to me, nobody. So I find this guy at CBS just out of school who is willing to just ship a few hundred copies.''
 When ''Goldorak'' became hugely successful, its theme song started selling, and those few hundred copies soon turned into 3.5 million. 
 During that process, he had his eureka moment. Because he owned the master recording for the TV program, he collected all of the profit. ''I found out on a TV deal all the money came to me, not to the record company,'' he said. ''On a licensing deal you only get 20 percent. I was swimming in money. I didn't know what to do with myself. Everything went whoosh from there.'' 
 He and his partner started releasing music soundtracks in France for television shows like ''Dallas'' and ''Knots Landing.'' In late 1983, Mr. Saban moved to Los Angeles and began writing and producing cartoon soundtracks, though not always with much success. 
 ''When I moved to this country in 1983, you can rest assured that they weren't waiting in lines to meet me and see me and make deals with me,'' he said. ''Did I wait for hours for a cartoon producer to see me so I could play him some of our music and after hours his assistant would come out and say, 'Well, he won't be able to see you today'? Yes.''
 Soon, however, he was on a roll. He wrote the theme song for the cartoon series that eventually became the Disney movie ''Inspector Gadget,'' for example, and then bought the television rights to the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles from the creators of the comic book characters. The television program became an overnight sensation.
 Then, in 1985, on a business trip to Tokyo, he hit gold in a room at the Imperial Hotel. ''They have all these crazy game shows on and I didn't understand anything and then this thing came on,'' he said, referring to a children's cartoon show known as ''Dinosaur Task Force Zyuranger.'' 
 ''I said: 'Oh my God. Oh my God.' It was fascinating. I thought it was magical. It was incredible.'' 
 For half a million dollars -- ''which is not nothing,'' he noted -- he bought the rights to broadcast the program outside of Asia. After eight years of begging and pleading, he finally persuaded the News Corporation's Fox Network to broadcast the show, renamed ''The Mighty Morphin Power Rangers,'' in the summer of 1993. It was an instant hit.
 With the hottest children's show in the world on his hands, Mr. Saban formed a joint venture with Fox in 1996. It turned out to be a shrewd move. The next year, the venture acquired the Family Channel from its founder, Pat Robertson, for $1.9 billion and turned it into the Fox Family Channel. Four years later, Michael D. Eisner, the Disney chief executive, negotiated a deal to buy the channel for Disney for $5.3 billion.
 THE deal is considered one of Mr. Eisner's worst, one that he has acknowledged as a drag on his company. But Mr. Saban walked away with some $2 billion for himself. ''People say they overpaid,'' Mr. Saban said. ''Beauty is in the eye of the beholder. I will be very honest with you and this may sound somewhat arrogant -- I will tell you that I ended up with about a half-billion less than what I thought I could have gotten for those assets.''
 In any event, some of the proceeds from that sale helped to underwrite Mr. Saban's relatively newfound passion: politics.
 He said he caught the political bug in the mid-1990's, when he felt that support for Israel was slipping in the United States. He and his wife, Cheryl (who, by the way, is not Jewish), slept in the White House several times during President Clinton's two terms. And Mr. Saban has remained close to the former president. 
 ''Haim Saban has been a very good friend, supporter and adviser to me,'' Mr. Clinton said in an e-mail message. ''I am grateful for his commitment to Israel, to a just and lasting peace in the Middle East and to my foundation's work, particularly on reconciliation issues.'' 
 Mr. Clinton might have added that he is also grateful for Mr. Saban's commitment to the Democratic Party, including his $7 million donation two years ago, the largest individual donation in its history.
 While Mr. Saban is a vocal opponent of President Bush -- ''I think Bush is just messing it up every day more'' -- he supports some of Mr. Bush's policies. ''On the issues of security and terrorism I am a total hawk,'' he said. ''I'm a Democrat for the reinforcement of the Patriot Act. It's not strong enough. The A.C.L.U. can eat their heart out, but they are living in the 1970's. We should all have ID's. You betcha. What do you have to hide? Some friends of mine on the left side think I'm crazy.''
 Why is he so supportive of Israel? ''I hate quoting Tom DeLay, I really do,'' Mr. Saban said. ''If you're going to quote me quoting Tom DeLay, say I hate quoting him.'' He continued, apparently quoting Mr. DeLay, the House Republican leader: ''He said: 'It is the right thing for us to do to be supportive of Israel. The reasons go back to the beginning of time.'''
 Mr. Saban's views on the matter are straightforward. He is a tireless cheerleader for Israel. But when it comes to conflict there, his views are hardly sanguine. ''I'm going to make a very controversial statement and I hope to God that I am proven totally wrong: I think that any resolution will have to go both on the Palestinian side and Israeli side to some form of civil war. It's not going to be without spilling blood.'' 
 In 2002, he pledged $13 million to start a research organization at the Brookings Institution called the Saban Center for Middle East Policy. (''I've heard from leaders on both sides of the aisle in the United States and leaders in Europe about what Sharon shouldn't do,'' he said. ''I've haven't heard one educated suggestion about what he should do.'') Mr. Saban spends hours every week drumming up support for a variety of charitable causes and, especially, for Israel, sponsoring lunches and dinners at his home and around the country to raise money for candidates who he believes will support his cause. ''He has no hesitation to bang on your door for a cause he believes in,'' said Ron Meyer, president of Universal Studios, who called Mr. Saban one of the few guys ''who puts his money where his mouth is.''
 In a faxed letter, Mr. Sharon said of Mr. Saban: ''To me he will always be a dear personal friend. Haim Saban is a great American citizen and a man who always stood by Israel and the Jewish people in times of need. His contribution to strengthening ties between Israel and American political leaders from all parties has been quite remarkable and outstanding.''
 So how did Mr. Saban wind up putting so much of his money in Germany? 
 In 2002, Leo Kirch's empire, KirchMedia, the largest media company in Europe, went bankrupt. Flush with cash from the sale of Fox Family to Disney, Mr. Saban was scouring for deals and sensed an opportunity. ''These kind of assets people don't go around selling,'' he said. ''At a normal time we wouldn't have had a prayer in hell.''
 BY his own account, the timing was perfect. ''There was a very small window of opportunity where every single studio had its own issues,'' he said, and his rivals, thus distracted, were not in a good position to bid against him. Mr. Murdoch never had his heart in the auction because he was working on his deal for DirecTV. Time Warner was still struggling with its acquisition of AOL. Viacom could not get enthusiastic about the deal. And Disney was still struggling with the purchase of Fox Family, renamed ABC Family.
 ''Our biggest advantage was that we had the cash but no business,'' Mr. Saban said. ''These assets really should have been bought by one of the majors as an outlet for their programming in Europe.'' Indeed, he is now among the biggest single buyers of Hollywood programming outside of the United States.
 In Germany, foreign entrepreneurs like John C. Malone, chief executive of the Liberty Media Group, have failed in efforts to buy assets, perhaps because their cavalier attitude created problems with regulators. Mr. Saban sweet-talked them. He also used some of his political influence, asking the American ambassador to put in a good word for him. 
 Mr. Saban has not been shy about calling on his political friends to help sell advertising, too. This year, he invited Germany's most prominent advertising executives to his home in Los Angeles for dinner with Mr. Clinton. The executives, he said, were stunned.
 ''These people never saw Leo Kirch in their life,'' Mr. Saban said. ''They never saw him. And now the new owner all of a sudden has them in his home with Bill Clinton speaking to them.''
 Mr. Saban remembers precisely where he was when he clinched the deal for ProSiebenSat.1: on his cellphone, as he was standing in the middle of the former concentration camp at Dachau, where he and his family had gone to visit. ''I found it kind of interesting, to say the least, that the timing and the geography all came together the way they did,'' he said.
 Investing in Germany was an easier decision for him than some people might imagine, he said. ''I'm not suggesting we ignore what happened in Germany 50 years ago,'' he said, ''but I am suggesting that we don't allow it to keep us from going into the future.''
 He added that the German government had been very supportive of him, but not because of his history. ''There have been all kinds of theories because of the fact that I'm an Israeli-American and the like,'' he said. ''I don't think so. I think it's a pure economic issue.''
 Well, maybe not all economics. Haim Saban ''is not like one of the guys just assembling trophy properties,'' said Steven Rattner, the managing director of the Quadrangle Group, an investment firm that backed Mr. Saban in ProSiebenSat.1. ''He'd rather be considered a mogul in Germany than here,'' Mr. Rattner said. ''He thinks Germany is critical to Israel.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: CARTOONS -- Haim Saban owes his fortune to the Power Rangers, now teenage heroes on ABC.
POLITICS -- With his wife, Cheryl, Mr. Saban was a frequent guest at the Clinton White House.
A MEDIA BASE -- A scene from a made-for-TV film on ProSiebenSat.1 Media, his company in Germany.
Haim Saban, who turned cartoons into a multibillion-dollar fortune, has an office overlooking Los Angeles, but his world view centers on Israel. (Photo by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
In Munich last May for a meeting of ProSiebenSat.1 Media shareholders, the new owner, Haim Saban, examined a copy of the German newspaper Bild. (Photo by Timm Schamberger/Agence France-Press -- Getty Images)(pg. 4)
 Haim Saban, right, then chairman and chief executive of Fox Family Worldwide, at an advertising promotion event in 1999, two years before selling to Disney. (Photo by Frank Micelotta/ImageDirect, for Fox Family Worldwide)(pg. 6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (83%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); INTERVIEWS (72%); DIVESTITURES (70%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (62%); PRIME MINISTERS (60%) Television; Biographical Information; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Finances; Election Issues

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (82%); WALT DISNEY CO (82%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (53%); PROSIEBENSAT.1 MEDIA AG (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK RANGERS (82%) Prosiebensat1 (Co); Disney, Walt, Co

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (82%); NWS (ASX) (82%); DIS (NYSE) (82%); PSM (FRA) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (82%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (82%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (82%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (82%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (82%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (82%); NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (53%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (53%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (51%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); BILL CLINTON (72%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (50%) Andrew Ross Sorkin; Haim Saban

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) ISRAEL (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (91%); CENTRAL EUROPE (65%) Israel; Germany; Israel

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2004



142 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1812 words

HEADLINE: Workers of the World, Relax

BYLINE: By Alain de Botton. 
Alain de Botton is the author of ''How Proust Can Change Your Life'' and ''Status Anxiety.''

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
The most remarkable feature of the modern workplace has nothing to do with computers, automation or globalization. Rather, it lies in the Western world's widely held belief that our work should make us happy.
 All societies throughout history have had work right at their center; but ours -- particularly America's -- is the first to suggest that it could be something other than a punishment or penance. Ours is the first to imply that a sane human being would want to work even if he wasn't under financial pressure to do so. We are unique, too, in allowing our choice of work to define who we are, so that the central question we ask of new acquaintances is not where they come from or who their parents are but, rather, what it is they do -- as though only this could effectively reveal what gives a human life its distinctive timbre. 
 It wasn't always like this. Greco-Roman civilization tended to view work as a chore best left to slaves. For both Plato and Aristotle, fulfillment could be reached only when one had the command of a private income and could escape day-to-day obligations and freely devote oneself to the contemplation of ethical and moral questions. The entrepreneur and merchant may have had a nice villa and a heaping larder, but they played no role in the antique vision of the good life. 
 Early Christianity took a similarly bleak view of labor, adding the even darker thought that man was condemned to toil in order to make up for the sin of Adam. Working conditions, however abusive, could not be improved. Work wasn't accidentally miserable -- it was one of the planks upon which earthly suffering was irrevocably founded. St. Augustine reminded slaves to obey their masters and accept their pain as part of what he termed, in ''The City of God,'' the ''wretchedness of man's condition.'' 
 The first signs of the modern, more cheerful attitude toward work can be detected in the city-states of Italy during the Renaissance, and in particular, in the biographies of the artists of the time. In descriptions of the lives of men like Michelangelo and Leonardo, we find some now familiar-sounding ideas about what our labors could ideally mean for us: a path to authenticity and glory. Rather than a burden and punishment, artistic work could allow us to rise above our ordinary limitations. We could express our talents on a page or on a canvas in a way we never could in our everyday lives. Of course, this new vision applied only to a creative elite (no one yet thought to tell a servant that work could develop his true self: that was a claim waiting for modern management theory), but it proved to be the model for all successive definitions of happiness earned through work.
 It was not until the late 18th century that the model was extended beyond the artistic realm. In the writings of bourgeois thinkers like Benjamin Franklin, Diderot and Rousseau, we see work recategorized not only as a means to earn money, but also as a way to become more fully ourselves. It is worth noting that this reconciliation of necessity and happiness exactly mirrored the contemporary re-evaluation of marriage: just as marriage was rethought as an institution that could deliver both practical benefits and sexual and emotional fulfillment (a handy conjunction once thought impossible by aristocrats, who saw a need for a mistress and a wife), so too work was now alleged to be capable of delivering both the money necessary for survival and the stimulation and self-expression that had once been seen as the exclusive preserve of the leisured.
 Simultaneously, people began to experience a new kind of pride in their work, in large part because the way that jobs were handed out took on a semblance of justice. In his autobiography, Thomas Jefferson explained that his proudest achievement had been to create a meritocratic United States, where ''a new aristocracy of virtue and talent'' replaced the old aristocracy of unfair privilege and, in many cases, brute stupidity. Meritocracy endowed jobs with a new, quasi-moral quality. Now that prestigious and well-paid posts seemed to be available on the basis of actual intelligence and ability, your job title could perhaps say something directly meaningful about you.
 Over the 19th century, many Christian thinkers, especially in the United States, changed their views of money accordingly. American Protestant denominations suggested that God required his followers to lead a life that was successful both temporally and spiritually. Fortunes in this world were evidence that one deserved a good place in the next -- an attitude reflected in the Rev. Thomas P. Hunt's 1836 bestseller ''The Book of Wealth: In Which It Is Proved From the Bible That It Is the Duty of Every Man to Become Rich.'' John D. Rockefeller was not shy to say that it was the Lord who had made him rich, while William Lawrence, the Episcopal bishop of Massachusetts, writing in 1892, argued, ''We, like the Psalmist, occasionally see the wicked prosper, but only occasionally,'' adding, ''Godliness is in league with riches.''
 As meritocracy came of age, demeaning jobs came to seem not merely regrettable, but, just like their more exciting counterparts, also deserved. No wonder people started asking each other what they did -- and listening very carefully to the answers. 
 Though all this may seem like progress, in truth, modern attitudes toward work have unwittingly caused us problems. Today, claims are made on behalf of almost all kinds of work that are patently out of sync with what reality can provide. Yes, a few jobs are certainly fulfilling, but the majority are not and never can be. We would therefore be wise to listen to some of the pessimistic voices of the pre-modern period, if only to stop torturing ourselves for not being as happy in our work as we were told we could be.
 William James once made an acute point about the relationship between happiness and expectation. He argued that satisfaction with ourselves does not require us to succeed in every endeavor. We are not always humiliated by failing; we are humiliated only if we first invest our pride and sense of worth in a given achievement, and then do not reach it. Our goals determine what we will interpret as a triumph and what must count as a failure: ''With no attempt there can be no failure; with no failure no humiliation.'' So our self-esteem in this world is determined by the ratio of our actualities to our supposed potentialities. Thus:

Self-esteem = Success/Pretensions
 If happiness at work is now so hard to earn, perhaps it is because our pretensions have so substantially outstripped reality. We expect every job to deliver some of the satisfaction available to Sigmund Freud or Franklin Roosevelt. Perhaps we should be reading Marx instead. Of course, Marx was a poor historian and wrong in all his prescriptions for a better world, but he was rather acute at diagnosing why work is so often miserable. In this respect, he drew on Immanuel Kant, who wrote in his ''Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals'' that behaving morally toward other people required that one respect them ''for themselves'' instead of using them as a ''means'' for one's enrichment or glory. Thus Marx, famously accused the bourgeoisie, and its new science, economics, of practicing ''immorality'' on a grand scale: ''Political economy knows the worker only as a working animal -- as a beast reduced to strictest bodily needs.'' The wages paid to employees were, said Marx, just ''like the oil which is applied to wheels to keep them turning,'' adding, ''The true purpose of work is no longer man, but money.''
 Marx may have been erratically idealizing the pre-industrial past and unduly castigating the bourgeoisie, but he ably captured the inescapable degree of conflict between employer and employee. Every commercial organization will try to gather raw materials, labor and machinery at the lowest possible price to combine them into a product that can be sold at the highest possible price. 
 And yet, troublingly, there is one difference between ''labor'' and other elements that conventional economics does not have a means to represent, or give weight to, but which is nevertheless unavoidably present: labor feels pain and pleasure. When production lines grow prohibitively expensive, they may be switched off and will not cry at the seeming injustice of their fate. A business can move from using coal to natural gas without the neglected energy source walking off a cliff. 
 But labor has a habit of meeting attempts to reduce its price or presence with emotion. It sobs in toilet stalls, it gets drunk to ease its fears of under-achievement, and it may choose death over redundancy.
 These emotional responses point us to two, perhaps conflicting, imperatives coexisting in the workplace: an economic imperative that dictates that the primary task of business is to realize a profit, and a human imperative that leads employees to hunger for financial security, respect, tenure and even, on a good day, fun. Though the two imperatives may for long periods coexist without apparent friction, all wage-dependent workers live under an awareness that should there ever have to be a serious choice between the two, it is the economic one that must always prevail. These pressures are no less absent from the lives of the self-employed -- whether they own the corner laundry or the town real-estate brokerage -- for in their cases, the economy as a whole (local, national and global) acts as the employer.
 Struggles between labor and capital may no longer, in the developed world at least, be as bare-knuckled as in Marx's day. Yet, despite advances in working conditions and employee protections, workers remain in essence tools in a process in which their own happiness or economic well-being is necessarily incidental. Whatever camaraderie may build up between employer and employed, whatever goodwill workers may display and however many years they may have devoted to a task, they must live with the knowledge and attendant anxiety that their status is not guaranteed -- that it remains dependent on their own performance and the economic well-being of their organizations; that they are hence a means to profit, and never ends in themselves.
 This is all sad, but not half as sad as it can be if we blind ourselves to the reality and raise our expectations of our work to extreme levels. A firm belief in the necessary misery of life was for centuries one of mankind's most important assets, a bulwark against bitterness, a defense against dashed hopes. Now it has been cruelly undermined by the expectations incubated by the modern worldview. 
 Now perhaps, as many of us return from summer vacations, we can temper their sadness by remembering that work is often more bearable when we don't, in addition to money, expect it always to deliver happiness.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Paula Scher) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HISTORY (77%); RELIGION (77%); MEN (75%); ETHICS (72%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (69%); MANAGEMENT THEORY (64%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (60%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (60%) Labor

PERSON: Alain De Botton

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2004



143 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; E-Commerce Report; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1305 words

HEADLINE: As their core businesses prosper, some companies try to expand their horizons with new product lines.

BYLINE: By Bob Tedeschi

 BODY:
AFTER witnessing the hubris (and resultant failures) of so many Internet start-ups, many e-commerce sites have stuck to their knitting in recent years, rejecting the urge to expand into new products. 
 But nothing fuels ambition like success, so now that some online companies have cleared their balance sheets of red ink, they are looking at new business territories to conquer -- sometimes far afield of their original missions.
 A case in point is CarsDirect.com, the online auto marketplace, which will announce today the creation of two new businesses. The first, Autos.com, is a research and ratings service for auto shoppers -- a reasonable enough add-on to CarsDirect's existing business. The second, though, is LoanStore.com, which offers, among other services, mortgages and home equity lines of credit. 
 Why would a car-buying service believe it could sell home loans?
 ''For us it's not a big difference,'' said Robert N. Brisco, chief executive of CarsDirect.com. ''We've been very active in financing autos for the last five years, so we had banking relationships set up with some of the largest lenders in the U.S. and we can reuse the technology we built for that.''
 Plus, Mr. Brisco said, more car buyers have been financing their purchases with home equity loans in recent years, as home values have skyrocketed and interest rates have remained low. ''So we can originate those types of transactions for people, and market LoanStore to people who come to CarsDirect,'' he said.
 CarsDirect has been quietly testing the LoanStore site for several months, and Mr. Brisco said it was already profitable. CarsDirect, which is privately held, does not disclose revenue figures for its separate divisions, nor did it disclose LoanStore's loan volume.
 Aside from attracting customers from CarsDirect, he said the company had been able to ''get huge economic leverage by adding products and service lines on the same Web technology platforms.'' 
 Mr. Brisco said the company had been able to open the LoanStore operation with 10 or fewer new employees, including loan agents, processors and an underwriter. The company also added one position in marketing.
 Because CarsDirect's new divisions required no new technology to get up and running, the expansion cost ''maybe 10 percent'' of the millions of dollars it would have cost to build the service from scratch, Mr. Brisco said.
 Other companies have made similar expansions; the General Motors Acceptance Corporation, the lending unit of General Motors, is perhaps the best example. 
 Online, Amazon.com continues to introduce new product categories, apparently vying with eBay for breadth of selection. And the IAC/InterActiveCorp conglomerate sells multiple services online, including travel reservations, tickets and help with buying homes and securing loans.
 But those are exceptions to the rule that specialization is the key to online business success, said Kenneth Cassar, an analyst with Nielsen//NetRatings, an Internet research firm. 
 ''I think it's clear that rather than trying to be all things to all people, it's more prudent to be a set of related things to a distinct group of customers,'' Mr. Cassar said. ''The thing that's a moving target, though, is figuring out exactly what a company's core competency is.''
 Even Amazon's strategy evolved from the time of the late 1990's, when it filled its warehouses with toys that often failed to sell. That experience led to a turning point of sorts in 2000, when Amazon gave Toys ''R'' Us the responsibility of picking toys, in exchange for helping Toys ''R'' Us sell and deliver items online.
 Now the company essentially leases space on Amazon.com to thousands of merchants, who often sell goods that Amazon once planned to sell. Amazon also sells and at times helps deliver goods on behalf of a handful of large companies like Borders, Target and The Bombay Company.
 So while Amazon appears to have expanded into other product categories, it has actually been expanding the services it sells to other merchants -- not the specialty that analysts or Amazon executives had expected in the late 1990's. 
 Patty Smith, an Amazon spokeswoman, declined to break out financial data on its so-called third-party sellers initiative, but she said it was ''doing fine.'' The number of merchants selling goods on Amazon, she noted, has jumped to more than 4,000 today from 350 a year ago.
 Each time a company expands into a new product category, it faces unexpected hurdles. GSI Commerce, an Internet company that sells and delivers items for a range of retailers and manufacturers, stumbled financially in 2002 when it expanded beyond sporting goods. 
 GSI, which had done business previously as Global Sports Interactive, now generates 65 percent of its revenue from nonsports items, including Kate Spade bags, goods from Wilsons The Leather Experts and products from Estee Lauder, among others. Half of the items it sold last year, by contrast, were sporting goods (for The Athlete's Foot and Reebok, among others).
 According to Michael R. Conn, senior vice president for business development at GSI Commerce, the company stumbled in 2002 in part because it underestimated the complexity of selling a more diverse array of items. When it began selling hand-held computers and other items on behalf of PalmOne, for instance, the company had to change its warehouse operations to test returned items, repackage them and sell them again at open-box discounts, taking the financial hit on the returns.
 More recently, GSI developed Internet technology for selling sets of items as a package -- something not critical to many retailers, but particularly useful for selling sheets and pillow cases from Linens 'n Things, a GSI client.
 GSI continues to lose money, but its income statement shows its improved expertise. From 2002 to 2003, operating expenses increased $10 million, while company revenues jumped more than $100 million. The previous year, operating expenses increased $26 million, while sales improved $80 million.
 Other companies make expansion look easy. Ritz Interactive, a privately held e-commerce company founded by Ritz Camera Centers' chief executive, David M. Ritz, not only sells digital cameras and video games but in recent years, has created sites like eAngler.com and BoatingOnly.com to sell $500 fishing reels and $6,600 ship radars.
 Late last year the company added putters to its merchandise when it assumed the selling responsibilities for golfer Greg Norman's ShopAtShark.com store. Fred H. Lerner, chief executive of Ritz Interactive, said the company had had a dual interest in photography and boating since 1999, when Ritz Camera bought Boater's World magazine. 
 The newer categories reflect Ritz Interactive's pursuit of customers who have other upscale hobbies. That strategy has unfolded inexpensively, he said, because Ritz handles none of the goods it sells. It pays other companies to stock and ship items, keeping for itself the jobs of marketing, merchandising and customer service.
 Mr. Lerner would not disclose revenue figures, but he said Ritz Interactive's sales had grown at a rate of about 30 percent annually, and had earned profits for three consecutive years. Profits have exceeded 30 percent ''dramatically,'' he said.
 Ritz has succeeded in part by passing customers along to each of its sites. On the front page of RitzCamera.com, for instance, are ads for Boater's World and Greg Norman's site. In monthly newsletters for each site's customers, the company promotes its other sites as well.
 The company has no plans to hold the line at golf gear. Greg Norman sold 225,000 cases of his Greg Norman Estates wine last year, Mr. Lerner noted, meaning the company could soon sell its boating and fishing customers some Australian Chardonnay to go with their freshly caught swordfish.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert N. Brisco, the chief executive of CarsDirect.com, is introducing a mortgage service. (Photo by Steve Goldstein for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW PRODUCTS (90%); STARTUPS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); RETAILERS (89%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); BUSINESS EXPANSION (77%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (73%); HOME EQUITY CREDIT LINES (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (68%); INTEREST RATES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); HOME PRICES (64%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (60%); EXECUTIVES (52%) Retail Stores and Trade; Computers and the Internet; Automobiles ; Research; Ratings and Rating Systems; Housing; Retail Stores and Trade; Mortgages

COMPANY: ALLY FINANCIAL INC (83%); IAC/INTERACTIVECORP (60%); AMAZON.COM INC (60%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Carsdirect.com; Autos.com; LoanStore.com

TICKER: IACI (NASDAQ) (60%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (60%); GM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (83%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (83%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (60%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (60%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (60%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: Robert N Brisco; Bob Tedeschi

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2004



144 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2235 words

HEADLINE: Even in an Age of Terrorism, Towers Are Sheathed in Glass

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
For three years, ground zero has been the province of ruin and rough edges. Now it is assuming a diaphanous new face. Floor by floor, the new 7 World Trade Center is being sheathed in 538,420 square feet of glass, more than 12 acres of transparency.
 That is just the beginning. Glass-clad structures are to rise all around the site where the twin towers stood. Beyond this crystalline precinct, dozens of other buildings with sleek glass skins are under development or newly completed, reflecting the current architectural penchant for clarity, luminosity, permeability and weightlessness.
 Defying concerns after the attack on New York three years ago that post-9/11 construction would be dominated by brute concrete bunkers, the designers of significant new public and private buildings in the city are turning again and again to glass facades. 
 At first, it seems counterintuitive to embrace such an apparently fragile building material when structures are supposed to be hardened against terrorist bombings. The paradox is that much greater at ground zero, where thousands of windows were destroyed on Sept. 11, 2001, even in buildings that were otherwise largely undamaged.
 ''It is evident that glass in tall buildings or any buildings would cause serious injuries in the event of a bomb blast,'' said Monica Gabrielle, co-chairwoman of the Skyscraper Safety Campaign, whose husband, Richard, died in the trade center attack. ''Why is it that we have not learned or just plain refuse to learn any lessons?''
 But the engineers and architects of the new generation of glass buildings said that many lessons have been learned, especially after Hurricane Andrew in 1992 and the Oklahoma City bombing of 1995. While no facade could withstand an assault as catastrophic as that on the trade center in 2001 and while their first concern is to prevent progressive structural collapse, which brought down the twin towers, they said glass curtain walls can perform protectively and resiliently against some blasts, holding panes in place or greatly limiting the amount of flying debris.
 Strengthened by tempering and lamination, then set into aluminum curtain walls or steel cable nets that can absorb some of the impact from a blast, glass is both a reasonable facade material and a desirable one, the designers said.
 Safety is further enhanced by creating the greatest possible distance between a building and a vehicle-borne bomb. The new World Trade Center transportation hub, for example, will be surrounded by a large public plaza. ''That's purposeful,'' said Robert Ducibella of Ducibella Venter & Santore, security consulting engineers to the project. ''If we have this jewel, we want to provide reasonable standards for protecting it.''
 The new Hearst Tower on Eighth Avenue, between 56th and 57th Streets, designed by Foster & Partners, is set back from all three streets, as it rises from within the shell of a 1928 landmark structure. Seven World Trade Center has a built-in barrier in the form of a 125-foot-high concrete podium housing a Con Ed substation.

Two Ages, Coexisting
 ''How can we have glass in an age of terrorism?'' asked Carl Galioto, a partner in Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, architects of 7 World Trade Center, the Freedom Tower at the trade center site, the Time Warner Center on Columbus Circle and the proposed expansion of Pennsylvania Station into a glass shell set behind the general post office.
 ''I don't believe any time period is defined by one label,'' Mr. Galioto said. ''It's inaccurate and somewhat superficial. We're also living in age when we're trying to make work environments more livable. We're looking to introduce more daylight into work space, to reduce energy consumption, to reduce carbon emissions. It's the age of terrorism but it's the age of sustainable design. They're coexisting.''
 They can coexist because of advances in the design of framing systems and in the treatment of glass. ''The level of performance is phenomenal compared with glasses of only 15 years ago,'' said Cesar Pelli of Cesar Pelli & Associates, the architects of 731 Lexington Avenue, between 58th and 59th Streets, the future headquarters of Bloomberg Media.
 Common annealed glass breaks fairly easily into jagged shards. Much stronger tempered glass breaks more benignly into pebbles, but these can be propelled like bullets by a blast. However, when glass is laminated with one or more layers of a substance like polyvinyl butyral, the pieces are held in place even if the pane breaks. (Think of a shattered car windshield that remains largely intact in its frame.)
 ''It is unlikely that the untrained eye could distinguish between laminated, tempered or ordinary annealed glass, yet in terms of safety there is a major difference,'' said Tim Macfarlane of Dewhurst Macfarlane & Partners, an engineering firm based in London and New York. ''Images of glass facades destroyed by the many bombs that were detonated in the U.K. in the last 30 years were depicting facades that had not been designed for this sort of event.''
 Another misperception cited by some designers was the seeming solidity of curtain walls in which windows are punched out of surrounding masonry. ''It's purely an illusion to believe that punched windows and a thin stone curtain wall will afford any more protection,'' Mr. Galioto said. 
 Laminated glass will be used at the base of 7 World Trade Center and throughout the Hearst Tower, in curtain walls manufactured by Permasteelisa Cladding Technologies. ''The skin is meant to absorb and dissipate the load,'' said Alberto De Gobbi, the company president.
 Curtain walls help control breakage by deforming in response to a nearby blast, thereby partly relieving the intensity of the load that the glass itself must resist, said Robert Smilowitz, a principal in Weidlinger Associates, an engineering firm with decades of experience in blast resistance. ''In this age of protection against terrorism, architecture doesn't have to suffer,'' Dr. Smilowitz said.

Testing at White Sands
 Weidlinger put the idea of a protective curtain wall to the test in 1998 in its work on a federal building and courthouse in Las Vegas. A full-scale mockup of part of the curtain wall was erected inside a blast simulator at the White Sands Missile Range in New Mexico. Explosive charges were set off. (Dr. Smilowitz is not permitted to reveal the magnitude.) Only 3 of 27 panes in the mockup were damaged, he said, with no debris.
 The White Sands simulator was used again in 2002 to test a 15-by-30-foot section of a curtain wall manufactured by Enclos Corporation for the Bronx Criminal Court Complex on East 161st Street, designed by Rafael Vinoly Associates and DMJM. 
 The Bronx project was under way before the bombing of the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building in 1995. ''Oklahoma City changed the whole design criterion for the Bronx criminal courthouse,'' said Charles Blomberg, an architect and the technical director of the Vinoly office. ''But the idea of a transparent building was maintained.''
 The project was delayed for several months while a task force including the Police Department and a threat-assessment analyst developed criteria for blast resistance, which Mr. Blomberg said he could not disclose. ''We were able to adjust the strength and structure of the curtain wall to accommodate these new parameters,'' he said.
 Both the Hearst Tower and the new headquarters of The New York Times on Eighth Avenue, between 40th and 41st Streets, were in development when the trade center was attacked. In the aftermath, Hearst elected to keep its glass facade but ''reviewed every piece of the puzzle,'' said Brian Schwagerl, the director of real estate and facilities planning, upgrading the design and the materials at a premium of about 10 percent over the original cost of the curtain wall, which he would not specify.
 The New York Times Company also retained its planned curtain wall, designed by the Renzo Piano Building Workshop and Fox & Fowle. But after Sept. 11, it made a ''multi-million dollar investment in hardening various aspects of the structure and strengthening frames and windows that could be subject to a blast,'' said David A. Thurm, vice president for real estate development. ''For obvious reasons, there is limited information we can provide about the precautions that we have taken against blasts.''
 When it gets to specifics, almost everyone demurs, in part because specifying the level of blast resistance is almost an invitation to terrorists to concoct a higher charge. 
 But there are performance standards, developed by the General Services Administration and the Interagency Security Committee, to gauge response to a blast.
 They range from the safest condition, No. 1, in which the glazing does not break, to condition No. 5, in which glazing cracks, the window system fails catastrophically and fragments hit a wall 10 feet away at a height greater than two feet. Under intermediate conditions, the glazing cracks but fragments land on the floor closer to the window.

Updating the Building Code
 The current building code does not contain specific requirements for curtain walls that would resist terrorist attacks, said Patricia J. Lancaster, the city buildings commissioner. But the new code, a synthesis of the International Building Code with technical requirements tailored to New York City, will consider the effects of such extreme events.
 Ms. Lancaster gave an example of how standards must navigate a razor's edge: laminated glass may seem like an ideal solution until one asks how easily firefighters can gain access from the outside in the event that the hazardous event has occurred within. 
 Though it is obvious to focus on the building shell, engineers concerned with safety and security concentrate first on the core. ''The single biggest determinant in how a building performs is maintaining the structure intact and maintaining the egress intact,'' said Leo E. Argiris, an engineer and a principal in Arup, a company that leads the team designing the Fulton Street Transit Center.
 Silverstein Properties is promoting those qualities at 7 World Trade Center, which it is developing. ''Our view has always been that the primary safety systems were the structural and other systems that maximize, beyond existing code, the stability and emergency exiting capacity,'' said Janno Lieber, the trade center project director for Silverstein. ''The tenants we are dealing with are sophisticated and understand that the material on the outside isn't the determinant of their safety.''
 Ultimately, the level of any protection turns in part on economics. ''We can make certain windows more blast resistant than others,'' said Gordon H. Smith of the Gordon H. Smith Corporation, a consulting firm specializing in exterior walls. ''That's a dollars and cents issue. If we're talking about rebuilding every office building in the country as the Pentagon, what we'd be saying is, 'Build no buildings.'''
 And it turns in part on trying to anticipate the unfathomable. ''As much as you'd like to protect all people and all spaces, that may not be achievable in a random event,'' Dr. Smilowitz said.
 Architects have faced the unfathomable before. The city's first generation of glass towers -- the United Nations Secretariat, Lever House, the Seagram Building -- took shape under the cloud of atomic war. In 1951, for instance, as Lever House neared completion on Park Avenue, an unprecedented daytime air-raid drill stopped traffic throughout the city and emptied every street of pedestrians.
 Both then and now, the embrace of glass might be thought of as the architectural equivalent of whistling past the graveyard or, more positively, as a declaration of faith.

A Metaphor for Optimism
 ''Isn't the glassiness of the buildings, the transparency of them, a metaphor for much-needed optimism and a much-needed perception that what's going on inside the corporate or governmental world is not secret?'' asked Robert A.M. Stern, dean of the Yale School of Architecture.
 Yes, said Richard Cook, a partner in Cook + Fox Architects, designers of the 54-story Bank of America Tower that is to rise on the Avenue of the Americas, between 42nd and 43rd Streets. ''The ideal of modern banking is open, clear, transparent,'' he said, ''as opposed to hidden behind vaults in three-piece suits.''
 Yes, said Mr. Thurm of The Times. ''A key goal for our new building is to enhance the work environment for our employees,'' he said, ''and one of the significant enhancements will be an emphasis on natural light and views.''
 Yes, said Michael D. Garz of the Downtown Design Partnership, a joint venture of STV and DMJM & Harris, working with Santiago Calatrava on the trade center transportation hub being built by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey.
 ''Its transparency is part of the power it has as a symbol,'' Mr. Garz said. There are practical reasons, too, for creating an enormous skylight over the terminal, which will connect to the extensive network of passageways under the new trade center and to the similarly glass-enclosed Fulton Street Transit Center. ''We've promised people daylight as they move through this enormous, enormous site,'' he said.
 ''Transparency is something we've become accustomed to, the ability to have light enrich our interior environments,'' Mr. Garz said. ''We're still trying to attain humanistic goals.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Bronx Criminal Court Complex, with a glass surface despite security concerns. (Photo by Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
A glass skin covers the Time Warner Center at Columbus Circle, a building designed by Skidmore, Owings & Merrill.
 Inside the construction site at 7 World Trade Center on Friday, glass panels were stacked up, ready for installation in the outer shell. (Photographs by Ruby Washington/The New York Times)(pg. B4)Chart: ''A Stronger Glass Wall''The ability of a glass curtain wall to deform in response to a nearby blast thereby partially relieving the intensity of load the glass must resist is demonstrated in these computer-generated images of a one-floor section of the facade designed in 1998 for the Lloyd D. George Federal Building and United States Courthouse in Las Vegas.Diagram of a building structure with the glass curtain wall highlighting the following:BUILDING STRUCTURECURTAIN WALLFLOOR SLABCOLUMNFLOOR BEAMLAMINATED GLASS PANES ADHERED TO FRAMEWORKCONNECTORS TRANSFER BLAST LOAD TO FLOOR STRUCTUREDiagram of a blast resistant wall showing the effects after a blast.Framework deforms, but the individual panes of laminated glass, fastened with structural silicone sealant, remain intact.(Source by Weidlinger Associates, Inc.)(pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (93%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); BOMBINGS (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (76%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (76%); HIJACKING (75%); HURRICANES (67%); AL-QAEDA (67%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (66%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%) Terrorism; World Trade Center (NYC); Airlines and Airplanes; Hijacking; Glass; Architecture; Public Buildings; Terrorism

COMPANY: FOSTER + PARTNERS LTD (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (59%) Al Qaeda (Terrorist Group); Skidmore Owings & Merrill

INDUSTRY: NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (50%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: David W Dunlap

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2004



145 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1237 words

HEADLINE: As Greyhound Cuts Back, The Middle of Nowhere Means Going Nowhere

BYLINE: By ELI SANDERS

DATELINE: RITZVILLE, Wash. 

 BODY:
Elva Link is 70 years old and has not owned a car since her white '85 Pontiac broke down four years ago and was too expensive to fix.
 She lives in housing for the elderly poor in this small town of wheat farmers and retirees, and until recently she regularly rode a Greyhound bus for 60 miles to visit her doctor and two sisters in Spokane, Wash. 
 But now the bus service has been canceled and Ms. Link says she feels trapped in a place where it has become easier for the wheat to leave than for a woman without a car to get to the next town, 42 miles away.
 ''I'm stranded,'' Ms. Link said. ''I'm considering moving.'' 
 Ritzville is one of 269 stops in 17 states throughout the West and Midwest that Greyhound dropped over the summer. In Washington State, 21 Greyhound stops were cut; in Minnesota, 59; in North Dakota, 11, including the capital, Bismarck.
 Six senators and a number of other officials in the affected states have asked Greyhound to reconsider. The company has responded that it cannot continue to make the unprofitable rural runs.
 ''These were routes that Greyhound could no longer afford to operate,'' said Kim Plaskett, a spokeswoman for the company, the largest provider of scheduled intercity bus service in the country. ''We have to be profitable to stay in business.''
 Ms. Link says she understands that Greyhound needs to make money. Still, she said, she wonders if the buses could stop here just twice a day. ''If they'd stop once in the morning and once in the evening, I can work around their schedule,'' she said.
 Most of the abandoned stops are in rural areas that have little or no other public transportation routes in or out -- places like Ritzville.
 This patch of trees and modest homes is a destination point for grain from the surrounding farms, but little else. Thousands of people pass by each day on Interstate 90, less than a half-mile from town, and few pay Ritzville, population 1,700, much attention. ''We're perceived pretty much as a speed trap and a potty stop,'' Mayor Craig Ulleland said.
 The grain harvested by the town's farmers is soft white winter wheat, and it is loaded onto freight trains here and shipped to Portland, Ore., then on to Asian markets, where it is used in noodles. Passenger trains once arrived along the same tracks that now take the wheat away, but the passenger service was cancelled in the late 1960's and now the trains blow by without stopping. There has never been a Ritzville airport.
 Greyhound, founded in 1914 in Hibbing, Minn., has long been an icon of American mobility, particularly for those who cannot afford faster travel. Its red, white and blue buses with their trademark running dog have become entwined with the country's culture and history -- immortalized by Simon and Garfunkel in the song ''America,'' ridden by the freedom riders who helped end segregation in the South in the 1960's.
 Ms. Plaskett, the Greyhound spokeswoman, said that the company, now based in Dallas, was proud to be considered a piece of Americana, but that financial losses and declining ridership meant that its future lay not in serving the needs of people in isolated rural towns but instead in catering to urban Americans who want a bus to take them quickly from one large city to another.
 The company says the numbers explain the closings. Greyhound's passenger boardings peaked in 2000 at 25.4 million and have declined by more than 3 million since, a trend company officials attribute to Americans' reluctance to travel after Sept. 11, 2001, and to the continuingly sluggish economy. In 2002 and 2003 combined, the company said, it lost nearly $140 million. 
 ''That trend hasn't reversed itself,'' Ms. Plaskett said. 
 Last summer Greyhound laid off members of its administrative and supervisory staff, cut ticket prices and eliminated an order for 200 new buses. Of the stops it decided to cut this summer, about half had no outbound ticket sales in 2003, she said.
 The elimination of many rural stops is the first phase in what will become a nationwide restructuring of Greyhound routes over the next two to three years, Ms. Plaskett said, and it is already causing state officials in the West to scramble to help isolated towns. 
 At the same time it is frustrating people, rural and otherwise, who do not have cars, cannot drive or depended on Greyhound to get to and from the small towns that are no longer served.
 ''Greyhound is sort of like the transportation backbone for people who can't afford planes,'' said Rosemary Seals of Lovelock, Nev., one of five stops in that state to be dropped. ''Companies need to make a profit, but on the other hand it's a resource that people in the town sorely needed.''
 With that in mind the federal government already offers a subsidy program to promote rural intercity bus service. But in a letter sent in July to the senators who asked that he reconsider the cuts, Greyhound's president, Stephen E. Gorman, said the program was not enough to compensate for the company's losses. 
 ''Since that program only covers 50 percent of net operating costs, it alone cannot provide a long-term solution to declining rural revenues,'' Mr. Gorman wrote. ''What is needed is either a federal program that fully covers losses or a state match that makes up the difference.''
 Geoff Stuckart, a spokesman for Senator Ron Wyden, the Oregon Democrat who was one of the authors of the letter, said that the senators were considering re-evaluating the subsidies but that no action had been taken. Oregon lost 36 Greyhound stops in the cuts. 
 Ms. Seals described Lovelock, about 100 miles northeast of Reno, as ''a dot on I-80 out in the desert.'' An associate warden at the Lovelock Correctional Center, she is familiar with another problem now facing several towns cut from Greyhound's schedule this summer: what to do with recently released prisoners.
 It used to be that prisoners who had served their time in Lovelock but did not have someone to pick them up were taken to the Greyhound stop, given a ticket if need be, and sent on their way. Now, Ms. Seals said, her state prison is having to transfer prisoners to facilities closer to their homes before they are released, costing extra money and adding administrative hassle.
 ''It's a trickle-down effect throughout the whole system,'' she said. ''It puts a strain on us.''
 In some states, smaller bus companies are taking over some of Greyhound's abandoned routes. Charles Zelle, chairman of the American Bus Association and president of Jefferson Bus Lines, said his company had picked up abandoned Greyhound stops serving 60 communities in Minnesota, Wisconsin, North Dakota, South Dakota and Iowa. 
 But not all of Greyhound's old stops will be served by smaller companies, Mr. Zelle said. ''It is the stark reality that it is just not possible.'' 
 On a recent Saturday in Ritzville, a Greyhound bus traveling I-90 rolled by the exit ramp that leads into the town and headed toward the larger town of Moses Lake, 42 miles to the west.
 In Moses Lake, the driver, who would not give his name because he said he had been instructed not to speak to reporters, said he was sure that with Greyhound gone, ''nobody is going to pick up Ritzville.'' There were 37 tired-looking people riding the bus, which could hold 55.
 ''Times are changing,'' the driver said. ''The passengers now are wanting to go from point A to point B quicker than going through all these little stops.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Ritzville, Wash., population 1,700, has been without passenger train service since the late 1960's and lost Greyhound bus service last month.
Shortly after this bus to Portland, Ore., stopped in Ritzville in July, 269 stops in 17 states were discontinued.
 Elva Link of Ritzville says she feels stranded without bus service. (Photographs by Jeff T. Green for The New York Times)Map of Washington highlighting Ritzville.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (91%); INTERURBAN BUS TRANSPORTATION (91%); TRAINS (87%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); GRAIN FARMING (77%); WHEAT FARMING (77%); AGING (77%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (77%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (71%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (70%) Buses; Rural Areas

ORGANIZATION: Greyhound Lines Inc

PERSON: Eli Sanders

GEOGRAPHIC: SPOKANE, WA, USA (92%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (91%); BISMARCK, ND, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (93%); OREGON, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) Western States (US); Midwestern States (US); Ritzville (Wash)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2004



146 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: An Economy That Turns American Values Upside Down

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT. 
E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The Labor Department reported last week that 144,000 payroll jobs were created in August. Let's put that in perspective.
 The number was below market forecasts. It was also below the number of jobs needed to accommodate the growth in the employment-aged population. In short, this was not good news. It's only by the diminished job-creation standards that have prevailed since the last recession that any positive spin could be put on last month's performance. 
 As the Economic Policy Institute tells us, in a book-length report it is releasing today: ''The United States has been tracking employment statistics since 1939, and never in history has it taken this long to regain the jobs lost over a downturn.''
 In ''The State of Working America 2004/2005,'' the institute shows in tremendous detail how those lost jobs and other disappointing aspects of the recovery are taking a severe economic toll on working families. 
 According to the institute:
 ''After almost three years of recovery, our job market is still too weak to broadly distribute the benefits of the growing economy. Unemployment is essentially unchanged, job growth has stalled, and real wages have started to fall behind inflation. Today's picture is a stark contrast to the full employment period before the recession, when the tight labor market ensured that the benefits of growth were broadly shared.
 ''Prolonged weakness in the labor market has left the nation with over a million fewer jobs than when the recession began. This is a worse position, in terms of recouping lost jobs, than any business cycle since the 1930's.''
 What is happening is nothing less than a deterioration in the standard of living in the United States. Despite the statistical growth in the economy, the continued slack in the labor market has resulted in declining real wages for anxious American workers and a marked deterioration in job quality.
 From 2000 through 2003 the median household income fell by $1,500 (in 2003 dollars) -- a significant 3.4 percent decrease. That information becomes startling when you consider that during the same period there was a strong 12 percent increase in productivity among U.S. workers. Economists will tell you that productivity increases go hand-in-hand with increases in the standard of living. But not this time. Here we have a 3.4 percent loss in real income juxtaposed with a big jump in productivity.
 ''So the economic pie is growing gangbusters and the typical household is falling behind,'' said Jared Bernstein, the institute's senior economist and a co-author of the new book.
 This is the part of the story that spotlights the unfairness at the heart of the current economic setup in the U.S. While workers have been remarkably productive in recent years, they have not participated in the benefits of their own increased productivity. That doesn't sound very much like the American way.
 According to the institute, ''Between 1947 and 1973 productivity and real median family income both grew 104 percent, a golden age of growth for both variables.'' That parallel relationship began to break down in the 1970's, but it is only recently that it fell apart altogether, leaving us with the following evidence of unrestrained inequity:
 ''In the 2000-03 period income shifted extremely rapidly and extensively from labor compensation to capital income (profits and interest),'' so that the ''benefits of faster productivity growth'' went overwhelmingly to capital.
 American workers are in an increasingly defensive position. In a tight labor market, when jobs are plentiful, workers have leverage and can demand increased wages and benefits. But today's workers have lost power in many different ways -- through the slack labor market, government policies that favor corporate interests, the weakening of unions, the growth of lower-paying service industries, global trade, capital mobility, the declining real value of the minimum wage, immigration and so on.
 The end result of all this is a portrait of American families struggling just to hang on, rather than to get ahead. The benefits of productivity gains and economic growth are flowing to profits, not worker compensation. The fat cats are getting fatter, while workers, at least for the time being, are watching the curtain come down on the heralded American dream. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); RECESSION (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); PRODUCTIVITY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (78%); STATISTICS (78%); FAMILY (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (77%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); WRITERS (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (72%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%) Labor; Wages and Salaries; Productivity

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (57%)

PERSON: JARED BERNSTEIN (55%) Bob Herbert

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2004



147 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1289 words

HEADLINE: Seoul Tries Hard to Keep Its 'Sunshine Policy' Free of Clouds

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, Sept. 4 

 BODY:
Kim Duk Hong had just received his second death threat in two months: a plastic bag containing two vials of poison, an eight-inch knife and a letter accusing him of forming ''a tricky anti-North Korea association.'' It warned: ''Now, the time is coming to pay for your sins.''
 Professing fears for his safety, South Korean security officials declined last month, once again, to issue a passport to Mr. Kim, one of the highest-ranking North Korean defectors. Officials said it would be too dangerous to allow Mr. Kim to travel to Washington to testify before a United States Senate committee.
 ''We need to consider his personal safety, and unless the U.S. pledges to be responsible for his safety, it is rather dangerous,'' said a South Korean security agency spokesman, who asked not to be identified. Referring to the 14-month stall of what is normally a one-week process, the official said, ''Concern for his safety is the only reason his passport issuance is being delayed.'' 
 The real danger, of course, is that Mr. Kim might irritate North Korea.
 ''They know I will be frank and genuine in speaking clearly about the nature of the North Korea regime,'' Mr. Kim, a 65-year-old former senior member of North Korea's governing Workers Party, said in an interview as plainclothes police guards stood outside an office here. Referring to South Korea's policy of easing tensions with North Korea, he said, ''The government knows I am dissatisfied with the sunshine policy.''
 Being able to promote an image of peace and harmony on the peninsula helps South Korea keep its bond ratings low and offers a justification for reduced military spending. So South Korea goes to great length to avoid offending North Korea. 
 After North Korea's military grumbled this summer that when its soldiers looked across the demilitarized zone at night they saw neon-illuminated crosses atop churches, South Korea unplugged the crosses.
 When the North called South Korean officials ''wicked terrorists'' for airlifting 468 North Korean defectors from Vietnam to Seoul, the South promised not to do it again. Although South Korea has admitted only 5,000 North Koreans during the last half century, Chung Dong Young, the South's unification minister, asked the private groups that were helping the North Koreans to stop.
 Although the United States, Canada, Brazil and Australia have admitted well over a million South Korean immigrants in recent decades, Ban Ki Moon, the South Korean foreign minister, said Seoul ''shouldn't have to take unlimited responsibility for wandering North Korean defectors.''
 Last Thursday, 27 lawmakers from the governing Uri Party delivered to the American Embassy a letter asking the Senate to vote down this fall the North Korean Human Rights Act. The bill, intended to help North Korean refugees in China and to promote human rights in North Korea, was passed by the House in July, enraging North Korea. 
 In July, a South Korean Navy boat fired two warning shots at a North Korean patrol boat that crossed into South Korean waters. After North Korea angrily canceled inter-Korean military talks, the South Korean defense minister resigned and apologies were sent to North Korea. 
 Few South Korean overtures are reciprocated. For example, under bills now in the National Assembly, South Koreans would be allowed to freely access North Korean Web sites and to travel to North Korea. South Korea's official defense papers would no longer describe North Korea as ''the main enemy.'' Other bills would end national security laws banning advocacy of North Korea's Communist system.
 None of these moves has been met with a wisp of a concession from North Korea. Instead, North Korea recently restricted cellphone use and travel to China.
 ''What is needed is a phased development program that draws the North Koreans out and opens them up,'' said C. Kenneth Quinones, an American aid worker who recently spent several days in Pyongyang, North Korea's capital. ''But South Korea is doing a hodgepodge that is not going anywhere. The North Koreans are getting everything they need, without giving anything back.''
 The South Korean Unification Ministry likes to publicize the growth in inter-Korean travel and trade. But almost all the travel is from South Korea to North Korea. Much of the trade consists of South Korean gifts of rice to the North.
 During the first six months of this year, 9,866 Koreans crossed the border for visits, a 74 percent increase over the same period of last year. But 9,545, or 97 percent, were South Koreans traveling to North Korea, compared with 321 North Koreans traveling to South Korea.
 Those numbers do not count the 1,000 South Korean tourists a week who cross the demilitarized zone in buses to visit Mount Kumgang, a tourism enclave in the North. With minimal cost to North Korea, the resort was built with hundreds of millions of dollars invested by a South Korean company, Hyundai Asan. Even though North Korea levies a tourist tax estimated at $100 a head, South Korea's government promised in August to spend $2.6 million to build and pave roads in the area.
 Mount Kumgang ''is just a cash cow, it has no impact on the rest of North Korea,'' said Mr. Quinones, a former American diplomat who lived in Pyongyang in the mid-1990's.
 Similarly, inter-Korean trade increased to $325 million in the first six months of this year, a 21 percent increase over the same period last year. But most of it was a result of a rise in South Korean donations, to $152 million.
 During the past two years, South Korea has spent about $1 billion to subsidize the sale of rice at 12 cents a pound, an 85 percent discount from the normal wholesale price. Although the shipments are to be repaid in 30 years, that is largely seen as a face-saving convention to mask the fact that they are donations.
 In what South Korean officials described as a major concession, North Korea started to allow their gifts to arrive from South Korea overland by truck, instead of by the far more expensive shipping route. Also, North Korean officials no longer require truckers to tape over their South Korean license plates.
 Similarly, South Korean officials often trumpet the fact that South Korean television shows are making their way into North Korea. But so far the shows have included broadcasts of the Athens Olympics and a serial drama about a 19th-century Korean empress, programs that would not highlight the economic abyss that separates the Koreas.
 Mr. Kim, the defector, knows both sides of this abyss. But when he seeks to speak out, his police protection starts to look like a form of house arrest. On Aug. 4, Mr. Kim had to cancel a news conference at the Seoul Foreign Correspondents' Club.
 ''I wanted to go to the venue of the conference, but the police told me that they cannot guarantee my safety if I go outside,'' he wrote to the foreign reporters that day, using an instant messaging system. 
 In contrast, South Korea's government goes to great lengths to promote the image of reconciliation taking hold on the Korean peninsula.
 In August, the two Koreas prepared to present a unified front to world television viewers, marching together behind a neutral ''unification flag'' at the opening ceremony of the Athens Olympics. But North Korea realized it did not have an athlete tall enough to match South Korea's flag bearer, a 6-foot-1 volleyball player named Koo Min Jung.
 South Korea broke with protocol and agreed to let Kim Sung Ho, a North Korean coach, be a flag bearer. Mr. Kim, a 50-year-old former basketball player, is an inch taller than Ms. Koo. He also stood head and shoulder above most of North Korea's athletes, members of a generation whose growth was stunted during the famine of the mid-1990's.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Kim Duk Hong, a North Korean defector, is unsettling Seoul. (Photo by Jae-hyun Seok for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (84%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); IMMIGRATION (76%); POLITICS (74%); INTERVIEWS (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (71%); BONDS (71%); RELIGION (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); ARMED FORCES (62%); DEFENSE SPENDING (62%); TERRORISM (50%) Travel Restrictions; Passports; Politics and Government; United States International Relations

PERSON: BAN KI-MOON (57%) James Brooke; Kim Duk Hong

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); BRAZIL (79%) North Korea; South Korea

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2004



148 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; MARKET PLACE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: Proposals on How to Handle Options

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
ACCOUNTING for stock options has become an international battleground, but those wars may be nearing an end as major industrial countries move toward rules that force companies to deduct the value of options from their earnings.
 New battles may be brewing in a different but related area: taxation of the profits derived from exercising stock options. If a worker for an international company is granted an option while working in France, has it vest while working in Australia and exercises it while working in Japan, how will those profits be taxed, and by which country? What if the worker moves to the United States and then sells the shares purchased with the options?
 Another issue, perhaps more important to countries worried about corporate tax receipts, concerns the arcane matter of transfer pricing between a parent company that grants options and a subsidiary for whom the executive receiving the options works. Companies can normally deduct the value of a stock option from their taxable income, but in which country should the deduction be taken? And when? 
 The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, whose 30 members include the major industrialized countries, released two reports yesterday recommending how countries should handle the issues. The proposals, which are not binding on countries but can be influential, are intended to avoid both double taxation and allowing a worker to escape all taxation by moving from country to country.
 In general, the group recommended that workers should be taxed by the countries in which they performed the labor for which the option was rewarded. In most cases, it said, that would be work performed between the time the option was granted and the time it vested, even if the actual exercise of the option was several years later, with the income split among countries based on the amount of time worked in each country. But it said that minor differences in the provisions of the options could lead to changes in recommended taxation.
 On transfer pricing, the organization shied clear of prescribing specific rules, saying that it might not always be clear whether the cost of an option on stock of a parent company, given to an employee of a subsidiary, should be borne by the parent or the subsidiary. But it said that whatever arrangements there are should be worked out in advance, and that they should be subject to the same principles as other transactions between affiliated companies, in which terms should be the same as would be negotiated in an arms-length transaction.
 That issue could be important to countries because companies may seek to have the expense -- and the accompanying tax deduction -- go to the parent or subsidiary in the country where the deduction would save the most taxes.
 The issue is complicated because tax rules on options vary, and it is expected to get even more complicated because the terms of options are likely to become more diversified when accounting rules change.
 Currently, the United States and some other countries tax employees on the profits from an option when it is exercised. At the same time, the issuing company receives an identical tax deduction.
 But the O.E.C.D., without giving information on specific countries, noted that they followed widely varying tax regimes. Depending on the country, an option might be taxed when it is granted, when the employee is allowed to exercise it, when the shares acquired are actually sold or even if it is not exercised at all.
 Without coordination among countries, that could lead to employees paying no tax or facing double taxation depending on which countries they were living in when the options were issued or exercised.
 The O.E.C.D. recommended that countries deal with the issue in tax treaties but left open several possible treatments. It said one principle should be that profits realized by the employee after the option is exercised -- that is, on gains in the stock price after the employee acquires the shares and has the legal right to sell them -- should be viewed as capital gains, not compensation income.
 Under American accounting rules, most companies do not report options as an expense on the financial statements they send to shareholders so long as the options meet certain requirements, like being exercisable at the market price that prevailed when the option was issued.
 But the rules are likely to change, perhaps as early as next year, requiring the value of all options to be treated as an expense. The Financial Accounting Standards Board said it planned to impose the rule, and while a bill to block it had passed the House of Representatives, it appeared unlikely to be approved by the Senate. A similar rule is scheduled to go into effect next year in countries that follow rules laid down by the International Accounting Standards Board, including those in the European Union.
 One result of that change is that companies are expected to begin to alter the terms of options. Critics of corporate governance have pushed for such changes to make it more likely that the options will pay off only if the company does well, not if it benefits from an overall increase in the stock market.
 But it is possible that companies will change terms for one of two other reasons: either to reduce the reported expense or to seek tax advantages depending on the details of tax statutes in countries in which they operate. That may make options a fertile area for tax strategies by both companies and countries.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); STOCK OPTIONS (91%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PARENT COMPANIES (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (87%); ACCOUNTING (79%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (79%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (78%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); BONDS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%) Stocks and Bonds; Accounting and Accountants; Stock Options and Purchase Plans; Capital Gains Tax; Taxation; Stocks and Bonds

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (82%) Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development

PERSON: Floyd Norris

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (57%) UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (88%); JAPAN (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2004



149 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; HURRICANE FRANCES: THE OVERVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1272 words

HEADLINE: 2nd Hurricane Deepens Wounds in Stricken Florida

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER; Abby Goodnough contributed reporting from Miami for this article, Jennifer 8. Lee from Lake Wales, Fla., William Yardley from Vero Beach, Fla, and John Schwartz from New York.

DATELINE: ORLANDO, Fla., Sept. 5 

 BODY:
Hurricane Frances relentlessly enveloped most of Florida on Sunday in severe squalls, lashing rain and scattershot destruction. In its wide wake, millions of residents were left without power and hundreds of thousands without ready access to gasoline, groceries or other daily staples. Doors and roofs were ripped from an uncounted number of homes and businesses, leaving them exposed to the 6 to 10 inches of rain that poured over them by late afternoon.
 Two deaths were reported as the hurricane plodded across the peninsula on a path that took it to some of the same stops that Hurricane Charley visited three weeks ago. In the Gainesville area, a man was killed when his car hit a tree, and a woman died when a tree crashed into her mobile home, The Associated Press reported.
 Two people had been killed in storm-related accidents in the Bahamas before the eye of Hurricane Frances crossed Florida's eastern coastline at Sewall's Point, north of Palm Beach, at 1 a.m. on Sunday. 
 Florida's infrastructure took a major pounding. In West Palm Beach, rainwater undercut a section of the right lane of northbound Interstate 95, creating a sinkhole that tore away parts of the roadway and a guard rail.
 Economic analysts estimated that the damage caused by Hurricanes Charley and Frances together could be as much as $40 billion.
 At a time when hurricanes seem a chronic affliction here -- Hurricane Ivan, a storm recently spawned in the eastern Atlantic, is providing new grist for anxiety -- many battered and exhausted residents seemed relieved that the slow, huge bulk of Hurricane Frances had not inflicted more pain. The sustained winds of 105 miles per hour when the hurricane crossed the eastern coastline -- which made it a Category 2 hurricane -- dwindled to 70 m.p.h., the level of topical storm winds, as it approached the western coastline near Tampa 18 hours later.
 The storm's center reached the west coast just before midnight, weather officials said. 
 ''Evidently our hopes and prayers did help, because I truly think it could have been worse,'' said Ronald G. Swank, the mayor of Titusville, a town across the Indian River from the Kennedy Space Center, where 90 m.p.h. winds left the tan roof of DeForest Realty draped across Route 1, along with a tangle of downed poles and power lines. In Kennedy Point Yacht club, a houseboat had impaled itself on a nearby sailboat, and virtually no business on Route 1 still possessed a sign by dusk, said Todd Hutchinson, a spokesman for the town's emergency operations center.
 But the storm could regain its strength as it passes over the warm waters of the Gulf of Mexico on the way to the Florida panhandle. Many residents of four Panhandle counties were urged to evacuate. In the rest of the state, nearly 100,000 people had taken refuge in 408 temporary shelters, and 16 counties had declared some kind of curfew.
 Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida, visiting the National Hurricane Center in Miami after surveying storm damage in a brief visit to Palm Beach County on Sunday afternoon, said that one good thing about two powerful hurricanes in a row was that it rid the state of ''hurricane amnesia,'' a condition he said afflicted many residents because they had not experienced a major storm in years.
 ''We don't have that anymore,'' Mr. Bush said. ''We've have had it up to this year because we dodged a few bullets.''
 In areas like Orlando, which suffered much worse damage during Hurricane Charley but went through a milder, if far longer, ordeal this time around, it was limbs, not whole trees, that were most often the cause of roof damage or road blockage.
 The brown leafy debris left by Hurricane Charley skittered across the roads and parking lots ahead of Hurricane Frances' winds, and in a few places, a pile of debris was nearly blotted from sight by the still-green branches that fell early on Sunday morning.
 Inland, in Polk County, where the eye of Hurricane Frances crossed over the path that the eye of Hurricane Charley had taken last month, a few squat orange trees, which had already largely been stripped of their fruit, cracked and toppled shortly before the peak of the storm passed through. Polk County had already lost 20 percent of its orange crop -- damage that will most likely affect juice prices in a few years.
 Around Polk County, blue tarps flapped in the strong wind on thousands of damaged roofs in the city, but most stayed in place. A few more branches fell down, but they blended in with the ones from already toppled trees that are waiting to be cut down. 
 ''It's mostly cosmetic damage,'' said Randy Wilkinson, a Polk County commissioner. ''We came out of it pretty good so far.''
 But one of the state's signature businesses, Walt Disney World, which had stayed open through Friday, catering in part to tourists when Orlando International Airport closed at noon, was prepared to reopen Monday.
 The extent of damage at the Kennedy Space Center was still unknown Sunday evening. NASA officials said they were unable to get teams into the center because the winds were still higher than the 40 m.p.h. limit for safely crossing the causeway. 
 The center will be closed through Monday at least, said a NASA spokeswoman, Melissa Mathews. 
 All three of the country's remaining space shuttles, which are worth $2 billion apiece, are in hangars there. ''At this point they are feeling fairly optimistic, given the kind of wind speed when it made landfall, and where it made landfall,'' Ms. Mathews said.
 President Bush talked to Governor Bush, his brother, on Sunday afternoon to assure Floridians that federal resources were in place to aid in the recovery, a White House spokesman, Trent Duffy, told The Associated Press. Some 8,000 members of the National Guard were also assigned to recovery efforts, The A.P. reported.
 Max Mayfield, the director of the National Hurricane Center, which is part of the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration, said that Hurricane Frances had been downgraded to a tropical storm at 5 p.m., but that rain bands that are the whip-ends of the large storm would continue to hammer the entire Florida peninsula Sunday night and reach into Georgia.
 Mr. Mayfield said the storm would likely move into the Gulf of Mexico by Monday morning, possibly strengthening to hurricane status before returning to land somewhere in the Panhandle. A hurricane warning was in effect for a long strip of the Gulf Coast, from Anna Maria Island to Destin.
 Mr. Mayfield said some areas of the Gulf Coast, like St. George Island and Dog Island, could suffer storm surges of six or seven feet even if the storm did not regain strength.
 Meanwhile, tree-trimming trucks and electrical workers from across the state were poised to move into areas struck by the storm. The parking lot of a Holiday Inn near the Orlando airport looked like a heavy-equipment dealer, as rows of identical orange vehicles crowned by cherry-pickers were lined up near the cars of refugee tourists and homeowners.
 Power outages were particularly widespread along the central coast. In Palm Beach County, one of the state's most populous, with 1.2 million people, almost 90 percent of the households were without power on Sunday, and a similar percentage of homes lost power in Martin County.
 Eqecat, an Oakland, Calif., company specializing in risk evaluation, estimated that the direct costs of Hurricane Frances would be about $4 billion, or about half those of Hurricane Charley. But the economic ripples touched off by the storms could have a cumulative effect, and the impact on the state's economy could be as much as $40 billion, economists said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: In the storm's wake: Christian Ferrer, top, carried his wife yesterday in West Palm Beach
a steeple, left, lay embedded in a Cocoa Beach church
and a section of Interstate 95 collapsed in West Palm Beach. (Photos by OTop, Uma Sanghvi/Palm Beach Post, via Associated Press
left, Charles W. Luzier/Reuters
Damon Higgins/Palm Beach Post, via Associated Press)(pg. A1)
 Debris from Hurricane Frances, which has been downgraded to a tropical storm, rested on a used-car lot yesterday in Fort Pierce, Fla. (Photo by Dave Sherman for The New York Times)(pg. A14)Chart/Map: ''A Wind-Swept Deluge''Hurricane Frances lost strength and slowed down yesterday. The numbers on the map are the maximum wind gusts, in miles per hour. Rainfall is based on rain gauge data and radar estimates as of 5 p.m. yesterday.Map of Florida highlighting the amount of recorded rainfall for select major cities.(Source by Pennsylvania State University, Meteorology Department)(pg. A14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (94%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); POWER FAILURES (90%); WEATHER (90%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); REAL ESTATE (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (76%); METEOROLOGY (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (66%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Frances (Storm); Charley (Storm); Blackouts and Brownouts (Electrical); Roads and Traffic

ORGANIZATION: PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (59%)

PERSON: Felicity Barringer

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (97%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); BAHAMAS (79%) Florida; West Palm Beach (Fla)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2004



150 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 513 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Merck to Post Results Of Clinical Trials Online
Merck & Company says it will post the results of its clinical trials on drugs on a Web site run by the National Institutes of Health. The move comes ahead of a House subcommittee hearing where, it is expected, drug companies will be excoriated for refusing to publish unfavorable drug trial results.
 Merck said that it had already posted the outlines of 46 studies, or every trial for which it is currently recruiting patients, as well as some others. By the end of the month, the company will post 50 more trials that are already under way but where patients are no longer being recruited. GlaxoSmithKline also recently agreed to post data online. [C4.]
 Why would a car-buying service believe it could sell home loans? ''For us it's not a big difference,'' said Robert N. Brisco, chief executive of CarsDirect.com. ''We've been very active in financing autos for the last five years, so we had banking relationships set up with some of the largest lenders in the U.S. and we can reuse the technology we built for that.'' Bob Tedeschi: New Economy. [C5.]

Challenging the Porcelain Standard
Since the porcelain high-pressure flush toilet came into use about a hundred years ago, thousands of inventors have attempted to improve upon it. Last month alone the U.S. Patent Office granted about sixty new toilet patents. Recent inventions include a portable toilet seat and a tulip-shaped toilet seat with a matching lid. Patents. [C2.]

Markets Closed for Labor Day
Financial markets and banks in the United States are closed today in observance of Labor Day. They will reopen Tuesday.


Antitrust Views Draw an Admirer
''The Keystone Advantage,'' a new business book, is creating an admiring stir among academics and consultants who study innovation, competition and corporate strategy. The book comes with a recommendation from Bill Gates of Microsoft and argues that antitrust policy needs to be rethought. [C7.]

Acer Returns to U.S. and China
Acer, the Taiwanese personal computer brand, got a cold dose of reality the last time it tried to conquer the world. But the company, which recently shuffled its management, says it has learned its lesson, and it is going back after the United States and Chinese markets. [C3.]

The Next Stock Option Controversy
As industrial countries move toward forcing companies to deduct the value of options from earnings, new battles may be brewing in a different but related area: taxation of the profits derived from exercising stock options. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [C2.]

When Coffee and Computers Met
Ten years ago, Cafe Cyberia, billed as the world's first Internet cafe, opened in London. Since then, it has had many imitators.[C3.]

Cars, Car Loans and Home Loans
CarsDirect.com, the online auto marketplace, is announcing the creation of two businesses. The first, Autos.com, is a research and ratings service for auto shoppers -- a reasonable enough add-on to CarsDirect's existing business. The second, though, is LoanStore.com, which offers, among other services, mortgages and home equity lines of credit.

GRAPHIC: PhotosChart: ''LAST WEEK''Dow industrials -- 10,260.20 up 65.19Nasdaq composite -- 1,844.48 down 17.6110-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.29 up 0.06The euro -- 1.2071 up 0.0055The dollar -- 110.60 up 0.97

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); CLINICAL TRIALS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); PATENTS (87%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (77%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (74%); NEW ECONOMY (73%); COMPANY STRATEGY (73%); US LABOR DAY (71%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (70%); STOCK INDEXES (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); STOCK OPTIONS (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MERCK & CO INC (96%); GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (84%)

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (96%); MRK (NYSE) (96%); GSK (NYSE) (58%); GSK (LSE) (58%); BIOC (EGX) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (96%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (50%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); TAIWAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2004



151 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; HURRICANE FRANCES: THE DAMAGE; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1230 words

HEADLINE: Back-to-Back Punch of Two Hurricanes Is Expected to Exact a $40 Billion Toll

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER

DATELINE: MIAMI, Sept. 5 

 BODY:
As Hurricane Frances lumbered across Florida on Sunday, economic analysts estimated the costs of the damage inflicted by the sprawling storm and Hurricane Charley three weeks ago could run to $40 billion.
 That would be a greater economic blow to Florida than any hurricane disaster the state has previously endured.
 ''It's a one-two punch,'' said J. Antonio Villamil, the chairman of Gov. Jeb Bush's economic council. ''There is no question, this will have a significant impact on the state.'' 
 Damage from Hurricane Frances will accentuate an economic slowdown begun by the earlier storm, particularly hurting the state's two main businesses, tourism and farming. But Mr. Villamil said federal assistance and insurance money, already flowing since Hurricane Charley, would be stepped up because of the second storm, and he forecast a return to strong growth for Florida by the end of the year.
 ''We'll stagger a bit, but then we'll be back,'' he said.
 In an election year in a pivotal state in which the governor is a brother of the president, independent economists expect especially strong economic support to flow from Washington. 
 Mr. Villamil said he also expected extra federal help for the state. But, as he sees it, that will be mainly because of its closer coordination with Washington since Hurricane Andrew hit the state in 1992.
 With the onset of Hurricane Frances, President Bush declared all of Florida a disaster area, immediately expanding opportunities for federal assistance to the state. In response to Hurricane Charley, the president designated 21 of the state's 67 counties as eligible for federal disaster assistance. 
 Almost immediately after the first hurricane, the Bush administration announced it was sending Florida $50 million to assist those who lost jobs because of the storm. The Department of Agriculture quickly estimated losses of at least $150 million for Florida's citrus crop, and state officials said they expected federal farm assistance to cover most of that loss. 
 Until Hurricanes Frances and Charley, Hurricane Andrew was the state's worst hurricane disaster, causing $35 billion in damage in today's dollars. 
 Sunday afternoon, Air Worldwide, a Boston company that assesses disaster damage for the insurance industry, estimated losses from Hurricane Frances could cost about $20 billion. As Hurricane Charley hit in August, the company estimated the storm would inflict similar losses. 
 ''Combined, the losses from these two storms are likely to be bigger than from Andrew,'' said Karen Clark, the chief executive of Air Worldwide. ''This is more than the state has ever had to deal with at any one time.''
 Ms. Clark said that while Hurricane Charley was a more powerful storm, with winds of 145 miles an hour as it struck Florida's Gulf Coast, Hurricane Frances would probably be just as damaging even with wind speeds of only about 105 m.p.h. 
 The reason, she said, was that the hurricane-force winds this weekend stretched across a 170-mile-wide band, making it more than three times larger than Hurricane Charley. Equally significant, she said, Hurricane Frances was crawling across the state at an average speed of perhaps 7 miles an hour, grinding away at property for hours. By contrast, Hurricane Charley zipped along at an average of 25 m.p.h.
 ''You won't see any areas like Punta Gorda and Port Charlotte with complete devastation because the winds of Frances were weaker,'' she said. ''But Frances is more spread out and pounding away much longer.''
 Of the total estimated losses of up to $20 billion, Ms. Clark estimated that $5 billion to $10 billion would be covered by insurance. Other analysts are estimating losses covered by insurance as low as $2 billion and as high as $10 billion. 
 Industry estimates put the losses covered by insurance in Hurricane Charley around $7 billion.
 Robert P. Hartwig, the chief economist for the Insurance Information Institute, a trade group in New York, said Hurricane Frances ''probably caused more overall damage'' than Hurricane Charley.
 Mr. Hartwig said the evacuation of more than several million people from Florida's east coast would add considerably to the costs of the storm, particularly to tourism. 
 ''From Miami to Jacksonville you had hotels empty, restaurants empty,'' he said. ''This was over an extended period of time because the storm moved so slowly. And it was over a holiday weekend. The hurricane is going to have a very substantial economic impact on those coastal areas.'' 
 In Hurricane Andrew in 1992, insurance covered $15.5 billion of the losses, which at the time were estimated at $25 billion. Half a dozen small insurance companies collapsed then, and it took years for some of the insurance giants to recover. 
 Since Hurricane Andrew, insurance coverage for hurricanes has been shrinking, shifting more of the burden to home owners and business people. As one measure, the insurance companies put into effect higher deductibles for hurricane damage. In place of the standard $500 deductible, the hurricane deductible becomes a percentage of the value of a property. With a widely used 2 percent deductible, the owner of a $100,000 home pays the first $2,000 in losses rather than $500. 
 In areas the insurers regard as most threatened by hurricanes, like Miami and Fort Lauderdale, they refuse to sell hurricane coverage at all. In those areas, limited coverage is offered by a state agency.
 Losses to the insurance industry are further buffered by a state catastrophe fund that pays 90 percent of the losses above $4.5 billion. For Hurricane Charley, the fund is expected to pay about $2.25 billion; for Hurricane Frances the payment from the fund could be several billion dollars. 
 Insurance analysts have said in the last few days that it was not clear whether the losses from the two storms would lead to an increase in property insurance premiums.
 Besides the immediate costs in the disruption of tourism and the prospect that future vacationers may be scared off -- both repeats of the consequences of Hurricane Charley -- the latest hurricane ripped through a part of the state's citrus groves in the vicinity of Fort Pierce that was untouched three weeks ago. Hurricane Frances also battered sugar cane fields near West Palm Beach.
 Mr. Villamil said the growth of Florida's $500 billion economy would probably slow to about 4 percent on an annualized basis for the three months ending in September, down from 4.8 percent in the previous three months. 
 He said unemployment because of the two hurricanes would probably rise to 4.8 percent or 5 percent from 4.4 percent in July. In turn, he said, ''you are going to see some of the national numbers come in weaker.'' 
 Mr. Villamil estimated about 10,000 Floridians lost their jobs as a result of Hurricane Charley, and he said about the same number could be expected from the latest hurricane. ''The increase over the short term will be about 20,000,'' he said. 
 Mr. Villamil said he would recommend that the state dip into its own funds to stimulate the economy along with the federal aid and insurance money. Florida's economy surged after Hurricane Andrew, and Mr. Villamil said that within months he expected a similar sharp lift. 
 ''By the end of the year we're going to be back to a very strong growth rate in the 5 percent to 5.5 percent range,'' he said. ''These jolts are just temporary.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Melanie Stansfield, Jack Smith and James Archer, teenage visitors from England, played cards in the hallway of their hotel yesterday in Orlando to keep away from the windows during the height of Hurricane Frances. (Photo by Erik S. Lesser for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (95%); TROPICAL STORMS (91%); WEATHER (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); DISASTER RELIEF (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (88%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); TRENDS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (75%); INSURANCE (74%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (69%); CITRUS GROVES (69%); LAYOFFS (67%); EXECUTIVES (66%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Frances (Storm); Charley (Storm); Economic Conditions and Trends; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Insurance

COMPANY: BOSTON CO INC (63%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (63%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) Joseph B Treaster; J Antonio Villamil; Jeb (Gov) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (96%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); ENGLAND (71%) Florida; United States

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2004



152 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; CAMPAIGN 2004: THE DEMOCRATIC NOMINEE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1464 words

HEADLINE: Kerry Enlisting Clinton Aides In Effort to Refocus Campaign

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY and DAVID M. HALBFINGER; Jodi Wilgoren contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
Former President Bill Clinton, in a 90-minute telephone conversation from his hospital room, offered John Kerry detailed advice on Saturday night on how to reinvigorate his candidacy, as Mr. Kerry enlisted more Clinton advisers to help shape his strategy and message for the remainder of the campaign.
 In an expansive conversation, Mr. Clinton, who is awaiting heart surgery, told Mr. Kerry that he should move away from talking about Vietnam, which had been the central theme of his candidacy, and focus instead on drawing contrasts with President Bush on job creation and health care policies, officials with knowledge of the conversation said. 
 The conversation and the recruitment of old Clinton hands came amid rising concern among Democrats about the state of Mr. Kerry's campaign and criticism that he had been too slow to respond to attacks on his military record or to engage Mr. Bush on domestic policy. Among the better-known former Clinton aides who are expected to play an increasingly prominent role are James Carville, Paul Begala and Stanley Greenberg, campaign aides said. 
 Mr. Kerry's aides emphasized that this was an expansion of the staff for the fall campaign and did not represent another upheaval of the Kerry campaign. Still, several Democrats outside the campaign said the influence of Mr. Clinton and his advisers could be seen over the past few days in Mr. Kerry's attacks on Mr. Bush's domestic policies. They said the Clinton team had been pressing Mr. Kerry to turn up the intensity of his attacks on those policies after a month spent largely avoiding engaging the president.
 The installation of former Clinton lieutenants is creating two distinct camps at Mr. Kerry's campaign headquarters on McPherson Square in downtown Washington.
 The first is the existing Kerry high command, which includes Mary Beth Cahill, the campaign manager; Bob Shrum, a senior adviser; Tad Devine, a senior adviser; and Stephanie Cutter, the communications director. The second is the Clinton camp, which includes Joe Lockhart, a former White House press secretary; Joel Johnson, a former senior White House aide; and Doug Sosnik, a former Clinton political director. And Howard Wolfson, a former chief of staff to Hillary Rodham Clinton, joined the campaign yesterday. 
 Members of both camps played down any suggestion of a Clinton takeover of a troubled campaign and insisted there was no tension between the two groups. Still, these days, Mr. Lockhart is stationed in an office on one side of the campaign war room; Mr. Shrum's office is on the opposite side. 
 On Saturday, Mr. Johnson drew applause from Democrats assembled for a weekly strategy meeting at Mr. Kerry's headquarters when he reassured aides that the campaign had settled on a clear line of attack against Mr. Bush, people at the meeting said. They said Mr. Johnson told the group that the campaign wanted the entire party to heed the new talking points.
 ''It's very simple,'' Mr. Johnson said in an interview yesterday, describing what he said would be the template for Mr. Kerry's speeches and advertisements in the weeks ahead. ''It's: 'Bush has taken us in the wrong direction. If you want more of the same for the next four years, vote for President Bush. If you want a new direction, John Kerry and John Edwards.' It's not complicated. Failed policies, jobs and the economy, health care.''
 Officials with knowledge of the Clinton conversation said it came after Mr. Kerry called Mr. Clinton at Columbia-Presbyterian Center of New York Presbyterian Hospital on Friday to wish him well. Mr. Clinton, who was described by advisers as concerned by the direction of the Kerry campaign, thanked him and suggested that the two men talk over the weekend about the campaign, which they did Saturday night.
 The telephone conversation, which was described as detailed and expansive, with Mr. Kerry doing more listening than talking, also included Mr. Lockhart, who joined Mr. Kerry's campaign as a senior adviser about two weeks ago. Mr. Lockhart declined to comment on the conversation.
 People close to Mr. Kerry said he was receptive to the counsel and was moving to widen his circle of advisers in the face of mounting concern among prominent Democrats about the potency of Mr. Bush's campaign. They noted that Mr. Clinton and his strategists were architects of the only winning Democratic presidential drives since 1976. Even so, some of Mr. Kerry's aides insisted that their seeking help from Mr. Clinton was not a reflection of flaws in their campaign.
 Mr. Kerry's aides insisted that the Clinton advisers were augmenting the staff as it headed into a difficult period, and did not represent another instance in which Mr. Kerry was shaking up his campaign staff. Mr. Kerry fired a campaign manager in the primary season. The Kerry aides said that senior advisers, among them Ms. Cahill and Mr. Shrum, remained in their posts.
 Still, some Democrats described what was taking place as a slow-motion shake-up as Mr. Clinton's former advisers assume increasingly powerful roles. 
 Mr. Greenberg, who was Mr. Clinton's pollster in 1992, resigned Tuesday as the pollster for independent Democratic groups that have been running advertisements attacking Mr. Bush so that he would be permitted, under the law, to play a more prominent role in advising Mr. Kerry's campaign.
 Mr. Kerry's aides said that a longtime political adviser from Boston, John Sasso, who is working as general manager of the Democratic National Committee, would start traveling with Mr. Kerry as a full-time aide. 
 Mr. Sasso is said to have history with Mr. Kerry and his respect, enough to be able to give the candidate unvarnished criticism on his performance on the trail.
 Mr. Begala, who said he would remain a CNN commentator, said he was delighted with the changes. He added that Mr. Bush had succeeded over the past month in transforming the race from a referendum on an incumbent president to a referendum on Mr. Kerry. 
 ''It was an enormous shift,'' Mr. Begala said last night. Then, referring to Karl Rove, a top Bush strategist, he added: ''And it required the cooperation of the candidate. And you know what? The Kerry campaign is no longer cooperating. Sorry, Karl.'' 
 Mr. Clinton's engagement in the campaign is new but hardly surprising. Throughout the 2004 campaign, Mr. Clinton has offered advice to any Democratic presidential candidate who would listen, including Mr. Kerry. And he told Mr. Kerry's advisers before his hospitalization that he would play a major role campaigning for Mr. Kerry this fall. In 2000, Mr. Clinton made no secret of his dismay that his vice president, Al Gore, did not turn to him more for counsel and campaigning help.
 The Kerry campaign has become roiled in recent days by criticism -- from inside and outside -- of its decision to initially resist responding to the attacks on Mr. Kerry's war record by a group of veterans. Members of the Clinton camp as well as some of Mr. Kerry's aides were said to have believed that the slow response hurt Mr. Kerry and contributed to polls in recent days suggesting that he had slipped behind Mr. Bush. 
 ''We talked about this last year, the fact that Republicans would come after his service and the idea that they would come after what he did when he got home,'' said one midlevel Kerry adviser who is not part of the Clinton camp. ''The idea that we got caught flat-footed is just crazy.''
 Mr. Shrum, in an interview yesterday, called such second-guessing ''ridiculous,'' saying, ''We responded within six or seven days.
 ''I was strongly in favor of responding to the Swift boats when we did or around when we did, and so was Mary Beth,'' Mr. Shrum said, referring to Ms. Cahill and the advertisements by the Vietnam veterans critical of Mr. Kerry. 
 While Mr. Kerry's crewmates denounced the advertisements as soon as they were released Aug. 4, Mr. Kerry himself did not address the accusations until Aug. 19.
 The notion that the campaign was settling on a new message for the fall came as news to some senior staff members. 
 ''That's really groundbreaking,'' one senior aide said sarcastically when told about the focus on Mr. Bush's policies outlined by Mr. Johnson. ''I think our negative frame should be that George Bush is a liar. He misled the country on Iraq. And then everything else that he lies about, bring it back to that.''
 Mr. Devine said any lack of clarity of Mr. Kerry's message was due to the campaign's running few advertisements in the past five weeks. He said the polls are showing a downturn they always planned for.
 ''If you want to deliver a powerful message, you need all the means of message-delivery at your disposal,'' Mr. Devine said. ''Absent those tools and those means it's just harder to deliver that kind of message.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); VIETNAM WAR (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); JOB CREATION (70%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; Vietnam War; Presidential Election of 2004; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); BILL CLINTON (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) Bill Clinton; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush; Adam Nagourney; David M Halbfinger; James Carville; Paul Begala; Stanley Greenberg

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2004



153 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; CAMPAIGN 2004: THE BIG ISSUES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: The Candidates' Tariff Dodge

 BODY:
This election year is even worse than usual when it comes to avoiding tough issues. And of all the hard choices the candidates are not confronting, the question of agricultural subsidies may be the one they're ducking most energetically. Both John Kerry and George Bush must know that the current budget-busting farm subsidy program is ruinous on multiple counts. At roughly $15 billion a year, the program is part of the deficit problem. While the subsidies do little or nothing to help American family farmers, they place a crippling burden on poor farmers elsewhere. Their inability to compete with subsidized farm products from rich nations distorts trade and hurts developing countries. 
 Yet from Mr. Kerry and Mr. Bush, there's never a discouraging word. 
 But while the candidates are ignoring the issue, a lot has been happening at the World Trade Organization, where poor nations see the subsidies as the most pressing trade issue. The W.T.O. ruled in favor of Brazilian complaints against America's cotton and Europe's sugar programs. And its members finally agreed last month, at least in principle, to start rolling back subsidies that allow American farmers to unfairly undercut competitors from poor nations. 
 A lot remains to be worked out. The agreement does call for an end to all direct export subsidies, relied on mostly by the European Union, although the timing is still undetermined. But there's a gaping loophole: countries may rush to protect some of their crops under an ill-defined exemption for ''sensitive products.'' Unless it is tightened in further negotiations, the agreement leaves plenty of wiggle room for governments. 
 It's not clear, also, if the ultimate deal will bar Washington's so-called countercyclical payments, which kick in when a crop's market price dips below certain levels. Such subsidies, a staple of the 2002 farm bill, allow American farmers to increase their share of the global market by defying basic economics: they grow more crops than would be profitable without the subsidies.
 Even one of the seemingly hard numbers already in the W.T.O. framework offers the United States and Europe plenty of time to dawdle. The deal commits countries to cut their offending subsidies by 20 percent in the first year of its implementation. But the language really refers to 20 percent of the maximum legal subsidies, which previous agreements set at $50 billion a year, not real world numbers. Hence, as the United States trade representative, Robert Zoellick, rushed to assure Senator Tom Daschle, the United States wouldn't have to cut its subsidy checks by anything close to 20 percent now. The Democratic leader, disgracefully, had denounced the Bush administration for agreeing to even the modest framework.
 A few members of Congress have had the political courage to rail against the hypocrisy of the subsidy system, which is sold as a means of helping the family farm while actually encouraging large-scale concentrated agriculture. Among that small band, for instance, there's Senator Charles Grassley, the Iowa Republican, who has been proposing sensible limits to any one farmer's check. 
 But the lack of candor in the campaign is disheartening. That's particularly true of Senator Kerry's protectionist trade rhetoric. The White House is beginning to take steps to reverse its disastrous embrace of the 2002 farm bill, but don't expect Mr. Bush to acknowledge that if America's farm program isn't radically overhauled, the nation will become an international trade scofflaw. 
 The best hope is that beyond the election, the W.T.O. legal verdicts against subsidies will combine with budget realities and the interest of other industries not to have the nation's trade agenda held hostage by the farm lobby. The cumulative weight might force Washington to live up to its pledge to liberalize agricultural trade.
 That doesn't mean the United States has to abruptly terminate rural aid programs. The next farm bill simply needs to emphasize land conservation and other forms of support that do not give farmers an incentive to dump surpluses overseas at prices that do not begin to cover their costs. 
 The European Union has been a bigger culprit over the years in distorting agricultural trade to the detriment of poorer nations. Its member nations, however, are coming to terms with the fact that the status quo is unsustainable, that the industrialized world cannot continue to have it both ways by benefiting from a global trading system that forces poor countries to lower their barriers to manufactured goods and services while insulating its own farmers from global competition. Whoever wins the presidential election in November will have to lead Congress to dismantle, and reinvent, the current farm support system. A failure to do so would ensure the failure of the effort to make the trading system fairer to all nations, with catastrophic consequences for the global economy. It's too bad no one is mentioning this simple fact during the campaign. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (92%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (88%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); EXPORT PROMOTION (77%); AGRICULTURE (77%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (77%); FAMILY FARMS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); SUGAR FARMING (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (72%); MARKET SHARE (71%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (69%) Agriculture; Election Issues ; Presidential Election of 2004; Editorials; Surveys and Series; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; International Trade and World Market; Agriculture; Crop Controls and Subsidies; Farmers 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%) World Trade Organization

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); ROBERT ZOELLICK (57%); TOM DASCHLE (50%) George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2004



154 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: The Comeback Prez

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE. 
E-mail: safire@nytimes.com

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
All that sustained thumb-sucking you heard about this being a polarized electorate, with only a tiny sliver of undecideds, has just ended with a loud pop. Polls that showed John Kerry ahead by a few points going into his convention a month ago now show President Bush up 11 points. That means the old ''swing vote'' still swings and the battle for voters is in the political center.
 The Labor Day Bush trend (which could, by the nature of swing voting, be reversible) has Democratic politicians between dismay and panic. As usual, they are crying foul at a veterans group's answer to Kerry's blunder of running on his Vietnam war and anti-war record. As insiders shake up the staff, outsiders pre-emptively lay the basis for post-election excuses, positioning themselves for embittered told-you-so's. 
 Longtime Democratic pollsters have been calling journalists to note that the sophisticated ''internals'' of the current polling were even more gloomy for the Kerry campaign, showing a two-to-one advantage for the president on the paramount issue of the war. Retiring Senator Bob Graham, whose failure to dissociate himself from Pat Buchanan's anti-Israel screed on ''Meet the Press'' yesterday will not help Democrats in Florida, complains that Kerry's campaign is ''still a little out of focus.''
 Other Democratic pols had harsher advice: no more Mr. Nice Guy. Harold Ickes, the rejected Clintonite who has been directing millions of dollars into supposedly independent TV spots savaging the president, cries that Kerry should ''throw caution to the wind.'' Governor Ed Rendell of Pennsylvania advised that Kerry ''has got to start smacking back.'' 
 The gibes from his own side caused Kerry to overreact. Instead of moving away from the Vietnam issue, which has been a real toothache for his campaign, he bit down on it. Uncharacteristically, he took the low road, overtly contrasting his war duty with Dick Cheney's draft deferments. 
 That flailing-out was done more in anger than in calculation. Millions of Americans of draft age in the 1960's who are voters today were deferred from service by virtue of student status or fatherhood. They do not appreciate having their deferment attributed to lack of patriotism. Now Kerry has unnecessarily upset a lot of non-veteran swing voters.
 What can swing the pendulum back? What are the presently ascendant Republicans worried about?
 Not another new Kerry position on the war in Iraq; he has learned that issue is a loser and no ''I shall go to Baghdad'' stunt would sway the undecideds. Despite the wishes of both Democrats and Republicans, however, Iraqi insurgents presumably think it is in their interest to increase American casualties in October -- thereby to defeat Bush's unequivocal ''whatever it takes'' policy. Nobody can be certain how a terrorist Tet offensive would affect U.S. politics.
 We can be certain that bad economic news, if it comes, will hurt Bush. When the recovery stuttered this summer and Kerry's political fortunes rose, we had a brief ''Kerry market'' -- stocks declined sharply at the prospect of dividend and capital-gains tax increases, recovering along with Bush's recent comeback. If the figures near election time are not good, a worried market will drop as Kerry's stock rises, accentuating investor gloom. Public pessimism cheers the challenger. 
 And then there are the debates, with all their gaffe potential. In that big moment of the swing voter lies the main hope of the Kerry supporters after their botched Boston convention, its mistaken theme highlighted by the successful G.O.P. affair. 
 Yet Kerryites cannot hold out hope publicly that their man will out-debate Bush and thereby reverse fortunes lest they raise expectations of a Kerry triumph; in that case, September's much-needed Democratic morale booster would enable Bush to do ''better than expected'' in October's debates, vitiating any victory. (It's not easy being behind.)
 Finally, bouncing Bushies are properly concerned with peaking too soon. Because the media revel in a horse race right down to the wire, any reduction of the present Bush surge will be hailed with a jubilant ''Here comes Kerry!'' 
 But the Republicans coming out of their New York success -- with a personally popular candidate, a much deeper surrogate bench, the momentum of an upbeat message and a clearly centrist appeal -- have good reasons to have faith in the November decision of today's legion of swing voters. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); VETERANS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); IRAQ WAR (76%); VIETNAM WAR (74%); JOURNALISM (72%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (71%); US LABOR DAY (71%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (67%) Presidential Election of 2004; Public Opinion

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); DICK CHENEY (56%); ED RENDELL (55%) William Safire; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (50%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2004



155 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; CAMPAIGN 2004: POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1041 words

HEADLINE: Steady on the Right, Bush Pitches to the Center

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: PARKERSBURG, W.Va., Sept. 5 

 BODY:
To Terry McAuliffe, chairman of the Democratic National Committee, Senator Zell Miller, the Democrat from Georgia who delivered a scathing attack on Senator John Kerry at the Republican convention last week, is a rabid opportunist who has become the hate-spewing face of President Bush's re-election campaign.
 ''He was so frightening that parents took their children away from the television,'' Mr. McAuliffe told reporters in a conference call on Sunday.
 To Mr. Bush, however, Mr. Miller is his new best friend. 
 Campaigning here on Sunday, Mr. Bush invoked Mr. Miller's support as a reason Democrats and independents could feel comfortable voting for the Republican ticket. Mr. Bush has used a version of the same line at every campaign stop he has made since the end of his convention on Thursday night, and here, as in Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, Iowa and Ohio in recent days, it brought rousing cheers from the audience.
 Standing at the 50-yard line of the Parkersburg High School football stadium under a blazing sun that had his audience wilting, Mr. Bush never mentioned his support for the struggling coal and steel industries, the issue he usually emphasizes when he travels to this state.
 But Mr. Bush has an eye toward expanding his appeal beyond his conservative base as the race enters the home stretch. So he found time to celebrate Mr. Miller, who at the Republican National Convention on Wednesday night suggested that Mr. Kerry was so weak on defense that he wanted to protect the United States with spitballs.
 ''See, my message is for everybody,'' Mr. Bush said after noting that the crowd included Mayor Jimmy Colombo of Parkersburg, a Democrat. ''A safer, stronger, better America is for every citizen of this country. I think old Zell Miller set a pretty good tempo for Democrats all across the country. He made it clear it's all right to come and support the Bush ticket.''
 In the hours and days after Mr. Miller's appearance at the convention, Democrats predicted that his speech would backfire by providing evidence that Mr. Bush's campaign was all about attacking Mr. Kerry, impugning his patriotism and scaring voters into the arms of Republicans.
 But Mr. Bush's aides said the response to the president's mentions of Mr. Miller showed that Mr. Miller had touched a chord among voters of all stripes by voicing doubts about Mr. Kerry's record on national security issues.
 Ken Mehlman, Mr. Bush's campaign manager, told reporters as they accompanied the president on a bus trip through Ohio on Saturday that he had spoken with Mr. Miller that morning.
 ''I told him he could run for mayor in places like Cedar Rapids,'' Mr. Mehlman said, alluding to the cheers that greeted Mr. Bush's mention of Mr. Miller in Iowa on Friday.
 Bush campaign officials are moving to take advantage of what they see as the opening Mr. Miller has provided. Scott Stanzel, a spokesman for the Bush campaign, said Mr. Bush had hoped to have Mr. Miller campaign with him this weekend, but Mr. Miller had bowed out because of an illness in his family. Mr. Stanzel said the campaign hoped Mr. Miller would campaign with the president as soon as possible.
 Reaching out to Democrats is crucial to Mr. Bush in West Virginia, where Democrats hold a substantial advantage among registered voters. Bill Clinton carried West Virginia in 1992 and 1996, but Al Gore lost it to Mr. Bush in 2000. Both parties are campaigning hard here: this was the second consecutive Sunday Mr. Bush had spent here.
 Mr. Bush had the campaign trail to himself on Sunday. With 58 days until the vote, Mr. Kerry and his running mate, Senator John Edwards, both took the day off, as did Vice President Dick Cheney. 
 Emphasizing the support he has received from Mr. Miller -- without dwelling on the specifics of the Georgian's convention speech -- is part of Mr. Bush's broader strategy to move to the political center and deliver a positive message. The shift comes after spending months attacking Mr. Kerry's qualifications to be commander in chief and shoring up his own base on the right.
 Mr. Bush and Mr. Cheney have both campaigned with Senator John McCain, the Republican from Arizona who is popular among independent voters and moderate Democrats.
 Even as his surrogates have continued to try to undermine Mr. Kerry, Mr. Bush has toned down his own attack somewhat. He never mentioned the Democrat from Massachusetts by name during his 32-minute speech here, and he limited criticism of ''my opponent'' largely to Mr. Kerry's votes on spending for military operations in Iraq.
 Instead, Mr. Bush drew indirect but pointed comparisons built on his campaign's portrayal of Mr. Kerry as wavering and unprincipled on national security. And he focused his comments on his domestic agenda and what he said was evidence that the economy was coming back.
 ''I'm running with a clear and positive plan to build a safer world and a more hopeful America,'' Mr. Bush said. ''I'm running with a compassionate conservative philosophy: government should help people improve their lives, not try to run their lives. And I believe this nation wants steady, principled, consistent leadership.''
 Mr. Bush said that his tax cuts were paying off by strengthening the economy, and he suggested that Mr. Kerry would weaken it by raising taxes on people in the top income tax bracket, a group he said contains 900,000 small-business owners and entrepreneurs.
 ''Raising taxes will stifle job creation,'' Mr. Bush said.
 Mr. Kerry's campaign said Mr. Bush was distorting the definition of small-business owners by including taxpayers like some doctors, lawyers, corporate chief executives and others who earn income as members of a partnership. Only a tiny fraction of small-business owners earn enough to be in the top income tax bracket, leaving nearly all of them untouched by Mr. Kerry's plan to roll back the Bush tax cuts for people earning more than $200,000 a year, Mr. Kerry's campaign said. 
 ''If voters think that giving Dick Cheney a tax cut is the best way to create jobs, they should vote for George Bush,'' said Phil Singer, a spokesman for the Kerry campaign. But if they want taxes cut for small businesses ''that create jobs or offer health insurance, they should vote for John Kerry.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush yesterday in Parkersburg, W.Va. ''See, my message is for everybody,'' he said, citing the support of a Democrat, Zell Miller. (Photo by Kevin Lamarque/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); MAYORS (77%); CHILDREN (76%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); SCHOOL SPORTS FACILITIES (72%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (71%); CONFERENCE CALLS (56%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (52%) Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN KERRY (92%) Richard W Stevenson; George W (Pres) Bush; Zell (Sen) Miller

GEOGRAPHIC: CEDAR RAPIDS, IA, USA (76%) WEST VIRGINIA, USA (93%); IOWA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) Parkersburg (W Va); West Virginia

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2004



156 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1176 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-9

Russian Investigators Find Signs of Intricate Planning
Russian investigators found holes in Middle School No.1's library floor, and they suspect that the attackers had secreted a cache of weapons or other equipment weeks and perhaps months before their brutal attack. The discovery underscored the sophistication and coordination that have increasingly characterized the attacks that have convulsed the country. A1

The death count from the siege reached 338, and many of the injured remain in critical condition. A8

Ethnic Tension in Afghanistan
Afghanistan is struggling to build a cohesive nation after 23 years of war, and ethnic tensions have putatively been submerged in the name of national unity. But the recent fighting in the western part of the country shows that those tensions remain. A3

Confusion Over Arrest in Iraq
Iraqi officials said they had captured a man believed to be the most wanted member of Saddam's Hussein's inner circle still at large. Confusion reigned, though, with the American military saying it had no knowledge of the arrest and the Iraqi defense minister calling the assertion ''baseless.'' A6

Saudi Forces Arrest Militants
Saudi security forces arrested seven suspected militants in a raid in an Islamic militant stronghold north of the capital, where an attack by militants killed three policemen. Police forces also chased a car carrying suspected militants, who fired on a police vehicle and caused it to burst into flames, killing three security personnel. A6

Brazilian Council Plan Criticized
President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva's plan to create a national journalists' council to regulate Brazil's boisterous press has prompted mounting criticism there. News organizations that would be affected by the bill call it the most serious threat to freedom of expression since the right-wing military dictatorship was toppled two decades ago. A6

More Attacks in North Darfur
More than 3,000 people have been displaced since the end of August by violence in an area of North Darfur state in Sudan, a United Nations report said. A United Nations official said it was not clear yet who was behind the attacks. A3

NATIONAL A10-15

Hurricane Frances Hits; Florida Endures Storm 2
Hurricane Frances relentlessly enveloped most of Florida in severe squalls, lashing rain and scattershot destruction. Millions of state residents were left without power and hundreds of thousands without ready access to gasoline, groceries or other daily staples. A1

The aftermath of Hurricane Frances has lacked the dramatic visual images Hurricane Charley created last month, but the storm still caused a selective and unsympathetic kind of ruin. A1

Economic analysts estimated that the costs of the damage inflicted by Hurricane Frances and Hurricane Charley three weeks ago could run to $40 billion. That would be a greater economic blow to Florida than any hurricane disaster the state has previously endured. A15

Clinton Gives Advice to Kerry
Bill Clinton's allies are assuming an increasingly powerful role in Senator John Kerry's campaign, shaping its strategy and message. In particular, campaign officials said, the Clinton team has been pressing Mr. Kerry to turn up his attacks on Mr. Bush's domestic policies. A1

Old Party Labels Are Faded
As Mr. Bush and Mr. Kerry rotate in and out of Ohio, polls show the presidential race in a dead heat. And for many voters the economy remains the central issue. Interviews here in the foothills of the Appalachians show that economic distress does not necessarily translate into a vote for the Democrats. A13

Spy Case Renews Debate
A furious debate about the close relationship between a pro-Israel lobbying organization and a conservative group of Republican civilian officials at the Defense Department has been reignited by the criminal investigation into whether officials from the organization passed classified information from a Pentagon official to Israel . The officials' hard-line policy views on Iraq, Iran, and the rest of the Middle East have been controversial and influential within the Bush administration. A10

The Bus Stopped Here
Greyhound has dropped 269 bus stops in 17 states throughout the West and Midwest over the summer. Most of the abandoned stops are in rural areas that have little or no other public transportation routes in or out. A10

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Poor Record at Hospital Performing Clinton Bypass
Columbia-Presbyterian Center of New York Presbyterian Hospital, the hospital where former President Bill Clinton awaits bypass surgery, has the highest death rate for the operation in New York State, according to a report released last week by the state health department. A1

Glass Designs Still Rise
Defying concerns of another terrorist attack in a post-9/11 New York, the designers of the new World Trade Center, as well as many other significant new public and private buildings in the city, are turning again and again to glass facades. B1

Culinary Giant Flounders
The James Beard Foundation, one of the most prestigious culinary institutions in the nation, cannot account for how it has spent hundreds of thousands of dollars in annual revenue. The disclosure is the latest in a series of events revealing an organization in disarray, with its finances suspect and its mission being questioned. A1

Turnover High Under Klein
Joel I. Klein, the school chancellor for New York City, has pledged to stay at his post as long as Michael R. Bloomberg is mayor. But his management team has been in constant flux, with important posts changing hands virtually every month. B1

SPORTSMONDAY D1-8

ARTS E1-8

Chirac's Labor of Love
A $265 million Paris museum devoted to the indigenous art of the Americas, Africa, Asia and Oceania is rising on the banks of the Seine. Within a year the museum will begin receiving the 270,000 objects in its collection. And early in 2006 President Jacques Chirac is expected to inaugurate what is considered the principal cultural monument to his 12 years in office. E1

BUSINESS DAY C1-8

Perle Says He Was Misled
Richard N. Perle, once a defender of Conrad Black on the board of Hollinger International, now says he was misled by his friend and business colleague. Mr. Perle was making his first public statements since he was criticized over transactions that company investigators say led to the plundering of the company. C1

Lower Job Growth Standards
There was a time when adding just under 150,000 jobs a month, three years into an economic recovery, would have been considered a disaster. Yet when the Labor Department reported employment growth of 144,000 jobs in August and bumped up its earlier estimates for June and July, yielding a three-month average of 104,000 new jobs a month, many economists said it was good news. C1

Business Digest C1

OBITUARIES B7

EDITORIAL A16-17

Editorials: The candidates' tariff dodge; reckless full-body medical scans; from now until then.

Columns: William Safire and Bob Herbert.

Autos D9
Metro Diary B2
Bridge E7
TV Listings E8
Crossword E7
Weather B8


GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); HURRICANES (84%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (77%); DISPLACED PERSONS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (75%); POLICE FORCES (73%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (73%); WRITERS (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); NEWS REPORTING (69%); JOURNALISM (69%); NATURAL DISASTERS (66%); TROPICAL STORMS (65%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (62%); RELIGION (51%); FIRES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (69%); LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (93%); SUDAN (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); BRAZIL (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2004



157 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 6, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: In Trying Time, Scaling Down Expectations Of Job Growth

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
There was a time when adding just under 150,000 jobs a month, three years into an economic recovery, would have been considered a disaster. As recently as last December, President Bush's Council of Economic Advisers forecast that in 2004 employment would grow, on average, by about 216,000 jobs a month. 
 Yet on Friday, when the Labor Department reported employment growth of 144,000 jobs in August and bumped up its earlier estimates for June and July, yielding a three-month average of 104,000 new jobs a month, many economists said it was good news.
 ''The August jobs report fails to return us to visions of boom, but it nonetheless puts the U.S. back on a reasonable employment income trajectory,'' wrote Robert J. Barbera, chief economist at ITG/Hoenig, in a note to investors. N. Gregory Mankiw, chief economic adviser to the president, said the report ''confirms that the economy is going in the right direction.'' 
 The reception of 144,000 jobs as adequate employment growth is evidence of economists' more modest view of what the economy can deliver, after an unexpected cooling of demand in the late spring and early summer. 
 The employment data followed a tattoo of weak economic news over the last few days. In July, personal income growth slipped to its lowest level since autumn 2002. Consumer confidence slid in August, and sales at big retailers like Wal-Mart and Sears, Roebuck slowed sharply. On Wednesday, Ford and General Motors warned that they would cut production because unsold cars and trucks were piling up in their lots.
 Most economists agree that the slowdown can be substantially attributed to rising crude oil prices, sending gasoline prices sharply higher and taking a big bite out of consumers' wallets.
 ''The economy was clobbered by energy prices,'' said Ian Shepherdson, chief United States economist at High Frequency Economics in Valhalla, N.Y.
 Mr. Shepherdson expects spending to rebound as the price of oil retreats from recent highs. But other economists note that the lackluster growth in employment and wages could add to consumers' woes because it could deprive them of the spending power to keep the economic expansion on track.
 ''My expectation is that if oil is stable or comes down, the economy will pick up,'' said Martin N. Baily, the last chairman of President Bill Clinton's economic council. ''But the weak job growth does pose a significant risk to the sustainability of this recovery.''
 The 313,000 jobs created in the last three months are hardly enough even to keep up with population growth, which on its own adds about 150,000 people to the labor supply each month. Though wage growth picked up in July, salaries are still treading water. Average hourly wages of production workers and nonmanagerial service employees are 2.5 percent above what they were a year ago, not quite enough to keep up with inflation.
 Consumers have supported the economy almost single-handedly over the last two years, spending the proceeds from tax cuts and borrowing to refurbish their homes and to buy cars and other durable goods. 
 But the effect of the tax stimulus is waning. As interest rates rise, the resulting costs are reining in mortgage refinancing and other household credit growth. From now on, workers' spending will depend more on wage income. 
 Against this backdrop, it is perhaps unsurprising that consumers are not feeling great. Last month, the Conference Board's index of consumer confidence -- which aims to measure the outlook on jobs and overall economic conditions -- fell for the first time since April. According to the International Council of Shopping Centers, sales at stores of the nation's big retailers recorded the slowest growth since June 2003. 
 This being September, two months before a presidential election, the interpretation of the employment data has become, unsurprisingly, a function of political preferences. ''It's certainly not morning again in America,'' said John Podesta, President Clinton's former chief of staff. ''This is definitely a cloudy day.'' 
 The campaign of John Kerry, the Democratic nominee, released a fact sheet pointing out that 1.6 million private-sector jobs have been lost since Mr. Bush took office. 
 ''This is very bad news for Bush politically,'' said Jason Furman, an economic adviser for the Kerry campaign. 
 Mr. Mankiw, on the other hand, noted that 1.7 million jobs had been created over the last year, and argued that this was a direct result of the tax cuts proposed by President Bush in 2003. 
 The August employment number was ''just a hair lower than good,'' said Kevin Hasset, director of economic studies at the American Enterprise Institute, who was Senator John McCain's economic adviser during his 2000 presidential run. ''It's difficult to make a lot of hay with this number.''
 Employment growth can be expected to have a substantial effect on the election. One in five respondents to a New York Times/CBS poll in July said that jobs and unemployment were the most important campaign issue in their state, three times the number of people who put Iraq at the top of the list and five times those that mentioned terrorism. 
 In crucial swing states through the Rust Belt -- states like Ohio, Michigan and Pennsylvania that have suffered big job losses -- the issue is crucial. Michigan, for instance, has had the steepest percentage drop in employment among all states over the last year. Yet beyond the political reverberations, August's job growth was received in a relatively upbeat fashion, indicating that the standards for adequate employment levels have been downgraded.
 An average of 140,000 jobs created each month over the last year is hardly good by historical measure. At similar points after the two previous recessions, in the early 1980's and early 1990's, employment growth averaged more than 230,000 new jobs each month. 
 ''The reason we haven't had enough job growth is because there has not been enough growth in demand,'' Mr. Baily, the former Clinton adviser, said.
 Yet others maintain that perhaps this is the kind of employment growth the economy is going to see for the foreseeable future. 
 ''The principal explanation of why growth is so slow is that productivity is so high,'' said Richard D. Ripe, chief economist at the Prudential Equity Group. ''We can produce substantial increases in G.D.P. without as many workers as we normally did.''
 Mr. Barbera is blunt. He posits that the real issue is that expectations are too high, set during the boom of the late 1990's when the economy surged and unemployment shrank to 30-year lows. ''As we see it, we really can't go back to the late-1990's experience,'' he argued. ''Much of it, after all, was fanciful.'' 


CORRECTION-DATE: September 7, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A news analysis article in Business Day yesterday about the economy's lackluster rate of job creation misstated the pace of employment growth foreseen by the president's Council of Economic Advisers last December. To realize the council's forecast of the total number of jobs held by Americans in 2004, the economy would have to create more than 300,000 jobs a month this year, not 216,000.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rodney K. Jackson scanning the job postings at a city office in Denver. (Photo by Matt Staver/Bloomberg News)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (86%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (77%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); FACTORY WORKERS (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); MARKET RESEARCH (71%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (70%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (69%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (68%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (68%); GASOLINE MARKETS (68%); RETAILERS (65%); RETAIL SALES (64%); MOTOR VEHICLES (64%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (63%) Labor; Hiring and Promotion; Unemployment; Wages and Salaries; United States Economy; Consumer Behavior; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Labor; International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (54%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (84%) High Frequency Economics

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (54%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (72%); BILL CLINTON (58%) Ian Shepherdson; Eduardo Porter

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2004



158 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 306 words

HEADLINE: Realty Trust Plans a Shift In Its Market

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

 BODY:
United Dominion Realty Trust, one of the nation's largest apartment owners, plans to announce $1.1 billion of acquisitions and disposals today that will shift the company's focus to Southern California, company executives said yesterday.
 United Dominion has agreed to pay $897 million for 6,172 apartment units in four separate transactions. 
The acquisitions will give United Dominion, which will own some 80,000 apartments in 42 markets, a presence in some of the fastest growing regions in the country, including Southern California and Austin, Tex. 
 The company has also agreed to sell 3,515 apartments in Detroit; Louisville, Ky.; and Phoenix -- all markets that have continued to lag the rest of the nation -- for $174 million. 
 Southern California will become the company's largest market, representing 16 percent of its business, with Florida and Washington, D.C., not far behind. The company is spending an average of $145,241 a home, a high price by historical standards.
 The transactions are part of United Dominion's effort to shift its focus to markets with high-job growth, expanding economies and high barriers to new construction and home ownership.
 ''These transactions represent a fundamental change in the quality of our assets and the future growth of our company,'' Thomas W. Toomey, president and chief executive of United Dominion said in a statement to be released today.
 Shares in Real Estate Investment Trusts or Reits like United Dominion have surged, in part because housing prices have continued to rise, making the apartments owned by the trusts more valuable. 
 Shares of United Dominion closed on Friday at $21.23, which is near its high for the year.
 While investors are likely to cheer the strategy behind United Dominion's decision, they may be less sanguine about the price United Dominion is paying. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); PRICE INCREASES (67%) Housing; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures

COMPANY: UDR INC (59%)

ORGANIZATION: United Dominion Realty Trust Inc

TICKER: UDR (NYSE) (59%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (59%)

PERSON: Andrew Ross Sorkin

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (90%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (87%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (87%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (71%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); KENTUCKY, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (90%); ARIZONA, USA (87%); TEXAS, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (91%) California; Detroit (Mich); Louisville (Ky); Phoenix (Ariz)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2004



159 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Fashion Page; FASHION DIARY; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 690 words

HEADLINE: Two Decades Uncovering the Next New Thing

BYLINE: By Guy Trebay

 BODY:
What is the next big thing? That Fuji blimp of a question tends to hover in the air over the fashion world, never more ominously than at the kickoff of the twice-yearly New York Fashion Week, which starts on Wednesday. Compulsory novelty is a given in fashion, of course. But is it always a good thing?
 Possibly not, said Alex de Betak, the fashion producer turned furniture designer, in what amounts to a fashion koan. 
 ''The problem,'' Mr. de Betak once told this reporter, ''is that there are so many designers and stylists trying to find the next new thing first that the new thing is already the old thing by the time anyone hears about it, because everybody is already onto something that's the newer new.''
 Few people have kept a closer watch on the new over the past two decades than Kim Hastreiter, an editor of Paper magazine. Paper recently celebrated its 20th anniversary with a commemorative issue and a book, ''20 Years of Style: The World According to Paper'' (Harper Design, 2004) that is a compendium of every trend that was new once, or even more often if you factor in revivals. 
 By now anyone of a certain age (that would be middle age) has come to the realization that the funky and lush bohemian New York that gave rise to The SoHo Weekly News, the alternative paper that was Paper's forerunner, has gone the way of cheap rents and Danceteria. Yes, creative stuff still manages to get done here despite an urban landscape grown as homogeneous in its boring chic as the Friday night look-alikes in the meatpacking district. Yes, bands like the Yeah Yeah Yeahs still find a way to get heard, too, although, let's face it, Blondie they are not. 
 And, yes, offbeat little fashion careers are also still possible here, with the emphasis on little. But even designers resigned to their own insider status have trouble hanging on these days. A couple of seasons ago, the designer Maria Cornejo became an unexpected and impressive addition to a Fashion Week calendar dominated by luxury brand behemoths and glorified stylists whose designs amount to little more, as the columnist Josh Patner once put it in Slate, ''than a front and a back and maybe a zipper on the side seam, if they're feeling creative.''
 Yet economics made it impossible for Ms. Cornejo to continue showing as part of Fashion Week and so she retreated to her fine small shop, Zero, in NoLIta, there to await discovery. Economics are only part of the problem, however. It is not just big money but the insidiousness of good taste that has conspired to sap New York of creative juice, according to Ms. Hastreiter, who, along with her coeditor David Hershkovits, has presided over Paper through the Pyramid Club years, the hip-hop era, logomania, the invasion of the Atlanta drag queens and the ongoing crypt-movie serial that is vintage.
 Paper was never the rag of record for the mainstream rag trade. But it was a journal that counted if one was tracking the intersection of uptown and downtown, formerly so organic a part of social New York that Mick Jagger memorialized it lyrically and repeatedly. Uptown and downtown do not get together much lately, except perhaps during Craigslist hookups. And boring hip tastefulness has become a kind of wallpaper, or even Wallpaper, one might say. 
 ''I was in Chicago recently and there are Eames chairs in the airport!'' said a shocked Ms. Hastreiter. ''You can get espresso everywhere. There's just too much good taste in the world.'' Yet Ms. Hastreiter would not have lasted two decades at the vanguard of trend-spotting without a dose of Tony Robbins-style optimism. And she certainly has that.
 ''The new doesn't just happen, boom!'' she explained last week, as she headed to Barneys to check out the store's windows, which are dedicated to Paper's anniversary. 
 She added, ''Subcultures don't come around reliably every year, but they do come around.'' ''The next big thing will probably start up in a garage somewhere with people who are totally fed up with everything that's going on,'' Ms. Hastreiter said. ''It will come from people we've never heard of who, like, totally hate everything that went before.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A look back at 1985, in Paper magazine's commemorative book. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION & APPAREL (90%); FASHION SHOWS (90%); FASHION DESIGN (89%); FASHION DESIGNERS (89%); CLOTHING LABELS (77%); WRITERS (75%); TRENDS (71%); ANNIVERSARIES (67%); CITY LIFE (63%); FOOD INDUSTRY (63%); LUXURY GOODS (61%) Apparel

ORGANIZATION: Paper (Magazine)

PERSON: Guy Trebay; Kim Hastreiter

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2004



160 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1376 words

HEADLINE: Sunny San Diego Finds Itself Being Viewed as a Kind of Enron-by-the-Sea

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, Sept. 1 

 BODY:
In the summer of 2003, Diann Shipione, an investment adviser at UBS Financial Services in San Diego and a trustee of the city's employee retirement system, was scanning a prospectus on a proposed San Diego sewer bond issue when alarm bells began to ring in her head.
 Important financial information was missing. The prospectus did not mention that the city had for years been shortchanging its public pension fund, leading to an unfunded liability of more than $1.15 billion, or that the city owed nearly $1 billion more in health care benefits to retirees and did not have the money. And it implied that the pension fund's actuary had approved the underfunding when Ms. Shipione knew that he had not.
 In a letter to city officials, and in a commentary in the local newspaper, Ms. Shipione blew the whistle. 
 ''I had completely lost confidence in the city's financial decision making,'' she said in an interview on Wednesday. ''I just couldn't let this go forward.''
 Ms. Shipione's warning began a cascade of events that have led to a legal, financial and political crisis in San Diego, the nation's seventh-largest city, which has long enjoyed a reputation for clean and conservative governance.
 The sewer bond sale was postponed. Alarmed bond-rating agencies have significantly downgraded the city's credit rating, raising borrowing costs years into the future. The city was forced to admit that it had misstated its financial condition for the last several years, and it has not yet produced a certified financial statement for 2003. Several senior city officials abruptly resigned. Retired city employees, concerned that they would lose benefits because of mismanagement of the pension fund, sued the city, demanding immediate payments into the fund. Reputable analysts have begun talking openly about the possibility that the city will have to declare bankruptcy, as Orange County did a decade ago.
 And the Securities and Exchange Commission and the United States attorney's office in San Diego opened investigations this year into possible fraud in the city's financial statements and potential political corruption. Subpoenas were served on a number of city offices and several people confirmed that they had been interviewed by the F.B.I. in connection with the inquiry.
 ''This is a powder keg, a major, major problem,'' said Mike Aguirre, a securities lawyer and former financial fraud investigator for the United States Senate and the Justice Department who is running for San Diego city attorney. 
 Mr. Aguirre said that the city's inability to produce a credible financial statement made it impossible to know just how severe the crisis was. He said that a corporation that behaved like the City of San Diego would be delisted from the stock exchanges. He suggested that the best solution might be reorganization under Chapter 9 of the federal bankruptcy law to allow the city to rescind pension benefits.
 Mr. Aguirre blamed San Diego's laid-back civic culture in which a handful of influential businessmen, union leaders and political figures called the shots while issuing reassurances to the public that everything was on the up-and-up. 
 ''The basic story is that San Diego has become a thoroughly corrupt community in which the power players cut the deals, you don't ask any questions, and everybody gets what they want,'' Mr. Aguirre said. ''People don't realize that one of the largest cities in the United States is on the verge of bankruptcy, and it's on the verge because of a massive amount of local corruption that has resulted in the thorough mismanagement of city finances.''
 San Diego's mayor, Dick Murphy, who is up for re-election this year, declined to be interviewed for this article. His chief of staff, John Kern, acknowledged that the city's budget was under stress for a variety of reasons. But he asserted that the city was on sound fiscal footing.
 ''We are not on the verge of bankruptcy,'' Mr. Kern said in an interview in his city hall office. He said that the city's budget problems had many causes, including cutbacks in payments from the state, which is facing its own budget crisis. He also cited the poor performance of the stock market after 2000, cutting the value of the city's pension accounts. He said that last fall's devastating wildfires had cost the city millions of dollars and required substantial new investments in firefighting equipment.
 He also said that hundreds of other public and private pension systems were suffering problems similar to San Diego's because of the stock market and the rising cost of benefits.
 He acknowledged that the city had made a ''mistake'' in underfunding its pension programs, but said the practice began in 1996, under a former city administration. That year the city essentially borrowed millions from its pension plans to cover the cost of holding the Republican National Convention and has continued the practice to cover operating costs and underwrite numerous city projects.
 He also acknowledged inadvertent ''errors'' in the city's recent financial statements.
 Mr. Kern said that the city's actions were not illegal and that he understood that the federal investigations center on what he described as financial disclosure issues and not criminal behavior.
 ''The fundamental fact of the city and its finances is that it can meet its obligations, and we are working through the issues as carefully and methodically and expeditiously as we possibly can,'' Mr. Kern said.
 Deborah Hartman, a spokeswoman for Carol Lam, the United States attorney for San Diego, declined to comment on her office's investigation. 
 Nels Mitchell, associate regional director of the Securities and Exchange Commission, said the agency did not confirm or deny the existence of any investigation.
 Carl DeMaio of the San Diego Citizens' Budget Project, a nonpartisan watchdog group that has long been critical of the city's financial management, said the city's wounds were almost entirely self-inflicted and not a result of state cutbacks or the stock market. Mr. DeMaio said that officials had deceived residents about the city's fiscal condition for years but got in trouble when they issued misleading statements in recent bond offerings.
 ''If the U.S. attorney finds the city knowingly misled investors with Enron-like accounting, we could see both a large civil liability and criminal indictments,'' Mr. DeMaio said. ''I believe that people for political and personal gain built this Ponzi scheme, and it's coming home to roost this year.''
 Among the chief causes of the long-term instability of the city's employee retirement fund was a pair of decisions in 2002 to add benefits for future retirees while reducing the city's annual contribution to the funds. Among the most costly was a program called a deferred retirement option plan, or DROP, which allows a worker to defer retirement and build up a special account earning 8 percent interest and a 2 percent annual cost-of-living adjustment. Such programs have touched off investigations in Philadelphia, Houston and Milwaukee. 
 That action prompted an impassioned warning from Ms. Shipione, who was one of only 2 of 13 members of the San Diego City Employees' Retirement System board to vote against the plan. She said that DROP would entitle a worker earning an average of $50,000 to collect a lump sum of more than $300,000 at retirement, along with all his or her other benefits. A higher-paid employee could walk away with close to $1 million.
 At the same time, the city approved a reduction in payments into the retirement fund.
 Ms. Shipione went before the City Council in November 2002 and said the changes were a recipe for disaster.
 ''It made no sense fiscally, no sense,'' she said. ''The city has never been able to afford this kind of retirement program. I told them, 'This is corrupt.'''
 City officials ignored her warnings and approved the benefit increases and the underpayments to the account, then glossed over them in bond issues last year. They are reaping the whirlwind today.
 ''I saw this happen in Orange County and I realized I had to speak up,'' Ms. Shipione said. ''I let the retirement board know, I let the mayor and the council know, and no one appeared interested. The city basically did it to itself.''


CORRECTION-DATE: September 23, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sept. 7 about fiscal troubles in San Diego, including an unfunded liability in its pension plan, misidentified another locality where questionable practices in a retirement fund are being investigated. It is Milwaukee County, not Milwaukee. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Diann Shipione did not like the way San Diego was handling its employee pension system, and let the world know. Mike Aguirre calls the situation ''a powder keg.'' (Photo by Jack Smith for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (90%); BONDS (90%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); CITIES (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ACCOUNTING (88%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (86%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (85%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); ETHICS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (76%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (73%); RETIREE HEALTH PLANS (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); BOND ISSUES (72%); POLITICS (71%); LAWYERS (71%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (66%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (66%); CORRUPTION (66%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (66%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (66%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (65%); DELISTINGS (64%); SUBPOENAS (61%) Finances; Ethics; Bankruptcies; Pensions and Retirement Plans; Government Employees; Budgets and Budgeting; Accounting and Accountants; Politics and Government

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (58%); UBS FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: John M Broder

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) San Diego (Calif); San Diego (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2004



161 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1264 words

HEADLINE: Laissez-Faire My Gas Guzzler, Already

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO; Reporting for this article was contributed by Micheline Maynard in Detroit, Katie Zezima in Boston, Aaron Nathans in Madison, Wis., and Chris Dixon in Los Angeles.

 BODY:
''I don't like gas being this expensive,'' said Paul Kaesberg, an oncologist at the University of Wisconsin Hospital and Clinics in Madison who routinely pays $1.90 a gallon. ''My driving is integral to my job, it's integral to my pleasure in life. I won't cut back on that. I might cut back on other things.''
 Dr. Kaesberg, whose 2004 Acura sport utility vehicle gets 18 miles to the gallon, is typical of consumers who started the summer with the shock of $2 a gallon gas, but resolutely kept driving. Even though oil prices have increased 30 percent in the last year, the nation's gusto for gasoline has not been shaken. 
 Over the Labor Day weekend, for example, about 28.7 million of the 34.1 million Americans traveling more than 50 miles from home were expected to be driving, a 2 percent increase from last year, according to AAA, formerly known as the Automobile Association of America. 
 The economy, of course, has felt an impact from higher energy prices. Many companies, including airlines and trucking fleets, have started tacking on surcharges to compensate for higher fuel costs for their services, effectively passing on the costs to consumers. That, in turn, has contributed to spurts of inflation over the summer. Manufacturers and retailers say higher energy costs remain a threat, even as manufacturing activity remains somewhat robust.
 Some symbolic shifts in buying practices have also cropped up. Consumers are buying fewer Hummers while sales of hybrid vehicles are climbing; recreational boaters are opting to share their boats with friends instead of using two small vessels for an outing. But for the most part, Americans are not altering their fuel-consumption habits as they pay some of the highest prices ever for gasoline.
 Purchases of items other than fuel do appear to be weakening, however, a familiar development during periods of rising energy prices. On Thursday, retailers reported weaker-than-expected sales in August, with sales rising just 1 percent in the month, as companies including Wal-Mart warned that earnings would fall short of expectations. 
 Still, such figures suggest that Americans are forgoing purchases of everyday items so that they can continue to drive as much as possible. 
 The four-week average for gasoline demand for the week ended Aug. 27 was 9.421 million barrels, essentially unchanged from the period a year ago, according to the Energy Information Administration. 
 Part of the explanation is because gasoline prices actually declined during the summer, to a national average of about $1.86 a gallon, from a record of $2.05 in May, while frenzied trading in financial markets pushed the price for a barrel of oil to nearly $50 from $40. (The price of crude oil is still far from its inflation-adjusted peak of about $80 reached in 1980.) That is because refineries in the United States produced ample amounts of gasoline in the last three months, meeting demand from consumers even as speculators placed bets on future swings in the price of oil that may have had little to do with actual petroleum supplies.
 ''I don't think we're going back to $50 without a big supply disruption somewhere,'' said Juha Laiho, a Houston-based oil trader for Fortum, a Finnish oil company. ''It's logical for gasoline to pull back a bit.'' 
 Of course, gasoline at $1.86 a gallon remains about 10 cents a gallon more expensive than at this time last year, according to the Energy Information Administration, crimping many drivers. Still, it would have to become much more expensive to instill a big change in driving habits.
 Rebecca Lindland, a senior analyst for the automotive industry at Global Insight, estimates that gasoline prices would have to climb to a nationwide average of $3 a gallon for at least six months to alter consumer behavior. 
 ''Gasoline is still incredibly affordable,'' Ms. Lindland said. ''Even with inflation it's not much more expensive than it was five years ago.'' 
 Some consumers are feeling the pinch, however. Michael McMillan, a firefighter in Los Angeles who makes the 104-mile round-trip commute three days a week from his home in Mission Viejo, Calif., said the price of gasoline was behind his decision to trade a Mitsubishi Montero sport utility vehicle for a Volkswagen Jetta, which gets almost double the gas mileage. 
 ''I was really looking for something more economical for the drive,'' Mr. McMillan, 38, said. But judging from the parking lot at his station, he said: ''You'd think there are no gas problems at all. You have a half dozen-plus jacked-up trucks back there on steroids.'' 
 Seeking out energy-efficient vehicles still seems to be the exception rather than the rule. Sales of recreational vehicles, for instance, climbed 14 percent in the first half of the year from the period in 2003 and rental reservations for the vehicles made in the early summer were up 34 percent from last year, according to the Recreation Vehicle Dealers Association in Fairfax, Va.
 ''People work too hard to let even $50 extra in gas prices stop them from taking their vacations,'' said Phil Ingrassia, a spokesman for the association.
 At convenience stores, which sell about 75 percent of the nation's gasoline, consumers are using credit cards for about 60 percent of fuel purchases, a 20 percent jump from last year, according to the National Association of Convenience Stores. Jay Ricker, who owns 31 convenience stores in northeastern Indiana, said he had seen little impact on purchases in his stores because of higher gasoline prices.
 ''There's a lot of grumbling, of course, but unless the price gets to $3.50 a gallon behavior won't change,'' said Mr. Ricker, who added that he preferred lower gas prices so customers could continue buying higher-margin products at his stores. Gasoline in Indiana now costs about $1.75 a gallon. 
 Some parts of the economy that depend heavily on oil are having a hard time. Airlines, for example, are struggling to find ways to cut fuel expenses that are expected to cost them $6 billion more this year than last year. Airlines are doing everything from taxiing out to the runway on one engine to cutting the amount of reserve fuel they keep on aircraft in case of delays. 
 American Airlines, a unit of AMR, said its fuel expenses would be $1 billion more this year than it expected, and $300 million more in the third quarter alone, a reason why it is joining Northwest Airlines in charging passengers $5 a ticket for trips booked through its reservations agents and $10 for those bought at airports. American said that would raise $25 million in revenue, hardly a dent in its fuel bill. 
 Fierce competition among airlines, however, has prevented the companies from making fuel surcharges stick through ticket price increases. Some low-fare carriers, including JetBlue Airlines, are better protected from rising fuel costs. David Neeleman, JetBlue's chief executive, told analysts this summer that the airline expected to cut its costs per available seat mile about 2 percent in the third quarter, even with higher fuel prices. That is because JetBlue hedged about 75 percent of its fuel purchases for this year. 
 While certain areas of the economy seek to adapt to higher energy costs, such efforts are lost on most drivers. Julie Battistelli, 51, a nurse from Saugus, Mass., said she shunned public transportation, preferring instead to drive a BMW sport-utility vehicle acquired in April that costs about $10 a day in gasoline. ''I have to have a car; I have a little girl I have to drive everywhere,'' Ms. Battistelli said. ''In the suburbs you have to drive.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Consumers may be buying fewer Hummers while sales of hybrid vehicles are climbing, but for the most part, Americans are not altering their fuel-consumption habits as they pay some of the highest prices ever for gas. (Photo by Lisa Poole/Associated Press)(pg. C1)
 Over the Labor Day weekend, about 28.7 million of the 34.1 million Americans traveling more than 50 miles from home were expected to be driving, a 2 percent increase over last year, according to AAA. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. C4)Chart: ''Never Mind the Price, Just Fill 'er Up''Gasoline prices are down from their peak in early May, but remain far higher than they were last year. That has not slowed overall consumption, however.Graphs track the following from August 2003 through August 2004:PRICENational average for all formulations of regular gasolineCONSUMPTIONAverage daily gasoline consumption(Source by Energy Information Administration)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); GASOLINE (78%); RECREATIONAL WATERCRAFT (77%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (77%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (76%); US LABOR DAY (75%); RETAILERS (75%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (75%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (74%); SALES PROJECTIONS (74%); SALES FIGURES (74%); GASOLINE MARKETS (74%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (74%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (74%); HOSPITALS (73%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); HYBRID VEHICLES (71%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (71%); PERSONAL FINANCE (70%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); AIRLINES (66%); BANKING & FINANCE (66%); COMPANY EARNINGS (66%); TRUCKING (52%) Automobiles; Sales; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Consumer Behavior; Electric Vehicles

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (84%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%)

PERSON: Simon Romero

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2004



162 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: Trade Center Veterans Plan A Cooperative Restaurant

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA

 BODY:
Memory can make a bitter dish, but a group of 50 waiters, cooks and busboys who once worked at the Windows on the World restaurant are intent on honoring 73 colleagues who died when the twin towers collapsed by opening what may be New York's first cooperatively owned restaurant. 
 After months of planning and several setbacks, the group says it is close to signing a contract to take over a TriBeCa restaurant about a mile from ground zero. The restaurant, now called Shamballa, will be remodeled and reopened early next year under the ownership and management of the group, who are immigrant restaurant workers from 20 nations. 
 The list of countries they call home is as varied as the menu of a Greek diner, and nearly as eclectic: Bangladesh, Ivory Coast, Egypt, Guatemala, Indonesia, Mexico, Morocco, Nepal and a dozen others. They are young and not so young, men and women, legal and illegal. But they shared a single goal -- owning their own place. 
 Though the 50 have accumulated a wealth of experience in preparing and serving elegant meals, a lack of capital kept them from being their own bosses or owning their own restaurant. 
 Their contribution to the new business will be sweat equity, and they expect to receive financial aid from a number of corporate guardian angels, including half a million dollars already pledged by an Italian food workers' co-op. They are also seeking commercial loans. Though they applied for government assistance, they have not yet received any. 
 The workers say that by opening their own restaurant they hope to show the city's food service industry that it is possible to treat workers fairly, pay them living wages and still make a profit. 
 And there's something more. ''This is a legacy to the people we lost,'' said Fekkak Mamdouh, a former waiter at Windows on the World and a leader of the co-op. ''If it doesn't happen, it will really be a shame.'' 
 In the months after the attacks, the workers were overwhelmed by the economic downturn, and finding work was nearly impossible. With help from the Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees Union, they formed the Restaurant Opportunities Center of New York, which provides legal and technical assistance. 
 They started a catering company and used the proceeds to hire a consultant. Although warning the workers that successful new restaurants are a long shot, the consultant suggested that the new restaurant be located in TriBeCa and feature American comfort food, including steak and French fries. The menu would be supplemented by specialties taken from the cornucopia of meals represented by the co-op members' nationalities and backgrounds. 
 The workers' original idea of displaying photos and memorabilia from the original Windows restaurant, on the 107th floor of the north tower, was ruled out as being too painful a reminder of that day. 
 They negotiated for space in several buildings near ground zero, but never could close the deals. Opening day had to be pushed back. 
 Saru Jayaraman, executive director of the Restaurant Opportunities Center of New York, said that after several false starts, they decided to buy an existing restaurant rather than design a new one. She said they were very close to signing a contract to take over the lease of Shamballa, at 407 Greenwich Street, about six blocks below Canal Street, and could close on the deal this month. The restaurant did not respond to calls requesting comment.
 Mr. Mamdouh said the workers had not yet settled on a name. An early concept, ''Windows on TriBeCa,'' remains an option, but some of the workers are heeding the advice to distance themselves from 9/11.
 They are holding a contest to select a name -- the winner gets dinner for two in the restaurant. But Mr. Mamdouh said that he, for one, was reluctant to stray too far from the memory of the 73 colleagues for whom it is dedicated. 
 ''My own idea is 'Dignity,''' he said, ''just that word all by itself.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); LIVING WAGE (78%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (78%); CATERING SERVICES (78%); IMMIGRATION (75%); CONSULTING SERVICES (75%); REFUGEES (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); TERRORISM (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); HOTEL STAFF (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); HIJACKING (66%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Restaurants; Terrorism; Airlines and Airplanes; Hijacking; World Trade Center (NYC); Labor; Immigration and Refugees; Restaurants

ORGANIZATION: GUARDIAN ANGELS (55%) Windows on the World (NYC Restaurant)

PERSON: Anthony Depalma

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); GUATEMALA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); EGYPT (79%); MOROCCO (76%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2004



163 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 284 words

HEADLINE: Global Shares Rise, Led by Technology Issues

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks around the world advanced yesterday, led by technology-related companies including LogicaCMG and Canon, amid optimism that a recent slump was exaggerated given the outlook for earnings growth.
 ''Technology stocks have been oversold,'' said Andreas Gartner, part of a team that oversees $8.8 billion at SEB Investment in Frankfurt. 
''We expect to see a rebound. We are positive for earnings in the next 9 to 12 months.''
 Markets in the United States were closed yesterday for the Labor Day holiday. In Europe, the Dow Jones Stoxx 600 Index climbed 0.4 percent, with the benchmark's group of technology stocks pacing the advance.
 The MSCI World Information Technology index has dropped 13 percent this year, the worst-performing industry in the global benchmark, hurt by concern that higher interest rates and record oil prices will slow corporate spending.
 Benchmark indexes gained in all of the 18 Western European markets, except for Norway. The DAX index of Germany climbed 0.6 percent, the FTSE 100 index of Britain added 0.3 percent and the CAC 40 index of France advanced 0.2 percent.
 In Japan, the Nikkei 225 stock average climbed 2 percent, its biggest gain since June 16. Elsewhere in Asia, Hong Kong's Hang Seng index gained 1.2 percent to its highest point since March 10. The Asia-Pacific index of Morgan Stanley Capital International, which tracks more than 900 companies in the region, gained 1.2 percent. All other stock benchmarks in Asia rose, except for those in China, Malaysia and Indonesia. Indexes in New Zealand, Singapore and Australia were little changed.
 Latin America's main indexes gained, led by Argentina's Merval, which rose 1.1 percent to its highest level since May 7.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); US LABOR DAY (90%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BONDS (76%); INTEREST RATES (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%) Stocks and Bonds; Labor Day

COMPANY: LOGICA PLC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES & EXECUTIVE SEARCH CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (58%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (58%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (72%) GERMANY (92%); EUROPE (91%); ASIA (91%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (90%); JAPAN (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); CHINA (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); NORWAY (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); INDONESIA (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); AUSTRALIA (66%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2004



164 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; CITYWIDE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1139 words

HEADLINE: Start-Up Invests Faith in 99 Students

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ

 BODY:
Years from now, in a city that has yet to be made, a lawyer, a pediatrician, a teacher or perhaps even a millionaire turned philanthropist will ponder life's crazy course and remember how their futures began on this very day.
 They will look back, to a half-renovated 19th-century red brick schoolhouse in East Harlem where generations of immigrants and poor people once streamed through cramped rooms in search of just a touch of comfort and security. Unlike many commuters whose only view of this neighborhood is a kinetic blur from the windows of a Metro-North train rumbling down Park Avenue, they will discover that East 106th Street is hardly a dead end. It is the crossroads of the world.
 Today, 99 teenagers enter the ninth grade at Cristo Rey High School, a new alternative Roman Catholic college preparatory school supported by people who have not just wealth and gratitude, but faith in those who have only talent. One of 11 in a network of Cristo Rey schools around the country, it represents a dream of many, from the worshipers at St. Cecilia's church who longed for the day when a school would once again bring young life to the parish, to the three religious orders that relied on their collective 900 years of educational mission in creating it. 
 Eder Guzman, a smiling, confident 14-year-old, knows he has the kind of opportunity that his parents hoped for when they left all they knew in Mexico for an unknown chance in East Harlem. He wants to be a psychologist, he says, since he likes ''wisdom and talking to people.'' The eldest of four boys, he lets out a nervous laugh at what awaits him.
 ''I have to set an example,'' he said.
 William Ford, the school's principal, knows that all too well. Almost a quarter century ago his family learned the tragic, bloody price that faith in action can exact. His aunt was Ita Ford, a Maryknoll nun who was murdered with three colleagues by soldiers in El Salvador in December 1980. His experiences and her example, he said, led him gently but inexorably to a community of not just hardship, but hope.
 ''Ita entered into an understanding of the lives of people who did not have protection, advantage or respect,'' Mr. Ford said. ''She entered this world of suffering and fear, but also one where people had strong faith. I felt called to try to do something here. I have not only something to offer, but I might have the privilege to learn.''
 The school, modeled after one that opened in Chicago in 1996, offers a simple deal to its students, many of them immigrants and the first in their families to go to high school. You work hard, and we will believe in you. You will not only graduate, but you will be accepted into several colleges.
 While diocesan schools face mounting costs and declining enrollments, the Cristo Rey -- the name means Christ the King -- model has been able to thrive and keep tuition costs low. With the help of local businesses, the school operates as a temporary employment agency that places students in clerical jobs. Teams of four students apiece share one job; each team member earns $6,250, which covers almost 75 percent of tuition. Benefactors have also provided money to help parents who cannot come up with the remaining $2,000 in tuition. 
 The earliest Cristo Rey schools have been so successful that last year the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and the Cassin Educational Initiative Foundation donated $18.9 million to develop a dozen more. The money provides the start-up capital for a feasibility study and the first five years, after which the schools are expected to be self-supporting.
 ''It works, it's that simple,'' said B.J. Cassin, a venture capitalist whose foundation created the network of schools. ''I'm a businessman, and I once said it could be franchised. The educators went, 'Oh, my God!' So instead I say they can be replicated.''
 But getting the first one opened in New York City was a challenge. Administrators at some Catholic high schools in the Bronx worried that the new school would poach students. A location was not found until late last year, when Cardinal Edward M. Egan, the New York archbishop, offered Mr. Ford use of the building at St. Cecilia's, where renovations began only six weeks ago. 
 Even filling the first entering class took longer than expected, although applications began to roll in through word of mouth. ''It was humbling,'' Mr. Ford said. ''But we were looking for people who did not know or believe we were looking for them.'' 
 Some parents must have thought there was a catch to the offer of an affordable education that would rival the best schools on the other Park Avenue, a mile to the south. Lucille Figuereo, an unemployed single mother of three who refused to send her daughter, Allyson, to the local public high school, was near despair.
 ''I went on the Internet and typed in 'low cost Catholic school' and Cristo Rey came up,'' she said. ''Forget about it. I jumped on it fast.''
 Mr. Ford has little doubt that the school's academic standards and its work-study program attract students and parents.
 ''The subtext is about becoming even more deeply aware of each person's dignity,'' he said. ''Being forced to find that in other people. We know they are expected to graduate and go to college. But our final criterion is the hardest to measure: how and for whose sake do they put that education to use?''
 Some possible answers to that were found last Wednesday, as parents and students joined priests, teachers and benefactors for an inaugural Mass at St. Cecilia's. Afterward, they mingled in the church basement, a spartan place that once was probably the worship space for the neighborhood's newest arrivals.
 Marcela Sanchez, a mother of four from Mott Haven, in the Bronx, by way of Mexico, beamed by the side of her oldest child, Maria del Carmen. Her daughter will have the kind of teenage life that was impossible for Mrs. Sanchez and her husband, Biliulfo, who came to New York when he was 16 and, after 22 years, now works as a cook's helper.
 ''Like my husband says, I do not want her to work in a restaurant for minimum wage, suffering in the heat,'' Mrs. Sanchez said. ''I want her to progress and be something.''
 Maria del Carmen, a slight young thing with big hoop earrings that swayed with each giggle and laugh, said she wanted to be a lawyer. 
 ''I like to defend people,'' she said. ''I want to work for immigrants. I see how people do bad things to them.''
 She has a head start on her goal: her work-study job is at one of those fancy law firms with five names. She starts the same day school begins. Today.
 She leans in close and smiles, half nervously, half conspiratorially.
 ''I'm there the first day,'' she said. ''I have to make the impression for Cristo Rey there.''
 Beyond the smile, beyond her age, beyond the block, the impression is already there.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Students who will attend Cristo Rey High School in East Harlem mingled last week after a Mass celebrating its opening.
William Ford, the principal, says he feels ''called to try to do something here.'' (Photographs by Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Cristo Rey High School in East Harlem is part of a network of 11 alternative Roman Catholic college preparatory schools around the United States, and plans now call for a dozen more. (Photo by Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (90%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); CHARITIES (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); FAMILY (77%); ADOLESCENTS (76%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (73%); REFUGEES (71%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (70%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (68%) Education and Schools; Private and Sectarian Schools; Immigration and Refugees; Tuition; Education and Schools

ORGANIZATION: Roman Catholic Church; Gates, Bill and Melinda, Foundation

PERSON: BILL GATES (77%) David Gonzalez

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); EL SALVADOR (79%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2004



165 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Health & Fitness; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1865 words

HEADLINE: Working Long Hours? Take a Massage Break, Courtesy of Your Boss

BYLINE: By BENEDICT CAREY

 BODY:
Through the tropics of mid-August, Michael Maccari, a men's clothing executive, was at it 10 to 12 hours a day, fretting over the details of an imminent holiday shipment to stores, the fittings for the spring 2005 lines and the designs for next fall -- three seasons, three sets of deadlines. 
 But right now, at lunch hour on a Wednesday, the deadlines were dissolving beneath a gentle tide of deep breathing. 
 Dressed in a T-shirt and shorts, Mr. Maccari joined 14 colleagues who were arrayed across the floor of a large conference room, holding the downward-facing-dog position, an upside-down V, with their rear ends in the air, arms and legs straight, as if they were playing a game of Twister.
 ''Think of something you can let go of,'' said the yoga instructor, Margi Young. ''Something, or some way, you could be doing less.'' 
 The company, Armani Exchange, offers this yoga and meditation class free to help employees relax, reduce stress and recharge during the middle of the week. Similar classes are now familiar in workplaces across the country, from old-line firms like AT&T to New Economy outfits like Yahoo. About 20 percent of employers have some kind of dedicated stress-reduction program in place, surveys find, and corporate spending has helped fuel what is an $11.7-billion-a-year-and-growing stress management industry, according to estimates by Marketdata Enterprises, a market analyst in Tampa, Fla.
 But as the menu of techniques expands to include not only chair and table massages but practices like tai chi, feng shui (''wind and water'') and energy dances, the trend has prompted some experts to ask how effective the popular programs are, and whose interests they serve. They wonder if the effects are lasting or just provide a brief break in an ever-longer day. And wouldn't some employees really prefer a raise to a massage? 
 Researchers are finding, among other things, that the benefits of stress reduction programs are generally short-lasting, and may be as useful to a demanding employer as they are to stressed-out workers.
 All agree that, in part, the courses have sprung up in reaction to the enormous shifts in the nature of work itself, the kaleidoscopic flow of electronic information, the way work obligations have pushed like a climbing vine into almost every corner of private life.
 ''The sheer diversity of hours people are working is just startling,'' said Dr. Harriet Presser, a University of Maryland sociologist whose book ''Working in a 24/7 Economy'' (Russell Sage Foundation, 2003) explores the social and physical effects of commercial activity that depends on people working at all hours of the day and night.
 ''For some people, like dual wage earners with kids,'' she added, ''the sleep deprivation adds to the stress and it's like they are never, ever away'' from work.
 But researchers say companies' interest in stress gurus and breathing lessons has as much to do with pushing workers as it does with real, sustained stress reduction. The programs took off in the expanding economy of the late 1990's, experts say, when the labor market was tight, and workers' compensation suits claiming damage from stress were on the rise.
 ''These stress programs were a part of the concierge services that companies were using at that time so that employees didn't notice how many hours they were working,'' said Dr. Peter Cappelli, a professor of management and director of the Center for Human Resources at Wharton School of Business in Philadelphia, ''and they held over since then.''
 It does not take an M.B.A. to understand why. After his hour of yoga and meditation, Mr. Maccari said: ''It's not that different from going to therapy, the way I see it. It takes one hour of your time, and youre mind is clear, and you approach the rest of the day in a completely different way.'' 
 Meditation usually makes people feel, well, meditative. The downward-facing dog certainly beats jumping like a circus dog for a demanding boss. For those who like it, acupuncture can be a godsend. And even lobsters relax when given a massage (their eye stalks go limp). 
 Dr. Lawrence Murphy, a psychologist at the National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health who has done extensive reviews of the research, says studies of workplace stress reduction typically pick up the immediate effect of the technique in question. Massages relieves stress when stress is determined by measuring muscle tightness. Meditation appears psychologically soothing when people are answering questionnaires about how calm they feel after the classes.
 In a 2001 analysis of 48 studies of occupational stress reduction programs, Dutch researchers came to the same conclusion: Courses teaching meditation, acceptance and letting go provide mild relief, at least in terms of what participants report after having taken the classes. 
 But the effects are short-lived, said Dr. Murphy, unless people make the yoga or meditation a part of a regular, or even daily, routine, and ideally combine it with some other activity, like jogging or massage. 
 For anyone with a spare hour or two in the day, or who is living comfortably off interest income, this regimen might make sense. For those whose daily lives demand a mental jujitsu with competing appointments and deadlines, however, a tai chi class becomes just that: another appointment, another deadline.
 ''I love the yoga class, but I just can't get to it anymore; I'm running all day,'' said Wendy Rothman, a public relations officer at Armani Exchange.
 Time is what most stressed people crave, of course, and this is where mind-body relaxation techniques can backfire. While a lunchtime course may add quiet space to a workday, it can also prime people to put in longer hours. John Sheehey, a business consultant based near San Francisco, had acupuncture for six months while working long hours in Los Angeles. 
 ''Finally, my acupuncturist said, 'Hey, all I'm doing is tuning you up so you can keep running longer.' I think if your tendency is to be a workaholic, it just enables you to do that. If stress is a warning system that you're about to burn out, all you're doing is overriding it so you can stay in the game.''
 Some providers of stress reduction services acknowledge this effect, said Holden Zalma, the chief executive of Metatouch, a massage therapy practice in Culver City, Calif., whose clients have included Earthlink, eToys and other technology companies.
 ''We got them all addicted to massage in the 90's; it was wonderful,'' he said. ''But we were very clear that we were not going to fix the stress problem, we were only going to patch it.''
 The one workplace stress-reduction technique that seems to outperform all others in preventing the buildup of stress -- rather than reducing symptoms temporarily -- is a form of counseling called cognitive therapy. In these classes, people learn to challenge the sort of assumptions about their work (that every assignment must be perfect, for instance, or that they must impress everyone) that unnecessarily amplify the pressure they are already getting from people around them. In 18 studies, including more than 850 people working in a wide variety of jobs, from hospital cleaners to telecom workers, this kind of counseling has significantly reduced work complaints, sometimes in as few as six sessions of training. 
 But there is a catch. The counseling has been tested almost exclusively among the sorts of workers who have some control over their own schedules, like bankers, engineers and other professionals.
 When it comes to job stress, control over one's work may be the most important factor, said Dr. Peter L. Schnall of the Center for Occupational and Environmental Health at the University of California at Irvine. Dr. Schnall and others have shown that the workers most likely to develop high blood pressure are those who work under deadlines with little control over what the workday will bring, like bus drivers on heavily traveled routes or nurses in frantic hospital wards. 
 In one study, of 195 New York men followed for three years, Dr. Schnall found that people in these ''high strain'' jobs had significantly increased blood pressure during work and at home compared with men in less stressful jobs. 
 ''When people have some say over how and when their job is done,'' he said, ''when they are able to learn new things on the job, when they are able to improve their skills and see them improving, these are the things that are most important'' in managing strain. 
 These are also the very properties that most people associate with a satisfying job. By contrast, the 50-some studies of on-site stress reduction programs show little effect on job satisfaction, Dr. Murphy said.
 ''Turnover, employee absenteeism, commitment to the organization, pride at work -- there's no good evidence that any of those things are affected'' by mind-body techniques, he said. ''It's not rocket science. If you're still overworked, still have a supervisor who doesn't support you and is making all kinds of demands, you're going to be unhappy.''
 Perhaps the most stressful of all jobs is the one that might soon be gone. Companies hoping to ease employees through layoffs or restructuring with meditation, tai chi or other mind-body techniques are serving weak tea to people in need of Scotch, say organizational psychologists who study plant closings and downsizing.
 Rare is the employee who is going to spend the middle of the day chanting like a monk when fighting to keep his or her job.
 In these circumstances, researchers find that what best keeps stress levels in check is telling employees as clearly and quickly as possible who is being laid off and why, and offering meaningful benefits, like help in finding another job, generous severance payments and psychotherapy if needed.
 ''Everything else is window dressing,'' said Dr. James Campbell Quick, a stress researcher at the University of Texas at Arlington who helped advise the military in closing Kelly Air Force base in San Antonio, which employed 13,000 people. 
 The skeptic's view of stress management, said Dr. Samuel Culbert, a professor of human resources and organization at the University of California at Los Angeles, is that the programs are a cheap diversion from the real problems, which companies and managers themselves are creating.
 ''Human resources departments hypothetically have a fabulous role to play in bridging the gap between employees who want to do well at work and managers who want them to do well,'' Dr. Culbert said. ''But once you hear about stress programs for employees, you have to start wondering whose interest is being represented.''
 Certainly, many of those who teach stress-management classes know this story from both sides. Often self-employed and formerly in stressful jobs themselves, they are entirely at the whim of their clients, and their services are among the first to be cut when management changes or times are tough.
 ''Once the economy started dying down after 2000,'' said Mr. Zalma, ''we were the first to go. We had to transform the business entirely, to treat injuries and pain.'' 
 In this economy, stress managers need stress management too. 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Employees at an Armani store in Manhattan spend their lunch hour in a yoga class offered by the company to help workers relax and reduce stress. (Photo by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)(pg. F6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: YOGA (90%); MASSAGE SERVICES (90%); MEN'S CLOTHING (78%); TRENDS (77%); MEDITATION (76%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (72%); WORKPLACE STRESS (72%); NEW ECONOMY (71%); SOCIOLOGY (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (67%) Labor; Stress (Human); Yoga; Research; Productivity; Labor

ORGANIZATION: National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health; University of Calfornia (Irvine)

PERSON: Benedict Carey; Lawrence (Dr) Murphy; Peter L (Dr) Schnall

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TAMPA, FL, USA (73%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2004



166 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Corrections; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 65 words

 BODY:
A news analysis article in Business Day yesterday about the economy's lackluster rate of job creation misstated the pace of employment growth foreseen by the president's Council of Economic Advisers last December. To realize the council's forecast of the total number of jobs held by Americans in 2004, the economy would have to create more than 300,000 jobs a month this year, not 216,000.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (87%) Labor; Correction Stories

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2004



167 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE CANDIDATES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1297 words

HEADLINE: BUSH AND KERRY CLASH OVER IRAQ AND A TIMETABLE

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER and DAVID E. SANGER; David M. Halbfinger reported from Cleveland for this article and David E. Sanger from Poplar Bluff, Mo.

DATELINE: CLEVELAND, Sept. 6 

 BODY:
Senator John Kerry and President Bush clashed repeatedly over Iraq on Monday, with Mr. Kerry branding it ''the wrong war in the wrong place at the wrong time'' and saying he wanted all American troops home within four years, while Mr. Bush defended the war as ''right for America then and it's right for America now.''
 Their conventions behind them, the candidates spent Labor Day, the traditional start of the fall campaign season, doing what they have done for months: trading roundhouse punches over Iraq, job losses and health care. 
 Mr. Kerry, who campaigned before blue-collar workers in suburban Pittsburgh and coal miners in West Virginia and in an African-American neighborhood in Cleveland, unveiled a new attack on Mr. Bush, saying voters needed to decide between the president's ''wrong choices and wrong direction for America'' and his own promises to create jobs, strengthen the economy and expand access to health care. 
 ''The W stands for wrong,'' Mr. Kerry said in a riff on the president's middle initial at a labor picnic in Racine, W.Va.
 But it was Mr. Kerry's responses to two questions about Iraq that set off a flurry of attacks by Mr. Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney.
 Asked his timetable for pulling troops out of Iraq, Mr. Kerry told a few hundred people in Canonsburg, Pa.: ''My goal would be to get them home in my first term. And I believe that can be done.'' He said he would make it clear that ''we do not have long-term designs to maintain bases and troops in Iraq.''
 Mr. Kerry has said he could replace most, but not all, American troops with foreign forces within four years by offering new inducements to other countries.
 ''When they talk about a coalition -- that's the phoniest thing I ever heard,'' Mr. Kerry said of the current array of foreign soldiers deployed in Iraq. ''You've got 500 troops here, 500 troops there, and it's American troops that are 90 percent of the combat casualties, and it's American taxpayers that are paying 90 percent of the cost of the war.
 ''It's the wrong war in the wrong place at the wrong time,'' he said.
 Mr. Bush has said repeatedly that it would be unwise to set a deadline for beginning or finishing a pullout of troops in Iraq. Terrorist groups, he argues, would use the date to their strategic advantage. And he often says that American troops will come home ''as soon as the job is done'' without specifying the criteria for the completion of the mission.
 In Poplar Bluff, Mo., Mr. Bush told supporters that Mr. Kerry couldn't make up his mind.
 ''After saying he would have voted for the war, even knowing everything we know today, my opponent woke up this morning with new campaign advisers and yet another new position,'' Mr. Bush said to laughter and to cries of, ''Flip-flop. Flip-flop.''
 ''Suddenly he's against it again,'' Mr. Bush said. ''No matter how many times Senator Kerry changes his mind, it was right for America then and it's right for America now that Saddam Hussein is no longer in power.''
 Mr. Cheney, campaigning in Clear Lake, Iowa, criticized Mr. Kerry for ''demeaning our allies.''
 ''When it comes to diplomacy, it looks like John Kerry should stick to windsurfing,'' he said.
 The exchange between Mr. Bush and Mr. Kerry spotlighted how the two campaigns had honed their message on Iraq -- and how they emphasize different aspects of the issue. 
 Mr. Bush has tried to convince crowds that he and Mr. Kerry agreed on the need to get rid of Saddam Hussein, and that Mr. Kerry's position has simply changed with the winds and the casualty numbers.
 Mr. Kerry argues that the president has deliberately conflated two very different issues: whether it was right to hold Saddam Hussein accountable for his defiance of the United Nations, and whether Mr. Bush, once given that authority by the Congress, used it properly.
 The essence of Mr. Kerry's argument -- one he has had a difficult time making -- is that Mr. Bush obtained the authority to go to war on false intelligence, and then prosecuted the war in a way that alienated allies and prolonged the insurgency.
 At day's end on Monday, Mr. Kerry told thousands at a rally that Mr. Bush ''wishes I have the same position he does, but as we've learned from this president, just wishing something, and saying something, doesn't make it so.''
 ''When it comes to Iraq, I would not have done just one thing differently, I would have done everything differently from this president,'' he added.
 Now, however, Mr. Kerry is going further, talking of the economic cost of the war and how that money could have been better spent.
 ''George Bush's wrongheaded, go-it-alone Iraq policy has cost you -- cost you -- already, over $200 billion,'' Mr. Kerry said in Cleveland. ''That's $200 billion we're not investing in Cleveland. That's $200 billion we're not investing in our schools and in No Child Left Behind, that's $200 billion we're not investing in health care for all Americans and prescription drugs that are affordable.''
 It was a measure of how Iraq has overshadowed so many other issues in the campaign that it even dominated on Labor Day, the moment Mr. Bush has often used to focus attention on job creation, one of the points of vulnerability of his campaign.
 That economic record, of course, is Mr. Kerry's main target, as he made clear in trying out a new speech.
 ''The choice in this race is very simple,'' Mr. Kerry said. ''It's whether you want to continue to move in the wrong direction, or whether you want to turn it around and move the United States of America in the right direction and put people back to work.''
 ''Do you want four more years of lost jobs?'' he asked, as his crowd shouted, ''No!''
 ''Do you want four more years of shipping jobs overseas and replacing them with jobs that pay you less than the jobs you have today?''
 Mr. Kerry said Mr. Bush had the worst record on job creation ''since Herbert Hoover.'' At the front-porch session in a middle-class neighborhood in Canonsburg on Monday morning, Mr. Kerry fended off pro-Bush hecklers while talking of people earning less money and paying more for health care. Lori Sheldon, 45, stirred in her seat. ''You told our story,'' she said to him.
 Her husband, Ms. Sheldon said, works on a ground crew for US Airways in Pittsburgh and fears he may be laid off in the fall. ''You see those two young ladies over there? Those are my daughters,'' she said, beginning to sob. ''I'm tired of saying no. We say no all the time.''
 Mr. Kerry said, ''What we need is a president making choices not to reward Halliburton and a bunch of big companies, but reward the American people.''
 ''I want you to be able to say yes to your kids,'' he said.
 Mr. Bush's appearance in Poplar Bluff was his only one of the day. The southeastern Missouri town was so eager to hear him that more than 10,000 people, or nearly two-thirds of the population, signed a petition urging him to visit. When he agreed, the town organized one of the largest rallies of his campaign: more than 23,000 went through metal detectors, ignoring a light evening rain.
 The president made a dramatic entrance, with Marine One, his helicopter, landing in a field. Though it was Labor Day, Mr. Bush only briefly touched on job creation. Picking his time frame carefully, Mr. Bush noted that ''last Friday, we showed we added 144,000 new jobs in August,'' saying that was ''1.7 million since August of '03.'' 
 ''The national unemployment rate has fallen to 5.4 percent,'' he said. ''That is lower than the average rate of the 1970's, the 1980's and the 1990's.''
 He spoke about tax simplification and farm exports with the passion of a man acutely aware that he won Missouri in 2000 by only a bit more than three percentage points and that re-election would be enormously difficult without winning it again.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Labor Day was a workday for the presidential candidates as they opened their campaign season in earnest, with President Bush in Poplar Bluff, Mo., and his challenger, Senator John Kerry, in Racine, W.Va. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)
(Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A1)
 In Racine, W.Va., John Sasso, a new Kerry adviser, with his daughter, Maggie, center, and Stephanie Cutter. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); IRAQ WAR (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); TERRORISM (74%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (74%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); US LABOR DAY (72%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); JOB CREATION (70%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (70%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (60%); COAL MINING (54%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Atomic Weapons; Biological and Chemical Warfare; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; Intelligence Services; Politics and Government; Terrorism

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); DICK CHENEY (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) David M Halbfinger; David E Sanger; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush; Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney; Saddam Hussein

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOURI, USA (92%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2004



168 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1448 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-13

Top China Leader Says He May Step Down
Jiang Zemin, China's military chief and senior leader, has told Communist Party officials that he plans to resign, prompting an intense and so far inconclusive struggle for control of the armed forces, two people with leadership connections say. Mr. Jiang's offer potentially gives President Hu Jintao a chance to become the country's undisputed leader. A1

Car Bomb Kills 10 in Iraq
A car bomb tore through a convoy of American and Iraqi troops near Falluja, killing seven marines and three Iraqis in the single deadliest attack on American troops in four months, American military officials said. Al Jazeera, the Arab news network, reported that an Islamic militant group holding two French hostages had given a list of demands including a ransom of $5 million and had issued a 48-hour deadline. A12

American interrogators working in Iraq have obtained as much as 50 percent more high-value intelligence since a series of coercive practices like stripping were banned, a senior American official said. But figures released this week showing that the guerrilla insurgency appears to be reaching a new level of intensity raised questions about the value of the intelligence. A12

Israel Kills 13 in Attack in Gaza
Israeli tanks, helicopters and warplanes pounded a Hamas training camp, killing 13 Palestinians in the deadliest strike in Gaza for nearly four months, as Israel struck back after a double suicide bombing that killed 16 people. A13

An Israeli spy satellite intended to increase the country's surveillance over Iran and give early warning in case of a surprise missile attack landed in the sea after a rocket malfunction shortly after takeoff, officials said. Israel says it intends to try again in the next few months. A13

South Korea Test 'Academic'
South Korea's enrichment of a ''minuscule'' amount of uranium -- apparently in violation of several treaties -- was a one-time ''academic test'' tacked on to other, unrelated laser experiments and intended to get more mileage from contaminated equipment, Chang In Soon, the president of the South Korean government's nuclear research institute, said. A13

Russian Grief Mixes With Anger
As Russia began two days of national mourning for the victims of a school siege in North Ossetia, criticism mounted over the government's handling of the wave of terrorism that has taken more than 500 lives in the past two weeks. A3

Pakistan and India Close Talks
The foreign ministers of India and Pakistan concluded two days of talks in New Delhi with modest progress on a host of issues and an unusually blunt acknowledgment that the dispute over Kashmir still looms between them. But privately, officials from both sides said they remain hopeful about the peace efforts. A13

NATIONAL A14-21

Congress Returns to Work With Election Day Looming
Members of Congress return for a charged march to Election Day, planning to carry out recommendations from the Sept. 11 commission as well as decide what to do about a highway measure and a host of other proposals, all while jockeying for political advantage. A1

Campaigns Sharpen Attacks
The traditional Labor Day start of the fall campaign season came and went much as this contest has gone on for months: with President George W. Bush and Senator John Kerry throwing punches over Iraq, job losses and health care A1

Vice President Dick Cheney and Senator John Edwards campaigned on starkly different themes in St. Paul, with Mr. Cheney suggesting that presidents including Ronald Reagan were soft on terrorists, while Mr. Edwards called President Bush a failure on pocketbook concerns like jobs and health care. A20

Clinton Surgery Successful
Former President Bill Clinton underwent successful quadruple coronary bypass surgery in New York. His doctors found several arteries more than 90 percent blocked. They said he was resting comfortably afterward and was expected to make a complete recovery. A1

Former President Clinton seems unlikely to play a major role in Senator John Kerry's campaign for the White House this fall if his recovery follows the pattern described by his doctors, who said other patients of his age and physical condition had taken up to three months to fully resume an active schedule. A18

Storm Plods On in Florida
Tropical Storm Frances made its second landfall in Florida, pounding the Florida Panhandle with winds of 65 miles an hour, while the final blows from its trek across the state added to the frustration of millions of evacuated residents. A1

In the wake of Hurricane Frances, broken boats and marinas litter the Atlantic Coast of Florida, creating a nightmare for weekend sailors and professional skippers and delivering a heavy blow to one of the state's proudest symbols and the source of tens of thousands of jobs. A21

In the wreckage left by the devastating one-two punch of Hurricanes Charley and Frances, engineers, researchers and others are finding that this combination of disasters may do what no single storm has: cause everyone along the United States' southern and eastern coasts to toughen their building codes. A21

San Diego Faces Crisis
When a whistleblower leaked word in the summer of 2003 that San Diego was shortchanging its public pension fund, it began a cascade of events that have led to a legal, financial and political crisis in San Diego, which has long enjoyed a reputation for clean governance. A14

Vaccine Saves Millions
Vaccinating children against chickenpox saves the American health care system nearly $100 million a year in reduced hospitalizations for severe cases, according to a new study. A16

NEW YORK/REGION B1-5

For 9/11 Victim Families Pain Lingers, Survey Finds
A survey conducted by the New York Times, which utilized scores of detailed interviews exploring the emotional, physical and spiritual status of the families of 9/11 victims, found that they continue to be crippled with pain. B1

Student Falls to Death
A 23-year-old graduate film student at New York University fell to her death from the roof of the Tisch School of the Arts in what school officials said was an apparent suicide. Although unrelated, it was at least the seventh high-profile death of an N.Y.U. student in a year, and the second death of a Tisch student in less than a week. B1

Marine's Death Mourned
The family and friends of Ronald Winchester, a lieutenant with the United States Marine Corps who was killed in the line of duty when a roadside bomb exploded as his unit traveled on foot outside Baghdad, mourned their loss in Rockville Centre, N.Y. B5

Pilot's Remains Identified
The remains of Robert H. Schuler Jr., a fighter pilot who was declared missing in action in Vietnam after his plane was shot down in 1965, have been recovered. After the military found the remains and personal effects of many soldiers during excavations of old Vietnamese battlegrounds, they used forensic expertise to match their findings with his DNA. B5

SCIENCE TIMES F1-10

Health & Fitness F5

FASHION B7

ARTS E1-8

Summer Hits and Misses
In a summer when many of the studios' biggest bets failed to pay off, it was familiarity in the form of sequels and low-budget comedies that resonated with movie audiences. The box office rose again in the summer of 2004 as it has in recent years, industry executives said. E1

BUSINESS DAY C1-9

Drug a Key to Sanofi Merger
Sanofi executives say the power that Aventis could bring to marketing a diet pill, which they see as potentially a once-in-a-decade blockbuster, was a driving force behind the two companies' $65 billion merger. Sanofi-Aventis released promising test results last week for a new drug that fights both obesity and smoking. C1

Gas Habits Slow to Change
Higher energy prices continue to impact the economy, but though some symbolic shifts in consumers' buying practices have emerged, for the most part Americans are not altering their fuel consumption habits as they pay some of the highest prices ever for gasoline. C1

Alitalia to Dismiss 5,000
Alitalia, the Italian state-run airline and a partner with Delta and Air France in the SkyTeam alliance, told its unions that it plans to dismiss about 5,000 of its 21,000 employees in a move to avoid filing for bankruptcy. Alitalia will further pare its payroll by not renewing the contracts for another 1,000 seasonal workers. C1

Business Digest C1

SPORTSTUESDAY D1-7

OBITUARIES C11

EDITORIAL A22-23

Editorials: Voter ID problems in Florida; General Pinochet's day in court; when dog bites dog, man is next; Brent Staples on fighting the AIDS epidemic by issuing condoms in the prisons.

Columns: Paul Krugman, David Brooks.

Crossword E2
TV Listings E9
Weather D10


GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (78%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (75%); HAMAS (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); ESPIONAGE (72%); HOSTAGE TAKING (72%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (71%); ACADEMIC TESTING (67%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (66%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (64%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); RELIGION (54%); HELICOPTERS (50%); PEACE PROCESS (50%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (54%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (76%) KASHMIR (79%) CHINA (94%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); INDIA (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); ASIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2004



169 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: A Mythic Reality

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN. 
E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The best book I've read about America after 9/11 isn't about either America or 9/11. It's ''War Is a Force That Gives Us Meaning,'' an essay on the psychology of war by Chris Hedges, a veteran war correspondent. Better than any poll analysis or focus group, it explains why President Bush, despite policy failures at home and abroad, is ahead in the polls.
 War, Mr. Hedges says, plays to some fundamental urges. ''Lurking beneath the surface of every society, including ours,'' he says, ''is the passionate yearning for a nationalist cause that exalts us, the kind that war alone is able to deliver.'' When war psychology takes hold, the public believes, temporarily, in a ''mythic reality'' in which our nation is purely good, our enemies are purely evil, and anyone who isn't our ally is our enemy. 
 This state of mind works greatly to the benefit of those in power.
 One striking part of the book describes Argentina's reaction to the 1982 Falklands war. Gen. Leopoldo Galtieri, the leader of the country's military junta, cynically launched that war to distract the public from the failure of his economic policies. It worked: ''The junta, which had been on the verge of collapse'' just before the war, ''instantly became the saviors of the country.'' 
 The point is that once war psychology takes hold, the public desperately wants to believe in its leadership, and ascribes heroic qualities to even the least deserving ruler. National adulation for the junta ended only after a humiliating military defeat.
 George W. Bush isn't General Galtieri: America really was attacked on 9/11, and any president would have followed up with a counterstrike against the Taliban. Yet the Bush administration, like the Argentine junta, derived enormous political benefit from the impulse of a nation at war to rally around its leader.
 Another president might have refrained from exploiting that surge of support for partisan gain; Mr. Bush didn't.
 And his administration has sought to perpetuate the war psychology that makes such exploitation possible.
 Step by step, the fight against Al Qaeda became a universal ''war on terror,'' then a confrontation with the ''axis of evil,'' then a war against all evil everywhere. Nobody knows where it all ends.
 What is clear is that whenever political debate turns to Mr. Bush's actual record in office, his popularity sinks. Only by doing whatever it takes to change the subject to the war on terror -- not to what he's actually doing about terrorist threats, but to his ''leadership,'' whatever that means -- can he get a bump in the polls. 
 Last week's convention made it clear that Mr. Bush intends to use what's left of his heroic image to win the election, and early polls suggest that the strategy may be working. What can John Kerry do?
 Campaigning exclusively on domestic issues won't work. Mr. Bush must be held to account for his dismal record on jobs, health care and the environment. But as Mr. Hedges writes, when war psychology makes a public yearn to believe in its leaders, ''there is little that logic or fact or truth can do to alter the experience.'' 
 To win, the Kerry campaign has to convince a significant number of voters that the self-proclaimed ''war president'' isn't an effective war leader -- he only plays one on TV.
 This charge has the virtue of being true. It's hard to find a nonpartisan national security analyst with a good word for the Bush administration's foreign policy. Iraq, in particular, is a slow-motion disaster brought on by wishful thinking, cronyism and epic incompetence. 
 If I were running the Kerry campaign, I'd remind people frequently about Mr. Bush's flight-suit photo-op, when he declared the end of major combat. In fact, the war goes on unabated. News coverage of Iraq dropped off sharply after the supposed transfer of sovereignty on June 28, but as many American soldiers have died since the transfer as in the original invasion. 
 And I'd point out that while Mr. Bush spared no effort preparing for his carrier landing -- he even received underwater survival training in the White House pool -- he didn't prepare for things that actually mattered, like securing and rebuilding Iraq after Baghdad fell. 
 Will it work? I don't know. But to win, Mr. Kerry must try to puncture the myth that Mr. Bush's handlers have so assiduously created. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); WAR ON TERROR (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); POLITICS (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (74%); TALIBAN (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); FOCUS GROUPS (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (68%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (67%); AL-QAEDA (62%); POLITICAL DEBATES (62%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Election Issues; Public Opinion; Terrorism; United States Politics and Government; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%); PAUL KRUGMAN (50%) Paul Krugman; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (92%); ARGENTINA (79%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2004



170 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE RUNNING MATES; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: Cheney's Praise of Bush Takes a Dig at Clinton (and Reagan)

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD and RICK LYMAN

DATELINE: ST. PAUL, Sept. 6 

 BODY:
Vice President Dick Cheney and Senator John Edwards campaigned on starkly different themes in the same city on Monday, with Mr. Cheney suggesting that President Bill Clinton and even President Ronald Reagan were soft on terrorists, while Mr. Edwards called President Bush a failure on pocketbook concerns like jobs and health care.
 With the race entering its final phase, the Republican and Democratic vice-presidential candidates ramped up their arguments on the issues they consider their own. 
 Speaking at the Minnesota State Fair with about 200 supporters, Mr. Cheney sought to portray President Bush as triumphing over economic and national security burdens inherited from previous administrations.
 He blamed the Clinton and Reagan administrations for teaching terrorists that ''they could strike us with relative impunity'' and that ''if they hit us hard enough, they could change our policy.'' Mr. Cheney cited the attack on United States Marines barracks in Beirut in 1983, in the first Reagan term, along with the 1993 killings of American soldiers in Somalia, a 1996 truck bombing at a housing complex in Saudi Arabia where many Americans lived, the 1998 bombings of two American embassies in East Africa and the attack on the destroyer Cole in Yemen in 2000.
 ''What were the consequences of these attacks?'' asked Mr. Cheney, who was a Republican House member in the 1980's and defense secretary under the first President Bush. ''The answer is, not much. We fired off a few cruise missiles once. Basically, they struck us with impunity and got away with it.''
 Mr. Cheney's comments came in an unusually detailed discussion of national security that was intended to blunt Democratic attacks on the president's antiterrorism record.
 Mr. Cheney said Mr. Bush responded to the Sept. 11 attacks by removing the Taliban from power in Afghanistan, breaking up a ring run by a Pakistani scientist that sold nuclear materials to rogue states, and forcibly removing Saddam Hussein from power after he ''provided safe harbor and sanctuary for terrorists.'' 
 ''The thing that's happened is the terrorists now know that they can no longer strike the United States with impunity,'' he said. 
 On the economy, Mr. Cheney said Mr. Clinton left office with the country on the road to a recession. Then, he said, the Sept. 11 attacks dealt another serious blow to the economy, but he cited recent gains as signs that the president's policies, including tax cuts, were working.
 Mr. Edwards, addressing audiences made up largely of labor union members, had an opposite view, listing some of the less flattering economic statistics that speak of the anxiety many Americans are feeling about their jobs.
 In the past 75 years, through 11 presidents and war and recession, he told a riverfront rally here, ''every one of those presidents created jobs until this president, till George Bush took jobs.''
 On health care, Mr. Edwards disputed Mr. Cheney's remarks at the Republican National Convention that suggested the administration had provided more insurance to people.
 ''George Bush and Dick Cheney have made health care more accessible and more affordable. In what America?'' Mr. Edwards said. ''They will say black is white and night is day.''
 Earlier in the day, while speaking to about 150 people in a suburban backyard outside Milwaukee, Mr. Edwards accused the administration of covering up a struggling economy that only recently has begun showing signs of improvement.
 ''They are going to try over and over to put lipstick on this pig, that's exactly what they're going to try to do,'' he said. ''You can put as much lipstick you want, but at the end of the day it's still a pig.''
 But at that gathering he was also confronted by a supporter who feared that he and Mr. Kerry had not batted away Republican claims about their records.
 Katie Simenson, 41, a massage therapist, accused the Democratic ticket of letting Republicans suggest that Mr. Edwards had taken frivolous cases as a lawyer and that Mr. Kerry was a waffler and soft on defense. 
 ''They're going to run you right over and make you look like idiots,'' Ms. Simenson said.
 Mr. Edwards sought to answer, promising '' to fight every day between now and Election Day'' and assuring her that Mr. Kerry ''is strong, courageous and he is a fighter.''
 ''And I like to believe I am the same thing,'' he said. But Ms. Simenson shook her head.
 ''We will -- don't shake your head! -- we will fight,'' Mr. Edwards continued. ''No, we will fight every way we know how. But we are fighting for you, we are not fighting with these politicians. George Bush wants to fight with politicians. We are fighting for you. We want to make your life better -- don't argue with me, let me finish. We're going to stand up -- I let you talk, let me finish -- we're going to stand up for the things that we believe in.''
 Afterward, Ms. Simenson pronounced his answer a ''typical politician response,'' but said she would grudgingly vote for Mr. Kerry.
 Though Mr. Cheney and Mr. Edwards appeared in the same city, they did not cross paths; indeed, Mr. Edwards's arrival was delayed about 15 minutes as Mr. Cheney's plane took off, leading Mr. Edwards to joke later at his rally, ''Dick Cheney disrupted our landing but come November we are going to disrupt his landing.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (92%); TERRORISM (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); HIJACKING (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); TALIBAN (77%); LABOR UNIONS (74%); COUNTERTERRORISM (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (70%); ARMED FORCES (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (51%) Presidential Election of 2004; Airlines and Airplanes; Hijacking; World Trade Center (NYC); Terrorism; United States Economy; Labor; Unemployment; Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; Vice Presidents and Vice Presidency (US)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS (56%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (95%); DICK CHENEY (92%); BILL CLINTON (92%); JOHN EDWARDS (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney; John (Sen) Edwards; Bill Clinton; Ronald Wilson Reagan

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%) MINNESOTA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); YEMEN (79%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%); SOMALIA (79%); LEBANON (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); AFRICA (79%) New York City; Washington (DC); St Paul (Minn); St Paul (Minn)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2004



171 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 950 words

HEADLINE: In Imperfect Compromise, Exhibit Tells of Vietnam Era

BYLINE: By CAROL POGASH

DATELINE: OAKLAND, Calif., Sept. 5 

 BODY:
Even as the presidential campaign remains steeped in a debate about John Kerry's military service in Vietnam, another highly charged dispute over the Vietnam War has been resolved -- albeit imperfectly -- between Vietnamese-Americans and a prominent museum here.
 An exhibit, ''What's Going On? California in the Era of Vietnam,'' opened late last month at the Oakland Museum of California and is scheduled to run through February before traveling to Los Angeles and Chicago. Five years in the making, it tells the wartime story of California during the 1960's and 70's, ripping at wounds among the state's swelling Vietnamese-American population.
 The exhibit's content was significantly changed to reflect the complaints and sensitivities of Vietnamese living in California, particularly those from the war's losing side in the south, who feared the displays would give their viewpoint and experiences short shrift. Some 80 percent of the more than one million Vietnamese in the United States came from South Vietnam, the United States' ally. 
 ''For museums, this is very unusual,'' Dennis Power, the Oakland museum's executive director, said of the long and often difficult negotiations over the exhibit.
 The two sides debated things like space allotments, terminology and how much attention to give Ho Chi Minh, the leader of Communist North Vietnam. Under pressure from the Vietnamese-Americans, the museum left out his picture.
 The exhibit, which cost $1.9 million and encompasses 7,000 square feet, presents a kaleidoscopic view of California during the Vietnam era. It covers topics like the free speech and antiwar movements of the 1960's and the arrival of the first Vietnamese refugees in 1975 at the end of the war.
 Marcia Eymann, the museum's curator, first thought of the exhibit after noticing scrawled messages from American soldiers on walls at Oakland's Army base, where artifacts from the museum are stored.
 Last year, the museum hired Mimi Nguyen, its first Vietnamese researcher, whose abbreviated tenure at the museum reflected the deep emotions and often tumultuous negotiations that surrounded the exhibit.
 Ms. Nguyen lobbied to include artifacts from the re-education camps, where hundreds of thousands of South Vietnamese were imprisoned after the war. ''It's about historical accuracy and just giving voice to primary sources,'' she said, ''to people who have lived and survived.''
 She pushed for displays that depict the fall of Saigon in 1975 and the thousands of Vietnamese maimed in the war. When she learned that the museum was buying a Vietcong uniform through eBay, Ms. Nguyen argued for the display of a South Vietnamese uniform as well.
 She became a persistent critic. Last October, she wrote a scathing memorandum, accusing the museum of simplifying and sanitizing the war. One week later, Ms. Nguyen, who had earlier received e-mail messages from superiors praising her work, was fired.
 Mr. Power said Ms. Nguyen had not been fired because of her views, but he declined to discuss the reasons. An online petition, signed by about 500 Vietnamese worldwide, protested the firing but failed to have her reinstated. A Vietnamese-American graduate student hired to replace Ms. Nguyen quit after six months, telling The San Francisco Chronicle at the time that he would be uncomfortable taking his parents to the exhibit as it was then planned.
 Ms. Eymann, the curator, said Ms. Nguyen's memo reflected ''the frustration of a broader community that feels it's been ignored.'' In January, Ms. Eymann sought out the leaders of the petition drive and asked for their help, eventually creating an advisory group of Southeast Asians.
 ''They had been arrogant, insensitive and elitist,'' said Joseph Dovinh, a Vietnamese-American who wrote the online petition and became the head of the advisory group.
 In the ensuing months, the museum's outreach efforts included paying for leaders among Vietnamese in Southern California to fly to Oakland for meetings.
 The advisory group members insisted that the exhibit refer to Vietnamese-Americans as refugees, not immigrants, because they fled their country for political, not economic, reasons. The museum agreed.
 They also wanted their story to be threaded through the exhibit, not isolated in one display. The museum agreed to post written accounts in the exhibit's 11 display areas.
 The group also requested a display depicting the suffering of the Vietnamese people with graphic images, like a photograph of a pile of skulls. The museum refused to display the photos, but placed them in a binder in an alcove next to the exhibit.
 ''We were pushing for about 30 percent of the space,'' Mr. Dovinh said. ''We were satisfied with something closer to 20 percent. Ultimately, we got about 15 percent.''
 Not everyone is happy with the exhibit. For example, some complain about a display of baby clothes from Operation Babylift, in which 2,600 ''orphans'' were flown out of Vietnam and placed with American families. Nothing is said about the Vietnamese mothers who sought the return of their children but were blocked by American courts.
 Sonny Le, a consultant to the museum and the communications director of the East Meets West Foundation, which provides humanitarian assistance to Vietnam, said the exhibit was the best compromise possible.
 ''This is as good as it can get,'' he said. ''The inhumanity and destruction of war should have been shoved down our throat. But if you do that, people won't go to see it.''
 But Richard Griffoul, the museum's director of marketing and communications, acknowledged that the final result was not good enough for many Vietnamese-Americans.
 He said, ''This is not the exhibit they want and need''


GRAPHIC: Photos: From top, visitors to the Oakland Museum of California on the opening weekend of the Vietnam exhibit
artifacts from Vietnamese imprisoned at ''re-education'' camps after the war
and Marcia Eymann, left, the museum's curator, and Mimi Nguyen, a researcher whose firing reflected the deep emotions surrounding the display. (Photographs by Susan Ragan for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Marcio Jose Sanchez/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VIETNAM WAR (93%); ASIAN AMERICANS (91%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); ARMIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); MILITARY BASES (78%); LOBBYING (74%); REFUGEES (73%); EXECUTIVES (66%) Vietnam War; Vietnamese-Americans; Vietnam War

COMPANY: UNIFORM AS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: Oakland Museum

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (89%) Carol Pogash; Ho Chi Minh (1890-1969)

GEOGRAPHIC: OAKLAND, CA, USA (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (96%); VIET NAM (94%); VIETNAM (79%) California

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2004



172 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 7, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE CONTEXT; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1009 words

HEADLINE: On Labor Day, Nominees Have Work to Do

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 6 

 BODY:
With the presidential race down to a two-month stretch, Republicans and Democrats are in unison on two points: President Bush is in a more commanding position than many in his own party forecast only a month ago, while Senator John Kerry is struggling to catch up. Mr. Bush seems to have hit his political stride at the very moment that Mr. Kerry is facing fundamental questions about his candidacy.
 Yet if history is any guide, the contest is far from settled. For all of Mr. Bush's success at his convention in New York last week, the underlying dynamics that have made Republicans view him as an endangered incumbent for much of this year remain very much in place: the nation's unease about its future, the deaths in Iraq and the unsteady economy. 
 Though Mr. Kerry, the Democratic challenger, has yet to come up with an overarching theme for his campaign even at this late date -- an absence that came into sharp relief after Mr. Bush's disciplined convention built on a message of security -- he is a politician who has always seemed to run best when he is on the verge of defeat. Even on Labor Day, the traditional start of the general election campaign, when voter opinions are beginning to set, he still has 57 days to make his case.
 ''I don't think either party is where they want to be going into the last 60 days,'' said Simon Rosenberg, president of the New Democratic Network, a group of moderate Democrats. ''It's just very unsettled right now.''
 If there is any lesson about this election, conducted in a supercharged atmosphere created by 24-hour news cycles and the chaotic power of the Internet, it is that dynamics and public opinion change fast. Who in December would have predicted that Mr. Kerry would defeat Howard Dean for the Democratic presidential nomination or that he would have gone on to raise almost as much money as Mr. Bush? 
 Only a month ago, more than a few Democrats and even some Republicans were measuring the curtains for a Kerry White House. Underlying that fleeting expectation were voters' pessimism about the direction the nation was heading and disapproval of Mr. Bush's job performance, two measures that have almost always spelled defeat for an incumbent and that do not appear to have changed sharply.
 The state of play on Labor Day tends to signal what will happen on Election Day. ''Typically, it's hard to overturn a Labor Day decision -- 75 percent of the time, whoever is ahead on Labor Day stays ahead,'' said Mark Penn, a Democratic pollster who is not affiliated with Mr. Kerry's campaign.
 At this point in 1996, the incumbent president, Bill Clinton, was comfortably ahead of Bob Dole; Mr. Dole could do nothing about that. In 1992, President Bush's father was struggling against a candidate who recognized, before he did, the hunger for change among the American electorate.
 But it is proving difficult to measure the state of play accurately this Labor Day, mainly because of the White House decision to schedule the Republican convention a week before the holiday. Polls taken right after a convention offer an inflated sense of a candidate's standing. In this case, getting reliable results may be trickier because much of the polling was done over the Labor Day weekend, when many people are away.
 Aides in both campaigns said the most accurate measure of the race would not come until sometime this week, when voters return from their Labor Day vacations and memories of the Republican convention start to fade.
 ''I would be very surprised if a week from now, the dynamics don't show us in a very tight race,'' Joe Lockhart, a senior Kerry adviser, said. ''We look at this race as the president having his high-water mark the last night of this convention.''
 Which is not to say that Mr. Kerry should be particularly happy about where he is. Three polls taken since the convention show Mr. Bush with a lead. While some Democrats dismissed those polls as unreliable, others said they were worried that the polls had registered lasting damage for Mr. Kerry because of attacks over the past month on his record as a Vietnam veteran and as a protester against the Vietnam War.
 Beyond that, the staff changes in his campaign have provided an unwanted distraction for Mr. Kerry at the very moment the public is presumably tuning in to this campaign. 
 And, finally, many Democrats argue that Mr. Kerry is in a precarious position because even though he has offered proposals intended to draw distinctions with Mr. Bush, including a broad health care plan, he has yet to settle on an overarching campaign theme. Time may be running out.
 ''There'll be a tendency to say, 'Well, let's wait for the debates,' but if Kerry doesn't gain any momentum, the debates will be too late,'' said David R. Gergen, a veteran adviser of the Nixon, Ford, Reagan and Clinton White Houses.
 If Mr. Bush is in a stronger position after his convention, he still has problems ahead.
 In the next few weeks, the nation is likely to mark the thousandth death of an American soldier in Iraq, a moment that will probably bring a reappraisal of the war that Mr. Bush advocated. He also faces either two or three debates with Mr. Kerry. Although he proved himself to be an engaging and personal debater against Al Gore in 2000, this time he will be defending a record that even Republicans say is ripe for attack
 Republicans and Democrats say the biggest problem for Mr. Bush is the sense among Americans that the country is headed in the wrong direction. 
 While history has shown that presidents do not survive electoral storms like that, this is a contest that has proved again and again that the lessons of the past do not necessarily apply. Mr. Bush and his allies, acutely aware of that history, have sought to rewrite it with a monthlong campaign intended to convince those voters unhappy with the president and the country's direction that the challenger is an even more objectionable choice. The biggest concern for Mr. Kerry's advisers this Labor Day weekend is that Mr. Bush might have accomplished that. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US LABOR DAY (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); INTERNET & WWW (50%) Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN KERRY (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%) Adam Nagourney; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2004



173 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 437 words

HEADLINE: Oil Falls As OPEC Says Supply Is Growing Faster Than Demand

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Oil prices fell yesterday as OPEC's president said supplies were growing faster than demand. Traders also breathed easier knowing that petroleum production in the Gulf of Mexico did not suffer as a result of Hurricane Frances.
 ''There's no news to keep prices from falling,'' said Ed Silliere, vice president for risk management at Energy Merchant in New York. 
 Light crude for October delivery dropped 68 cents yesterday to settle at $43.31 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 With only a small amount of spare output capacity worldwide, energy markets had been jittery all summer on the possibility of disruptions in Iraq, Russia and Venezuela.
 But with the exception of sporadic export troubles in Iraq, the global supply chain has remained intact.
 Speaking at the World Energy Congress in Sydney, Australia, yesterday, the president of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, Purnomo Yusgiantoro, said that world oil production was running ''1.5 million barrels every day above demand, based on our forecasts.'' Analysts say daily global demand is around 82 million barrels.
 Mr. Purnomo said oil production in the 11 OPEC nations, including Iraq, was 29 million to 30 million barrels a day. OPEC oil ministers are set to meet in Vienna later this month to discuss ways to reduce prices.
 Tom Bentz, a trader at BNP Paribas in New York, said the trend was already pointing in that direction.
 Oil prices slid for much of last week despite confusion about the status of Iraqi exports -- the kind of information that had contributed to the run-up in oil prices in mid-August.
 ''The market is starting to show me that it's not prepared to move higher on bullish news,'' Mr. Bentz said, signaling that market sentiment has shifted after oil's rapid rise last month toward $50 a barrel.
 In another sign that market psychology may be shifting, the number of Nymex speculators who had bet on higher oil prices fell more than 10 percent last week, according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
 The highest closing price for Nymex-traded crude futures was $48.70, on Aug. 19, and prices have fallen about 12 percent since. Adjusting for inflation, prices are about $14 below the level reached leading up to the Persian Gulf war in 1991.
 Prices hovered in the low- to mid-$40 range last week, in part because of nervousness that Hurricane Frances might disrupt oil production in the Gulf of Mexico, Mr. Bentz said. With that threat gone -- and in spite of the increasing strength of Hurricane Ivan in the Caribbean -- Bentz said he expected to see the downward trend continue.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); HURRICANES (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); TRENDS (89%); FUTURES (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); MINING OUTPUT (89%); ENERGY MARKETS (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (79%); COMMODITIES TRADING (79%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (79%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (78%); WEATHER (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (73%); DESERT STORM (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (71%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; International Trade and World Market; Futures and Options Trading; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Hurricane Frances; Production

COMPANY: BNP PARIBAS SA (54%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (52%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%) Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries

TICKER: BNP (PAR) (54%); BNP (BIT) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (54%)

PERSON: Purnomo Yusgiantoro

GEOGRAPHIC: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (79%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (56%) GULF OF MEXICO (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (94%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (71%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (88%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); AUSTRIA (79%); GULF STATES (74%); AUSTRALIA (71%) Mexico; Gulf of Mexico

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2004



174 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE CONFLICT IN IRAQ: SADR CITY; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1197 words

HEADLINE: Battles in Baghdad Slum Leave 40 Iraqis and a G.I. Dead

BYLINE: By DEXTER FILKINS

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, Sept. 7 

 BODY:
A weeklong calm that had taken hold of the Shiite ghetto of Sadr City and raised hopes for a peaceful settlement of the armed standoff there dissolved into gun battles Monday night and Tuesday, leaving at least 40 Iraqis and 1 American soldier dead and 202 people wounded.
 The fighting ended a unilateral cease-fire declared by the Mahdi Army, the militia led by the rebel cleric Moktada al-Sadr, who has challenged the American presence in the sprawling Baghdad slum. Mr. Sadr, whose men were routed from the Shiite holy city of Najaf late last month, declared the cease-fire on Aug. 30. At the time, his aides said he was making plans to enter politics.
 The new combat began when American forces, trying to assert control of the area, came under attack by insurgents using rocket-propelled grenades, homemade bombs and heavy machine guns. Fighters of the Mahdi Army said they had been responding to an American raid carried out Sunday morning on the Jawadain Mosque, where they said seven Iraqis were arrested during morning prayers. 
 A statement released by the First Cavalry Division of the United States Army, whose troops are operating in the area, listed 11 attacks by the Mahdi Army on Tuesday alone. Among those was an ambush of a team of American soldiers who had been trying to defuse one of the homemade bombs that are hidden in alleys and intersections throughout the area. One American soldier was killed and two were wounded in that attack, which was carried out by a rocket-propelled grenade.
 ''All night long there was fighting,'' Abu Abdullah al-Hur, a bleary-eyed Mahdi gunman, said during an afternoon lull. ''The Americans went into the mosques. They starting arresting people, arresting women. At that point, we decided to shoot back.''
 It was impossible to verify Mr. Hur's account. On some streets, militiamen like Mr. Hur roamed freely, setting up barricades and stopping cars. At others, the Americans held sway, with soldiers scanning the streets through the sights of their machine guns. On the streets that were still contested, the fighting went on.
 The outbreak of violence here illustrated the seemingly unbridgeable differences between American forces and Mr. Sadr, a 30-year-old cleric who has built a large following in Iraq's downtrodden neighborhoods. Badly bloodied by the American assault on his forces last month in Najaf, where the Mahdi Army had seized the Shrine of Ali, he declared himself willing to negotiate, if not to surrender his guns.
 In the last week, aides to Mr. Sadr engaged in on-again-off-again talks with the Iraqi prime minister, Ayad Allawi. At one point, the two sides appeared to reach a deal that would have required the Mahdi Army to surrender its heavy weapons and the Americans to suspend military operations. But the talks collapsed when Dr. Allawi balked at restrictions on American forces.
 American commanders, for their part, appear to believe that they have caught Mr. Sadr at a vulnerable moment, and they are insisting that his troops surrender their large weapons -- rocket-propelled grenades and heavy machine guns -- before talks even begin.
 At the same time, by necessity and by design, the Iraqi government has withdrawn many essential city services from the area, including police protection and garbage pickup. As a result, on block after block, the streets are covered in refuse and rotting food, some of it knee-deep, some of it on fire, its putrid smoke lingering in the air. There are no policemen anywhere.
 ''There are no negotiations,'' said Col. Robert B. Abrams, the commander of the First Brigade of the First Cavalry Division. ''Sadr needs to disband and disarm, and then we can talk.''
 ''If they don't disarm,'' Colonel Abrams said of the Mahdi Army, ''we will be back at this every month, forever.''
 He and other American commanders said a majority of Iraqis inside Sadr City supported their presence here, and were particularly eager to benefit from the tens of millions of dollars in reconstruction money they control. The Americans added that they believed that Mr. Sadr and his men, by intimidating the local residents, appeared to be far stronger than they really were. 
 ''Ninety-five percent of the people just want a better life for their family,'' Colonel Abrams said. ''The people are tired of Mr. Sadr's antics.''
 Still, the evidence on the streets of Sadr City suggests that the Americans might be underestimating the support that Mr. Sadr has, or overestimating their own. By many accounts, the armed incursions by American forces appear to be deeply unpopular, serving mainly to strengthen the cleric and his otherwise unloved band of followers.
 ''Of course the violence is the fault of the Americans; they entered the city,'' said Haitham Assi, 32, seated on a street corner with a group of his friends. ''Just imagine if I came into your home, arrested and killed members of your family. You would protect yourself.''
 Mr. Assi, one of the area's legion of unemployed, did not count himself a supporter of Mr. Sadr, nor did his friend, Mohanid Abdul Muttalib, seated next to him. But both said they much preferred Mr. Sadr to American soldiers with their guns.
 ''Even if the people don't support Moktada, they will join him if the Americans come into the city,'' Mr. Muttalib said.
 The fighting of the last 48 hours demonstrated anew the Mahdi Army's ability to spread mayhem at the time and place of its choosing. Colonel Abrams said the Iraqi government had told the Americans that they could neither detain nor kill Mr. Sadr. In Najaf, the peace deal there allowed Mr. Sadr and all of his surviving fighters to leave with their guns. Some of them went home to Sadr City.
 Sitting around a room here, five Mahdi Army fighters, most of them young, most of them barefoot, talked about days past and days ahead. They predicted more fighting, but reveled in self-made tales of their exploits.
 ''We attacked three tanks, and we have a film of it,'' said Muhammad Abu Sajal. ''We film everything. Last night, we shot an Apache helicopter, and we have a piece of it.''
 Mr. Sajal spoke quickly, and his eyes looked beyond his visitor.
 ''Please, make it quick,'' Mr. Sajal said to an American reporter. ''The fighting is going to start very soon.''
 Meanwhile on Tuesday, the United States military said three other American soldiers were killed in separate attacks in or near Baghdad, Reuters reported. 
 American warplanes attacked the militant-controlled city of Falluja, 35 miles west of Baghdad, and witnesses and hospital officials said at least four people, including an 8-year-old child, had been killed, Reuters reported. The United States military statement said up to 100 insurgents had been killed.
 The violence in Falluja followed the deadliest attack on American forces in four months, when seven marines were killed Monday in a car bombing.
 Also on Tuesday, insurgents ambushed the convoy of Baghdad's governor, opening fire and then detonating a roadside bomb as the cars passed, Reuters reported. He was not hurt, but an Iraqi in another car was killed.
 The son of the governor of the northern city of Mosul was shot dead by guerrillas on Tuesday, Reuters also reported.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Iraqi Shiite militants guarded the office of the rebel cleric Moktada al-Sadr in the Sadr City district of Baghdad yesterday after clashes between American soldiers and Mr. Sadr's Mahdi Army militia.
 An Iraqi boy mourned over the body of his brother, Mudhafar Abdul Jabaar, 20, at a hospital in Sadr City yesterday after the fighting there. In addition to the dozens of dead, more than 200 people were wounded. (Photographs by Namir Noor-Eldeen/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); ARMIES (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); RELIGION (78%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (77%); SHOOTINGS (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (72%); ARRESTS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (55%)

PERSON: MOQTADA AL-SADR (88%) Moktada Al- Sadr; Dexter Filkins

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (96%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (96%) Iraq; Baghdad (Iraq); Sadr City (Iraq); Falluja (Iraq); Mosul (Iraq); Iraq

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2004



175 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1429 words

HEADLINE: Connecticut Homeowners Say Eminent Domain Isn't a Revenue-Raising Device

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

DATELINE: NEW LONDON, Conn. 

 BODY:
On a quiet peninsula that juts out into the Thames River of Connecticut, weeds and wildflowers cover the empty lots where 90 homes and small businesses once stood -- among them the eight houses that used to separate Susette T. Kelo's tidy pink cottage from the blue house that Wilhelmina Dery's grandmother bought in 1901 and where Mrs. Dery and her husband, Charles, still live. 
 Ms. Kelo and the Derys are among seven property owners who refused to budge after city officials approved an economic development plan to upgrade their 90-acre waterfront neighborhood, known as Fort Trumbull, by creating prime office space, a hotel, 80 units of housing and a Coast Guard museum. 
 Because these people would not sell their property, the New London Development Corporation took title to it through eminent domain, a decision upheld in March on a 4-to-3 vote by the Connecticut Supreme Court. The Fifth Amendment allows governments to take private property through eminent domain in exchange for "just compensation,'' but only when it is for "public use.'' 
 Ms. Kelo, a nurse, who bought her two-bedroom house in 1997, said she and her neighbors were being swept aside so that wealthier people might replace them. She and Matthew R. Dery, a newspaper executive who lives next door to his parents, said real estate agents had appeared on their doorstep and told them they would have to sell their homes or lose them through eminent domain.
 ''How come someone else can live here, and we can't?'' Ms. Kelo asked as sea gulls circled overhead and ferry boats to Block Island, R.I., and Orient Point, N.Y., were visible in the distance. ''I'm being penalized for being a good resident.''
 But New London city authorities said the condemnations were justified because the city, one of Connecticut's poorest, had endured three decades of economic decline, including the recent loss of 1,900 government jobs, and had few options for increasing its tax base to help pay for schools and services. After officials persuaded Pfizer, the drug company, to open a $270 million research building on the site of a former linoleum plant, the adjacent Fort Trumbull neighborhood seemed ideally suited to attract additional investment, they say. 
 The neighborhood was already zoned for industrial and commercial use and had a sewage treatment plant, which was covered at Pfizer's request but still gives off odors. The United States Naval Undersea Warfare Center, which occupied 32 acres, closed in 1996. The state had agreed to spend $20 million to create a state park at Fort Trumbull, a mid-19th-century installation where Connecticut troops mustered during the Civil War before heading south.
 Despite the Connecticut Supreme Court's ruling, the demolition of the properties has not yet occurred because the Institute for Justice, a public-interest law center in Washington that represents Ms. Kelo and the other homeowners, has asked the United States Supreme Court to review the case. The institute, which has been fighting eminent domain actions all over the country, argues that the case, Kelo v. City of New London, demonstrates how government authorities are increasingly abusing condemnation powers to enrich developers at the expense of homeowners and small businesses.
 Legal battles like this one, and a recent Michigan case in which a landmark ruling was overturned, have captured the attention of developers and economic development officials. Maureen L. McAvey, a senior fellow for urban development at the Urban Land Institute and a former developer, said eminent domain was essential for assembling tracts of land for development. But she said the cases have had a cautionary effect, prompting many local officials to re-examine their procedures to make sure that they can clearly show how the public will benefit from a particular project. ''Most local entities are looking at their ordinances and practices,'' she said. ''They are getting smarter about how they use eminent domain.''
 The conflict over eminent domain has led to some unusual alliances, with libertarian groups like the Institute for Justice joining forces with the American Civil Liberties Union and Ralph Nader to oppose condemnations, and environmental groups lining up with developers and community development organizations. Environmental groups say that eminent domain powers must sometimes be used to promote ''smart growth'' -- that is, denser development in older neighborhoods -- as a means of reducing suburban sprawl.
 From 1998 to 2002, the institute says, more than 10,000 condemnations were filed or threatened in 41 states that involved transfers of property from one private owner to another. But Jeffrey A. Finkle, president of the International Economic Development Council, a professional group based in Washington, estimates that no more than 80 significant projects a year involve eminent domain.
 In 1954, the last time the United States Supreme Court ruled on using eminent domain for development, the justices held that redevelopment of a blighted area constituted a ''public use'' for which property could be taken, expanding the scope of eminent domain beyond the building of a road or other public project. 
 But the institute contends that Kelo poses a novel question for the court -- does ''public use'' include projects that are intended not to alleviate blight but to increase tax revenue and improve the local economy? States have been divided on this issue, Dana Berliner, a lawyer at the institute said. ''The courts have adopted different tests for how they evaluate these cases, without any meaningful guidance,'' Ms. Berliner said in an interview in Washington. ''We are looking for the Supreme Court to establish a base line.''
 In a decision on July 30 that shocked developers and municipal officials, the Michigan Supreme Court overturned a 1981 ruling that has been repeatedly cited over the last two decades in condemnation litigation. In that 1981 case, Poletown Neighborhood Council v. Detroit, the court upheld a decision to displace hundreds of residents and businesses of a working-class Polish neighborhood so that General Motors could build an assembly plant there. G.M. created only about half the promised jobs, according to an editorial in The Detroit News on Aug. 3.
 The Michigan court ruled that Wayne County officials had violated the state constitution by condemning land near Detroit Metro Airport to build a 1,300-acre industrial and office development known as Pinnacle Aeropark. The decision has no legal force outside Michigan, but it means that property can no longer be condemned in Michigan for economic development alone.
 ''The Michigan case,'' Mr. Finkle said, ''was a wake-up call.'' He said his group was developing guidelines to teach communities when eminent domain is appropriate. ''We don't think that somebody ought to be able to grab land and buildings based on a higher economic return,'' he said, noting that this view was not shared by all defenders of eminent domain powers. ''You have to have underlying blighted conditions.''
 Roger Platt, a senior vice president and counsel for the Real Estate Roundtable, an advocacy group in Washington for the chief executives of major real estate companies, acknowledges that eminent domain powers have sometimes been abused. ''We don't oppose careful judicial oversight of those powers,'' he said. ''At the same time, we're concerned that this recent case in Michigan suggests a more radical response to the issue that would throw the baby out with the bath water.''
 In New London, officials say they could have used blight to justify the Fort Trumbull condemnations, even though some homes were in good condition. But Thomas J. Londregan, the city's lawyer, said that condemning for blight would have required the redevelopment agency to find $70 million to buy the properties. Instead, the money came from state economic development funds.
 If cities can no longer use eminent domain for projects to increase taxes and create jobs, they will be unable to compete with the suburbs, Mr. Londregan said.
 With a vacancy rate as high as 18 percent for prime office space, there is little likelihood that new office buildings will be built here any time soon. The waterfront hotel seems like a better prospect for the immediate future, said David M. Goebel, a retired rear admiral who serves as chief operating officer of the New London Development Corporation, the agency charged with developing Fort Trumbull. ''You will not find another site like this in the state of Connecticut for a hotel,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Matthew and Suzanne Dery on land near their house, rear right, in a disputed area of New London, Conn. (Photo by C.M. Glover for The New York Times)Chart: ''Data Update''National housing starts, sales and completions, seasonally adjusted annual rates through July.Graph tracks national housing starts, sales and completions, seasonally adjusted annual rates from 2000 through July 2004.(Source by Census Bureau, Construction Statistics Division)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMINENT DOMAIN (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); PROPERTY LAW (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (88%); SUPREME COURTS (88%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (85%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); ZONING (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (76%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (74%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (74%); NAVIES (74%); ARMED FORCES (74%); COASTAL AREAS (74%); LITIGATION (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); STATE PARKS (73%); APPROVALS (70%); CITIES (70%); LAWYERS (69%); WAR & CONFLICT (65%); FERRIES (63%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (62%); TRENDS (61%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (54%) Area Planning and Renewal; Suits and Litigation; Economic Conditions and Trends; Eminent Domain

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); CONNECTICUT SUPREME COURT (56%) Supreme Court (US); Institute for Justice (Law Firm)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (52%); PFEB (BRU) (52%); PFE (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (52%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (52%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (52%)

PERSON: Terry Pristin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW LONDON, CT, USA (95%) CONNECTICUT, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) New London (Conn); Fort Trumbull (Conn); New London (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2004



176 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: Shares Rise, Sending S.&P. 500 to a Two-Month High

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks advanced yesterday, pushing the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index to a two-month high, as a drop in crude oil futures eased concern that higher energy costs would erode corporate profits.
 The S.&P. 500 index added 7.67 points, or 0.7 percent, to 1,121.30, its highest since July 2. The Nasdaq composite index rose 14.08 points, or 0.8 percent, to 1,858.56. The S.&P. 500 and the Nasdaq completed their fourth advance in five days. The Dow Jones industrial average gained 82.59 points, or 0.8 percent, to 10,342.79. United States markets were closed Monday for the Labor Day holiday. 
 The Russell 2000 Index, which has a median market value of about $472 million, gained 1.2 percent, to 562.93.
 Eleven stocks rose for every four that fell on the New York Stock Exchange. Some 1.2 billion shares changed hands on the Big Board in the busiest trading since Aug. 19.
 Parker Hannifin, a maker of motion-control equipment, climbed $2.28, or 4.1 percent, to $57.68, for its biggest rally since Nov. 6. The company said orders at its North American industrial businesses rose 17 percent in August from a year ago. Orders from the rest of the world climbed 20 percent.
 Cisco, the world's largest maker of computer-networking equipment, gained 30 cents, to $19.05. Earnings growth is poised to accelerate, Stephen Kamman, an analyst at CIBC World Markets, wrote in a report. He raised the stock to ''sector outperform'' from ''sector perform'' and increased his 2006 earnings forecast to $1.04 a share from $1.02.
 Insurers advanced after damage from Hurricane Frances turned out to be less severe than anticipated. Storm modelers, including Risk Management Solutions Inc., said Allstate, Ace Ltd. and others faced $3 billion to $6 billion in losses from Hurricane Frances, down from earlier estimates. Allstate gained 89 cents, to $47.91, while Ace added 30 cents, to $39.25.
 Benchmark indexes have been little changed this year, with the S.&P. 500 bouncing between a high of 1,157.76 in February and a low of 1,063.23 last month. Stocks may climb back to the higher end of that range by the end of the year, said Henry ''Chip'' Dickson, the chief investment strategist at Lehman Brothers. He predicts that the S.&P. 500 will end the year at 1,150, a 3.3 percent gain from Friday's close.
 Tobias Levkovich, an investment strategist at Citigroup, said in a report that that scenario might be too optimistic. He forecast that the S.&P. 500 would end the year at 1,025. Earnings expectations are too high, he wrote.
 Hovnanian Enterprises rose $3.27, or 9.3 percent, to $38.50. The company, the largest homebuilder in New Jersey, said it expected earnings to top $5.30 a share in fiscal 2004, up from a June forecast of more than $5.
 Other homebuilders gained. Pulte Homes Inc., the biggest United States homebuilder by stock market value, added $2.90, to $62.76. The Centex Corporation, the fourth largest, advanced $1.78, to $48.78. KB Home, the sixth biggest, rose $3.56, to $74.33.
 International Game Technology, the biggest maker of slot machines, jumped $1.84, or 6.1 percent, to $31.89, for the second-largest gain in the S.&P. 500. Shares may rise 20 percent to 40 percent in 18 to 24 months as new casinos drive earnings growth, Barron's said. 
 An index of companies that make cars and parts advanced 1.6 percent, for the biggest jump among the S.&P. 500's 24 industry groups. General Motors, the world's largest automaker, increased 61 cents, to $43.14. Ford Motor, the No.2 U.S. carmaker, gained 35 cents, to $14.56. The Delphi Corporation, the world's largest maker of automotive parts, added 24 cents, to $9.49.
 National Semiconductor dropped 75 cents, or 5.7 percent, to $12.42, making it the S.&P. 500's worst performer. The company's shares slid 22 percent in August and may drop further, partly because of its reliance on consumer demand, a Lehman Brothers analyst, Romit Shah, wrote in a note to clients.
 United States Treasury notes rose yesterday for the first day in three on speculation that second-half economic growth might fall short of the Federal Reserve's forecast. The price of the benchmark 10-year note rose 15/32, to 100 3/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, fell to 4.24 percent, from 4.29 percent on Friday.
 Here are the results of yesterday's auction of three- and six-month bills and seven-day cash management bills:


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(000 omitted in dollar figures)Price3-Mo. Bills: 99.5876-Mo. Bills: 99.060High Rate3-Mo. Bills: 1.6356-Mo. Bills: 1.860Investment Rate3-Mo. Bills: 1.6636-Mo. Bills: 1.903Low Rate3-Mo. Bills: 1.6106-Mo. Bills: 1.835Median Rate3-Mo. Bills: 1.6306-Mo. Bills: 1.850Total applied for3-Mo. Bills: $47,352,3596-Mo. Bills: $39,153,920Accepted3-Mo. Bills: $26,033,9846-Mo. Bills: $23,371,957Noncompetitive3-Mo. Bills: $1,358,2266-Mo. Bills: $1,105,721Both issues are dated Sept. 09, 2004. The three-month bills mature on Dec. 09, 2004 and the six-month bills mature on March 10, 2005.(000 omitted in dollar figures)Price: 99.971Investment Rate: 1.513High Rate: 1.480Low Rate: 1.460Median Rate: 1.475Total applied for: $29,455,120Accepted: $9,000,240Noncompetitive: $120The 7-day cash management bills mature Sept. 15, 2004.Chart: ''Treasury Yield Curve''Yields of selected Treasury securities. Short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale.Graph tracks yields of selected Treasury securities from yesterday and one month ago.(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); FUTURES (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); RISK MANAGEMENT (79%); HURRICANES (77%); INSURANCE (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); US LABOR DAY (74%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (72%); RESEARCH REPORTS (70%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (68%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (66%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (65%); TROPICAL STORMS (63%); INTEREST RATES (59%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates

COMPANY: RISK MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS INC (65%); ACE LTD (64%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); CIBC WORLD MARKETS INC (54%); ALLSTATE CORP (53%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (51%); HOVNANIAN ENTERPRISES INC (50%)

TICKER: AEX (FRA) (64%); ACE (NYSE) (64%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); ALL (NYSE) (53%); HOV (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (65%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (65%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (64%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (64%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (53%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (53%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (50%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2004



177 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 549 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Halliburton Indicates It May Reduce Iraq Role
Halliburton signaled that it may try to reduce its role as the largest private contractor in Iraq after learning that the Army plans to break apart its largest contract in the country to attract additional bidders for the work.
 The Army's decision, described in an internal memorandum in late August, would effectively divide more than $12 billion of work in Iraq among several companies instead of one. Halliburton has come under criticism for its handling of the contract, including accusations that it overcharged the Pentagon for some services. [Page C3.]

Bush's Budget Promise Questioned
Even if the United States saved billions by withdrawing all troops from Iraq and Afghanistan, President Bush would still be unlikely to fulfill his promise to reduce the budget deficit by half within five years, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office said. [A1.]

Medicare Data Said to Be Withheld
The Bush administration illegally withheld data from Congress on the cost of the new Medicare law, and as a penalty, the former head of the Medicare agency, Thomas A. Scully, should repay seven months of salary to the government, federal investigators said. [A16.]

S.&P. 500 Hits Two-Month High
Stocks rose, pushing the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index to a two-month high. The S.&P. 500 index added 7.67 points, to 1,121.30, The Nasdaq composite index rose 14.08 points, to 1,858.56. The Dow Jones industrial average gained 82.59 points, to 10,342.79. [C10.]

Oil prices fell. Light crude for October delivery dropped 68 cents, to $43.31 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. [C3.]

Growth of European Economy Slows
The European economy slowed significantly in the second quarter as spending lagged, official reports showed, and economists expected growth in the region to be soft into early next year as consumers hang onto their cash. [World Business, Section W.]

N.F.L. Enlists Voice of Lombardi
To mark the start of the 2004-5 season, the National Football League is bringing back the voice of Vince Lombardi, the legendary coach. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [C7.]

Viacom Co-President Realigns Units
Leslie Moonves, the co-president of Viacom, realigned the management of the company's CBS entertainment division and Paramount television production studio, promising smoother and greater interaction between the two. ''I want the studio to work hand in hand with CBS,'' said Mr. Moonves, who is also the chairman of CBS. The plan is for Paramount, which has up to now provided few shows to the network, to produce more series specifically created to satisfy the needs of CBS. [C7.]

Alitalia Union to Fight Layoffs
A day after the airline Alitalia said that it would cut 5,000 jobs, reducing its work force by almost 25 percent, its unions promised to fight the layoffs through a variety of actions, from more negotiations to brief hunger strikes. [World Business, Section W.]

Plans for New Jersey 'Wealth Belt'
Reckson Associates Realty Corporation is pursuing a ''wealth belt'' strategy in New Jersey along the Route 24 corridor, which runs through affluent suburbs like Short Hills. The idea is to buy the best buildings available, invest in renovations if necessary, and try to attract tenants who will pay top-dollar rent. Commercial Real Estate. [C9.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,342.79 up 82.59Nasdaq composite -- 1,858.56 up 14.0810-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.24% down 0.05The euro -- $1.2098 up 0.0027The dollar -- 109.39 yen down 1.21Graph: ''TODAY'' shows consumer borrowing figures from January to June.Consumer BorrowingJuly figures due at 3 p.m. Eastern time.Expected: +$7.5 billionGraph tracks the daily closing price of Halliburton shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); ARMIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); LABOR FORCE (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%); COMMODITIES TRADING (69%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (69%); HEALTH CARE LAW (68%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (66%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (65%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (64%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (64%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (60%); LAYOFFS (58%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: HALLIBURTON CO (95%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (53%); VIACOM INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%)

TICKER: HAL (NYSE) (95%); VIA (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (95%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (95%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (95%); SIC1389 OIL & GAS FIELD SERVICES, NEC (95%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (52%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (52%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (78%); LESLIE MOONVES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2004



178 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE CANDIDATES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1586 words

HEADLINE: Cheney Warns Of Terror Risk If Kerry Wins

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and DAVID M. HALBFINGER; David E. Sanger reported from Columbia for this article, and David M. Halbfinger from Greensboro, N.C. Rick Lyman contributed reporting from Des Moines, and Randal C. Archibold from Chillicothe, Ohio.

DATELINE: COLUMBIA, Mo., Sept. 7 

 BODY:
Stepping up the battle over national security, Vice President Dick Cheney warned on Tuesday that the country would be at risk of a terror attack if it made ''the wrong choice'' in November, and President Bush accused Senator John Kerry of adopting the antiwar language of his Democratic primary rival Howard Dean. 
 Mr. Bush and Mr. Cheney delivered their accusations in separate appearances as Mr. Kerry, for the second day in a row, attacked Mr. Bush's ''wrong choices.'' The Democratic contender said that of all of them ''the most catastrophic choice is the mess that he has made in Iraq.'' 
 The debate was underscored as the deaths of American military personnel and Defense Department civilians working in Iraq reached 1,000. 
 Mr. Kerry, the Democratic presidential nominee, called it a ''tragic milestone'' and a reminder that ''we must meet our sacred obligation to all our troops to do all we can to make the right decisions in Iraq so that we can bring them home as soon as possible.''
 Mr. Bush never mentioned the figure on a bus tour across Missouri. But at the very moment he was criticizing Mr. Kerry as having flip-flopped on Iraq, his press secretary, Scott McClellan, told reporters that the 1,000 men and women had died ''so that we defeat the ideologies of hatred and tyranny.''
 As the candidates tried to discuss the economy-- Mr. Bush hailed the benefits of his tax cuts for small businesses and Mr. Kerry warned that the administration's tax policy encouraged jobs to move overseas -- Iraq and terrorism once again fueled their increasingly bitter cross-country argument an issue that is likely to remain front and center.
 ''It's absolutely essential that eight weeks from today, on Nov. 2, we make the right choice,'' Mr. Cheney told a crowd of 350 people in Des Moines, ''because if we make the wrong choice then the danger is that we'll get hit again and we'll be hit in a way that will be devastating from the standpoint of the United States.'' 
 He also said if Mr. Kerry was elected the nation risked lapsing to a ''pre-9/11 mind-set'' where attacks are viewed as criminal acts, not part of a war against terrorism.
 Mr. Kerry's running mate, Senator John Edwards, promptly said Mr. Cheney had ''crossed the line.'' 
 ''What he said to the American people,'' Mr. Edwards said, ''was that if you go to the polls in November and elect anyone other than us, then another terrorist attack occurs, it's your fault. This is un-American.''
 Anne Womack, a spokeswoman for Mr. Cheney, said that the vice president's comment was taken out of context, and that he was addressing policy differences.
 ''Whoever is elected is going to face the prospect of another terrorist attack,'' Ms. Womack said. ''The question is whether we will have the right policies in place to protect our country.'' Mr. Kerry plans to speak on Wednesday about mistakes in Iraq from the restored train station in Cincinnati. That is where Mr. Bush laid out his argument nearly two years ago that President Saddam Hussein of Iraq was amassing large stockpiles of weapons of mass destruction and might soon be able to strike the United States. 
 No evidence of weapons of mass destruction has surfaced in Iraq. 
 Mr. Kerry's campaign also plans a new advertisement, ''Wrong Choices,'' that links the war and domestic and economic issues. The spot opens with an announcer saying, ''George Bush -- $200 billion for Iraq,'' and continues: ''In America, lost jobs and rising health care costs. George Bush's wrong choices have weakened us here at home.''
 For his part, from his first stop this morning on a football field in Lee's Summit to a late-afternoon rally at a fairgrounds here, Mr. Bush ridiculed Mr. Kerry for saying on Monday that Iraq was ''the wrong war in the wrong place at the wrong time.'' 
 ''He woke up yesterday morning with yet another new position,'' Mr. Bush told more than 10,000 people gathered for a breakfast-hour rally. ''And this one is not even his own. It is that of his one-time rival, Howard Dean.
 ''He even used the same words Howard Dean did, back when he supposedly disagreed with him. No matter how many times Senator Kerry flip-flops, we were right to make America safer by removing Saddam Hussein from power.''
 In citing Dr. Dean's words to mock Mr. Kerry, the president was clearly trying to associate the Massachusetts senator with a candidate whom the White House always hoped that it would face. Mr. Bush's campaign officials have viewed Dr. Dean as the personification of the liberal pacifist wing of the Democratic Party, a candidate they could use to excite Mr. Bush's base and to make undecided voters deeply uncomfortable at a time of threat. 
 Mr. Kerry's campaign has tried to keep the focus on Mr. Bush, arguing that the president, trying to focus solely on the decision to go to war, is avoiding the far more unpleasant subjects of his failure to find the weapons that provided the rationale for invasion or what Mr. Bush called the ''miscalculation'' of swift military victory that has contributed to the 17-month-long insurgency in Iraq. 
 ''This was his choice,'' Mr. Kerry said in Greensboro, N.C. ''He chose the date of the start of this war, he chose the moment, and he chose for America to go it alone. And today, all of America is paying this price.''
 At another point, Mr. Kerry said: ''Let me explain it to him in a few simple words. It's not that I would have done just one thing differently in Iraq. I would have done everything differently in Iraq.
 ''It was wrong to rush to war without a plan to win the peace. It was wrong not to show the kind of statesmanship and leadership that builds a true international coalition to share the cost and share the burden. And it was wrong to put our young men and women in harm's way without the body armor and the Humvees and the equipment and the reinforcement that they needed.''
 Mr. Bush's aides, roaming the back of the sprawling fairgrounds in Sedalia as their boss spoke about the war against terror on the dirt floor where prize cattle are usually judged and auctioned, worked hard to put Mr. Kerry on the defensive and keep him there. 
 The aides spent the day shooting Blackberry messages to one another and reporters with quotations from Mr. Kerry that seemed to contradict his statement on the ''wrong war in the wrong place at the wrong time.''
 In a debate in May 2003 among Democratic hopefuls, Mr. Kerry was asked by George Stephanopoulos of ABC News whether the decision to invade Iraq was the right one. 
 ''George, I said at the time I would have preferred if we had given diplomacy a greater opportunity,'' Mr. Kerry said. ''But I think it was the right decision to disarm Saddam Hussein. And when the president made the decision, I supported him, and I support the fact that we did disarm him.''
 Dr. Dean, in contrast, called it ''the wrong war at the wrong time, because we have set a new policy of preventive war in this country,'' words that Mr. Kerry seemed to echo on Monday.
 The Kerry campaign said on Tuesday that many people had used similar language and cited a May interview in which Gen. Anthony C. Zinni, a retired Marine commander who broke ranks with Mr. Bush over Iraq, called it "the wrong war, the wrong place and the wrong time, with little or no planning."
 Despite the increasing ferocity of the Iraq debate, neither candidate has been very specific about how to deal with the Iraq that one of them will have to work with on Jan. 20. 
 Mr. Kerry has said he will seek to have all American troops out of the country within four years. Mr. Bush has set no timetables and declined to talk about how much of the mission of stabilizing and transforming the country needs to be accomplished before Americans can leave.
 Instead, with his shirt-sleeves rolled up while taking questions in Sedalia, Mr. Bush shot back at Mr. Kerry's argument that the president had twisted the arms of unwilling nations to participated in an ill-planned military operation.
 ''My opponent called them 'the coerced and the bribed,''' Mr. Bush said of the other nations in Iraq. ''That's denigrating allies. Tony's Blair's a standup guy.'' 
 Mr. Bush continued, praising the Australians, the Poles and other contingents.''These aren't ''the coerced and the bribed,''' he said. ''These are the brave and the dedicated.''
 At his ''Ask President Bush'' event here , Mr. Bush dodged several questions, including one from a supporter who worried about an overstretched military.
 ''We don't need a draft,'' Mr. Bush said, insisting that the all-volunteer Army could meet the country's needs. 
 Two questioners invited him to denounce Germany and France. 
 ''Why are the French so ungrateful for what all we have done for that nation, especially in the past?'' one asked.
 Mr. Bush stumbled for a moment, saying, ''We just try to work with everybody as best we can,'' and discussed the value of coalitions. 
 Then, catching himself, he said, ''I'm not going to touch that.''
 Mr. Kerry, at his event said, ''We need a president who has the statesmanship and the ability to bring other countries to a table they ought to be at,'' he said to rousing applause, ''because the world has a stake in the outcome of the war on terror.''
 He added that it was also time for the Iraqis to ''stand up and say, if they want the freedom, they're going to start to embrace it, and they're going to do their part to make it happen, and we need a president who can make that happen.
 ''You don't shove freedom down people's throats at the end of a gun barrel.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush on a cellphone with the mother of a paving company worker yesterday in Warrensburg, Mo. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)
 Senator John Kerry was backstage before being introduced yesterday at a rally in Greensboro, N.C. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); ARMED FORCES (69%); TAX LAW (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (59%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues ; United States International Relations; Presidential Election of 2004; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism; Taxation; Political Advertising; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (92%); JOHN KERRY (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); JOHN EDWARDS (79%) George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry; David Sanger; David Halbfinger; Howard (Dr) Dean; Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney; John (Sen) Edwards

GEOGRAPHIC: GREENSBORO, NC, USA (59%) MISSOURI, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2004



179 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1096 words

HEADLINE: DEFICIT ANALYSIS AND BUSH DIFFER

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 7 

 BODY:
Even if the United States saved billions of dollars by withdrawing all troops from Iraq and Afghanistan, President Bush would still be unlikely to fulfill his promise to reduce the federal budget deficit by half within five years, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office said Tuesday.
 In the final independent assessment of Mr. Bush's fiscal policies before the November election, the Congressional agency predicted that, if no existing laws changed, the federal deficit would see a much smaller decline, to $312 billion in 2009 from a record of $422 billion in 2004.
 Vice President Dick Cheney, campaigning in Des Moines, said the report's projected deficit for the current year was about $56 billion less than earlier predicted. 
 ''That's a direct result of economic growth that came about as a result of the tax changes that the president put through, and the Congress supported,'' Mr. Cheney said.
 Senator John Kerry, the Democratic presidential nominee, said in a statement, ''Only George W. Bush could celebrate over a record budget deficit.'' 
 Over the next 10 years, the budget office said, the federal debt could swell by $4.9 trillion and climb rapidly after that as the nation's baby boomers start to draw Social Security and Medicare.
 If Mr. Bush persuades Congress to make his tax cuts permanent, the federal deficit will increase to about $500 billion in 2009. The new estimate is the first time the Congressional agency has projected that Mr. Bush will probably fail to achieve his goal of reducing the deficit by half in five years.
 Deficits have soared under Mr. Bush, who took office when the budget had a surplus of more than $150 billion and is now presiding over the second record deficit in a row.
 Measured as a percentage of the total economy, which most economists prefer, the deficit would reach 3.6 percent of the gross domestic product this year -- high, but not as big a percentage as the deficits of the 1980's and early 1990's.
 But this new report is sobering because Congressional analysts reached their conclusions even when they used extremely optimistic assumptions about war costs in Iraq and robust economic growth over the next few years.
 ''The message is that you cannot grow your way out of this,'' said Douglas J. Holtz-Eakin, director of the Congressional Budget Office. 
 If anything, Congressional analysts were more optimistic than the White House or Wall Street about economic growth, predicting that the economy would grow by 4.5 percent this year and 4.1 percent in 2005. 
 The budget office also estimated the fiscal outlook with three different assumptions about the course of the war in Iraq and Afghanistan, including the possibility that no new money would be needed after this year.
 Stripping out all war costs for the two countries after this year, congressional analysts estimated, the federal government would save $536 billion over the next five years. But making Mr. Bush's tax cuts permanent, one of the president's top priorities, would cost $549 billion through 2009 and $2.2 trillion through 2014.
 The office also took note of the cost to the Treasury of fixing the Alternative Minimum Tax, a set of rules that were originally designed to stop people from taking excessive advantage of loopholes. Because the tax is not adjusted for inflation, it is expected to lead to higher taxes for millions of families by the end of the decade. Republicans and Democrats agree they do not want that to happen, but the cost of preventing it would add more than $400 billion to the debt by the end of 2014.
 Democrats said the report showed that Mr. Bush, with his tax cuts and spending policies, had been reckless in transforming a record surplus to a record deficit, just a few years before retiring baby-boomers start to drive up Social Security and Medicare entitlement costs by tens of billions of dollars a year.
 ''When the Bush administration took office in 2001, C.B.O. projected a $397 billion surplus for 2004,'' said Representative John M. Spratt Jr. of South Carolina, the senior Democrat on the House Budget Committee. ''Under the fiscal policies of this administration, the bottom line of the budget has worsened by $819 billion in 2004 alone.''
 Republicans countered by saying that the federal deficit this year would be smaller, and tax revenues would be higher, than either the administration or the Congressional Budget Office predicted in January and February. ''This report underscores that our policies are working to create a stronger economy, more jobs and a lower deficit,'' said Representative Jim Nussle, Republican of Iowa and chairman of the House Budget Committee.
 Chad Kolton, a spokesman for the White House Office of Management and Budget, said the main difference between administration and Congressional estimates stemmed from differences in plans to restrain spending on discretionary programs -- those that are not part of mandatory programs like Social Security and Medicare or part of the government's debt obligations.
 ''We have very reasonable estimates for growth,'' Mr. Kolton said. ''If spending control is maintained, we can cut the deficit in half over the next five years.''
 But the Congressional Budget Office's assumptions about discretionary spending were at least as conservative as those of the White House. Congressional analysts assumed that discretionary spending would rise at the rate of inflation, which is running slightly above 2 percent a year. The White House has said it will hold all discretionary spending, including defense spending, to a 4 percent increase each year.
 In presenting the latest projections today, Mr. Holtz-Eakin expressed greater concern about the long-term fiscal problems that begin when baby boomers start to retire. 
 The first impact, Mr. Holtz-Eakin said, will be that the nation's labor force and the overall economy will grow more slowly. The more dramatic impact will be a sharp rise in outlays for entitlement programs like Social Security and Medicare.
 Both Mr. Bush and Mr. Kerry have promised to cut the budget deficit in half over the next four or five years. But many budget analysts say that five-year goals simply distract attention from much bigger fiscal problems that are expected in the years that immediately follow.
 Several of Mr. Bush's tax cuts do not take full effect until 2010. The new Medicare prescription drug program, which is now expected to cost $534 billion over 10 years, will not really get under way until 2006 and will become more expensive each year after that as the number of elderly beneficiaries rises.



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL DEBT (94%); BUDGETS (93%); BUDGET DEFICITS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); BUDGET FORECASTS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); TAX RELIEF (77%); MEDICARE (77%); TAX INCENTIVES (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); BABY BOOMERS (51%) Election Issues ; Presidential Election of 2004; Taxation; United States Armament and Defense; Election Issues

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (84%) Congressional Budget Office

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); DICK CHENEY (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%) George W (Pres) Bush; Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney; John (Sen) Kerry; Douglas J Holtz-Eakin; Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAQ (94%) United States; Iraq; Afghanistan ; United States

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2004



180 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1360 words

HEADLINE: Convention's Financial Impact Is Disputed

BYLINE: By LYDIA POLGREEN

 BODY:
When the Republican Party announced last year that it would hold its nominating convention in New York City, it seemed a perfect opportunity for a crusading president and a wounded city. 
 President Bush, who has staked his re-election campaign on his handling of the threat of terrorism, would be renominated in the bosom of the city most deeply scarred by the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11. 
 New York, meanwhile, would demonstrate to the world that it had bounced back from the attack on the World Trade Center with an astounding resilience, and get a big boost for its struggling tourism industry, city officials hoped. 
 Political analysts and ultimately voters will decide whether Mr. Bush gets what he wants, but economists, city officials and businesses are already at odds over whether the four-day political bash benefited the city's economy. 
 On Friday, city officials declared the convention a success, saying it drew $255 million during what is usually a very slow week of the year.
 ''We showed the world that New York City is safe and open for business,'' Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said in a statement. ''We are pleased with the overall economic activity generated by the convention. This convention proved that New York City has recovered from the tragedy of three years ago.''
 But some businesses, particularly those around Madison Square Garden, where tight security scared off customers, said they paid a heavy price. 
 ''We had high hopes, but there was nobody on the streets,'' said Marlon St. Clair last week as he presided over uneaten platters of barbecue chicken, corn bread and ribs at Soul Fixins, a restaurant on 34th Street between Eighth and Ninth Avenues. ''Usually we are packed at lunchtime. But there's nobody here to eat.'' 
 But other businesses, like Elaine's, the Upper East Side watering hole popular with journalists, said the convention brought an unexpected late-summer boost. 
 ''We had a great time,'' said the owner, Elaine Kaufman. ''We opened up with Sunday, when we had that party for Pataki and for all the media, and it just went up from there.''
 The fact is it will take weeks or even months for the city to tally the receipts, from the bill for the first tray of bluefin tuna sashimi served at the news media party just before the convention to the last paycheck for the fellow who swept the confetti off the Garden floor. And even then, the bottom line may not be clear. 
 Ronnie Lowenstein, an economist and executive director of the city's Independent Budget Office, a nonpartisan agency, said measuring the economic impact of big events like a political convention is tricky. 
 ''It wasn't even clear what the sign would be, let alone the order of magnitude of the number,'' Ms. Lowenstein said of the difficulty of estimating economic impact. ''Much of the problem lies in the fact that reasonable people can make reasonable assumptions about things like how much delegates will spend, how much business will be lost and the like, and can come to very different conclusions about the outcome.''
 The budget office declined repeated requests from the news media to assess the potential impact of the convention, Ms. Lowenstein said, because there were too many variables to make even an educated guess.
 Even after the fact, actual data measuring the economic impact are not easy to come by, but the data available paint a mixed picture. 
 It was clear that parts of the city were emptier than usual, particularly Midtown. Even though the state suspended sales tax on many items of clothing for the week of the convention, popular stores like the Gap and H&M at Herald Square were deserted. 
 Ridership on the commuter railroads showed declines, ranging from 10 to 60 percent, and bridge and tunnel crossings plummeted as well, indicating that a goodly portion of workers simply stayed away. 
 But it was also clear that the convention filled hotels and employed a small army of New Yorkers, from waiters to carpenters and electricians. PricewaterhouseCoopers estimated last week's hotel occupancy at 87 percent, up from 74 percent during the same week last year. 
 And while protesters were initially feared as a disruption, they undoubtedly provided an economic boost as well. People with anti-Bush placards filtered through the city all week, eating in restaurants and drinking at bars. 
 ''I am pretty sure the protestors are not going to the same cigar bars that the delegates were,'' said Jonathan Bowles, research director for the Center for an Urban Future, a research institution focusing on the city economy. ''The G.O.P. delegates spent their money in very different places than where the thousands of protesters were spending money. But I think the combination is going to ensure there is a more balanced benefit throughout the city.''
 Broadway producers braced for the worst, and while the news was bad, it was not disastrous.
 According to statistics released yesterday by the League of American Theaters and Producers, Broadway's main trade group, box-office receipts were down a little more than 20 percent compared with the same week last year, a loss that the industry's boosters said would hurt but hopefully not result in any productions having to close.
 Jed Bernstein, president of the league, said a series of special matinees on Sunday, the day before the convention opened, was well attended by delegates and guests. He also said some patrons returned to the theaters the weekend after the convention.
 ''Certainly the results were disappointing,'' Mr. Bernstein said. ''But we hope that the long-term impact, in terms of the exposure Broadway got, will pay off down the road.''
 Not all show business had bad business. Chris Wangro, a co-founder and co-executive producer of the Imagine Festival of Arts, Issues and Ideas, which offered a bevy of politically charged (and decidedly anti-Republican) performances and events during the convention, estimated yesterday that most performances or screenings were at 80 to 90 percent of capacity, with many events sold out.
 The city's estimated economic impact figure was derived using a formula that assumed that delegates and other conventiongoers would spend a certain amount of money per person and included the money raised by the host committee. The city then subtracted about $86 million lost from disruptions caused by the convention. 
 David G. Tuerck, an economist and director of the Beacon Hill Institute, a research organization affiliated with Suffolk University in Boston, said New York fared better than Boston, which virtually shut down when the Democratic National Convention was held there in July. 
 ''New York did all right,'' he said. ''They gained some benefit, and there were no major disruptions.''
 But Dr. Tuerck said the city's $255 million estimate is most likely off by about $100 million because it underestimates the losses incurred. He also said that measuring economic impact is an imprecise business. 
 ''There is a certain element of guesswork,'' Dr. Tuerck allowed. 
 Lost in the focus on the short-term impact, however, is the far more significant economic benefit of the convention, which is tough to measure: burnishing the city's image and promoting it as a tourist destination. With tourism jobs rapidly replacing manufacturing as the first rung on the city's economic ladder, shoring up the city's image as a safe and fun place to visit after Sept. 11 was central to the city's effort to draw one of the two conventions to New York. Happy delegates are more likely to return on vacation and recommend that others do so. 
 Global news reports by the 15,000 journalists at the convention is virtually priceless publicity, said Henry Miller, a public relations executive who was chairman of the host committee for the Democratic convention in 1992. Fears that violent protests would mar that image proved baseless, he said. 
 ''I think there is no question that this is a very vibrant and well-polished city, and I think there is a very clear sense that this is a city that has rebounded well from Sept. 11,'' Mr. Miller said. ''I think that sense of rebirth comes across very clearly, and that is great for New York.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Bruce's Burger Drive-In, at 1 Penn Plaza, went the extra step to lure customers during the convention week. (Photo by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TERRORISM (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (74%); RETAILERS (74%); BUDGETS (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); RESTAURANTS (63%); FESTIVALS (60%); TOURISM (55%) Presidential Election of 2004; Conventions, National (US); Retail Stores and Trade; Sales; Theater; Imagine Festival of Arts, Issues and Ideas; Culture

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (88%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (73%) Lydia Polgreen; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2004



181 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 273 words

HEADLINE: In Their Own Words

 BODY:

SENATOR JOHN KERRY
Remarks yesterday in Greensboro, N.C.:
 "Right now as we sit here, your tax dollars are being used today, yesterday, all last year, tomorrow, your tax dollars are actually being used to reward the company that takes the jobs overseas. 
 That's bad enough, but you know there's something worse, don't you? It gets worse than that in terms of choices. Today the tax code actually does something that's right. It actually gives tax breaks to companies that export American products, not jobs, and if you sell more products overseas, and you create more jobs here at home, then those companies get lower taxes so they can grow and hire more people.
 Sounds like a pretty good idea, right? Well, George Bush doesn't think so. He's wrong again. He wants to end that tax cut, a good incentive that helps the U.S. companies make the jobs here, and he wants -- those companies are going to see their taxes raised, and he's going to take the money from that and give the money to those companies getting a reward for taking the jobs overseas, which will actually encourage more companies to go overseas. 
 It would be hard to believe if you didn't know his record in the last four years. So what's the result? If a company opens here in Greensboro, creates good jobs here, pays higher taxes. But if a company decides to leave Greensboro and go to Shanghai, China, it doesn't have to pay any taxes at all as long as it keeps its money overseas. We give them a freebie. And when I'm president of the United States, it'll take me about a nanosecond to ask the Congress to close that stupid loophole.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); ELECTIONS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (62%) Presidential Election of 2004; Labor; United States Economy; Taxation

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%) John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: GREENSBORO, NC, USA (90%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (51%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); EAST CHINA (66%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2004



182 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; THE CONFLICT IN IRAQ: CONFRONTING INSURGENTS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1429 words

HEADLINE: U.S. CONCEDING REBELS CONTROL REGIONS OF IRAQ

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT and STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 7 

 BODY:
As American military deaths in Iraq operations surpassed the 1,000 mark, top Pentagon officials said Tuesday that insurgents controlled important parts of central Iraq and that it was unclear when American and Iraqi forces would be able to secure those areas. 
 As of late Tuesday night, the Pentagon's accounting showed that 998 service members and three Defense Department civilians had been killed in Iraq operations. 
 Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld and Gen. Richard B. Myers, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said at a news conference that the American strategy in retaking rebel-held strongholds hinged on training and equipping Iraqi forces to take the lead. 
 Mr. Rumsfeld said Iraqi officials understood they must regain control of the insurgent safe havens. ''They get it, and will find a way over time to deal with it,'' he said. 
 But General Myers said the Iraqi forces would probably not be ready to confront insurgents in those areas until the end of this year. 
 Their comments, which came after a two-day spike in violence in Iraq led to a surge in American military deaths, represented an acknowledgment that the Americans had failed to end an increasingly sophisticated insurgency in important Sunni-dominated areas and in certain Shiite enclaves. Fighting raged on Tuesday in Sadr City, in Baghdad, as Shiite militiamen loyal to Moktada al-Sadr ended a self-declared cease-fire. [Page A14.] 
 The officials' assessment also underscored the difficulty of pacifying Iraq in time for elections scheduled for January. The cities of greatest rebel control are Ramadi, Falluja, Baquba and Samarra, in the so-called Sunni triangle, west and north of Baghdad, where Saddam Hussein remains popular and many forces loyal to him have gathered strength.
 There is increasing concern in the administration over plans for the election, with some officials saying that if significant parts of the Sunni areas cannot be secured by January, it may be impossible to hold a nationwide balloting that would be seen as legitimate. Putting off the elections, though, would infuriate Iraq's Shiite majority. The elections are for an assembly that is to write a new constitution next year. Mr. Rumsfeld warned that the violence would intensify as elections approached.
 Mr. Rumsfeld said that Prime Minister Ayad Allawi recognized that his government could not continue to allow rebel control in crucial areas of the country, but that it would take time for him to determine how to proceed.
 ''The prime minister and his team fully understand that it is important that there not be areas in that country that are controlled by terrorists,'' he said, adding that Dr. Allawi would deal with the problem by ''negotiation and discussion'' in some cases and by force in others.
 Other administration officials, amplifying the secretary's comments, said the administration had decided to let Dr. Allawi try to persuade rebel leaders to join the process of reconstructing Iraq, or suffer the consequences if they did not.
 ''Allawi's strategy is to try to find people on the sidelines and wean the moderates away, to give them courage and a hope of reward for themselves,'' said an administration official. ''He's telling them: 'I'm giving you an opportunity to meet your local concerns. You're going to be my guy, and together we'll try to isolate the extremists.'''
 Administration officials say no decision has been made yet for American forces to attack those strongholds. The preference is for Iraqi forces to do the job, as they were said to have been poised to do last month in Najaf, the Shiite holy city. 
 But the record of the Iraqi security forces has not been inspiring, although some Iraqi forces fought well in Najaf, American officials said. While 95,000 soldiers have been trained and equipped up to American commanders' satisfaction, General Myers said, they will not be ready until the end of the year to join American forces in any assault against insurgent strongholds and then keep the peace afterward.
 ''While U.S. forces or coalition forces can do just about anything we want to do, it makes a lot more sense that it be a sustained operation, one that can be sustained by Iraqi security forces,'' General Myers said. ''By December, we're going to have a substantial number of Iraqi security forces equipped, trained and led to conduct the kind of operations I was talking about.''
 A senior American official said force would be tried by the Iraqi government only after a couple of months' discussions with rebels. 
 ''Force is the ultimate sanction, but let's exhaust the other ones first,'' he added.
 A two-month hiatus before major force is applied to rebel areas would also mean a delay until after the American presidential election, but senior officials insist there is no domestic political calculus in the decision to wait -- only a conviction that time is needed for negotiation and for Iraqi forces to gain strength.
 ''This is ultimately about building an Iraqi government which works for all of Iraq,'' said the official. ''To the degree that we can wait a couple months and let Iraqi politics work, so much the better.''
 In describing the Iraqi forces, one American general in Iraq said in an e-mail message that their ''capabilities are still uneven, but they're improving as we arm and equip them better, improve their infrastructure, give them additional training, and help them weed out the weak leaders.'' Mr. Rumsfeld added that Iraqis had recently conducted effective counterterrorism operations.
 To buy time, General Myers said, Gen. George Casey, the top American commander in Iraq, is working with the Iraqi government to develop a strategy to retake the cities. General Myers said that strategy included trying to ''isolate certain communities,'' hampering the insurgents' ability to rearm and resupply, and curtailing attacks against American forces. He said the strategy would also try ''to set the conditions for the successful use of force later,'' military wording for preparing the battlefield by bombing safe houses and weapons caches, and encouraging residents to provide fresh intelligence on the location of insurgents.
 Over the weekend, Lt. Gen. Thomas Metz, the land commander in Iraq, told The Associated Press that an American assault is likely in the next four months. ''I do have about four months where I want to get to local control,'' General Metz said. ''And then I've got the rest of January to help the Iraqis to put the mechanisms in place.''
 Maj. Gen. John R. Batiste, the commander of the Army's First Infantry Division, whose area north of Baghdad includes Tikrit and Samarra, disputed reports that the United States had given up in Samarra. 
 ''Samarra is a city where Iraqis are taking charge to throw out anti-Iraqi forces,'' he said in an e-mail message on Tuesday. ''No one has ceded the city to insurgents and there is no cordon. What we have in Samarra is the good people of Iraq, led by far-sighted provincial and city leadership, senior sheiks, and clerics, standing up to the enemy.''
 Residents, however, say insurgents effectively control Samarra. 
 General Batiste and other commanders gave an upbeat assessment, noting that ''the messages at Friday Prayer are becoming more and more moderate'' and that American forces ''keep continuous pressure on the enemy'' while they help Iraqis with reconstruction. In an unusual step for a Pentagon that tends to avoid citing body counts as a measure of success, Mr. Rumsfeld said American and allied forces had probably killed 1,500 to 2,500 insurgents last month.
 But other American officials are more pessimistic about the prospects for regaining control of those areas. One noted, for example, that attacks on American forces rose to 2,700 in August, from 700 in March. 
 General Myers conceded that American forces faced a tough, adaptive foe. ''The enemy is becoming more sophisticated in his efforts to destabilize the country,'' he said.

	 	 		--------------------	 	

Opening U.S. to Iraqi Goods
 (By The New York Times), WASHINGTON, Sept. 7 -- In a proclamation on Tuesday, President Bush gave Iraq the right to export thousands of goods duty free to the United States. 
 But because of the continued poor state of its economy, Iraq will be unable to take immediate advantage of its new designation as a beneficiary of the Generalized System of Preferences, which grants preferential treatment to certain products from more than 140 developing countries and territories.
 Petroleum, Iraq's only major export commodity, is not given duty free status under the system.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''A Jump in Attacks''Estimated number of attacks on American forces in Iraq since March.Graph tracks estimated number of attacks on American forces in Iraq since March.(Source by Multinational Force-Iraq)(pg. A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (93%); ARMED FORCES (91%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); RELIGION (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ELECTIONS (86%); TERRORISM (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (69%); POLITICS (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (55%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Elections; Shiite Muslims; Sunni Muslims; Election Issues; Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (57%)

PERSON: MOQTADA AL-SADR (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) George W (Pres) Bush; Donald H (Sec) Rumsfeld; Richard B (Gen) Myers; Ayad (Prime Min) Allawi; Eric Schmitt; Steven R Weisman; Moktada Al- Sadr

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (98%) Iraq; Iraq; Baghdad (Iraq); Sadr City (Iraq); Iraq

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2004



183 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 8, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1562 words

HEADLINE: Eastern German Chemical Industry Stages a Comeback

BYLINE: By KEVIN J. O'BRIEN

DATELINE: BERLIN, Sept. 7 

 BODY:
Klaus-Peter Patschinsky still mixes chemicals in the same white factory building he has since 1963, when his production line was part of VEB Germed, one of the former East Germany's 14 government-run chemical and drug ''kombinats.'' 
 But little else is the same, and many of his former colleagues no longer work here. Instead of hunting for spare parts to repair broken machinery, Mr. Patschinsky, 55, oversees a two-story web of shiny aluminum vats, steel pipes and conveyors that turn out 46,000 glass bottles of intravenous electrolyte fluid each day.
 The humming metal labyrinth in southeast Berlin is part of a 10-year, 157.3 million euro investment ($190.4 million) in former East Germany's chemicals industry by the Menarini Group, a prescription drug maker based in Florence, Italy. 
 With sales expected to rise 22 percent this year to 615 million euros, the Italian company's success at Berlin-Chemie typifies the quiet rebound taking place in East Germany's chemical industry, which once employed 330,000.
 After 15 years and 14.1 billion euros of investment in new factories and equipment, the region's 300 chemical makers are on track next year to produce the same volume of chemicals as East Germany did in 1989 -- with a tenth of the employees.
 ''It's an important psychological point in the industry's redevelopment,'' said Rolf Siegert, president of Berlin-based Nordostchemie, the regional employers association of chemical and drug companies. ''It took 15 years, but the chemicals industry is one of former East Germany's success stories.''
 Across the plains near Dresden and Leipzig, where chemical emissions from factory smokestacks used to blacken snow in a day, modern, low-polluting specialty chemical makers dot the landscape, drawn by lower labor costs than in the West Germany, a large pool of trained chemists and millions of euros in government subsidies.
 Most companies arrived in the early 1990's by acquiring parts of kombinats from the Public Trustee or Treuhandanstalt, the German federal agency that sold former government-owned East German industrial assets to private businesses, often in exchange for investment and guarantees of minimum employment guarantees. To date, the biggest single investor has been the Dow Chemical Company, based in Midland, Mich., which has spent 2.7 billion euros ($3.3 billion) since 1995 at the former Buna Sow Leuna Olefinverbund petrochemical site near the cities of Halle and Leipzig.
 Dow is building a second production line to make the PET polyethylene plastic commonly used for drinking and liquid containers, pumping in the chemical ingredients via pipelines from Rostock on Germany's Baltic Sea and Stade on the Netherlands' North Sea coast.
 Dow and other foreign investors account for 40 percent of the investment in former East Germany's chemicals business, according to Nordostchemie. The rest came from western German companies who answered the appeal of Chancellor Helmut Kohl in the early 1990's to salvage a part of East Germany's biggest industry.
 At the 53-hectare (131 acres) Bayer A.G. industrial park in Bitterfeld, Germany, 20 miles north of Leipzig, an underground trench system keeps polluted ground water from a nearby industrial park from seeping onto Bayer's property, where four factories make aspirin, resins for coatings, building chemicals and water-softeners. 
 Since 1991, the subsidiary, Bayer Bitterfeld G.m.b.H. has invested 630 million euros to build its complex. It spent 130 million euros in the last year on a new production line for specialty drugs and a second unit for methylcellulose, a thickener used in construction adhesives, coatings and glues.
 Within 15 years, Georg Frank, the chief executive of Bayer Bitterfeld G.m.b.H., said the company's site, now half developed, could be fully built out. Sales, 560 million euros in 2003, rose 12 percent from 2002. Since the first factories went on line in 1993, Bayer has transferred its European aspirin production from 11 older factories to Bitterfeld, where a four-story chemical process produces more than 3.4 billion tablets a year.
 ''Bitterfeld is an important production center in Bayer's overall strategy,'' Mr. Frank said. ''We're the most modern production facility, and thus, the most cost-effective. That makes us a very attractive place to produce.''
 Bayer, which is based in Leverkusen, received 100 million euros in subsidies from German federal and state and European government agencies to build its factory complex in Bitterfeld, Mr. Frank said. That helped the company dispose of contaminated soil, build roads and infrastructure, and secure the ground water under the plant.
 In a hulking, 11-story metal building the size of a small sports arena, Bayer produces 45 tons of fine, white methylcellulose powder each day, shipping it by truck and rail car to customers across Europe.
 In the old East Germany, such production would have required hundreds of workers. Bayer's 100 million euro factory, although cavernous, runs with eight chemists, who monitor the plant's production by computer from a brightly lit control room. 
 In Bitterfeld, Bayer's complex with 800 workers, is the biggest employer in town but the growth falls short of what is needed in Bitterfeld, where the unemployment rate was 20.3 percent in July, according to the German Labor Office. Hans-Ulrich Reissig, head of the chemistry department at Berlin's Free University, said Eastern Germany's new-generation chemicals companies were providing only a fraction of the jobs their predecessors did; they were focused on lean production, not labor-intensive basic research.
 ''Many of my former students, the best research chemists, are working in Switzerland, western Germany or elsewhere because they couldn't find jobs in eastern Germany,'' Professor Reissig said.
 In Bayer's methylcellulose control room, Bettina Buhle, a chemist, monitored the temperature and pressure of two, submarine-size metal boilers that cook methylcellulose batches 24 hours a day, seven days a week. In the 1980's, Ms. Buhle monitored production of photographic film at the nearby Orwo film factory. Production workers used to cut film with knives in almost total darkness as it rolled off the belt. A brown cloud hung regularly over Bitterfeld.
 As the old factories were shut down, Bitterfeld's air began to clear and now meets German federal emission standards -- with pollutants just 5 percent of their former East German level, according to the Umweltbundesamt, a federal environmental agency.
 Underground, the damage from three decades of unchecked chemical pollution is still being catalogued. Across the former East Germany, the Umweltbundesamt has prepared a list of 87,966 parcels of land -- many former kombinat sites -- that will be investigated for contaminated earth and ground water. Typically 10 percent of these parcels will prove to be contaminated and require containment or cleanup, according to government regulators.
 Since reunification, German federal and state governments have spent 62 billion euros cleaning up sites, typically paying 90 percent of the costs, said Jorg Frauenstein, a researcher at the Umweltbundesamt. ''There's not enough money to clean everything out there,'' said Mr. Frauenstein. ''Most of the time, the best solution is just to contain the problem.''
 At Berlin-Chemie, the Menarini Group said it had spent 20 million euros to remove contaminated soil, containing ground water pollution and improve its wooded factory complex in Berlin's Adlershof neighborhood. Berlin-Chemie produces drugs and surgical solutions for 24 eastern European countries, including Russia, as well as for China, India and Vietnam.
 Personal incomes in Eastern Europe and Russia are rising, said Reinhard Uppenkamp, the chief executive, and so is spending on over-the-counter and prescription medicines. In Berlin-Chemie's packaging building, two workers fed a 30-yard line of machines that wrapped, boxed and stacked cartons of red antacid tablets called Mezym F for the Russian market.
 ''Russia is a fast growing market for us, and we're considering starting production there,'' said Mr. Uppenkamp. A Dusseldorf native, he came to Berlin-Chemie in 1997 from the western German drug maker Schwarz Pharma A.G.
 Menarini entered East Germany in 1992 as Berlin-Chemie was losing most of its major clients in Eastern Europe, following the breakup of the Soviet Union. Western markets were too competitive, and Berlin-Chemie slashed its work force by almost two-thirds from 2,829 in 1989 to 1,024 by 1993.
 Berlin-Chemie then began building a network of 1,488 sales and distribution agents in Eastern Europe and Asia, cultivating new and old customers for the Italian drug maker's products. By this month, 3,827 people were working at Berlin-Chemie -- a thousand more than at the old government-run conglomerate.
 Some, like Mr. Patschinsky, the infusions production manager, are still doing business with clients they had 20 years ago within the former Soviet trading bloc.
 ''I still deal with Vietnam; they tend to be very particular about changes in packaging,'' said Mr. Patschinsky. These days, however, he is no longer bound by a five-year plan, and adjusts the production to meet demand for 45 surgical solutions.
 ''In the old days, the production side ran the business,'' said Mr. Patschinsky. ''Today, it's the sales that lead us.''


CORRECTION-DATE: September 16, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article in World Business on Sept. 8 about a revival in the chemicals industry in eastern Germany misstated the location of the city of Stade, the start of a pipeline used by Dow Chemical to obtain ingredients. It is in Germany, not the Netherlands. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Scientists at Berlin-Chemie, a unit of the Italian drug maker, Menarini. Above, workers at Bayer Bitterfeld work on aspirin production at a factory near Leipzig. (Photographs by Hermann Bredehorst for The New York Times)(pg. W1)
 Georg Frank, the chief executive of Bayer Bitterfeld, said the company's site in Bitterfeld, is crucial to the company's overall strategy. (Photo by Hermann Bredehorst for The New York Times)(pg. W7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHEMICALS (92%); CHEMICALS MFG (92%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); EURO (88%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (78%); SPECIALTY CHEMICALS MFG (78%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); PETROCHEMICALS (73%); SPECIALTY CHEMICALS INDUSTRY (73%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (69%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (68%); SALES PROJECTIONS (68%); EMISSIONS (63%); POLYETHYLENE (60%) Chemicals; Industry Profiles; Factories and Industrial Plants; Capital Investment; Labor; Machinery and Equipment ; Productivity

COMPANY: DOW CHEMICAL CO (84%); BUNA SOW LEUNA OLEFINVERBUND GMBH (51%)

TICKER: DOW (SWX) (84%); DOW (NYSE) (84%); DOW (LSE) (84%); 4850 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (51%)

PERSON: Kevin J O'Brien

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (94%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (84%); NORTH SEA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) GERMANY (98%); NETHERLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Germany 

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2004



184 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 4; Sports Desk; BASEBALL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: Beane and A's Still Play by the Book

BYLINE: By LEE JENKINS

DATELINE: OAKLAND, Calif., Sept. 7 

 BODY:
Baseball's celebrity general manager wears shorts and sandals to the office, skips road trips and insists that he cannot get through the book that was written about him.
 Billy Beane acts as if building a perennial division champion is like taking a walk through Sausalito. He rattles off a list of reasons he has the greatest job in the game, neglecting to mention how his team operates with a parsimonious budget and plays in a football-first stadium that has a chain-link corridor for an entrance.
 Beane's surfer-dude look and cheerful exterior reflect his Southern California upbringing, but not his analytical nature. Like the Oakland Athletics, the team he pieces together every winter with Popsicle sticks and rubber cement, Beane only looks like a pushover. He is baseball's version of an aw-shucks pool-hall hustler, a guy who makes you believe he does not know the right end of the cue stick, then cleans the table and empties your wallet. 
 ''I guess we just have a sense of calm and confidence here now,'' Beane said. ''When I was playing baseball, I used to look at Kirby Puckett and see how relaxed he was and think, 'It must be nice to know you'll get a hit every time.' I don't think we feel like we'll always be right, but we'll eventually figure it out.''
 Each season of this new millennium was supposed to signal the death of Beane's New Age baseball philosophy and Oakland's unlikely success story. And, yet, each season has brought more of the same. Two years after Michael Lewis wrote ''Moneyball,'' the best-selling book that chronicled a season with the A's and hailed Beane as a small-market pioneer, the most compelling chapter yet is unfolding in the East Bay.
 In the past year, Oakland found itself besieged by Beane discounters who either disagreed with his theories or resented his newfound celebrity. Some baseball pundits, and a few anonymous officials, poked fun at his number-crunching methods and his unwavering faith in select statistics. At the same time, the A's had to endure the latest blow from baseball's economic infrastructure, which cost them their most valuable player, Miguel Tejada; their closer, Keith Foulke; and their catcher, Ramon Hernandez.
 Oakland lost three of its most reliable regulars in the winter and has not lost much of anything since. For the third straight season, the A's are leading the American League West and are closing out the summer in signature form. [Oakland lost its fourth straight Wednesday, 8-3 to Boston, but still leads Anaheim in the West by a game and a half.] Over a four-year span, Oakland has the best record in baseball, the best record at home, the best record after the All-Star Game break and the best record in September. 
 ''This season is really a credit to Billy,'' said Rick Peterson, who was the A's pitching coach for five years until he joined the Mets this season. ''I'm not surprised by what they've done because Billy has no fear. He is never afraid to think outside the box. There was a demand for excellence this year, not a wish, not a hope, but a demand. I don't think people realize how difficult it was to build that team with those market dollars.''
 There is a 300-page book dedicated to the challenge. Though Beane admits he cringes when reading about himself, ''Moneyball'' has defined his career and changed the art of team building in many small markets, as well as a few large ones. Beane has to be one of the only general managers invited to lecture at the Harvard, Stanford and Southern California business schools. 
 Predictably enough, ''Moneyball'' spawned a backlash from some members of baseball's older guard, who wondered why Beane showed such disdain for sacrifice bunts and high-school pitchers. If Beane's feelings were hurt, he will not show the scars. He admits only that he has learned a great deal about the arc of fame, in which those who are made famous are sometimes leveled by the same machine that constructed them. 
 ''Sure, I became the subject of criticism, and there were people who said my ego had run amok,'' Beane said. ''I went through the whole thing. But I didn't really care because those people talking about me didn't even know me. I still say that it was a great experience, a grounding experience, and I wouldn't trade it for anything.''
 Beane was supposed to learn such lessons in celebrity-making a long time ago. The Mets drafted him in the first round in 1980, the same year they also selected Darryl Strawberry in the first round, but baseball did not come as naturally to Beane as business would. He hit .219 with three home runs in six major league seasons, failing to achieve as a player what he would as an executive.
 On the afternoon of most Oakland home games, Beane does not even go down to the field for batting practice, retreating instead to the isolation of his office, where he is more comfortable. He sits alone with his BlackBerry and his television set, showing an early out-of-town game. ''Watching the Mets right now,'' Beane says. ''Down, 1-0.''
 He has earned the right to skip road trips, wear sandals and watch the Mets in the office. The essential reason Beane and the A's became the subject of a book is that they won more baseball games than they had a right to imagine. Even after the critics took their shots, Oakland is still winning, though no one seems surprised by it anymore.
 The worst thing anyone can say about the A's is that they have not captured a playoff series since Beane took charge. When he is criticized for putting too much emphasis on walks, home runs and on-base percentage -- and not enough on stolen bases and defense -- the team's postseason record is always at the crux of the argument.
 ''I don't think if we'd have bunted more it would have made a difference,'' said Terry Francona, who was the A's bench coach last season and is the Red Sox' manager this year. ''Because of payroll, Oakland is not as deep as other teams, and if their horses get nicked up late in the year, they don't have the backups.''
 But they do have the pitching, and while everyone else seems to complain of a sore arm at this time of year, the A's are topping out on the radar guns again. Mark Mulder, Tim Hudson and Barry Zito are monitored so closely in April and May that they routinely perform at full strength in August and September. A team with three aces can succeed even if Erubiel Durazo is the leading run producer.
 ''They have that really solid core -- and then they have the ability to change their peripheral players with great success,'' said Theo Epstein, the Red Sox' general manager, who is among a legion of young executives who count Beane as a mentor. ''Billy always seems to be ahead of the curve.''
 Beane shrugs off praise as easily as he does ridicule. He insists that he does not care about acceptance and is not obsessed with winning a playoff series. He even predicts that the A's will eventually fall into the same trap that befalls any other small-market team. ''At some point,'' Beane said, ''we'll go through major rebuilding and we won't win 96 games.''
 There he goes again, sandbagging and hustling, the master of low expectations setting up his marks for the next season.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Economics have forced General Manager Billy Beane to be creative in building and rebuilding the Oakland Athletics. (Photo by Nick Lammers/The Oakland Tribune) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); ATHLETES (79%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (74%); BESTSELLERS (73%); LITERATURE (73%); SPORTS AWARDS (71%) Baseball; Books and Literature; Draft and Recruitment (Sports); Trades (Sports)

ORGANIZATION: OAKLAND A'S (91%) Oakland Athletics

PERSON: Lee Jenkins; Billy Beane; Michael Lewis

GEOGRAPHIC: OAKLAND, CA, USA (95%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (88%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2004



185 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Circuits; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1214 words

HEADLINE: Computer on Board, And It's Not a Laptop

BYLINE: By JEANETTE BORZO

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
AFTER driving around here in the land of eternal traffic, the minivan was pulling into a cafe parking lot when a pleasant British voice said, ''You have new e-mail.''
 The voice came from the Dodge Caravan's radio, but was generated by CarBot, a Windows XP computer underneath the passenger seat. About the size of a three-inch stack of typing paper, the device sensed the cafe's wireless network and immediately checked for new messages. On the dashboard-mounted touch screen, a push of the Play button produced a reading of the new e-mail, a test message sent that morning with text from ''Macbeth.''
 ''Tomorrow, and tomorrow, and tomorrow,'' the voice said. 
 Indeed, after a string of attempts to integrate a fully functioning PC into the car, tomorrow may finally be near. 
 The idea has been around the block more than once. In the late 1990's, for example, the Clarion Corporation of America released the AutoPC, based on specially designed software from Microsoft. 
 ''A lot of things that were launched didn't work out,'' said Mark Dixon Bunger, a senior analyst who covers automotive technology for Forrester Research in San Francisco.
 Damien Stolarz, the 30-year-old founder and chief executive of CarBot, says today's market is different. After all, the use of MP3 music files had not yet exploded in the late 1990's, DVD's had just come on the market and wireless networks were not common, he said.
 That has changed, providing potential new uses and functions for a car computer. Moreover, navigation systems and other computer-based technologies are finding a place in the car. 
 About three-quarters of consumers are interested in receiving information on weather, directions, traffic or road conditions in their cars, according to Forrester Research, while about a quarter of consumers are interested in MP3 tunes and e-mail in the car. The Telematics Research Group, in Minnetonka, Minn., predicts that in-car DVD entertainment systems will grow from 8.4 million units installed worldwide this year to 21.9 million units by 2010.
 ''We live in a connected world, and we want that connection extended to the vehicle,'' says Phil Magney, the research group's president and co-founder. Manufacturers, he predicts, will eventually sell cars with built-in PC's.
 In the meantime, products like CarBot can transform an existing car, handling functions like navigation, e-mail and entertainment.
 ''If the car has speakers and a radio, CarBot will work in it,'' Mr. Stolarz said. Running off the car battery and linked to the sound system, CarBot is usually installed in the trunk much like an aftermarket stereo amplifier. 
 Typical PC's, of course, do not have to take into account bumpy roads, extreme heat or car-battery power. So while most car computers are built around standard Windows PC's, all have been modified for car travel.
 Some, like the car PC's from Xenarc Technologies of Santa Ana, Calif., are best for hobbyists who want to put together their own systems. Others, like those from LXE of Atlanta, are engineered for the rough conditions found in, say, a construction crane and so cost thousands of dollars more than other car PC's. 
 Several, like those from Right Connection Electronics of Yorba Linda, Calif., and Hybrid Mobile Technologies of West Palm Beach, Fla., are more like CarBot but don't include software that reads you your e-mail.
 Mr. Stolarz declined to say how many CarBots have been sold, at $1,450 each, since they went on sale this year on the company's Web site (www.carbotpc.com) and through other distributors. But they are made in lots of 50, he said, and the company sold enough in August that it nearly broke even.
 For the demonstration drive, Mr. Stolarz chose some of his 2-year-old daughter's favorite DVD's to view on a screen in the back seat. 
 CarBot doesn't have a built-in DVD drive, but Mr. Stolarz attached one to a U.S.B. hub he connected to the CarBot with a U.S.B. cable. 
 Using the seven-inch-wide touch screen (a $420 option) mounted on the dash, he compressed the DVD's and loaded them onto the computer's hard drive; then, with Windows Media Player software, he set up a succession of video files to play. 
 The system was originally designed for use with no screen at all, but simply with a remote control. Kalani Patterson, an acquaintance of Mr. Stolarz's who has been testing the device since last month, uses it to download his e-mail messages wirelessly from his home computer to the CarBot while in his driveway before commuting to his job at a Hollywood advertising agency, BLT and Associates. 
 Even more than e-mail, what Mr. Patterson likes is having his entire MP3 collection on hand. ''It's pretty slick,'' he said, but cautioned that CarBot ''is an early-generation product.''
 For tracking the car's location, CarBot also includes a Global Positioning System receiver that continually updates the car's longitude and latitude. For connecting to the Internet or other computers, the wireless network technology Wi-Fi is built in. 
 To read e-mail, CarBot uses a woman's voice from Elan Sayso, software from the Acapela Group. It is pleasantly jarring to hear e-mail messages that sound like a BBC broadcast, but as with much text-to-voice software, Sayso is not flawless. 
 ''The text-to-voice software is kind of funny sometimes, with its mispronunciation,'' Mr. Patterson said, adding that CarBot can have trouble with technical jargon. But, he said, CarBot does best with ''the person-to-person communications that are the most important e-mails for you to get on a timely basis.'' 
 Mr. Stolarz says his small company, based in the Canoga Park section of Los Angeles, is continually upgrading the software's vocabulary and sending updates to customers. 
 Later, Mr. Stolarz plans to integrate, in order of importance, a DVD player, satellite radio, navigation software, and pause, record and advertisement-skipping features for the radio, much like those in the TiVo digital video recorder.
 ''Someone has to take the responsibility to move this market beyond the hobbyist,'' he said.

On the Road
Motorists, Start Your Hard Drives
 Several PC's are designed to run off a car battery and be integrated with a car stereo. They all run some version of Windows and have hard drives of 20 gigabytes or more. Wi-Fi wireless networking technology, which is integrated into CarBot, costs extra on the Hybrid PC and MIS C256.1, but those two devices have built-in CD/DVD drives that the CarBot does not. 
 In addition to manufacturers' sites, www.karpc.com features a selection of car PC's.

CARBOT -- www.carbotpc.com -- The basic model costs $1,450 and is operated by remote control; the touch screen is $420 more. CarBot ships with a satellite receiver for navigation, and its software checks regularly for wireless networks. If you have e-mail, it reads you your messages.

HYBRID PC -- www.hybrid-mobile.com -- Scheduled to go on sale next week, the Hybrid PC will start at $1,999, including a touch screen. Wi-Fi and satellite navigation are optional extras.

MIS MINI PC -- www.trc12volt.commain-minipc.html -- Mobile Interactive Solution or MIS, computers from the Right Connection Electronics start at $1,650 but don't include a remote or keyboard. For $2,299, you can get the MIS C256.1 with a touch screen. Jeanette Borzo


GRAPHIC: Photos: ONLINE COMMUTER -- Damien Stolarz, right, of CarBot. The PC handles e-mail, top, and can be used with a touch screen. The equipment can include, below from left, a CD changer, CarBot unit and amplifier. (Photographs by Axel Koester for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINIVANS (90%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE ELECTRONICS (89%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (89%); INTERNET AUDIO (89%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (87%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (77%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (77%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (76%); INDUSTRIAL AUTOMATION (76%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (76%); AUTOMOTIVE TELEMATICS (76%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (73%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (71%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (69%); EXECUTIVES (65%); NAVIGATION SYSTEMS (63%) Automobiles; Computers and the Internet; Navigation; Recordings (Audio); Recordings (Video); Electronic Mail; Music

COMPANY: FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%); CLARION CORP OF AMERICA (55%)

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (55%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (55%)

PERSON: Jeanette Borzo

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (70%); MINNESOTA, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2004



186 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 425 words

HEADLINE: State Orders Review of Proposed Columbia County Cement Plant

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO

 BODY:
A company that wants to build a cement plant near the Hudson River in Columbia County must undergo in-depth environmental reviews on issues ranging from the potential visual impact to nitrogen oxide emissions, according to a ruling yesterday by the chief environmental official of New York State.
 In what opponents of the project described as the biggest setback for the company, St. Lawrence Cement, the commissioner of the Department of Environmental Conservation, Erin M. Crotty, said the gravel mine that would supply the new plant must go through environmental review. 
 The company had argued that the mining operation should be exempt from review because it predated the state's review statute.
 The proposed plant, which would be one of the largest cement plants in the nation, has attracted some support from residents eager for economic growth. But it has drawn opposition from environmentalists and residents across the Hudson Valley, who fear pollution and visual blight, and from states downwind of the plant, like Connecticut and Maine.
 Environmental advocates celebrated the state's decision. ''On a level playing field, St. Lawrence Cement cannot win this fight,'' said Sam Pratt, executive director of Friends of Hudson, a leading opponent. ''What we feel has happened today is that Commissioner Crotty has leveled the playing field by demanding a fair and extensive review.''
 Ned Sullivan, president of Scenic Hudson, the environmental group, called the ruling a ''wholesale victory for the people of the Hudson Valley who care about their health and who want to have a sustainable economy rather than a dead-end industrial project.''
 For years, St. Lawrence Cement has sought approvals to build a plant on an 1,800-acre tract in and around the city of Hudson, a popular antiquing destination. The company argues that a new plant would actually help the environment by replacing its aging plant across the river in Catskill with up-to-date technology.
 St. Lawrence Cement had fought environmentalists on whether to adjudicate a half dozen issues in administrative hearings, with evidence and sworn testimony. Administrative judges for the state agency had previously ruled in favor of holding such hearings, but the company appealed.
 On Wednesday, however, Ms. Crotty determined that hearings should be held on the issues, said Michael J. Fraser, an agency spokesman.
 A spokesman for St. Lawrence Cement, Daniel Odescalchi, said the company did not object to the state's ruling in light of recently announced design changes for the plant.




LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CEMENT MFG (94%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (89%); AGENCY ADJUDICATION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); CEMENT & CONCRETE PRODUCTION (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); NITROGEN OXIDES (77%); WITNESSES (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); MINES & MINING (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); SAND & GRAVEL MINING (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (66%); TESTIMONY (61%) Cement; Factories and Industrial Plants

COMPANY: HOLCIM (CANADA) INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: St Lawrence Cement Co

INDUSTRY: NAICS327320 READY-MIX CONCRETE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS327310 CEMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS212312 CRUSHED & BROKEN LIMESTONE MINING & QUARRYING (57%); SIC3273 READY-MIXED CONCRETE (57%); SIC3241 CEMENT, HYDRAULIC (57%); SIC1422 CRUSHED & BROKEN LIMESTONE (57%)

PERSON: WILLIAM P SULLIVAN (57%) Lisa W Foderaro

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Hudson (NY)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2004



187 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; THREE YEARS LATER: THE CHARITIES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1606 words

HEADLINE: With Funds Winding Down, Questions Remain About Longer-Term Needs

BYLINE: By LYDIA POLGREEN

 BODY:
An astonishing $3 billion was raised to help the victims of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, and nearly all that money has been spent, the bulk of it handed over in cash grants, some without regard to financial need. 
 The practice of giving victims direct cash assistance was in part driven by pressure from donors and scrutiny from the news media over whether charities were spending the money quickly enough and putting it in the hands of grieving families, unemployed workers and people left homeless by destruction, ash and debris. 
 But three years later, some are wondering whether this was the best way to make use of this unprecedented charitable windfall. 
 ''It just wasn't the best use of all that money,'' said Nancy Anthony, executive director of the Oklahoma City Community Foundation, who advised several charities on what to expect in the years after the disaster. ''There was so much pressure to spend the money right away, and charities heeded it. Now programs that might have lasted five or seven years to cope with long-term needs that are just emerging have been shut down.'' 
 As the longer-term effects of the attack begin to show themselves, the safety net that would see Sept. 11 victims through tough years ahead may have begun to fray. 
 ''I gave money for that exact purpose, to create a permanent safety net,'' said Chris Burke, president of Tuesday's Children, a group that works with children of victims of the attack. ''But that hasn't happened and now they have spent all the money.''
 Of the $2.2 billion doled out by the 40 largest 9/11 funds, 72 percent was given in direct cash assistance to victims in the two years after the disaster, according to an analysis by the Foundation Center, a research group, completed late last year.
 Some were small cash grants to help people with basic things like rent, food and health care in the days and weeks after the attacks. But other grants eventually totaled hundreds of thousands of dollars, and went to pay for decidedly nonessential things, like luxury car payments and vacations. Less than 30 percent was left for things like long-term services, rebuilding and aid to businesses. And the survey found that 97.5 percent of the funds planned to give away all their money by June 2004. 
 ''The charities got a lot of bad press asking why hadn't money gone out sooner and faster,'' said Loren Renz, vice president for research at the Foundation Center. ''What the public doesn't understand is that after the catastrophe there is a need for immediate funds but also long-term needs that need to be met.''
 Several charities were criticized in the months after the disaster for moving too slowly or planning to use the money they received for non-9/11 related purposes. The Red Cross, which received more than $1 billion in donations, tried to set aside part of that money for future attacks and $200 million for new telephone equipment. This brought such public fury that the agency's director eventually stepped down. 
 Today the biggest needs remaining for victims and their families, charities that work with them say, are human services, things like mental health care and counseling in practical matters, like career development and financial management. While many programs are still operating, money for these kinds of services will dry up in the next few years. 
 ''We have approximately $3 million remaining, which will take us through September 2005,'' said Debra Shime, senior vice president at Safe Horizon. The charity has provided a raft of services, from small emergency cash assistance grants to counseling, to 200,000 people affected by the trade center attack, distributing nearly $250 million. As that money runs out, Safe Horizon is again beginning to look for donations to continue its counseling program. 
 Advice from officials in Oklahoma City, where 168 people were killed when Timothy McVeigh blew up a federal building there in 1995, led Safe Horizon to conclude that victims of Sept. 11 would need help long after the attack. 
 ''Even after nine years in Oklahoma City, the need persists,'' said Dr. Jane Zimmerman, a senior vice president at Safe Horizon. ''We have actually less money than we would like at this point.''
 Some funds gave out more cash than others. The September 11 Fund gave out cash in two rounds, with a maximum of $10,000 each time to victims directly affected, like families of people killed, and smaller grants to those who lost their jobs or homes. But others, like the Twin Towers Fund, set up by former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani to help firefighters, police officers and government workers, gave an average award of $530,000 to a widow with two children. 
 ''We did not give out all our money in cash,'' said Carol Kellermann, chief executive of the September 11 Fund, which announced on Tuesday that it was winding down. ''Despite being criticized at the time, this fund kept back half of the money, and in time I think that proved appropriate.'' 
 Though the fund is shutting down, many of the programs it supports will continue, through grants and other sources.
 Charities that gave their cash away immediately to 9/11 victims were able to do so because of a special waiver from the Internal Revenue Service. In previous disasters, like Oklahoma City, victims were reimbursed for actual expenses, like rent and mental health care. While lump payments may also help meet day-to-day needs, they do not necessarily help victims recover their former lives, which is usually the goal of disaster relief. 
 ''Money is like gas in a car,'' said Ms. Anthony of the Oklahoma City foundation. ''If you don't know where you are going or the car doesn't work, the gas doesn't get you anywhere. Just putting money in people's checking accounts didn't make them better. 
 ''It takes a certain amount of time before people really do begin to recover from that kind of trauma, and when you take the money out of the system and put it into individuals' pockets, you limit the ways you can respond.'' 
 Not all the 9/11 charities have emptied their bank accounts. The Red Cross has $166 million left in its Liberty Disaster Relief Fund, and $50 million is committed to making grants in the next two years to focus on issues like mental health and rebuilding Lower Manhattan. Other funds, like the Families of Freedom Scholarship Fund and the Citigroup Relief Fund, which will pay for college education for victims' children, still have most of their money. 
 But in interviews, officials at several charities said they had to balance the public outcry that demanded that cash get to victims immediately and their recognition that long-term needs might not be met. 
 ''People gave us this money to hand it out, not to hang on to it for a rainy day,'' said Darlene Dwyer of Windows of Hope, which raised about $22 million and is helping 120 families of people who had worked in the food and hospitality industries at the World Trade Center.
 Ms. Dwyer said the organization was careful to hold something in reserve for long-term needs, like health care through 2007. The fund is also committed to paying for college tuition and graduate school stipends for the 143 children left behind. The fund has about $10 million left, in investment accounts that are guided by donated financial advice from the investment firm Bear, Stearns, which should cover all the children who choose to go to college, Ms. Dwyer said. 
 Causing further controversy is the fact that though uniformed personnel made up about 15 percent of the fatalities, police officers, firefighters other emergency workers and their families received 39 percent of all aid given to families of those killed and injured, according to the Foundation Center's survey completed last year. 
 That figure does not include money donated to individual firehouses and police stations, which added millions more to the total. But even before the attack, emergency workers, particularly the police and firefighters, had benefits packages that often provided salary and health insurance for life to survivors.
 Some of this disparity was the result of donor intent. Moved by the sacrifice of emergency workers who rushed to the trade center, people gave generously to charities set up for their families' benefit. 
 Yet even the long-term needs of the police and firefighters risked being neglected in the cash rush. Gregg Roberts, executive vice president of the New York City Police Foundation, said his organization focused its efforts on a large counseling program intended to help officers deal with stress from the attacks. 
 ''We tried to think long term, about what the needs will be in the future,'' Mr. Roberts said, ''so we focused on counseling.'' 
 Several charities said that even if their Sept. 11 money ran out, they would continue helping victims through existing programs. The Robin Hood Relief Fund, which raised $64.5 to help low-income victims and communities, has given all of its money away, but several of the programs it supported will continue to get money from the Robin Hood Foundation, said Laurie Fabiano, a spokeswoman for the fund. 
 Nikki Stern, executive director of Families of September 11, said that despite its shortcomings the charitable effort was a success, even if the distribution of aid was not always equitable or even sensible. 
 ''I am very conscious about practicing hindsight,'' Ms. Stern said. ''I think giving cash was the only thing that could have been done at the time because it was what donors expected. If there are lessons to be learned, it is balancing the cash need with other things. But in the end, a lot of very needy people were helped.'' 


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Money Rushing In and Out''A snapshot of where the donations to Sept. 11-related charities came from, who received aid and what form the aid took.Who Gave to Relief FundsSource of donations, from a survey of 99 Sept. 11-related charities.Individuals: 46.3%Corporations: 30.6%Foundations: 14.7%Other/Unspecified: 8.4%Where the Money WentType of assistance given by the 40 largest Sept. 11-related charities.Cash assistance to individuals: 71.8%Other: 5.2%Emergency relief: 10.0%Long-term services: 13.0%Who Got Relief MoneyRecipients of aid from the 40 largest Sept. 11-related charities.GROUP: Injured victims and the families of the deceased, unspecified and otherAMOUNT: $738,559,184PERCENTAGE: 33.7%GROUP: Economically affected victims and familiesAMOUNT: 616,161,511PERCENTAGE: 28.2GROUP: Injured victims and the families of the deceased, uniformed service workersAMOUNT: 473,449,040PERCENTAGE: 21.6GROUP: Relief and recovery workersAMOUNT: 165,832,265PERCENTAGE: 7.6GROUP: OtherAMOUNT: 193,937,559PERCENTAGE: 8.8Total distributed: $2.2 billionPercentages do not add to 100 because of rounding(Source by The Foundation Center, data through September 2003)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); CHARITIES (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); FOUNDATIONS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); PHILANTHROPY (77%); GOVERNMENT SUPPORT OF BUSINESS (77%); FAMILY (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (76%); HOMELESSNESS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (65%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%) Terrorism; Philanthropy; Airlines and Airplanes; World Trade Center (NYC); Hijacking; News and News Media ; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: FOUNDATION CENTER (59%)

PERSON: Lydia Polgreen

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%) New York City; Washington (DC)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2004



188 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Fashion Page; FASHION DIARY; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: Designers, Models, Socialites and Two Little Dogs, Too

BYLINE: By Guy Trebay

 BODY:
To say that Fashion Week is by its nature surreal may be, one admits, a big ''no duh.'' But periodically it bears repeating. While there are undoubtedly some unusual things going on at the average Renaissance Weekend or World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, it seems safe to assume that little occurs at those Big Thoughts gatherings that is half as nutty as a typical day in this city when the style flock alights. 
 A day during Fashion Week might begin with, say, the Tamsen show, held on a 150-foot yacht berthed by a pier in the Hudson River on which models disported themselves in print jersey dresses designed by a multimillionaire who drew her inspiration from another multimillionaire, this one a beauty who married into the Getty family, became a heroin addict, died and bequeathed her doomy bohemian style to fashion posterity. 
 And it might continue at the opening of a Pucci store on Fifth Avenue, a mirrored jewel box dedicated to selling designs inspired by the whimsical archive of a Florentine aristocrat who flew fighter planes for the wrong side in World War II; more or less invented print logo dressing; and designed clothes for Barbie and Jackie Onassis, as well as the plastic bubble helmets once worn by stewardesses (they were called that then) on Braniff Airlines and a flag that the Apollo 15 astronauts took to the moon. 
 And it could easily continue to a late-night party held in a onetime carriage-trade department store in Chelsea, now transformed into the MAO runway space, where a buxom stripper called Bob perched in an enormous plastic Champagne coupe blowing kisses to a crowd of downtown types, who yawned as they awaited the main attraction, the diet-products spokeswoman and reality TV disaster Anna Nicole Smith.
 It was at the Pucci party, on Tuesday night, that this reporter encountered Paola Isabella Rocha Tornito, a beauty of mixed Puerto Rican and Philippine ancestry and of a certain age, whose business card (which she was liberal in dispensing) gives her e-mail address as Socialitelady@hotmail.com. 
 That Mrs. Tornito was wearing a dress from Pucci was not surprising. So were many of her fellow guests. But, unlike those of Beth Rudin DeWoody or Debbie Bancroft or Muffie Potter Aston or Valesca Guerrand-Hermes, Mrs. Tornito's Pucci dress came with a history lesson that, while charmingly garbled, was anything but off the rack. Mrs. Tornito's dress, which she had a tailor make, was actually an amalgam of several Pucci dresses, cut and refashioned into a facsimile of the so-called butterfly dresses favored by Imelda Marcos. ''The traditional dress is made of pineapple or banana fiber and then the stiffened sleeves are heavily embroidered, but that's not very high fashion,'' said Mrs. Tornito, who has similarly had Emanuel Ungaro and Roberto Cavalli dresses repurposed. ''We call it the butterfly dress,'' she added, ''because after independence from the United States in 1947, Filipino women could really fly.''
 Unlike the wives of deposed dictators and fellow wearers of frocks with butterfly sleeves, Anna Nicole Smith is an earthbound type. Rather than fly to New York to inaugurate the MAO public relations company's space on West 18th Street and to celebrate her appearance as Marilyn Monroe in the latest edition of the MAO Fashion Week magazine, Ms. Smith came from Los Angeles in the TrimSpa bus. 
 ''She just decided at the last minute that she didn't want to fly,'' explained Mauricio Padilha, who owns MAO with his brother, Roger. ''So she came with her entourage,'' Mr. Padilha said. The gang on the bus was a mixed one that included Ms. Smith's son, her hairstylist, her makeup artist, her dresser, her lawyer and her two dogs, Marilyn and Sweetie Pie.
 Ms. Smith was scheduled to appear about 10. Being a woman well versed in the ways of empty celebrity, her arrival was considerably delayed. This gave a reporter time to ponder the contrast between the TrimSpa spokeswoman and what Emilio Pucci's daughter, Laudomia, described as her father's feminine ideal. ''For my father,'' Ms. Pucci explained, ''a woman had to be feminine, elegant, graceful without being boring, not too doll-y and very sporty. Basically, he adored people who had chic and an exciting life.''
 And the time lag also gave a reporter space to canvass a room packed with fashionable young women in full-skirted party dresses and sideshow tattoos and androgynous young men dressed like hip lesbians and to consider how wondrous and durably odd fashion can be. 
 ''I designed it myself,'' said Alexander Wang, a young man who had recently dropped out of Parsons School of Design to design a line of cashmere hoodies like the one he was wearing with his Yohji Yamamoto sneakers and shredded vintage Levi's cutoffs. 
 On the back of the sweater was the image of the model Angela Lindvall. Why Angela Lindvall, Mr. Wang was asked. ''I love her,'' the young designer said. ''She's fantastic, she's an icon and she's done so much for fashion,'' he added. Now you know. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Bob greeted partygoers at the opening celebration of MAO's runway space downtown. The model Angela Lindvall, right, adorned the back of Alexander Wang's cashmere hoodie.
 Catherine Vautrin, chief executive of Emilio Pucci, with Pucci's daughter, Laudomia, at a party for the opening of a Pucci store on Fifth Avenue. Right, Paola Tornito in her custom butterfly dress of Pucci fabric. (Photographs by Christopher Smith for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGN (90%); FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); FASHION SHOWS (90%); CELEBRITIES (78%); READY TO WEAR (78%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); RETAILERS (72%); NATURAL FIBERS (71%); REALITY TELEVISION (70%); HEROIN (68%); AIRLINES (67%); WORLD WAR II (52%) Apparel; Parties (Social); Celebrities

COMPANY: AQUANTIVE INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (56%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (56%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (56%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (56%)

PERSON: Guy Trebay

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); EARTH'S MOON (79%) SWITZERLAND (88%); UNITED STATES (79%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2004



189 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 409 words

HEADLINE: Fed Regional Survey Shows Slower Retail and Home Sales

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Economic growth slowed in many parts of the United States, held back by lackluster retail sales and less robust home sales, the Federal Reserve said yesterday in a survey of regional economic conditions. 
 In the report, known as the beige book, the Fed characterized the economy's expansion as ''slower'' in the New York area, ''moderate'' in Minneapolis and ''solid'' in San Francisco. 
 Separately, the Federal Reserve said that American consumers more than doubled their pace of borrowing through charge cards and installment loans in July, adding $10.9 billion to nonmortgage debt. 
 The increase, the largest since January, followed a rise of $4.3 billion in June and brought the level of outstanding credit to $2.04 trillion. At an annual pace, borrowing increased 6.4 percent in July after rising 2.6 percent in June.
 In the beige book, a survey from the 12 Federal Reserve regional banks, the Fed said consumer spending ''was mixed across districts and across products in late July and August, with the pace of spending slowing on balance relative to the previous survey period.'' 
 The survey was gloomier than the testimony yesterday by the Fed's chairman, Alan Greenspan, who told the House Budget Committee that the economy was ''gaining some traction'' after hitting a ''soft patch.'' 
 Spending across the board was stronger than it was a year earlier, the beige book said.
 Manufacturing increased in all Fed districts, led by durable goods and capital equipment. There was strong demand for aerospace and steel products, industrial machinery and information technology products.
 ''The generally robust activity in manufacturing boosted demand for transportation services in many districts,'' the report said.
 The Fed said the employment situation was uneven. ''Several districts noted a pickup in demand for temporary service workers,'' the beige book said, ''including those in manufacturing, and one district (Atlanta) reported an increase in the rate of conversion of temporary workers to permanent hires. Wage increases remained modest over all.''
 On Friday, the Labor Department reported that companies added 144,000 jobs in August and that the unemployment rate edged lower to 5.4 percent.
 ''Consumer prices were generally flat or up modestly in late July and August,'' the Fed said, adding that there were ''noticeable price increases for oil, natural gas, steel, lumber, cement, concrete and other building materials.''


GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: ''Mixed Economic Conditions Across the U.S.''A roundup of regional economic conditions in recent months for the Federal Reserve's 12 districts, according to the beige book report issued yesterday by the Fed.Minneapolis -- Manufacturing, energy and consumer spending strengthened. Agriculture was weak. Construction was steady.San Francisco (Includes Alaska and Hawaii) -- The region's economy grew at a steady pace with housing construction and retail sales remaining firm. Energy and steel reported price inflation.Chicago -- Economic activity improved at a slower pace. Consumer spending, hiring and construction weakened.St. Louis -- Economic conditions were mixed. Retail sales were weak. Manufacturers and service industries strengthened.Kansas City, Mo. -- Consumer spending rallied after a disappointing early summer. Labor markets improved moderately. Inflation grew slightly.Dallas -- Retail sales slowed slightly and business services experienced modest gains. Businesses outlook is less positive than a few weeks ago.Cleveland -- Retail sales decreased while factory production increased. Housing and commercial construction slowed.Boston -- Most retailers and manufacturers experienced an increase in sales. Demand for temporary workers grew.New York -- The region's economic growth slowed in recent weeks. Retail sales fell short of expectations.Philadelphia -- Factory orders and shipments experienced modest gains. New-home sales cooled while home resales remained strong.Richmond, Va. -- The region's economy grew at a moderate pace. Retail sales softened. The service sector reported a decrease in activity.Atlanta -- Economic activity strengthened in July, but reported some losses in August because of Hurricane Charley.Map of the United States highlighting the Federal Reserve's 12 districts.(Source by Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (79%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (79%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (79%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (79%); BUDGETS (79%); RETAILERS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); DURABLE GOODS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); CONSUMER LENDING (75%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (67%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (63%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (62%); WAGES & SALARIES (62%) United States Economy; Retail Stores and Trade; Sales; Housing; Credit and Money Cards; Consumer Behavior; Consumer Credit; Credit

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (68%) MINNESOTA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2004



190 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Circuits; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1269 words

HEADLINE: The Tablet PC Takes Its Place in the Classroom

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. FITZGERALD

 BODY:
TABLET PC's have been around for almost two years now, and while they have not yet proved to be the revolutionary change agents that they were billed as in November 2002, they are starting to carve a niche for themselves in certain corners of the digital world.
 Industries like health care and insurance have embraced tablet PC's, which can speed the processing of records and forms. While tablets, which account for only about 1 percent of the market for notebook computers, are still generally more expensive than laptops with comparable specifications, prices have started to fall. And last month, Microsoft released an updated version of its Windows XP Tablet PC operating system that offers improved handwriting recognition, addressing one of the chief complaints about the earlier version.
 But perhaps the most promising area so far is in the classroom, a setting in which portable devices with handwriting capabilities would seem to make sense. Educators at a handful of schools, many of them private high schools, are pressing ahead with plans to issue students tablet PC's for use in English, foreign language, math, science and social studies classes. 
 At some schools, the hope is to do away with paper notebooks, on the way to eliminating as much paper as possible. In that vision, students would take tests electronically, read their textbooks online and send their homework by e-mail. Proponents say the devices can improve interaction among teachers and students and increase opportunities for critical thinking by cutting down on busywork. 
 One factor that favors educators is that students seem to like tablets, especially the pen-based interface that takes the place of a mouse and keyboard.
 ''That was undoubtedly the best and coolest part,'' said John Stanton, a senior last year at Cathedral Preparatory School in Erie, Pa., who took part in a pilot program to test the devices.
 Mr. Stanton, 18, was on the school's debate team, and he used a tablet PC to take notes and prepare responses during debates. He said the tablet kept pace with swift handwriting and was useful because he could quickly call up his writings from earlier rounds.
 Administrators at Cathedral Prep had initially considered laptops, but switched to tablet PC's after early testing by staff members. ''We did not want to get caught up with the novelty of this thing,'' said the Rev. Scott W. Jabo, headmaster at Cathedral Prep. ''The more we were using it, we saw a lot of practical uses.''
 Cathedral Prep issued tablet PC's to 160 ninth graders when they started classes this month, with the goal of eliminating paper notebooks and centralizing study materials on a device linked to the school's wireless network. The device chosen by the school, a model from Acer, has a 10-inch screen and weighs about three pounds. Like most consumer tablets, it includes a standard keyboard and can function as a laptop when the screen is repositioned.
 School officials said they paid $1,350 per device, which included volume and education discounts. Students will be charged a technology fee, to be added to tuition over four years, to cover the cost of the device plus warranties, software and a book bag.
 Tablet PC's run essentially the same Windows-based programs as other computers. But instead of a mouse, there is a stylus, or pen, that can be used for navigation by touching the screen. The pen also can take the place of the keyboard; users can handwrite directly in programs, using an on-screen input panel, or by tapping letters and numbers on an on-screen keyboard. Programs designed specifically for the tablet PC, like Microsoft's Windows Journal, enable freeform handwriting that can be converted to text or saved in the original ''digital ink'' format.
 Beyond using them for taking notes and reading, some schools have developed detailed plans to integrate tablet PC's into their curriculums. At the Benjamin School, a private day school in North Palm Beach, Fla., eighth graders tested the devices last year in history and English, while teachers had their own units so they could explore ways to integrate them in all subjects.
 This year all ninth graders at the school, about 100 students, will be using their own tablets, a model from Gateway with a 14-inch screen, in all of their classes. The school has a new campus with a wireless network; students and teachers will have access to collaborative software, interactive whiteboards at the front of the class and classroom management tools, as well as the Internet and personal file-storage space.
 Using Tablet PC's in allows teachers to go beyond conventional teaching methods, said Barbara Murphy, co-chair of the school's technology committee and a 10th-grade chemistry teacher. Instead of standing at the front of the classroom and talking, Ms. Murphy said, teachers can oversee students' work on projects. ''We want students to be actively involved,'' she said. ''The tablet PC seems to really facilitate that.''
 For example, using one piece of software, a peer-to-peer program called Groove Virtual Office from Groove Networks, students and teachers can collaborate on projects in the classroom from home or anywhere there is an Internet connection. The program, geared mainly for businesses, also has features designed for tablet PC's.
 Using Groove in a math class, for example, a teacher could write out an equation in a shared workspace that is displayed on the classroom's whiteboard, and students seated at their desks can use their tablet pens to take turns adding steps to it. ''It's like having 20 kids standing at a blackboard, each with chalk in their hands,'' said Ken Didsbury, academic dean and an English teacher at the Benjamin School.
 Students who tested the devices last year said the pen capabilities were sufficient for note-taking. ''It writes just like a pen and paper,'' said Shohan Shetty, 14, who is entering the ninth grade this year. ''It's fast.''
 William Fraser, 14, also used the device last year. He said a strong feature was having Internet access at his desk for fast research. William also said he found the pen to be useful. ''About half the class wrote with the pen because they weren't completely used to typing,'' he said. ''And if you want to make a diagram, you just draw with it.''
 Classroom management software also figures in the Benjamin plan. Using a program called SynchronEyes, from Smart Technologies, teachers can poll students anonymously to determine if subject matter is being understood. Teachers can also view the students' screens to catch instant messaging or to administer electronic testing. ''It's a little Big Brotherish, but it allows us to be sure that when we give a test electronically, the kids can't cheat,'' Mr. Didsbury added.
 Students were required to purchase the tablets before the start of the school year; the cost was $1,925 plus $167 for insurance, school officials said. The price, which the school negotiated with Gateway after comparing three manufacturers' offerings, included bundled software like Microsoft Office 2003, Microsoft OneNote and an antivirus program.
 Teachers say they feel energized by the challenges and opportunities presented by tablet PC's. Linda Willich, a social studies teacher at the Benjamin School, is preparing a new system for students to organize their work. She says she is looking forward to the collaboration tools and pen capabilities for drawing graphs. 
 ''I can see huge possibilities for it, especially in economics,'' she said. ''There are all kinds of things we haven't even anticipated that will not only be challenges, but will be exciting.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photo: LEARNING -- Students at work on tablet PC's at the Benjamin School in North Palm Beach, Fla., are, from left, Katie Lotman, Shohan Shetty, Luke Tobis and Morgan Brannon. (Photo by Cindy Karp for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); TABLET COMPUTERS (90%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (90%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (88%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); PRODUCT ENHANCEMENTS (74%); TEXTBOOKS (74%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (74%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (74%); HOMEWORK (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (72%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (70%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (67%) Education and Schools; Computers and the Internet; Teachers and School Employees

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (57%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%)

PERSON: Thomas J Fitzgerald

GEOGRAPHIC: ERIE, PA, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2004



191 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 593 words

HEADLINE: North Korea Says Seoul's Nuclear Experiments Stoke Arms Race

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: TOKYO, Thursday, Sept. 9 

 BODY:
North Korea warned on Wednesday that a recently disclosed South Korean experiment with uranium enrichment could ''accelerate a northeast Asia nuclear arms race,'' and accused the United States of applying a ''double standard'' to the nuclear programs of the two Koreas.
 In North Korea's first public reaction to reports last week of the clandestine experiment four years ago, Han Song Ryol, deputy chief of North Korea's mission to the United Nations, lambasted the United States. But he did not specifically rule out attending a new round of regional talks aimed at ending North Korea's nuclear weapons program. 
 [South Korea acknowledged Thursday that it had conducted plutonium-based nuclear research in the early 1980's, Agence France-Presse reported. A government official cited a recent visit by inspectors from the International Atomic Energy Agency to a South Korean government-run nuclear research center as a reason for revealing the previously undisclosed research.]
 ''We view South Korea's uranium enrichment program in the context of an arms race in northeast Asia,'' Mr. Han told the Yonhap news agency of South Korea. ''It has become difficult to prevent expansion of a nuclear arms race because of South Korea's test.''
 Last week, South Korea admitted publicly that in 2000 government scientists had enriched tiny amounts of uranium in what it called an ''academic'' exercise.
 On Wednesday, South Korea said it should have reported the uranium enrichment experiment to the International Atomic Energy Agency, the United Nations nuclear watchdog agency.
 ''We should have reported that uranium was used during this experiment,'' a senior South Korean Foreign Ministry official told reporters at a briefing in Seoul. South Korea has said that the uranium was enriched to only 10 percent. Last weekend, I.A.E.A. inspectors took a .10 gram sample to Vienna for testing to determine if the enrichment approached bomb-grade levels, or over 85 percent.
 South Korea has one of the world's largest nuclear power industries. Nineteen nuclear power plants supply 40 percent of the nation's electricity. It is also seeking to build nuclear power plants in China. Under a 1994 nuclear disarmament accord, South Korea was helping to build North Korea's first two commercially viable nuclear power plants when work was suspended last year as a result of North Korea's violation of the accord.
 Two years ago, American officials say, North Korea admitted that it was secretly enriching uranium. In January 2003, it expelled I.A.E.A. inspectors and said it started to process stored fuel rods for nuclear weapons material. Since then, it has claimed to have produced ''a nuclear deterrent,'' North Korea's ambiguous phrase for a nuclear weapons arsenal. After the American-led invasion of Iraq last year, Kim Jong Il, North Korea's leader, said the United States would not have attacked Iraq if it had had nuclear weapons.
 Since then, China and the United States have lead a regional effort to try to persuade North Korea to give up its weapons, most likely in return for economic aid and security guarantees. Although China has set a Sept. 22 date for the start of the fourth round of talks, North Korea has not committed to attending.
 In New York, Ambassador Han called Washington ''worthless'' as a negotiations partner and said that American policy toward North Korea made it ''no longer worth meeting.'' But these are phrases that have been used in the periods before talks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (93%); MILITARY WEAPONS (93%); ARMS RACE (92%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (78%); GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (75%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (73%); IRAQ WAR (62%); TERRORISM (61%) Atomic Weapons; United States International Relations; Electric Light and Power; Atomic Energy; Uranium; Terrorism

COMPANY: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: James Brooke; Han Song Ryol

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (94%); ASIA (93%); CHINA (79%); IRAQ (79%) North Korea; South Korea

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2004



192 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Economic Scene; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1046 words

HEADLINE: In New Age economics, it's more about the experience than about just owning stuff.

BYLINE: By Virginia Postrel. 
Virginia Postrel (www.dynamist.com) is the author of ''The Substance of Style: How the Rise of Aesthetic Value Is Remaking Commerce, Culture and Consciousness,'' just published in paperback by Perennial.

 BODY:
LISTEN to the jobs debate carefully, and you might get the idea that the problem with the economy is that Americans just are not materialistic enough.
 We spend too much of our income on restaurant meals, entertainment, travel and health care and not enough on refrigerators, ball bearings, blue jeans and cars.
 Manufacturing employment is sluggish because of rising productivity -- making more with fewer people -- and foreign competition. But that's not the whole story, especially over the long term. Production is changing, but so is consumption. 
 As incomes go up, Americans spend a greater proportion on intangibles and relatively less on goods. One result is more new jobs in hotels, health clubs and hospitals, and fewer in factories.
 In 1959, Americans spent about 40 percent of their incomes on services, compared with 58 percent in 2000. That figure understates the trend, because in many cases goods and services come bundled together.
 Consider food, classified by the government's spending survey as a ''nondurable good.''
 In 1959, consumers spent 25 percent of their income on food, compared with 14 percent in 2000. Today food spending looks much smaller if you exclude restaurant meals. Meals at home took 19 percent of income in 1959, compared with only 8 percent in 2000.
 Another way to look at the same trend: In 2000, we spent 41 cents of each food dollar on restaurant meals, up from only 29 cents as recently as 1987.
 Restaurant meals have changed, too. More and more of their value comes not from the nutrition and dishwashing services -- function -- but from the experience the restaurant provides. We don't go out to eat just to avoid cooking. We go to enjoy different cuisines in pleasant environments.
 For successful restaurants, aesthetics is no longer an afterthought. Customers are paying for memories, not just fuel.
 What's true for restaurants is true across the economy. New economic value increasingly comes from experiences.
 Americans have not stopped buying stuff, of course. (Indeed, there's a whole industry devoted to organizing our pantry-like closets.) But the marginal value of tangibles versus intangibles has shifted. That many manufactured goods are also getting cheaper only intensifies the trend.
 Products as well as services increasingly distinguish themselves through aesthetics, adding emotional value to practical use. This trend confounds those who equate ''quality'' with function.
 Hence a recent Dilbert comic strip satirizes a product designer who declares: ''Quality is yesterday's news. Today we focus on the emotional impact of the product.''
 In fact, the trend toward emotional value is exactly what psychological research would predict. Particularly as incomes rise, people find that additional experiences give them more pleasure than additional possessions.
 In research reported last year in the Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, Leaf Van Boven of the University of Colorado, Boulder, and Thomas D. Gilovich of Cornell University used two surveys and a lab experiment to test whether people reported greater happiness from ''experiential purchases'' or ''material purchases.'' In almost all cases, they found that subjects preferred experiences to goods. (The psychologists did not consider relative prices, except to specify that survey respondents consider purchases they'd made for more than $100.)
 That does not mean nobody wants more things. The issue is one of relative benefits. The economic question is, Given limited resources, what is the best trade-off? What do you want next?
 The two psychologists' research found that the less people already had, the more benefits they reported from additional goods as opposed to experiences.
 ''Respondents' level of income was positively associated with their endorsement of experiential over material possessions,'' the psychologists wrote, noting that ''respondents with the lowest levels of income were equally likely to indicate that material or experiential purchases made them happier.''
 As an economist would put it, this research found diminishing marginal utility -- less enjoyment from an additional purchase -- from new possessions, compared with experiences like travel and restaurant meals. ''The good life,'' the authors wrote, ''may be better lived by doing things than by having things.''
 This result sounds both logical and humanistic. It's consistent with economic theory. But translated into economic life, it disrupts cherished assumptions.
 In the popular imagination and the political debate, making things is ''real'' work. Providing experiences is not. Analysts assume that working in a factory is a good job and working in a hotel is not.
 This perception is not just a question of relative wages. Even at the top, it's more prestigious to create stuff than experiences.
 Carleton S. Fiorina, the chief executive of Hewlett-Packard, ranks 10th on the new Forbes list of ''the world's most powerful women.'' (She's the top-ranked business executive on the list.) Oprah Winfrey ranks a mere 62nd, and isn't even classified as an executive.
 Similarly, the election-year news suggests that the economy is bad all over. But in fact, states like Florida and Nevada, whose economies produce experiences, are booming. States like Ohio and Michigan, whose economies produce stuff, are hurting.
 The shift toward intangibles creates geographic winners and losers, redistributing economic and political clout.
 Over the last eight years, the demographer Peter Francese reports, ''people have been moving out of the Northeast and Midwest at a net rate of just over 30,000 a month.'' In the July/August issue of American Demographics magazine, he documents the story of ''young people pulling up stakes in the Northeast and Midwest and dispersing to better jobs and more affordable places to live, where the weather often happens to be a lot better.''
 Americans are pouring out of the Northeast and Midwest, where water and rail transportation and convenient raw materials once provided an economic advantage. They're going to the more hospitable physical and economic climates of the South and West.
 There, catering to emotion and imagination is ''real'' work and pleasure is a form of quality.


GRAPHIC: Photo: ''The good life,'' two researchers reported last year in the Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, ''may be better lived by doing things than by having things.'' (Photo by Jay LaPrete/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRENDS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (85%); JOB CREATION (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (75%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (74%); PRODUCTIVITY (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) United States Economy; Research; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: Journal of Personality and Social Psychology

PERSON: Virginia Postrel; Leaf (Prof) Van Boven; Thomas D (Prof) Gilovich

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2004



193 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 271 words

HEADLINE: Brazil Wins Rulings On 2 Trade Issues

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The World Trade Organization ruled yesterday that as much as half of European Union sugar exports are illegal and separately confirmed that $3 billion in United States cotton subsidies violate the organization's rules, handing Brazil two victories in its fight against rich-nation farm aid.
 The disputes are part of efforts by developing and food exporting nations to push wealthy governments to reduce spending on farmers. 
In an outline accord for a global trade agreement reached in Geneva last month, the W.T.O.'s 147 members agreed to eliminate agricultural export aid by a date to be set later, dismantle import tariffs and cut domestic farm subsidies.
 The European Union said it might appeal the decision, which came after a preliminary Aug. 4 ruling, after a joint complaint by Brazil, Australia and Thailand. W.T.O. arbitrators supported claims that European sugar aid distorts world market prices because surplus production enjoying production subsidies must be exported.
 The separate decision against the United States confirms a confidential June report that found American cotton aid overshoots payment limits. W.T.O. judges deemed the payments to 35,000 American cotton farmers unfair because they exceed caps the United States agreed to a decade ago. The United States plans to appeal.
 If upheld by the W.T.O. on appeal, the case would force the United States to change its farm-payment legislation and could prompt a series of similar cases from other developing countries. The loss may also force some United States cotton farmers, who produced $5.6 billion of the fiber in 2003, to plant other crops. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (91%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); COTTON FARMING (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); EXPORT PROMOTION (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); APPEALS (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (73%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%) Sugar; International Trade and World Market; Cotton; Crop Controls and Subsidies

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (93%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (93%) World Trade Organization; European Union

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); BRAZIL (95%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); THAILAND (70%) Brazil; Europe

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2004



194 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: China Warns Against Any Effort to Block Its Clothing Exports

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH BECKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 8 

 BODY:
Hoping to block a last-minute attempt to protect the ailing American textile industry, China warned on Wednesday that it had the right to challenge any limit on its exports to the United States when all global quotas on textiles and clothing are lifted next year.
 Haiyun Liu, a senior official at the Chinese Embassy here, also disagreed with suggestions by the Bush administration that China should accept voluntary restrictions on its clothing exports to the United States.
 Grant D. Aldonas, the Commerce Department's under secretary of international trade, is visiting China this week to seek such an agreement. 
 The Bush administration hopes to persuade the Chinese to agree to limits in areas where American manufacturers have been strong, like trousers and knit shirts. 
 The elimination of the 30-year-old quota system for textiles and clothing was a crucial demand of developing nations in talks that led to the establishment of the World Trade Organization.
 But as the Jan. 1 deadline for free trade nears, textile industry executives in both rich and poor countries fear that China will take over the market. 
 A recent study by the W.T.O. confirmed that China is likely to be the biggest winner when quotas are lifted.
 In the United States, industry executives are petitioning the Bush administration this month to block an expected flood of Chinese imports. They contend that China unfairly subsidizes its industries and profits from currency manipulation, and that they stand to lose 600,000 jobs if the quotas are lifted.
 In contrast to an earlier request, the textile trade group won an initial consent from the Commerce Department last week to consider the petition. 
 If accepted, it could offer relief to the textile industry, which is centered in politically pivotal states.
 But Mr. Liu treated the debate as an attempt to undo a legal agreement made over a decade ago. ''Any extension of these quotas in one way or another is a breach of the W.T.O.,'' he said at a conference held by the Washington International Trade Association. He also said China had every right to protest caps or safeguards proposed by the United States at the W.T.O.
 His refusal to consider any voluntary safeguards put a damper on expectations that Mr. Aldonas's talks in China this week could defuse a growing dispute between Washington and Beijing.
 ''We totally expect the Chinese to saber-rattle -- it's proved effective for them in the past,'' said Lloyd Wood, a spokesman for the American Manufacturing Trade Action Coalition, an industry group that represents a majority of American textile companies. ''China can file all the W.T.O. cases it wants, but by the time they finish fiddling around with their W.T.O. case it might be 2008.''
 The administration rejected a petition earlier this year filed by the A.F.L.-C.I.O., the labor organization, to demand that China be punished for gaining trade advantages by violating the rights of workers and suppressing wages.
 The textile industry and other American manufacturers will join with the A.F.L.- C.I.O. on Thursday to ask the Bush administration to accept a new petition accusing China of manipulating its currency to keep down the price of goods -- by as much as 50 percent for apparel, the textile industry says -- and, therefore, breaking W.T.O. rules. 
 Mr. Liu denied that and said China was losing its initial advantage in the global market place because the costs of labor and meeting new environmental regulations were rising.
 Thea Lee, the international trade specialist at the A.F.L.-C.I.O., said that Chinese workers had said that the opposite was occurring, ''that wages are going down as productivity rises.'' But she added, ''It's hard to say whether wages are rising or falling because China doesn't make reliable data available.'' 
 American designers and merchandisers who stand to benefit from the lifting of quotas said that manufacturers have had a decade to prepare for the change. 
 Brenda A. Jacobs, a trade lawyer in Washington for the United States Association of Importers of Textiles and Apparel, said that the current calls for protection were an attempt to take advantage of the presidential race. She added that the Chinese were ''determined that this provision to lift the quotas will be implemented.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEXTILES (92%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); TEXTILE MFG (90%); APPAREL MFG (90%); FABRIC MILLS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); PETITIONS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (71%) Textiles; International Trade and World Market; Textiles

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%)

PERSON: Elizabeth Becker; George W (Pres) Bush; Haiyun Liu; Grant Aldonas

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (58%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (96%) China

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2004



195 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; COMPANY NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 133 words

HEADLINE: FRANKS NURSERY FILES FOR BANKRUPTCY PROTECTION AGAIN

BYLINE: Dow Jones/AP

 BODY:
Franks Nursery and Crafts Inc., a lawn and garden specialty chain, filed for Chapter 11 protection for a second time yesterday in United States Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan and said it planned to liquidate by conducting going-out-of-business sales at its stores. The company, which operates 169 stores in 14 states, listed assets of $123.8 million and debts of $140.5 million as of Aug. 8. Franks, based in Troy, Mich., emerged from bankruptcy proceedings in Greenbelt, Md., in May 2002. Since then, however, the company has sustained losses that it attributed to general economic weakness, declining customer traffic, unfavorable weather, a drop-off in the Christmas tree business and supply chain problems, according to a statement from the chief executive, Walter Spokowski, filed with the court.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (93%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (90%); LIQUIDATIONS (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (88%); GARDENING (88%); RETAIL SALES (87%); CHRISTMAS (51%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Gardens and Gardening; Bankruptcies; Shutdowns (Institutional); Sales

COMPANY: CRAFTS INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: Franks Nursery and Crafts Inc

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2004



196 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; TECHNOLOGY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1352 words

HEADLINE: An Elder Challenges Outsourcing's Orthodoxy

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
At 89, Paul A. Samuelson, the Nobel Prize-winning economist and professor emeritus at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, still seems to have plenty of intellectual edge and the ability to antagonize and amuse. 
 His dissent from the mainstream economic consensus about outsourcing and globalization will appear later this month in a distinguished journal, cloaked in clever phrases and theoretical equations, but clearly aimed at the orthodoxy within his profession: Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve; N. Gregory Mankiw, chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers; and Jagdish N. Bhagwati, a leading international economist and professor at Columbia University. 
 These heavyweights, among others, are perpetrators of what Mr. Samuelson terms ''the popular polemical untruth.''
 Popular among economists, that is. That untruth, Mr. Samuelson asserts in an article for the Journal of Economic Perspectives, is the assumption that the laws of economics dictate that the American economy will benefit in the long run from all forms of international trade, including the outsourcing abroad of call-center and software programming jobs. 
 Sure, Mr. Samuelson writes, the mainstream economists acknowledge that some people will gain and others will suffer in the short term, but they quickly add that ''the gains of the American winners are big enough to more than compensate for the losers.''
 That assumption, so widely shared by economists, is ''only an innuendo,'' Mr. Samuelson writes. ''For it is dead wrong about necessary surplus of winnings over losings.'' 
 Trade, in other words, may not always work to the advantage of the American economy, according to Mr. Samuelson. 
 In an interview last week, Mr. Samuelson said he wrote the article to ''set the record straight'' because ''the mainstream defenses of globalization were much too simple a statement of the problem.'' Mr. Samuelson, who calls himself a ''centrist Democrat,'' said his analysis did not come with a recipe of policy steps, and he emphasized that it was not meant as a justification for protectionist measures.
 Up to now, he said, the gains to America have outweighed the losses from trade, but that outcome is not necessarily guaranteed in the future.
 In his article, Mr. Samuelson begins by noting the unease many Americans feel about their jobs and wages these days, especially as the economies of China and India emerge on the strength of their low wages, increasingly skilled workers and rising technological prowess. ''This is a hot issue now, and in the coming decade, it will not go away,'' he writes. 
 The essay is Mr. Samuelson's effort to contribute economic nuance to the policy debate over outsourcing and trade. The Journal of Economic Perspectives, a quarterly published by the American Economic Association, has a modest circulation of 21,000 but it is influential in the field.
 Indeed, Mr. Bhagwati and two colleagues, Arvind Panagariya, an economics professor at Columbia, and T.N. Srinivasan, a professor of economics at Yale University, have already submitted an article to the journal that is partly a response to Mr. Samuelson. Theirs is titled ''The Muddles Over Outsourcing.''
 The Samuelson critique carries added weight given the stature of the author. ''He invented so many of the economic models that everyone uses,'' noted Timothy Taylor, managing editor of the Journal of Economic Perspectives.
 For generations of undergraduates, starting in 1948, the study of economics has meant a Samuelson textbook, now in its 18th edition, with William Nordhaus, a Yale economist, as a co-author since the 12th edition. Because he has taught at M.I.T. for six decades, the elite ranks of the economics profession are filled with Mr. Samuelson's former students, including Mr. Bhagwati and Mr. Mankiw.
 According to Mr. Samuelson, a low-wage nation that is rapidly improving its technology, like India or China, has the potential to change the terms of trade with America in fields like call-center services or computer programming in ways that reduce per-capita income in the United States. ''The new labor-market-clearing real wage has been lowered by this version of dynamic fair free trade,'' Mr. Samuelson writes.
 But doesn't purchasing cheaper call-center or programming services from abroad reduce input costs for various industries, delivering a net benefit to the economy? Not necessarily, Mr. Samuelson replied. To put things in simplified terms, he explained in the interview, ''being able to purchase groceries 20 percent cheaper at Wal-Mart does not necessarily make up for the wage losses.''
 The global spread of lower-cost computing and Internet communications breaks down the old geographic boundaries between labor markets, he noted, and could accelerate the pressure on wages across large swaths of the service economy. ''If you don't believe that changes the average wages in America, then you believe in the tooth fairy,'' Mr. Samuelson said.
 His article, Mr. Samuelson added, is not a refutation of David Ricardo's 1817 theory of comparative advantage, the Magna Carta of international economics that says free trade allows economies to benefit from the efficiencies of global specialization. Mr. Samuelson said he was merely ''interpreting fully and correctly Ricardoian comparative advantage theory.'' That interpretation, he insists, includes some ''important qualifications'' to the arguments of globalization's cheerleaders. 
 Those qualifications are not new to Mr. Samuelson. He noted that in a different context, he touched on similar matters as far back as 1972 in a lecture he delivered shortly after he won his Nobel Prize, titled ''International Trade for a Rich Country.''
 For his part, Mr. Bhagwati does not dispute the model that Mr. Samuelson presents in his article. ''Paul is a great economist and a terrific theorist,'' he said. ''And in markets like information technology services, where America has a big advantage, it is true that if skills build up abroad, that narrows our competitive advantage and our exports will be hit.''
 But Mr. Bhagwati, the author of ''In Defense of Globalization'' (Oxford University Press, 2004), says he doubts whether the Samuelson model applies broadly to the economy. ''Paul and I disagree only on the realistic aspects of this,'' he said.
 The magnified concern, Mr. Bhagwati said, is that China will take away most of American manufacturing and India will take away the high-technology services business. Looking at the small number of jobs actually sent abroad, and based on his own knowledge of developing nations, he concludes that outsourcing worries are greatly exaggerated.
 As an example, Mr. Bhagwati pointed to the often-repeated estimates that, because of the Internet, as many as 300 million well-educated workers, mostly from India and China, could now enter the global work force and compete with Americans for skilled jobs.
 In their paper, Mr. Bhagwati and his co-authors write that such an assessment of the education systems of India and China ''almost borders on the ludicrous.'' In an interview, Mr. Bhagwati said, ''You have a lot of people, but that doesn't mean they are qualified. That sort of thinking is really generalizing based on the kind of Indian and Chinese people who manage to make it to Silicon Valley.''
 The Samuelson model, Mr. Bhagwati said, yields net economic losses only when foreign nations are closing the innovation gap with the United States.
 ''But we can change the terms of trade by moving up the technology ladder,'' he said. ''The U.S. is a reasonably flexible, dynamic, innovative society. That's why I'm optimistic.''
 The policy implications, he added, include increased investment in science, research and education. And Mr. Samuelson and Mr. Bhagwati agree that the way to buffer the adjustment for the workers who lose in the global competition is with wage insurance programs.
 ''You need more temporary protection for the losers,'' Mr. Samuelson said. ''My belief is that every good cause is worth some inefficiency.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Paul A. Samuelson, above, has written an article questioning many assumptions about the benefits of outsourcing. Jagdish N. Bhagwati, below, his former student, says concerns about jobs are exaggerated. (Photo by Michael Nagle for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Robert Spencer for The New York Times)(pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOBEL PRIZES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (87%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); PROTECTIONISM (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (67%); CALL CENTERS (67%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (52%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (52%) Labor; Foreign Labor; United States Economy; Computers and the Internet; International Trade and World Market; Labor

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (84%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (57%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (57%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%) Paul (Prof) Samuelson; Arvind Panagariya; T N Srinivasan; Jagdish Bhagwati; Steve Lohr

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2004



197 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 558 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Former Wall Street Banker Is Sentenced to 18 Months
Frank P. Quattrone, the Wall Street banker whose pay and deals made him a vivid symbol of the 1990's technology boom, was sentenced to 18 months in prison for obstructing a government investigation into the allocation of hot stock offerings.
 Mr. Quattrone, who led the initial offerings of companies like Amazon.com and Cisco Systems as a banker at Credit Suisse First Boston, is the most prominent Wall Street figure to face prison since Michael R. Milken pleaded guilty to securities charges in 1990. [Page A1.]

China Issues Warning on Quotas
China warned that it had the right to challenge any limit on its exports to the United States when all global quotas on textiles and clothing are lifted next year. [C3.]

Journals Release Plan on Drug Trials
A group of leading medical journals released their plan to stop publishing the results of clinical trials unless a test is registered at its outset in a public database. [C11.]

Ex-Invesco Chief Agrees to Penalty
Raymond Cunningham, the former chief executive of Invesco Funds Group, agreed to pay $500,000 to settle lawsuits over improper mutual fund trading, his lawyers said. Mr. Cunningham also agreed to a two-year ban from working in the industry, and a five-year ban from serving as an officer or director in the securities industry. [C6.]

Guilty Plea in Fraud Case
Consuelo Marquez, a former manager at Lehman Brothers, pleaded guilty to banking and wire fraud, involving the use of fraudulent loans to invest in the stock market. [C9.]

Havas Joins Grey Global Bidding
Havas, the French advertising agency company, entered the bidding for Grey Global Group of New York, joining WPP Group of Britain and the American private equity firm Hellman & Friedman. Advertising. [C9.]

Shift in Medicare Use Expected
The sharply higher charges announced for Medicare beneficiaries may prompt more elderly people to join private-industry Medicare health maintenance organizations, according to insurance executives and industry analysts. Market Place. [C10.]

Ovitz Seeks Removal From Lawsuit
A lawyer for Michael Ovitz, the former president of the Walt Disney Company, argued that his client should be excused as a defendant in a lawsuit that contends the $140 million buyout of Mr. Ovitz's five-year contract violated Delaware law. [C9.]

Europe Changes Course on Labels
The European Commission decided to abandon a plan to permit laboratory-made seeds in food without their being labeled as such. [World Business, Section W.]

McKesson Shares Fall on Forecast
The McKesson Corporation, a drug wholesaler, said its net income in the second quarter would fall because of fewer price increases, setting off a 15 percent decline in its share price. McKesson, which is based in San Francisco, said that profit would fall by more than half, to 20 cents to 25 cents a share, compared with 53 cents a year earlier. [C4.]

Major Stock Indicators Decline
Stocks fell. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 5.03 points, to 1,116.27. The Dow Jones industrial average shed 29.43 points, to 10,313.36. The Nasdaq composite index slid 7.92 points, to 1,850.64. [C11.]

A Growing Insurance Burden
Workers' compensation costs are hurting California companies. Small Business. [C7.]

The New Trend in Spending
For some consumers, it's about experience. Virginia Postrel: Economic Scene. [C2.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,313.36 down 29.34Nasdaq composite -- 1,850.64 down 7.9210-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.16% down 0.08The euro -- $1.2191 up 0.0093The dollar -- 109.25 yen down 0.14Graph tracks the share price of McKesson since last Wednesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SENTENCING (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CLINICAL TRIALS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); GUILTY PLEAS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); MEDICARE (89%); EXECUTIVES (87%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (86%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); STOCK OFFERINGS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); PHARMACEUTICALS TRADE (74%); PHARMACEUTICALS WHOLESALERS (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); MUTUAL FUNDS (71%); PRIVATE EQUITY (71%); TEXTILES (69%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (66%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (65%); SENIOR CITIZENS (62%); PRICE INCREASES (60%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MCKESSON CORP (84%); GREY GLOBAL GROUP INC (66%); WALT DISNEY CO (63%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (58%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (57%); AMAZON.COM INC (57%); INVESCO LTD (55%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%); WPP PLC (54%); HAVAS SA (54%); HELLMAN & FRIEDMAN LLC (53%)

TICKER: MCK (NYSE) (84%); DIS (NYSE) (63%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (58%); CSGN (SWX) (57%); CS (NYSE) (57%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (57%); IVZ (NYSE) (55%); WPPGY (NASDAQ) (54%); WPP (LSE) (54%); HAV (PAR) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (84%); NAICS424210 DRUGS & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (84%); NAICS423450 MEDICAL, DENTAL & HOSPITAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (84%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (66%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (66%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (63%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (63%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (63%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (63%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (57%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (54%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (54%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (54%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (54%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (90%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2004



198 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1285 words

HEADLINE: EX-BANKING STAR GIVEN 18 MONTHS FOR OBSTRUCTION

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

 BODY:
Frank P. Quattrone, the Wall Street banker whose pay and deals made him a vivid symbol of the 1990's technology boom, was sentenced to 18 months in prison yesterday for obstructing a government investigation into the allocation of hot stock offerings.
 Mr. Quattrone, 48, who led the initial offerings of companies like Amazon.com and Cisco Systems as a banker at Credit Suisse First Boston, is the most prominent Wall Street figure to face prison since Michael R. Milken pleaded guilty to six securities charges in 1990.
 Judge Richard Owen of Federal District Court in Manhattan handed down a harsher prison sentence than the 10 to 16 months stipulated by basic federal guidelines, finding that Mr. Quattrone perjured himself when he took the witness stand during his trial and said under oath that he had not intended to impede the government's investigation when he sent a one-line e-mail message at the heart of the case. 
 ''It is crystal clear that he was untruthful,'' Judge Owen said yesterday.
 Mr. Quattrone, who made $120 million in 2000, was perhaps the most prominent banker in Silicon Valley during the 1990's, assembling a team that brought public many of the biggest names in technology. After that success and the bursting of the technology bubble, Mr. Quattrone and First Boston came under the microscope of regulators and prosecutors, who began investigating whether the bank was soliciting kickbacks from preferred investors, later dubbed Friends of Frank, in exchange for access to hot stock offerings.
 While that inquiry did not lead to criminal charges, Mr. Quattrone was charged with hampering the investigations when he endorsed a colleague's e-mail message in December 2000 urging his staff to ''clean up those files.'' Mr. Quattrone's first trial ended in a hung jury, but he was convicted at a retrial.
 Judge Owen refused Mr. Quattrone's request to remain free while he appealed the case. Mr. Quattrone must surrender to federal prison authorities within 50 days. The judge also fined him $90,300 and initially asked him to make the payment immediately. ''There's $50 million in the bank,'' Judge Owen said. ''He can't write a check today?'' 
 He then acquiesced to requests by Mr. Quattrone's lawyers to pay the fine within 20 days. 
 Mr. Quattrone's sentence, which includes two years of probation, stands in stark contrast to the one recently given to Martha Stewart, who was also convicted of obstruction of justice. In that case, Judge Miriam Goldman Cedarbaum sentenced Ms. Stewart to five months in prison, plus five months of home confinement. Ms. Stewart was also allowed to remain free pending appeal.
 The Bureau of Prisons had recommended in its presentencing report that Mr. Quattrone receive the same sentence as Ms. Stewart.
 Robert G. Morvillo, who is Ms. Stewart's lawyer, said yesterday that Mr. Quattrone's sentence was too severe. ''Is it a reasonable sentence?'' Mr. Morvillo asked. ''You won't find a defense attorney in town who thinks this is reasonable. The idea that Judge Owen jumped the sentence just continues the defense bar view that he is overly harsh.''
 Judge Owen, an appointee of President Richard M. Nixon, has long had a reputation among defense lawyers of favoring prosecutors, and the sentencing of Mr. Quattrone capped nearly a year of dueling between his lawyers and the judge that often included heated exchanges in court.
 At one point yesterday, Mr. Quattrone's trial lawyer, John W. Keker, a former prosecutor of Oliver L. North during the Iran-contra trial, told the judge he thought he was being strung along while making his argument for leniency. 
 ''If you've made up your mind on this, just tell me,'' Mr. Keker said. At another point, in which Mr. Keker cited the hung jury in the first trial and asserted there were grounds for appeal because the case was so close, Judge Owen blurted out: ''I don't agree with you that this was a close case.''
 Mr. Quattrone's appeal will be based in large part on several rulings Judge Owen made that barred him from introducing evidence that may have been helpful to his case.
 The clash continued in court yesterday and spilled into the street after the hearing, with Mr. Quattrone's lawyers standing in pelting rain accusing Judge Owen of an unfair trial.
 ''Cases like this are why we have courts of appeals,'' said Mark F. Pomerantz, a partner at Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison in Manhattan who will lead Mr. Quattrone's appeal. ''The defense was forced to try its case from the inside of a straitjacket.''
 ''The trial judge kept out critical evidence offered by the defense,'' said Mr. Pomerantz, who represented Dr. Samuel D. Waksal, the founder of ImClone Systems Inc., who pleaded guilty to insider trading. ''And although the judge tied the hands of the defense, he gave the government free rein to put in irrelevant but prejudicial evidence.''
 Before he was sentenced, Mr. Quattrone addressed the judge, saying: ''I humbly ask that you show mercy and compassion for me and my family, for whom any separation from me would be extremely detrimental.''
 But the judge denied his request, and Mr. Quattrone's legal team and friends sitting in court were enraged when Judge Owen then appeared to gratuitously make public the medical problems of Mr. Quattrone's 15-year-old daughter, Cristina, questioning the severity of claims from doctors who submitted records that she has a medical disorder. Mr. Quattrone's lawyers had asked that the medical records of the family remain sealed.
 Judge Owen also dismissed arguments from Mr. Quattrone's lawyers that he should receive a lenient sentence because his wife has a chronic illness that makes him the ''only functioning adult'' in the household. 
 ''There's $50 million of assets out there to take care of Mrs. Quattrone and $26 million to take care of Cristina in some trust fund,'' Judge Owen said. Reading from Mrs. Quattrone's medical records, Judge Owen added, ''It says here she can drive under limited conditions.''
 Judge Owen's decision to depart from the basic federal guidelines and give Mr. Quattrone a tougher sentence raises questions about whether it will be upheld. In a case from Washington State in June, the Supreme Court ruled that the state's judicial system, which allowed judges to increase a convicted defendant's sentence beyond the ordinary range for the crime, violated the constitutional right to trial by jury. While the ruling only applies to Washington State, the decision -- Blakely v. Washington -- is being watched by federal judges nationwide, and many have stuck to the guidelines, worried that their sentences will be overturned. The Supreme Court has agreed to rule on the constitutionality of the guidelines for federal criminal sentences this fall. 
 ''Given that the Blakely case is still out there, to do an upward departure, this is a judge who is thumbing his nose at Blakely,'' said John J. Fahy, a former federal prosecutor who practices law in New Jersey. 
 Some defense lawyers contended the sentence might help Mr. Quattrone's appeal. ''It plays into the defense claim of unfair treatment on the part of Judge Owen,'' said Robert A. Mintz, a former federal prosecutor and a partner at McCarter & English.
 Judge Owen agreed to a request from Mr. Quattrone's lawyers that he be assigned to Lompoc Federal Prison Camp in California, which is a minimum-security prison northwest of Los Angeles where Ivan F. Boesky was once an inmate.
 As he left the courthouse, Mr. Quattrone said: ''To my family in California, Dad is coming home soon, and I love you. And I can hold my head high because I know I'm innocent and I never intended to obstruct justice.''


CORRECTION-DATE: September 28, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A chart in Business Day yesterday showing prominent Wall Street insiders who were sentenced to prison misstated the given name of the founder of First Jersey Securities and the charges on which he was convicted. He is Robert E. Brennan, not Richard. He was convicted of money laundering and bankruptcy fraud, not securities fraud.
 The chart also misstated the amount that Michael R. Milken was fined in a 1990 securities case. It was $200 million, not $600 million. Mr. Milken also paid $400 million in civil restitution to the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
Because of an editing error, a front-page article on Sept. 9 about the sentencing of Frank P. Quattrone, the former Credit Suisse First Boston investment banker, on charges of obstruction of justice referred incorrectly to the investors at the center of an investigation into possible kickbacks at First Boston. They were primarily hedge fund investors -- not clients of Mr. Quattrone, who became known as ''Friends of Frank,'' who were said to have been allocated stock offerings in the 1990's in return for investment banking business.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Frank P. Quattrone, left, leaves federal court in Manhattan yesterday with his lawyer, John Keker, after his sentencing. (Photo by Daniel Acker/Bloomberg News)
(Photo by Wide World Photos)
(Photo by Associated Press)
 (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. C2)Chart: ''Breaking the Law, Paying a Price''Frank P. Quattrone is one of the most prominent Wall Street insiders to be sentenced to prison. Here are others.Richard WhitneyRichard Whitney & CompanyFormer president, New York Stock Exchange, 1930-35Admitted stealing money from customers' accounts.Served 40 months in Sing Sing and was released in Aug. 1941.Ivan F. BoeskyWall Street arbitragerPleaded guilty to insider trading.Served 2 years and was released in April 1990. He also paid a $100 million fine.Michael R. MilkenDrexel Burnham LambertPleaded guilty to securities fraud stemming from his manipulation of the junk bond market that he created.Served 22 months and was released in Jan. 1993. Also paid a $600 million fine.Richard E. BrennanFirst Jersey Securities, a company that sold penny stocksConvicted of money laundering and securities fraud.Currently serving a sentence of 9 years and 2 months. Has also been fined $4.6 million.(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SENTENCING (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); PRISONS (89%); STOCK OFFERINGS (89%); JURY TRIALS (78%); CRIMINAL FINES (78%); GUILTY PLEAS (78%); ALTERNATIVE SENTENCING (78%); HOUSE ARREST (78%); VERDICTS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); BONDS (78%); PROBATION (78%); JUDGES (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); WITNESSES (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); BRIBERY (75%); MISTRIAL (75%); ETHICS (74%); LAWYERS (74%); APPEALS (61%) Sentences (Criminal); Accounting and Accountants; Ethics; Frauds and Swindling; Securities and Commodities Violations; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (58%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (58%); AMAZON.COM INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Credit Suisse First Boston; Credit Suisse First Boston; Credit Suisse First Boston

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (58%); CS (NYSE) (58%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (58%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (58%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (58%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (58%)

PERSON: MARTHA STEWART (57%) Andrew Ross Sorkin; Frank P Quattrone; Michael R Milken

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2004



199 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 336 words

HEADLINE: University of Michigan Gets a $100 Million Gift

BYLINE: By GREG WINTER

 BODY:
The University of Michigan has received its largest gift ever, $100 million, from a New York real estate magnate. 
 The donor is Stephen M. Ross, the chairman of the Related Companies, which built the $1.7 billion Time Warner Center on Columbus Circle. Mr. Ross is now working to bring the Olympics to New York in 2012. 
 Mr. Ross, a native of Detroit and a Michigan graduate, said he gave the money to establish what he hoped would become the nation's ''best business school,'' anchored by an ''iconic, modern building'' on Michigan's campus. The university described the gift as the largest ever given to a business school, giving ample reason for the school to bear Mr. Ross's name.
 ''Naming is in perpetuity, so you only get to do this once,'' said Robert J. Dolan, dean of the business school. ''That's why it's such a large gift.'' The official announcement of the gift is scheduled for Thursday.
 Tufts University said Wednesday that it had also received its largest donation ever, $50 million from the Cummings Foundation, to support its veterinary school. The foundation was started by William and Joyce Cummings, a Massachusetts real estate developer and his wife.
 Some university officials cautioned against interpreting the two milestones as a sign that university fund-raising was particularly strong nationwide. 
 ''It's always hard to look out and say, 'Does this reflect anything about the economy or gifts as a whole?''' said Lawrence S. Bacow, the president of Tufts. ''Gifts of this magnitude are long in the making.''
 Even so, some indicators show that gift-giving, including to colleges and universities, has gathered momentum this year. According to the Center on Philanthropy at Indiana University, the number of donations valued at $1 million or more rose to 351 in the second quarter of 2004, a 33 percent increase from the same period last year and a 35 percent increase from the first quarter of this year. More than half of those donations, moreover, supported higher education. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAJOR GIFTS (91%); GRANTS & GIFTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); FOUNDATIONS (89%); PHILANTHROPY (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); CHARITIES (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (73%) Colleges and Universities; Business Schools; Veterinary Medicine; Philanthropy

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (94%) Tufts University; Related Companies; Ross, Stephen M; Cummings Foundation; University of Michigan

PERSON: Greg Winter

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (97%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2004



200 of 642 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1524 words

HEADLINE: Effort to Renew Weapons Ban Falters on Hill

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 8 

 BODY:
Despite widespread popular support, the federal law banning the sale of 19 kinds of semiautomatic assault weapons is almost certain to expire on Monday, the result of intense lobbying by the National Rifle Association and the complicated election-year politics of Washington.
 While President Bush has expressed support for legislation extending the ban and has said he would sign it into law, he has not pressured lawmakers to act, leading critics to accuse him of trying to have it both ways. 
 Efforts to renew the ban, which polls show is supported by at least two-thirds of Americans, have faltered this year on Capitol Hill. Democrats are well aware that they lost control of the House of Representatives in 1994, the year President Bill Clinton signed the original legislation, and have shied away from the issue of gun control, while Republican leaders have opposed the ban.
 ''I think the will of the American people is consistent with letting it expire, so it will expire,'' Senator Bill Frist of Tennessee, the majority leader, said on Wednesday. 
 The House majority leader, Representative Tom DeLay of Texas, dismissed the ban as ''a feel-good piece of legislation'' and said flatly that it would expire Monday, even if Mr. Bush made an effort to renew it.
 ''If the president asked me, it would still be no,'' Mr. DeLay said. ''He knows, because we don't have the votes to pass the assault weapons ban. It will expire Monday, and that's that.''
 Democrats decried the influence of the rifle association and said the ban could be renewed if the president wanted it to. 
 ''If you support something, you have a responsibility to advocate for it,'' said Senator Dianne Feinstein, the California Democrat and chief sponsor of the ban's renewal.
 Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, who was a lead sponsor of the ban 10 years ago when he was in the House, blamed ''a dysfunction of our politics'' for what he called "this Alice in Wonderland situation of repealing a law that everyone agrees has been overwhelmingly successful.''
 The act prohibits, by name, the sale of 19 specific weapons that have the features of guns used by the military, and also outlaws magazines that can hold more than 10 rounds of ammunition. While backers acknowledge that the law is riddled with loopholes, they cite federal statistics showing crimes traceable to assault weapons have declined by two-thirds since the law went into effect. 
 But the N.R.A., which has made overturning the ban its top legislative priority, says the law bans only ''cosmetic accessories'' on guns, and does little other than place a burden on gun manufacturers. ''We felt from the very start it was bogus legislation,'' Wayne LaPierre, the association's chief executive, said. 
 On Wednesday, in a last-ditch effort to persuade lawmakers to renew the law, supporters of the ban -- including police chiefs from around the country and victims of gun violence and their relatives -- converged on Washington for a news conference.
 Tom Mauser, whose 15-year-old son, Daniel, was killed in the 1999 massacre at Columbine High School in Colorado, arrived wearing his son's sneakers and took them off while addressing reporters, a pointed physical reminder of his loss.
 James S. Brady, the former White House press secretary who suffered brain damage after being shot in the head by a handgun during the 1981 assassination attempt on President Ronald Reagan, sat, mostly silent, in a wheelchair.
 ''The assault weapons are coming, they're coming next week,'' warned Mr. Brady's wife, Sarah, who has been a vocal advocate for restrictions on gun ownership for the past two decades. 
 Noting that Mr. Reagan had supported the weapons ban in 1994, Mrs. Brady said she felt deserted by the party she and her husband had worked so hard for. ''I am angry,'' she said. ''I am angry at our president. I'm so disappointed.'' 
 The White House press secretary, Scott McClellan, repeated on Wednesday that ''the president supports the reauthorization of the current law.'' But when asked by reporters what, if anything, Mr. Bush was doing to make that happen, Mr. McClellan replied: ''The president doesn't set the Congressional timetable. Congress sets the timetable. And the president's views are very clear.''
 Democrats hit hard at Mr. Bush. ''We cry out for leadership,'' said Senator Schumer, adding that, ''The president talks about flip-flops. Well, flip: I'm for it. Flop: House, don't do anything, don't pass it.''
 The Democratic presidential nominee, Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts, supports renewing the ban, and took a break from campaigning earlier this year to return to the Senate when it came up for a vote as part of a broader piece of gun legislation. Fifty-two senators voted in favor of renewing the ban, but the underlying measure was defeated. 
 On Wednesday, a senior adviser to Mr. Kerry, Joe Lockhart, signaled that the ban would become a campaign issue. He said that Mr. Kerry planned to discuss the ban Monday, at an event timed to coincide with its expiration. Mr. Kerry, he said, ''believes the cynical deal between the president and the House Republican leadership, hiding behind procedure, is completely unacceptable.''
 A poll released this week by the Annenberg Public Policy Center of the University of Pennsylvania found that 68 percent of Americans -- and 32 percent of N.R.A. members -- support renewing the ban. The findings, drawn from interviews with 4,959 adults, had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus one percentage point.
 A separate national survey, conducted by Doug Schoen, a Democratic pollster, on behalf of the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence, found that 74 percent of voters support renewing the ban, but that support is highest -- 79 percent -- among independent voters who are being courted by President Bush and Mr. Kerry. That survey of 800 voters had a margin of error of three percentage points. 
 Mr. Schoen, who is not advising the Kerry campaign, also surveyed voters in the swing states of Ohio, Florida and Pennsylvania and concluded that support for the ban was high enough to make it a significant issue. ''If Kerry wants to distinguish his position from Bush, this provides a very convenient vehicle,'' he said.
 But over all, Democrats have not talked much about the weapons ban. Senator Patty Murray, the Washington Democrat who is in a tough re-election fight, said voters, unaware that the ban was set to expire, had not made it an issue, and that neither had she.
 ''There are so many issues, education and health care and jobs and the economy in my state right now,'' Ms. Murray said. ''People are really focused on that.'' 
 And over the years the ban has been a losing issue for Democrats. After Republicans took control of the House in 1994, President Clinton remarked that the ban might have cost Democrats 20 seats. Some believe that former Vice President Al Gore lost crucial states, including his home state, Tennessee, in the 2000 election because he came out too strongly for gun control.
 Even the ban's chief Democratic backers in Congress, Senator Feinstein and Representative Carolyn McCarthy of New York, acknowledged that Democrats were afraid to be too vocal in their support. ''In the small states in particular, and the rural states, the control of the N.R.A. is much greater,'' said Ms. Feinstein, adding, They will specifically target a member, including a House member, and go after them.''
 The N.R.A. has also said it will not endorse a candidate for president until after Congress recesses for the fall election, a pronouncement that the ban's backers say is tantamount to a threat not to endorse Mr. Bush until the ban expires. Mr. LaPierre said the claim was ''100 percent untrue.'' But he blamed Democrats for the bill's undoing, saying they had tried, unwisely, to use it to gain political advantage when Mr. Clinton was president.
 ''I guess you could say politics is what enacted it in the first place,'' he said. ''Politics is going to be the undoing of it.'' 
 On Wednesday, as the police chiefs and victims' relatives fanned out across Capitol Hill to lobby lawmakers, a chief target was the House speaker, Representative J. Dennis Hastert of Illinois. In recent weeks, advocates for the ban have been approaching Mr. Hastert at bookstores around the country, where he has been signing copies of his new autobiography, ''Speaker.'' 
 Several, including Mr. Mauser, said that Mr. Hastert seemed supportive. ''He said yes, I support that,'' said Penny Okamoto, who said she saw Mr. Hastert on Aug. 16 at a Barnes & Noble store in Beaverton, Ore. ''I was so surprised, I actually asked him twice.''
 But on Wednesday, the speaker was noncommittal, saying that if the Senate was to adopt the bill, ''then we'll take a look at it.''
 Mr. Mauser said he was not satisfied with that, and would knock on Mr. Hastert's door on Thursday. He said that he had already spoken with an aide to his own congressman, Representative Tom Tancredo, a Republican who opposes the ban, and that the meeting did not go well.
 ''It ended on a pretty bad note,'' Mr. Mauser said. ''Not even a shake of the hand.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Tom Mauser yesterday held the shoes his son, Daniel, wore during the Columbine High School shootings that claimed his life in 1999. (Photo by Carol T. Powers for The New York Times)(pg. A30) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIREARMS (91%); LEGISLATION (91%); LOBBYING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); GUN CONTROL (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%) Firearms; Gun Control ; Law and Legislation; Lobbying and Lobbyists; Firearms; Election Issues ; Presidential Election of 2004; Firearms

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RIFLE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (91%) National Rifle Assn

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); BILL CLINTON (78%); DIANNE FEINSTEIN (77%); CHARLES SCHUMER (57%) Sheryl Gay Stolberg; George W (Pres) Bush; Tom (Rep) Delay; Dianne (Sen) Feinstein; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) United States

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2004

 
