

401 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1391 words

HEADLINE: Cutting Dosage Of Costly Drug Spurs a Debate

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

 BODY:
When a drug can cost more than $300,000 a year, the right dose becomes a matter of public debate. 
 The drug in question, Cerezyme, is used to treat a rare inherited enzyme deficiency called Gaucher disease. Some experts say that for most patients, as little as one-fourth the standard top dose would work, saving the health care system more than $200,000 a year per Gaucher patient. 
 ''It is economic malpractice to give a much higher dose of an expensive drug than is required,'' said Dr. Ernest Beutler, an authority on Gaucher disease at the Scripps Research Institute. 
 Some other Gaucher specialists argue otherwise, saying that skimping on the medicine could endanger patients. 
 But all sides agree on one thing. ''Nobody would even be wasting their time talking about this if it were a cheap drug,'' said Dr. Neal J. Weinreb, a Coral Springs, Fla., specialist in Gaucher (pronounced go-SHAY). 
 In that sense, the dispute over Cerezyme could be a sign of the increased scrutiny that dosing will receive as drugs become more expensive. Pharmaceutical companies have faced complaints for years over prices, but now they might have to defuse efforts to use less of their drugs to cut costs, and to rebut accusations that doses are inflated to bolster profits. 
 There are also economic and social questions about how much burden taxpayers and co-workers should be expected to bear; ultra-expensive drugs, especially in full doses, can raise the cost of everyone's insurance. 
 With Cerezyme, which is made by Genzyme, the profits are sizable. Gaucher disease, which can have complications like ruined joints, is rare; only about 1,500 people in the United States are on the drug and about 5,000 worldwide. Sales of Cerezyme totaled $1.1 billion last year, making it a blockbuster by industry standards. 
 Genzyme is not the only company feeling some pressure. Some lung cancer doctors are using only half the approved dose of Genentech's drug Avastin, after a recent study suggested the half-dose might be as effective as the full one, which can cost $100,000 a year. 
 In a letter to The Journal of Clinical Oncology last September, Dr. Ian E. Haines of Monash University in Australia argued that the doses of all three Genentech cancer drugs -- Herceptin, Rituxan and Avastin -- appeared to be higher than necessary, perhaps to bolster sales. 
 Dr. David P. Schenkein, a Genentech executive, said the doses were chosen solely for maximum effectiveness in fighting cancer. 
 Scientists reported last year that a two-hour infusion of Schering-Plough's anticlotting drug Integrilin worked just as well for some patients as the standard 18-hour infusion, saving hundreds of dollars per treatment. 
 And doctors are sharply reducing their use of anemia drugs sold by Amgen and Johnson & Johnson. While the cutbacks are mainly for safety reasons, the drugs' multibillion-dollar cost to Medicare intensified scrutiny of the products. 
 In the case of Genzyme's Cerezyme, higher doses are not harmful. It is only a question of how much of the drug is needed, given the cost. 
 Some experts say that patients who are given too little of the drug could suffer from the complications, which can occur without much warning. 
 ''The risk is taken by the patient,'' said Dr. Gregory Pastores, a Gaucher expert at New York University who tries to use a moderate dose. 
 Tina Chavers, 38, of Pensacola, Fla., said she wondered whether higher doses might have saved her hips, which were replaced a few years ago. 
 ''There was no indication to tell us that I was going to lose my bones,'' she said. ''We just really thought my disease was very controlled.''
 But a contrasting story is told by Carmie Stein of Akron, Ohio, who took the drug for 11 years until she switched doctors about four years ago. The new doctor said her condition was so mild that she did not need treatment.
 ''I really felt cheated,'' Ms. Stein said of the years she took the drug, perhaps unnecessarily. Ms. Stein, a fitness buff, said she had felt healthier and more energetic since she stopped taking the drug.
 Gaucher disease is an inherited deficiency of an enzyme the body needs to break down fats. The disease can cause vastly enlarged livers and spleens, anemia, low platelet counts, and bone pain and deterioration. Cerezyme is a synthetic version of the missing enzyme.
 Genzyme, which became a leading biotechnology company because of Cerezyme, says that it has raised the price only once -- 3 percent last year -- since introducing the drug in 1994. The company says it needs the high price to make a sustainable business of serving such a small number of patients and to pay for research on new products. Genzyme also says it provides the drug free, if necessary, so that no one goes without the product because of its cost. 
 But critics say the company's development costs were minimal, because the early work on the treatment was done by the National Institutes of Health, which gave Genzyme a contract to manufacture it. And analysts estimate the current cost of manufacturing the drug to be only about 10 percent of its price.
 Insurers generally cover the drug because there are so few patients. But finding or staying on insurance can be difficult. 
 After Mitch and Jeannie Ware's two daughters were found to have Gaucher, for example, the couple could not find private insurance. So the family had to move from Florida to Alabama in 2006, so Ms. Ware could take a job with a school system that provided insurance. 
 ''Her job is worth three quarters of a million dollars'' a year, Mr. Ware said. 
 The standard Cerezyme dose -- an infusion of 60 units of the drug per kilogram of body weight every two weeks -- was set in a clinical trial involving only 12 patients. Based on that trial, Ceredase, a nearly identical predecessor drug, was approved in 1991. Cerezyme, the same enzyme made differently, replaced it starting in 1994. 
 Dr. Beutler of Scripps said that it was reasonable to use a high dose in the initial trial to prove the drug worked. But after that, he said, ''the reasonable thing was to cut back and see what you really need. It didn't fit Genzyme's business plan, so they never cut back.''
 Dr. David Meeker, the president of the Genzyme division that sells Cerezyme, said the company thought doctors should determine doses specific to each patient. So there was no point in doing a clinical trial comparing different doses. 
 ''Showing that 6 out of 10 got by with a certain dose doesn't help us,'' he said. 
 According to Genzyme, the average dose in the United States is 51 units per kilogram every two weeks. At that dose, it costs about $350,000 a year to treat an adult weighing 70 kilograms, or 154 pounds. 
 But the worldwide average, even factoring in United States patients, is 34 units. And in Israel, the standard dose is 15 units per kilogram every two weeks. 
 ''Patients are doing just as well on a treatment that is 75 percent less expensive,'' said Dr. Ari Zimran, an Israeli Gaucher expert. 
 A study in the journal Blood in 2006 compared patients in the Netherlands, where a low dose is used, to those in Germany, where a high dose is typical. In the usual measures of disease severity -- liver and spleen size and blood counts -- there was no difference between the groups. But the German patients did better in two indirect indices of bone health. 
 Dr. Pramod Mistry, a Gaucher expert at Yale who receives some research funding from Genzyme, said he was caring for some of Dr. Beutler's former patients who had become ''very, very sick'' because of under-treatment. 
 One of them, Shauna Mangum, of Farmington, N.M., said she lived with pain after Dr. Beutler told her in 1994 that she did not need treatment. Now she is taking a high dose and says she can run five-kilometer races and play soccer with her children. 
 Dr. Beutler, who at age 79 no longer treats patients, said that Ms. Mangum's case was mild when he saw her but might have worsened later. 
 Ms. Mangum began treatment in 2000, at a cost of more than $400,000 a year. The next year, the premiums for everyone in her insurance pool went up by $180 a month.
 Dr. Mistry says patients are already under too much pressure to reduce their doses. ''They have a tremendous sense of guilt,'' he said, ''that they are such a burden on society.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: After Gaucher disease, an enzyme deficiency, was diagnosed in Hannah, left, and Brianne, their family moved so their mother, Jeannie Ware, could find insurance to cover the drug Cerezyme. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GARY TRAMONTINA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); GENETIC DISEASES (89%); CANCER DRUGS (89%); CANCER (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (88%); ONCOLOGY (77%); HEALTH CARE (77%); SCIENCE FUNDING (77%); ENZYMES (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (75%); SCIENCE NEWS (73%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); ANTICOAGULANTS (73%); ANEMIA (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); LUNG CANCER (62%)

COMPANY: GENENTECH INC (85%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (60%); AMGEN INC (58%); GENZYME CORP (54%)

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (60%); AMGN (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); AUSTRALIA (69%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2008



402 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1293 words

HEADLINE: THE WRONG WAR

BYLINE: By DAVID RIEFF. 
DAVID RIEFF IS THE AUTHOR, MOST RECENTLY, OF ''SWIMMING IN A SEA OF DEATH: A SON'S MEMOIR.''

 BODY:
MARCHING TOWARD HELL 
 America and Islam After Iraq. 
 By Michael Scheuer. 
 364 pp. Free Press. $27. 
 Despite his many lapses and limitations -- above all, his tendency to see any other viewpoint as a product of cowardice, stupidity, venality or insufficient loyalty to the United States -- Michael Scheuer made significant contributions to the post-9/11 debate with his first two books. In ''Imperial Hubris: Why the West Is Losing the War on Terror,'' which he wrote anonymously while still serving as a C.I.A. officer, Scheuer anatomized Al Qaeda and the threat it posed. His earlier book, ''Through Our Enemies' Eyes: Osama bin Laden, Radical Islam, and the Future of America,'' was more of a harangue. Nonetheless, it offered insights into bin Laden's motivations as well as the context of the Islamic world in which he operated. 
 Above all, Scheuer argued -- incontrovertibly though by no means as originally as he claimed -- that successive American administrations had gravely underestimated the jihadist threat. Scheuer spoke with authority, having begun his career with the C.I.A.'s covert operation to arm the Afghan mujahedeen in their fight against the Soviet occupation; he ended it as the head of the agency's unit charged with pursuing and eliminating Osama bin Laden. While his books are not by themselves sufficient to understand bin Laden -- Scheuer has neither the evocative skills of Peter Bergen and Lawrence Wright, nor their calm ability to contextualize a narrative -- they contributed greatly to that understanding. 
 Unfortunately, Scheuer's new book, ''Marching Toward Hell,'' grandiloquently and somewhat misleadingly subtitled ''America and Islam After Iraq,'' has all the weaknesses of his earlier works with almost none of their strengths. Scheuer appears to be frustrated by the fact that his analysis was not adopted by the Bush administration. Instead of thinking that this was due to honest disagreements or to legitimate policy constraints, Scheuer believes that darker forces are at play -- stupidity at best, but possibly even treason, a charge Scheuer stops just short of making against the neoconservatives on a number of occasions. 
 ''I argued in both books,'' he writes, ''that there was no inherent reason why U.S. presidents and others in the American governing elite could honestly misunderstand the motivations of our Islamist enemies and the centrality of U.S. foreign policy to that motivation and to mobilizing support for the Islamists in the modern world.'' 
 From that entirely defensible contention Scheuer makes the astonishing leap to the view that America was betrayed by virtually the entire American policy elite -- from the neoconservatives (who, he believes, are more loyal to Israel than to the United States) to George Soros, from the Bush administration and Senator John McCain to the 9/11 Commission, not to mention the Rev. Franklin Graham and Hillary Clinton. And yet that is Scheuer's claim -- one he fails to back up, let alone demonstrate conclusively. At times, he seems apprehensive about the effect his jeremiad may have on his readers. ''I am the first to admit,'' he concedes, ''that this book is eclectic, impressionistic and at times idiosyncratic.'' 
 If only that were its only problems. But in his anger and scorn, Scheuer takes his readers on a breathless ride across what for him is an apocalyptic landscape peopled by venal bureaucrats, craven politicians (Bill Clinton the one-world pseudo-European; George W. Bush the inept conventional thinker), closet Zionists and liberal internationalists (Clinton again, but also Amnesty International and other humanitarian organizations). Only the courageous if routinely traduced men and women of the intelligence services and the military, and a few courageous, lonely voices like himself, are still carrying on the good fight. These frontline warriors may have scored tactical victories, but for Scheuer the result of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan has been a continuing strategic disaster. 
 The reason that America is losing and losing badly, Scheuer insists, is the internationalism, Wilsonianism, one-worldism -- Scheuer uses all these terms as epithets -- that have infected the policy elite. For him, the interventions in Iraq and Afghanistan were inspired by the missionary urge to undertake democracy-building, not the cold pursuit of American interests, which pursuit Scheuer, seemingly deaf to its historical echoes, calls in one of his concluding chapters ''America First.'' 
 This does not mean that Scheuer is for America standing down from the war against the jihadists. To the contrary, he believes that the United States must stop supporting Israel and Saudi Arabia but at the same time fight a far more savage war against bin Laden and his ilk. Here Scheuer really does surrender any claim to being taken seriously. 
 For his prescriptions are the stuff of fulminant talk radio. He would deploy the American military along the Mexican border and, failing that, encourage governors to deploy the National Guard. Meanwhile, the war against the jihadists must be ratcheted up. ''The force we will have to employ,'' Scheuer writes, ''will be far in excess of anything most Americans have seen in their lifetimes, as will be the resulting casualties and physical damage.'' Since many living Americans saw Hiroshima and Nagasaki, not to mention the saturation bombing of North Vietnamese cities, in their lifetimes, one shudders to imagine what Scheuer may have in mind when he uses the words ''far in excess.''
 Of course, he never says exactly what he has in mind, but what can something far in excess of nuclear weapons, large-scale bombing and the dropping of toxic chemical defoliants consist of? And while Scheuer fancies his ruthlessness to be Machiavellian realism, his arguments -- innocent as they are of any economic considerations other than America's dependence on fossil fuels -- are pure militarist utopianism. It is as if Scheuer could wish away the fact that the United States exists in a global economic system from which, for all the protectionist hysteria, the country remains a net beneficiary and that would be destroyed by the war he seems so fervently to desire. 
 Presumably, Scheuer would argue that in calling for the United States to jettison its commitments to Israel and to repressive Arab regimes like Saudi Arabia while pursuing a savage war against Al Qaeda, he has shown that he understands war is a continuation of politics by other means. But in fact, he has missed the point of Clausewitz's famous dictum, which, in the context of the struggle against the jihadists, is that a war that destroys the world economy is not a war worth fighting. Perhaps if Scheuer had studied the cold war a little more carefully -- rather than formulaically praising Ronald Reagan and denouncing all his successors for their complacency and lack of vision -- he would have understood that often the best way to use the military is not to employ maximum force, and that to understand this is neither cowardice nor venality nor lack of imagination, but realism. 
 ''Marching Toward Hell'' is an enormously crude, reductionist account of the challenges posed by the jihadists, and as such, difficult to take seriously. Scheuer knows a great deal about Osama bin Laden, a fair bit about jihadism, something about Islam. But his view is extraordinarily narrow. Doubtless this was no impediment when he was running the bin Laden unit at the C.I.A., but it makes his large geostrategic assertions (let alone his bluff, complexity-free assertions about American history and the essential nature of the Republic) largely worthless. He flatters himself that he is a modern-day Patrick Henry. He's mistaken. 

CORRECTION-DATE: March 30, 2008

 CORRECTION:
A review on March 16 about ''Marching Toward Hell,'' by Michael Scheuer, referred incorrectly to Scheuer's tenure with the C.I.A. unit charged with pursuing Osama bin Laden. He was the unit's head from 1996 to 1999 and acted as special adviser to its chief from September 2001 to November 2004, the year he retired from the agency; he did not end his career as head of the unit.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: AN ANTI-U.S. DEMONSTRATION IN IRAQ THIS YEAR.(PHOTOGRAPH BY WISSAM AL-OKAILI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); RELIGION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); TREASON (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (57%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%); GEORGE SOROS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%)

TITLE: Marching Toward Hell (Book)>; Marching Toward Hell (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2008



403 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; BACKDROP; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1057 words

HEADLINE: Measuring Wealth By the Foot

BYLINE: By PATRICIA KRANZ

 BODY:
IN a shipyard in Germany, Blohm & Voss workers are building a mammoth yacht called the Eclipse.
 Like many things in the secretive world of superyachts, its exact length is hard to pin down. So is the name of its owner, and the cost of building it.
 But according to the Web site of The Yacht Report, one of several publications that track yachting with the same intensity that gossip magazines cover Hollywood hunks, the Eclipse is 531.5 feet long. 
 That's six and a half feet longer than the Dubai, an 11,600-ton behemoth that now holds the record as the world's largest yacht. Its owner is the ruler of Dubai, Sheik Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum. 
 The extra length on the Eclipse isn't an accident. Supersized yachts are the latest examples of one-upmanship among billionaires, many of whom already own a private jet, a Rolls-Royce or two, and multiple mansions. 
 Despite fear of an economic recession and unrelenting job pressures among those who remain yachtless, there's still a lot of money floating around the world. And as the superrich get richer, the size of yachts grows bigger and bigger, too. 
 ''When a yacht is over 328 feet, it's so big that you lose the intimacy,'' says Tork Buckley, editor of The Yacht Report. ''On the other hand, you've got bragging rights. No question, that's a very strong part of the motivation.''
 Who will be the one to wrest bragging rights from the sheik? Blohm & Voss, a leading shipbuilder, isn't saying. According to an executive at a different yacht company, who requested anonymity because he was concerned about losing clients, it is being built for Roman Abramovich, a Russian tycoon. 
 Mr. Abramovich already owns the 282-foot Ecstasea and the 377-foot Pelorus, and Web sites that track yachts speculate that he may be the owner of a new 394-foot yacht called Sigma that resembles a battleship. A spokesman for Mr. Abramovich declined to comment.
 Just four years ago, when Lawrence J. Ellison, the chief executive of the Oracle Corporation, took possession of the 454-foot Rising Sun, he gained crowing rights over Paul Allen, the Microsoft co-founder. Mr. Allen's yacht, the Octopus, is relatively minuscule at 417 feet. (Since then, David Geffen, the Hollywood mogul, has bought a 50 percent share of the Rising Sun from Mr. Ellison.)
 Many yacht owners are entrepreneurs or industrialists, rather than royalty or bold-faced names from Silicon Valley, according to yacht designers and builders. ''One of my clients is a woman who started her own business and ended up making cocktail-type quiches sold through Costco and Wal-Mart,'' said Douglas Sharp, who owns a yacht design company in San Diego.
 Like Mr. Abramovich, a growing number of yacht buyers are from emerging markets. ''There's an incredible amount of disposable money in the world at the moment, and a lot of money is coming out of new markets like Russia and Ukraine, as well as India,'' says Jonathan Beckett, chief executive of Burgess, a company that helps owners build and charter yachts. ''These people have made a lot of money very quickly and have an appetite.''
 According to ShowBoats International, a luxury yacht magazine, 916 yachts measuring 80 feet or longer -- the traditional definition of a superyacht -- were on order or under construction as of last Sept. 1, four times the number in 1997. The biggest gains were among the biggest yachts: 47 yachts were 200 to 249 feet long, up 68 percent from a year earlier, while 23 were 250 feet or longer, an increase of 28 percent. 
 ''When I started in the early 1970s, a 60-foot boat was considered pretty large,'' Mr. Sharp said. ''A 150-foot boat was queen of the show in Monaco in 1982. In 2008, you wouldn't be able to find that boat in the marina.''
 Some new megayachts are so big that they have to dock in commercial ports. The growth in the number and size of yachts is also making it hard to find qualified crew members. 
 Still, many yacht owners trade in their boats every few years for bigger models. 
 ''People want more toys to play with. That's something that drives it,'' says Wim Koersvelt, director of Icon Yachts in the Netherlands. ''Gyms were unusual 20 years ago, and no yacht is being built now without a gym. They're buying two- to four-person submarines, have four Jet Skis and little sailboats stored on board, as well as helicopter landing pads.''
 It takes two to four years to build a yacht, and prices are rising so quickly that some owners are selling their boats before they're even finished -- for a tidy profit. Mr. Beckett of Burgess says prices have risen 10 percent to 20 percent in the past two years alone. He estimates that a yacht 328 feet long would cost about $230 million today, with prices rising to $650 million for a 500-foot yacht.
 Some owners recoup part of their costs by chartering their yachts. Want to sail the Maltese Falcon, the innovative clipper ship built by Tom Perkins, the Silicon Valley venture capitalist? That will put you back around $539,000 to $555,000 a week, not counting expenses for fuel, food or crew. Or the Mirabella V, the elegant sloop owned by Joe Vittoria, the former chief executive of Avis Rent A Car System? That's $325,000 to $375,000 a week, depending on the season. 
 There are no signs that demand will slacken. ''There are 2,000 superyachts in the world today'' over 120 feet long, ''and nearly 200,000 people who could afford to buy them,'' Mr. Beckett says.
 The arms race in yachts echoes the competition among business titans in the last century to build the world's tallest skyscraper. In his book ''Mine's Bigger,'' David A. Kaplan describes the battle between Mr. Perkins and Jim Clark, the co-founder of three Silicon Valley companies, including Netscape, as they competed to build the world's biggest sailing megayacht. 
 By the time Mr. Perkins completed his Maltese Falcon, measuring 288 feet, in 2006, it was substantially longer than Mr. Clark's Athena if measured at the water line. 
 ''Clark could console himself only with the fact that if you included his 33-foot stainless steel bowsprit as part of the length, then his was bigger than anybody else's,'' Mr. Kaplan writes. 
 Mr. Vittoria holds a different record. His 247-foot Mirabella V has a 292-foot mast -- so tall that it can't fit under the Golden Gate Bridge. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At 525 feet, the Dubai is now the world's largest yacht. But in the new megayacht universe, it won't hold the record long.(PHOTOGRAPH BY GUSHL/YACHT-IMAGES.COM)(pg. BU1)
The Pelorus, top, is owned by the Russian billionaire Roman Abramovich. Counterclockwise from above are the Maltese Falcon, at Fort St. Angelo in Valletta, Malta
the same boat with sails unfurled
the Octopus, owned by the Microsoft cofounder Paul Allen
and the Mirabella V, by Joe Vittoria, former Avis chief.(PHOTOGRAPH BY GRAEME ROBERTSON/GETTY IMAGES)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY DARRIN ZAMMIT LUPI/REUTERS)(pg. BU8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHIPBUILDING (89%); BOAT BUILDING (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (88%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (78%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (73%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); WEB SITES (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (68%); WOMAN OWNED BUSINESSES (63%); EXECUTIVES (63%)

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (81%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%)

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (81%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (81%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (81%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (81%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (81%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (81%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (81%)

PERSON: ROMAN ABRAMOVICH (84%); PAUL ALLEN (61%); LAWRENCE J ELLISON (50%); DAVID GEFFEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (65%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (65%) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (90%); GERMANY (73%); UNITED STATES (65%); MALTA (59%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2008



404 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WE; Column 0; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 688 words

HEADLINE: West Yonkers, Budding Biotech Center?

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

 BODY:
WHEN companies like Alexander Smith & Sons Carpet abandoned Yonkers in the 1950s and '60s, thousands of blue-collar workers lost their jobs, and a once-throbbing industrial section of the city's west side was left to deteriorate.
 Now new tenants are about to move into the neighborhood, only this time they are white-coated researchers and up to 120,000 genetically engineered mice -- a sign that the area may be about to be reinvented as a biotech center. 
 Academic Medicine Development Company, a nonprofit consortium of 28 medical schools, health centers and medical research institutions in New York, has announced plans to open a $10 million mouse-breeding laboratory in a 106-year-old, 116,000-square-foot commercial building next year in the former carpet mill area, now called i.park N-Valley.
 Based in Manhattan, the 11-year-old research consortium will work with Taconic, an international breeder of rats and mice for biomedical research, said Maria K. Mitchell, the consortium's president. 
 Taconic, which has corporate offices in Hudson and one of the world's largest mouse- and rat-breeding farms in Germantown, according to Douglas Stone, a company spokesman, will manage the new breeding site. The company has six similar breeding locations and three service labs worldwide.
 The mice will serve as subjects for research into diseases like cancer and diabetes, Ms. Mitchell said, explaining that when complete, its 50,000-square-foot research lab will house 40,000 cages, each with three animals. The mice, which have a two-year life cycle, are used as human models to study genetic predispositions to certain diseases. 
 Among those using the lab will be researchers from Rockefeller University, the Mount Sinai School of Medicine, the New York University School of Medicine and the North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System, all members of the consortium.
 Other members of the consortium, which raises money and advocates for collaborative biomedical research, include the Hospital for Special Surgery, the American Museum of Natural History and New York Medical College. 
 Ms. Mitchell said her group would be seeking more occupants for the Yonkers mouse center -- which she said was the first of its kind in the nation -- including industrial partners in biotech companies.
 The consortium has received $7 million in state money, Ms. Mitchell said, and is applying for $1.5 million in federal economic development grants and $1.5 million from the state.
 Because the site is in a state Empire Zone and a federal Empowerment Zone, tenants like the consortium are eligible to receive incentives that include wage credits on federal income tax, bond financing for new construction, financing for equipment purchases, tax benefits on capital gains and tax deductions for environmental cleanups. Empire Zones are designated by New York as needing jobs and investments.
 Two years ago, Joseph Cotter, president of i.park N-Valley, acquired the former pharmaceuticals building on the three-acre site from the city, which had renovated it, for $10 million. 
 National Resources, in Greenwich, Conn., in which Mr. Cotter is a principal, also owns i.park, a 20-acre commercial site with one million square feet of office and industrial space less than two miles from i.park N-Valley in Yonkers. Acquired a decade ago from the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, i.park is home to Kawasaki Rail Car. 
 The goal in attracting more tenants conducting mouse research to i.park N-Valley, Mr. Cotter said, is to create a cluster similar to the $67 million Toronto Center for Phenogenomics, a joint project of Mount Sinai, the Hospital for Sick Children, the University Health Network and St. Michael's Hospital.
 David Simpson, a spokesman for Mayor Philip A. Amicone of Yonkers, observed that the city, which was devastated 50 years ago when the carpet mills and other industries left, is trying to re-establish its commercial viability. 
 ''In many ways Yonkers never recovered from that loss,'' Mr. Simpson said. ''That is until now, as we attempt to develop this area for different kinds of industry.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: REINVENTED: For the old carpet mill area, a mouse-breeding lab. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALAN ZALE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAL RESEARCH (91%); RODENTS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (89%); BIOMEDICINE (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (77%); EQUIPMENT FINANCING (77%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); HISTORY (76%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (76%); REAL ESTATE (76%); CANCER (76%); GENETIC DISEASE FACTORS (76%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (75%); TEST LABORATORIES (75%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); GRANTS & GIFTS (73%); CARPET & RUG MILLS (73%); MISC ANIMAL PRODUCTION (71%); BONDS (68%); DIABETES (64%); INCOME TAX (62%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (61%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (60%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2008



405 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; THE NATION; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: In the Clinton-Obama Race, It's the Pollster vs. the Ad Man

BYLINE: By MATT BAI

 BODY:
DEMOCRATS tend to make celebrities of their campaign consultants, which is why anyone who has closely followed this presidential campaign could probably pick out Mark Penn or David Axelrod, the chief strategists for Hillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama, in a bar. To refer generically to these strategists as ''consultants,'' however, as if they were necessarily experts in the same craft, is to obscure important differences in how they got to where they are. 
 This long and remarkable struggle between Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama has been a study not just in the brilliance and the blind spots of the candidates themselves, but also those of their most trusted -- and highly paid -- advisers. 
 Mr. Axelrod is an advertising guy. A man who perfected the craft of encapsulating an entire life in 30 seconds, he has a gift for telling personal stories in ways that people can understand. Axelrod's essential insight -- the idea that has made him successful where others might have failed -- is that the modern campaign really isn't about the policy arcana or the candidate's record; it's about a more visceral, more personal narrative. 
 This is probably a big reason why Mr. Obama has, from the start, focused almost exclusively on broad themes of ''hope'' and ''change.'' His campaign reflects all the attributes of a political ad: the stirring words, the beautiful pictures, the simple and elegant story line of a ruined political system and the man whose moment has arrived.
 Mr. Obama demonstrated the constancy of this approach on the night of his losses in Ohio and Texas. Mrs. Clinton had spent the previous week mercilessly deriding Mr. Obama as a guy who gives nice, vague speeches but who isn't versed in the finer points of governing. The attacks seemed to have taken their toll. 
 But when Mr. Obama took the stage in San Antonio, he seemed bent on reiterating her point -- or at least he didn't attempt to refute it. Rather than seek to reassure viewers about his gravitas, Mr. Obama stubbornly dove right back into his familiar narrative of inspiring a movement. 
 Such is the unwavering, almost defiant faith that Mr. Axelrod and his candidate have in the transformative power of their story.
 Mr. Penn, on the other hand, is a pollster, and pollsters tend to look at campaigns as a series of dissectible data points that either attract voters or drive them away. Get a health care plan and an economic plan that 70 percent of people say they view favorably. Pay attention to words that move the dial in focus groups, like ''real solutions for America'' or ''ready to lead on Day 1.'' 
 Mrs. Clinton's relentless focus on pragmatism and specificity, as well as her willingness to shift slogans, are not simply a result of her own personality but also of Mr. Penn's strategic outlook, which values testable ideas and phrases over more sweeping imagery and themes.
 Mr. Penn's influence was on display last weekend when both Mrs. Clinton and her husband suddenly started talking about the potential of her choosing Mr. Obama as a running mate, even though she has consistently disparaged him as too inexperienced to occupy the Oval Office. It seems likely that Mr. Penn polled this question in the wake of Ohio and Texas and found that it had appeal. Thus the campaign abruptly began hammering at a new message, and one that undermined its core point about Mr. Obama, in order to peel off some critical segment of voters reflected in the latest data.
 These two campaign worldviews, of course, aren't mutually exclusive; Mr. Obama does his share of polling, and Mrs. Clinton has her own story line of change. But the emphasis that each consultant has brought to his respective campaign is what accounts, in some measure, for how the two candidates have succeeded to this point -- and also, perhaps, for how they haven't. 
 At times during the campaign, Mr. Obama has sought to gird his message of hope with more references to his concrete proposals, but more often he has seemed to discount the importance of such specificity, and this has enabled Mrs. Clinton to portray him as insubstantial. Mrs. Clinton, meanwhile, has at times seemed to regard the very notion of transformative change as Pollyannish and silly, conveying instead the idea that government is all about metrics and practicality.
 Mr. Axelrod's storytelling has created a dynamic hero who sometimes seems estranged from the practicalities of governing; Mr. Penn's data has created a credible platform put forth by a candidate whose theory of leadership can seem small. What voters love in one they crave in the other.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: VISION THING: David Axelrod, the chief strategist for Barack Obama, speaks with reporters.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); POLITICS (75%); FOCUS GROUPS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (63%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); DAVID AXELROD (90%); BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (68%) TEXAS, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2008



406 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1584 words

HEADLINE: Fed Chief Shifts Path, Inventing Policy in Crisis

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
As chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben S. Bernanke has long argued that a central bank should base its policies as much as possible on consistent principles rather than seat-of-the-pants judgment.
 But now, as the meltdown in credit markets threatens major institutions on Wall Street and a recession appears inevitable, Mr. Bernanke is inventing policy on the fly.
 ''Modern monetary policy-making puts a lot of weight on rules, but there is no rule book for an economic crisis,'' said Douglas W. Elmendorf, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and a former Fed economist.
 On Friday, the Federal Reserve seemed to toss out the rule book altogether when it assumed the role of white knight, temporarily bailing out Bear Stearns, one of Wall Street's biggest firms, with a short-term loan to help avoid a collapse that might send other dominoes falling. 
 That move came just days after the Fed announced a $200 billion lending program for investment banks and a $100 billion credit line for banks and thrifts. In a move that would have been unthinkable until recently, the central bank agreed to accept potentially risky mortgage-backed securities as collateral. 
 On Tuesday, the central bank is expected to reduce short-term interest rates for the sixth time since September. The Fed has already lowered its benchmark federal funds rate to 3 percent from 5.25 percent, and investors are betting that it will cut the rate to just 2.25 percent on Tuesday. 
 The mounting crisis has forced Mr. Bernanke, a former professor of economics, to discard the sanguine view of the nation's economic health that he expressed last summer. He has also abandoned his skepticism about the need to calm financial markets and set aside his concerns about the ''moral hazard'' of bailing out big financial institutions. 
 In Washington and in New York, Fed officials were expected to work through the weekend, analyzing the books of Bear Stearns and trying to prevent its troubles from setting off a chain reaction of failures among its lenders and trading partners.
 It was just 10 months ago that Mr. Bernanke, in discussing his reluctance to regulate the booming market for arcane credit instruments, declared: ''Central banks and other regulators should resist the temptation to devise ad hoc rules for each new type of financial instrument or financial institution.'' 
 Until recently, Wall Street executives grumbled privately that Mr. Bernanke was too disengaged from the real world, too slow to understand the plight caused by bad mortgages and too hesitant about lowering interest rates.
 But Mr. Bernanke has become Wall Street's most important and most powerful friend. Many executives are praising him for his creativity and willingness to act boldly.
 Beyond trying to lower borrowing costs by reducing the federal funds rate, which banks charge one another for overnight loans, the Fed has adopted a widening array of unconventional tools to infuse money into the banking system.
 The question now is whether the Fed is already too late, and whether it has enough power to stabilize the markets without starting a new round of inflation. With oil and gold prices soaring to new highs and the dollar falling to new lows, investors already appear to be worrying about higher inflation.
 Officially, the Fed continues to predict that the United States can narrowly escape a recession. But Mr. Bernanke has made it clear that the economy is in perilous shape, plagued by a continuing plunge in the housing market, rising job losses, rising energy prices and a paralysis in credit markets as banks and financial institutions sell off even high-quality mortgage-related securities at fire-sale prices.
 Most private forecasters contend that a recession is already under way, and even the dwindling numbers of optimists warn that growth will be almost stagnant for the first half of this year.
 ''The self-feeding downturn now in place shows signs of becoming deeply entrenched,'' economists at Citigroup wrote Friday, predicting that the Fed would cut its benchmark rate a full percentage point on Tuesday to 2 percent. Citigroup itself has booked huge losses from its holdings of mortgage-backed securities, and it could face additional losses if Bear Stearns were to fail. 
 The evolution of Ben Bernanke, who took office in February 2006, began in early August, as credit markets were beginning to freeze up in panic over losses from subprime mortgages. The Fed stunned investors by refusing to lower interest rates and even refusing to change its view that rising inflation posed a bigger risk than slowing growth.
 The Fed's rigidity aggravated fears, and investors were suddenly reluctant to finance a variety of short-term commercial debt, known as asset-backed commercial paper. It is used to finance mortgages, credit card debt, car loans and business loans. 
 With stock markets plunging and credit availability disappearing, the Fed, along with European central banks, began injecting billions of dollars into financial markets through open-market operations -- the buying and selling of Treasury securities. 
 On Aug. 17, 10 days after the Fed refused to lower its key rate, it held an unscheduled meeting and announced that it would cut the rate at which banks could take out short-term loans from its ''discount window,'' a program normally used by banks in trouble, and said banks would be able to pledge mortgages as collateral.
 It was the Fed's first step in what quickly became a major course reversal. It signaled that it would probably lower its most important interest rate, the federal funds rate, but it also took its first step toward addressing a cash shortage by lending cash or Treasury securities, backed up by packages of mortgages.
 Fed officials say they have not changed their basic principles. Rather, they say, they have changed their view of the economy's prospects. Throughout last spring and summer, Mr. Bernanke hoped that the economy's problems would be limited to the housing market and that the financial sector's problems would be confined to subprime loans. 
 But by late August, Mr. Bernanke had immersed himself in the structural plumbing of financial markets, from inscrutable mortgage securities like ''collateralized debt obligations'' to the proliferation of ''structured investment vehicles'' that permitted investors to borrow at short-term rates to buy long-term debt securities like mortgages.
 Mr. Bernanke, working closely with a group of other prominent officials, including Timothy F. Geithner, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, began looking for new tools, beyond interest rates, that the Fed could use to provide relief.
 Still, Fed officials found themselves repeatedly startled by the persistence of stress in the credit markets. After the Fed lowered its key rate in September and October, the panic appeared to subside as investors lowered the risk premiums they were demanding on debt securities. 
 But the panic returned in December and again in January as banks reported a fresh round of multibillion-dollar losses from mortgage-backed securities. Merrill Lynch and Citigroup raised $19 billion in December from Singapore, Kuwait and other countries, but the infusions essentially offset the companies' latest write-offs and did little to reassure investors.
 When Fed officials met Dec. 11 and lowered their key rate another quarter-point, the stock market plunged amid widespread disappointment that the central bank had not done more.
 Fed officials hastily telegraphed that they were planning other measures and the next morning announced a new lending program called the ''Term Auction Facility.''
 The program was open to any bank or depository institution, which would be allowed to bid for up to $20 billion in one-month loans. The twist was that banks could pledge mortgage-backed securities as collateral -- including securities that could not be traded and had no market price. 
 Fed officials expanded the program to $60 billion a month in January and $100 billion a month in March.
 Mr. Bernanke did not stop there. On March 7, the Fed said it would infuse an extra $100 billion into the financial system through its open-market operations. And on Tuesday, it created an additional $200 billion lending program that would let some big investment banks borrow money and post mortgage-backed securities as collateral.
 ''They have been very creative in what they've been doing,'' said Richard Berner, chief economist at Morgan Stanley.
 Others on Wall Street voice frustration over what they see as the Fed's incremental moves. In a research note on Friday, Merrill Lynch's chief economist, David Rosenberg, wrote that the Fed's new lending program ''does not address underlying credit problems, does not materially improve the solvency of the institutions exposed to assets under stress, and does nothing to put a floor under home prices.''
 By Friday morning, it became clear that more tools would be necessary. Bear Stearns, which had been one of the most aggressive financiers of subprime mortgages, was on the brink of collapse largely because of the sinking value of its own assets. 
 Hoping to avoid the collapse of a major trading firm that might set off a chain reaction at other firms, the Fed helped work out a deal under which Bear Stearns would borrow money long enough to keep from defaulting on its obligations and either be restructured or sold to its rivals.
 The bailout had officially begun.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ben Bernanke seems to have changed his thinking about the Fed's role on Wall Street. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); RECESSION (76%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (72%)

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS INC (56%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (53%)

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (53%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (53%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2008



407 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2096 words

HEADLINE: Studying the Political Footprints Of New York's Governor-to-Be

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER and MIKE McINTIRE; Reporting was contributed by Nicholas Confessore, Steven Greenhouse, Danny Hakim and Jonathan P. Hicks.

 BODY:
On Monday, through a twist that few could have foreseen, Lt. Gov. David A. Paterson will be sworn in as the 55th governor of New York -- an accidental governor thrust into a position of extraordinary power by the sudden, gaudy downfall of his former running mate, Eliot Spitzer. 
 His rise from relative obscurity to center stage has come with astonishing speed, and with it, Mr. Paterson is about to face something new: serious scrutiny of his legislative record, political connections and handling of government money over two decades. 
 A review of Mr. Paterson's time in office reveals many of the typical footprints of a long legislative career. But it also shows that at times he supported controversial policies, made strikingly candid comments and took actions that might have raised questions about conflicts of interest. By and large, his record escaped notice. 
 As a state senator, for instance, Mr. Paterson helped direct hundreds of thousands of dollars to a hospital in his Harlem district that for a time employed his wife, including for two years as its paid lobbyist in Albany. 
 He sponsored legislation that would have made it legal for noncitizens to vote in state and local elections and another bill that would have made it legal to use force against a police officer while resisting a wrongful arrest -- a proposal that was blasted by police unions and went nowhere. And his father, Basil A. Paterson, is a top lawyer for some of the state's most powerful unions, whose money has long influenced policymaking in Albany.
 Within the confines of the Harlem district that he represented for 23 years, Mr. Paterson is a well-known commodity, a scion of a legendary club that included his father, who is a former New York secretary of state, deputy mayor and state senator; David N. Dinkins, New York City's first black mayor; Representative Charles B. Rangel; and Percy E. Sutton, a former Manhattan borough president -- although he sometimes bucked their wishes.
 But to the rest of the state, he is a virtual unknown, having received little attention and even less scrutiny. For most of his two decades in office, Mr. Paterson was a member, and then leader, of one of the least relevant, and least noticed, groups in the Legislature, the Democratic minority of the State Senate. 
 He received only marginally more attention in 2006 when he was elected, with no real opposition, to another post with little real influence: lieutenant governor. (Consider that when his predecessor was in office, a statewide poll found that only 4 percent of New Yorkers could name their lieutenant governor. Stumped? It was Mary O. Donohue.)
 ''He is a governor who has only been, quote unquote, vetted, by the constituents in his State Senate district in Manhattan,'' said Douglas A. Muzzio, a political scientist at Baruch College. ''He has never gotten the statewide scrutiny that a gubernatorial candidate would expect.''
 In a statement on Saturday, Christine Anderson, a spokeswoman for Mr. Paterson, said his legislative record was ''thoroughly reviewed when he was chosen to join the ticket with Attorney General Spitzer.''
 Mr. Paterson, 53, was first elected in 1985, at the age of 31, to the Senate seat in Harlem that his father once held. He gained a reputation as a smart, engaging, funny, consensus-driven leader who pushed for reform in a state government that had become famous for dysfunction.
 Senate Power Play
 In 2002, he mounted a successful coup against the Senate minority leader -- and then helped Democrats to win seats that began to close the gap with the Republicans.
 As minority leader, Mr. Paterson did not hesitate to attack the leadership of the majorities in both chambers on the issue of accountability, accusing them of trying to hide details of how they used hundreds of millions of dollars in ''member items,'' the discretionary spending doled out by legislators. 
 He announced in April 2006 that he was making public the Senate Democrats' member items, and said in a press release that he had issued guidelines two years earlier warning senators not to steer state money to organizations with which they or their immediate family members were affiliated. Senators should ''strive to avoid the appearance of impropriety at all times in their considerations and submission of any member item request,'' the guidelines said.
 But Mr. Paterson appears to have been testing the limits of his own policy by helping North General Hospital, a small, private hospital in his district that had struggled financially. His wife, Michelle Paige Paterson, worked as North General's director of government affairs from 2002 to 2005.
 Ms. Paterson became the authorized lobbyist for the hospital in August 2003, about eight months after her husband was named the Democratic leader in the Senate. According to a report that North General filed with the state lobbying commission, Ms. Paterson lobbied the Legislature on budget issues in 2004. She left the hospital in January 2005.
 The hospital's president, Dr. Samuel J. Daniel, has said that he recruited Ms. Paterson in early 2002 to help get critical legislation passed that year that allowed North General to refinance more than $100 million in debt. He told Newsday last week that ''Michelle was instrumental in getting me before the Legislature.''
 An aide to Mr. Paterson said on Saturday that Mr. Paterson also helped North General arrange a meeting with Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, a fellow Democrat. Michelle Paterson attended that meeting, at which the hospital's financial problems were apparently discussed, the aide said. But the aide could not recall precisely when the meeting occurred, saying only that it was before 2005. Mr. Paterson did not sponsor or negotiate any legislation to help the hospital, the aide added. 
 In 2005, The Daily News said Mr. Paterson described his actions in setting up the meeting ''as something he now recognizes as inappropriate'' because his wife had worked there.
 Mr. Paterson's assistance to North General was not limited to arranging meetings with key people. State budget records show that Mr. Paterson sponsored a $100,000 grant for North General that was financed through the 2004 Community Capital Assistance Program, which benefits local projects. Mr. Paterson also sponsored a separate $150,000 member item for the hospital in 2006, when his wife no longer worked at North General. (Even the minority parties receive some member items in the budget, though far fewer than the majorities.)
 Ms. Paterson, who has a graduate degree in health services policy, now works on charitable activities at the Health Insurance Plan of New York, which is seeking state approval to become a profit-making company. 
 Ms. Anderson said North General was ''a worthy recipient of state funds, providing critical health care and services to the Harlem community.'' She also pointed out that Mr. Paterson had ordered the Senate Democrats to make their member items public.
 Michelle Stent, a spokeswoman for North General, said on Friday that Dr. Daniel was traveling and not available for comment. She said only that both Mr. Paterson and Ms. Paterson had been helpful to the hospital.
 A Father's Influence
 Mr. Paterson's father, Basil, raises another set of questions about potential conflicts of interest.
 David Paterson has spoken of sometimes being helped by, and other times intimidated by, his father, whom he considers a valued adviser. But Basil Paterson, 81, has also served for years as wise man and eminence grise for many of New York'sbiggest and most powerful unions in their contract negotiations.
 Before and during the 2005 transit strike, he was often at the side of Roger Toussaint of Local 100 of the Transport Workers Union. He has also counseled other heavyweight labor leaders, including Dennis Rivera of 1199 S.E.I.U. United Healthcare Workers East, Randi Weingarten of the United Federation of Teachers, and Lillian Roberts of District Council 37. 
 The transit union bargains with the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, a state agency. And when 1199 negotiates with the city's League of Voluntary Hospitals, it often looks to Albany to provide money to help finance its agreements. Both unions lobby the state heavily to increase spending on health care and mass transit.
 Ms. Anderson said Mr. Paterson and his father ''will take every appropriate step necessary'' to avoid any conflicts. She also said that David Paterson had directed his counsel to contact the managing director of Basil Paterson's law firm, Meyer, Suozzi, English & Klein, to ''ensure that the necessary safeguards are in place to preclude any potential or actual conflict of interest.'' 
 Basil Paterson said in an interview that he had never officially discussed his labor negotiations with his son. ''We've got to make sure there isn't any conflict there,'' he said. ''We'll try to do that.''
 His law firm has a powerhouse lobbying arm, but Basil Paterson is not a registered lobbyist and he said that his law firm would try to arrange matters so that earnings from lobbying the new governor would be segregated from what he earns. ''If anybody thinks that I will make a call to my son on behalf of someone, I can't do that,'' he said. 
 Legislative Record
 As a state senator, David Paterson introduced dozens of bills each year, virtually none of which had any chance of passing. Many of them staked out an unabashedly liberal agenda on issues ranging from law enforcement to taxes, often to the left of Mr. Spitzer. 
 One bill would have made it a crime for police officers to shoot to kill a suspect instead of shooting to merely stop the person. ''There is no justification for terminating another's life when a less extreme measure may accomplish the same objective,'' the memo in support of the bill said. ''For example, an officer would have to try to shoot a suspect in the arm or the leg.''
 The measure -- which would have left police officers who shoot to kill open to a charge of second-degree manslaughter -- was roundly denounced by police unions. Police officials have long said that officers are trained to shoot to stop suspects who pose a deadly threat to themselves or others. Because accurately shooting a suspect in the heat of the moment is difficult, they are trained to aim at central body mass, not limbs.
 Another bill, which Mr. Paterson later withdrew, would have repealed the law outlawing the use of force while resisting arrests, whether they were authorized or not.
 He also introduced bills that would have extended the right to vote to noncitizens, extended a temporary income tax on wealthy New Yorkers to pay for schools, and extended the time during which people could sue for medical malpractice. 
 Ms. Anderson said that Mr. Paterson viewed the bills involving police officers as a way of ''restoring confidence in law enforcement at a time when confidence was very low.'' And she said that after Mr. Paterson became minority leader, he did not actively support the legislation that would have extended the right to vote to noncitizens. ''He does not think noncitizens should have the right to vote,'' she said.
 In a news conference on Friday, his first since Mr. Spitzer's decision to resign, Mr. Paterson did not address his legislative record. He said he wanted to avoid raising taxes, but could not rule out doing so, given the current economic downturn.
 When asked about his political philosophy, he replied, ''There are some points of view I guess that I've changed over the years, but I'm pretty much the same person.''
 At that news conference, Mr. Paterson displayed some of his well-honed wit. When he was applauded loudly upon entering the ornate Red Room on the second floor of the Capitol, he said: ''Thank you. If most of you weren't being paid, I'd be flattered by that.''
 Mr. Paterson is also known for a disarming frankness. At a news conference in 2005, for example, he volunteered that he had once under-reported his income to the Internal Revenue Service. Mr. Paterson filed an amended return and paid the tax owed, amounting to a few hundred dollars, an aide said.
 To some lawmakers, Mr. Paterson's candor is a sign that he has yet to be tested in the glare of the public spotlight. He seemed to acknowledge as much in a radio interview on Friday when he responded, with both humor and frankness, to a question about his breathtaking ascent to governor. 
 ''I kind of feel like the student who's getting ready for the final exam,'' he said, ''but they didn't attend any classes.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: March 21, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sunday about the legislative record and political career of David A. Paterson on the eve of his installation as governor of New York included an outdated reference to the job duties of his wife, Michelle Paige Paterson. She oversees wellness programs at the Health Insurance Plan of New York; she no longer works on its charitable activities.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: David A. Paterson (pg. A1)
A SUDDEN ASCENT TO POWER: Above from left, Joseph L. Bruno, the Senate majority leader
Sheldon Silver, speaker of the Assembly
and David A. Paterson at a speech by Gov. George E. Pataki in 2004. Left, Basil A. Paterson with his son David, right, in 1970. Below left, David Paterson, with his wife, Michelle Paige Paterson, and Eliot Spitzer in March 2006.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM McKNIGHT/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY LARRY MORRIS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY SIMON WHEELER/THE ITHACA JOURNAL VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHART Chart details a timeline for various Governors on New York. (pg. 36) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (91%); MAYORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LOBBYING (75%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (75%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (72%); VOTERS & VOTING (71%); LEGISLATION (71%); POLICE FORCES (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); CHRONOLOGIES (66%); LAWYERS (65%); LABOR UNIONS (65%); ARRESTS (65%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (94%); ELIOT SPITZER (73%); CHARLES B RANGEL (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2008



408 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 7950 words

HEADLINE: Supreme Court Inc.

BYLINE: By JEFFREY ROSEN. 
Jeffrey Rosen, a law professor at George Washington University, is a frequent contributor to the magazine. He is the author, most recently, of ''The Supreme Court: The Personalities and Rivalries That Defined America.''

 BODY:
 I.
 The headquarters of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, located across from Lafayette Park in Washington, is a limestone structure that looks almost as majestic as the Supreme Court. The similarity is no coincidence: both buildings were designed by the same architect, Cass Gilbert. Lately, however, the affinities between the court and the chamber, a lavishly financed business-advocacy organization, seem to be more than just architectural. The Supreme Court term that ended last June was, by all measures, exceptionally good for American business. The chamber's litigation center filed briefs in 15 cases and its side won in 13 of them -- the highest percentage of victories in the center's 30-year history. The current term, which ends this summer, has also been shaping up nicely for business interests. 
 I visited the chamber recently to talk with Robin Conrad, who heads the litigation effort, about her recent triumphs. Conrad, an appealing, soft-spoken woman, lives with her family on a horse farm in Maryland, where she rides with a fox-chasing club called the Howard County-Iron Bridge Hounds. Her office, playfully adorned by action figures of women like Xena the Warrior Princess and Hillary Rodham Clinton, has one of the most impressive views in Washington. ''You can see the White House through the trees,'' she said as we peered through a window overlooking the park. ''In the old days, you could actually see people bathing in the fountain. Homeless people.''
 Conrad was in an understandably cheerful mood. Though the current Supreme Court has a well-earned reputation for divisiveness, it has been surprisingly united in cases affecting business interests. Of the 30 business cases last term, 22 were decided unanimously, or with only one or two dissenting votes. Conrad said she was especially pleased that several of the most important decisions were written by liberal justices, speaking for liberal and conservative colleagues alike. In opinions last term, Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Stephen Breyer and David Souter each went out of his or her way to question the use of lawsuits to challenge corporate wrongdoing -- a strategy championed by progressive groups like Public Citizen but routinely denounced by conservatives as ''regulation by litigation.'' Conrad reeled off some of her favorite moments: ''Justice Ginsburg talked about how 'private-securities fraud actions, if not adequately contained, can be employed abusively.' Justice Breyer had a wonderful quote about how Congress was trying to 'weed out unmeritorious securities lawsuits.' Justice Souter talked about how the threat of litigation 'will push cost-conscious defendants to settle.' ''
 Examples like these point to an ideological sea change on the Supreme Court. A generation ago, progressive and consumer groups petitioning the court could count on favorable majority opinions written by justices who viewed big business with skepticism -- or even outright prejudice. An economic populist like William O. Douglas, the former New Deal crusader who served on the court from 1939 to 1975, once unapologetically announced that he was ''ready to bend the law in favor of the environment and against the corporations.'' 
 Today, however, there are no economic populists on the court, even on the liberal wing. And ever since John Roberts was appointed chief justice in 2005, the court has seemed only more receptive to business concerns. Forty percent of the cases the court heard last term involved business interests, up from around 30 percent in recent years. While the Rehnquist Court heard less than one antitrust decision a year, on average, between 1988 and 2003, the Roberts Court has heard seven in its first two terms -- and all of them were decided in favor of the corporate defendants.
 Business cases at the Supreme Court typically receive less attention than cases concerning issues like affirmative action, abortion or the death penalty. The disputes tend to be harder to follow: the legal arguments are more technical, the underlying stories less emotional. But these cases -- which include shareholder suits, antitrust challenges to corporate mergers, patent disputes and efforts to reduce punitive-damage awards and prevent product-liability suits -- are no less important. They involve billions of dollars, have huge consequences for the economy and can have a greater effect on people's daily lives than the often symbolic battles of the culture wars. In the current Supreme Court term, the justices have already blocked a liability suit against Medtronic, the manufacturer of a heart catheter, and rejected a type of shareholder suit that includes a claim against Enron. In the coming months, the court will decide whether to reduce the largest punitive-damage award in American history, which resulted from the Exxon Valdez oil spill in 1989.
 What should we make of the Supreme Court's transformation? Throughout its history, the court has tended to issue opinions, in areas from free speech to gender equality, that reflect or consolidate a social consensus. With their pro-business jurisprudence, the justices may be capturing an emerging spirit of agreement among liberal and conservative elites about the value of free markets. Among the professional classes, many Democrats and Republicans, whatever their other disagreements, have come to share a relatively laissez-faire, technocratic vision of the economy and are suspicious of excessive regulation and reflexive efforts to vilify big business. Judges, lawyers and law professors (such as myself) drilled in cost-benefit analysis over the past three decades, are no exception. It should come as little surprise that John Roberts and Stephen Breyer, both of whom studied the economic analysis of law at Harvard, have similar instincts in business cases.
 This elite consensus, however, is not necessarily shared by the country as a whole. If anything, America may be entering something of a populist moment. If you combine the groups of Americans in a recent Pew survey who lean toward some strain of economic populism -- from disaffected and conservative Democrats to traditional liberals to social and big-government conservatives -- at least two-thirds of all voters arguably feel sympathy for government intervention in the economy. Could it be, then, that the court is reflecting an elite consensus while contravening the sentiments of most Americans? Only history will ultimately make this clear. One thing, however, is certain already: the transformation of the court was no accident. It represents the culmination of a carefully planned, behind-the-scenes campaign over several decades to change not only the courts but also the country's political culture.
 II.
 The origins of the business community's campaign to transform the Supreme Court can be traced back precisely to Aug. 23, 1971. That was the day when Lewis F. Powell Jr., a corporate lawyer in Richmond, Va., wrote a memo to his friend Eugene B. Snydor, then the head of the education committee of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. In the memo, Powell expressed his concern that the American economic system was ''under broad attack.'' He identified several aggressors: the New Left, the liberal media, rebellious students on college campuses and, most important, Ralph Nader. Earlier that year, Nader founded Public Citizen to advocate for consumer rights, bring antitrust actions when the Justice Department did not and sue federal agencies when they failed to adopt health and safety regulations.
 Powell claimed that this attack on the economic system was ''quite new in the history of America.'' Ever since 1937, when President Franklin D. Roosevelt threatened to pack a conservative Supreme Court with more progressive justices, the court had largely deferred to federal and state economic regulations. And by the '60s, the Supreme Court under Chief Justice Earl Warren had embraced a form of economic populism, often favoring the interests of small business over big business, even at the expense of consumers. But what Powell saw in the work of Nader and others was altogether more extreme: a radical campaign that was ''broadly based and consistently pursued.''
 To counter the growing influence of public-interest litigation groups like Public Citizen, Powell urged the Chamber of Commerce to begin a multifront lobbying campaign on behalf of business interests, including hiring top business lawyers to bring cases before the Supreme Court. ''The judiciary,'' Powell predicted, ''may be the most important instrument for social, economic and political change.'' Two months after he wrote the memo, Powell was appointed by Richard Nixon to the Supreme Court. And six years later, in 1977, after steadily expanding its lobbying efforts, the chamber established the National Chamber Litigation Center to file cases and briefs on behalf of business interests in federal and state courts.
 Today, the Chamber of Commerce is an imposing lobbying force. To fulfill its mission of serving ''the unified interests of American business,'' it collects membership dues from more than three million businesses and related organizations; last year, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, the chamber spent more than $21 million lobbying the White House, Congress and regulatory agencies on legal matters. But its battle against the forces of Naderism got off to a slow start. In 1983, when Robin Conrad arrived at the chamber, the Supreme Court was handing Nader and his allies significant victories. That year, for example, the court held that President Reagan's secretary of transportation, Andrew L. Lewis Jr., acted capriciously when he repealed a regulation, inspired by Nader's advocacy, that required automakers to install passive restraints like air bags. In 1986, the chamber supported a challenge to the Environmental Protection Agency's aerial surveillance of a Dow Chemical plant. The chamber's side lost, 5-4.
 But eventually, things began to change. The chamber started winning cases in part by refining its strategy. With Conrad's help, the chamber's Supreme Court litigation program began to offer practice moot-court arguments for lawyers scheduled to argue important cases. The chamber also began hiring the most-respected Democratic and Republican Supreme Court advocates to persuade the court to hear more business cases. Although many of the businesses that belong to the Chamber of Commerce have their own in-house lawyers, they would have the chamber file ''friend of the court'' briefs on their behalf. The chamber would decide which of the many cases brought to its attention were in the long-term strategic interest of American business and then hire the leading business lawyers to write supporting briefs or argue the case.
 Until the mid-'80s, there wasn't an organized group of law firms that specialized in arguing business cases before the Supreme Court. But in 1985, Rex Lee, the solicitor general under Reagan, left the government to start a Supreme Court appellate practice at the firm Sidley Austin. Lee's goal was to offer business clients the same level of expert representation before the Supreme Court that the solicitor general's office provides to federal agencies. Lee's success prompted other law firms to hire former Supreme Court clerks and former members of the solicitor general's office to start business practices. The Chamber of Commerce, for its part, began to coordinate the strategy of these lawyers in the most important business cases.
 At times, the strategic calculations can be quite personal. Because Supreme Court clerks have tremendous influence in making recommendations about what cases the court should hear, Conrad told me, having well-known former clerks involved in submitting a brief can be especially important. ''When Justice O'Connor was on the bench and we knew her vote was very important, we had a case where the opposition had her favorite clerk on the brief, so we retained her next-favorite clerk,'' she said with a laugh. ''We won.''
 In our conversation, Conrad was especially enthusiastic about Maureen Mahoney, a former clerk for Chief Justice Rehnquist and one of the top Supreme Court litigators who coordinate strategy with the chamber. When Mahoney agreed in 2005 to represent an appeal by the disgraced accounting firm Arthur Andersen, which was convicted in 2002 of obstructing justice by shredding documents related to the audit of Enron, few people thought the Supreme Court would take the case. ''The climate was very anti-Enron,'' Mahoney told me, ''and it was viewed as a doomed petition.''
 Mahoney rehearsed her Supreme Court argument in a moot court sponsored by the chamber. (''She was absolutely dazzling,'' Conrad recalls.) On April 27, 2005, Mahoney stood calmly before the justices and delivered one of the best oral arguments I've ever seen at the Supreme Court. She argued that because Arthur Andersen's accountants had followed a standard document-destruction procedure before receiving the government's subpoena, they couldn't be guilty of a crime; they weren't aware what they were doing was criminal. The Supreme Court unanimously agreed and reversed the conviction, 9-0.
 The Arthur Andersen case is a good example of how significantly the Supreme Court has changed its attitude about cases involving securities fraud -- and business cases more generally -- from the Warren to the Roberts era. In a case in 1964, the court ruled that aggrieved investors and consumers could file private lawsuits to enforce the securities laws, even in cases in which Congress hadn't explicitly created a right to sue. In the mid-1990s, however, Congress substantially cut back on these citizen suits, and the court today has shown little patience for them. Mahoney says she sees her victory in the Arthur Andersen case as significant because it applied the same principle in criminal cases involving corporate wrongdoing that the court had already been recognizing in civil cases: namely, ''refusing to create greater damage remedies or criminal penalties than Congress has explicitly specified.'' She describes the case as ''a very important win for business.''
 This term, the Supreme Court has continued to cut back on consumer suits. In a ruling in January, the court refused to allow a shareholder suit against the suppliers to Charter Communications, one of the country's largest cable companies. The suppliers were alleged to have ''aided and abetted'' Charter's efforts to inflate its earnings, but the court held that Charter's investors had to show that they had relied on the deceptive acts committed by the suppliers before the suit could proceed. A week later, the court invoked the same principle when it refused to hear an appeal in a case related to Enron, in which investors are trying to recover $40 billion from Wall Street banks that they claim aided and abetted Enron's fraud. As a result, the shareholder suit against the banks may be dead. 
 III. 
 In addition to litigating cases before the court, the Chamber of Commerce also lobbies Congress and the White House in an effort to change the composition of the court itself. (Unlike many other government officials, the justices themselves are not, of course, subject to direct corporate lobbying.) The chamber's efforts in this area were inspired by Robert Bork's thwarted nomination to the court in 1987. Business groups were enthusiastic about Bork -- not because of his conservative social views but because of his skepticism of vigorous antitrust enforcement. ''In reaction to the Bork nomination, it struck us that we didn't even have a process in place to be a player,'' Conrad said. 
 So the chamber set up a formal process for endorsing candidates after their nominations. The process was designed to be bipartisan; and the chamber has encouraged Democratic as well as Republican presidents to appoint justices. Nominees are evaluated solely through the prism of their views about business. ''We're very surgical in our analysis,'' Conrad said. 
 After the election of Bill Clinton, for example, the chamber endorsed Ruth Bader Ginsburg, who in addition to her pioneering achievements as the head of the women's rights project at the A.C.L.U. had specialized, as a law professor, in the procedural rules in complex civil cases and was comfortable with the finer points of business litigation. The chamber was especially enthusiastic about Clinton's second nominee, Stephen Breyer, who made his name building a bipartisan consensus for airline deregulation as a special counsel on the judiciary committee; and who, as a Harvard Law professor, advocated an influential and moderate view on antitrust enforcement.
 During Breyer's confirmation hearings his sharpest critic was Ralph Nader, who testified that his pro-business rulings were ''extraordinarily one-sided.'' Another critic, Senator Howard Metzenbaum of Ohio, said that the fact that the chamber was the first organization to endorse Breyer indicated that ''large corporations are very pleased with this nomination'' and ''the fact that Ralph Nader is opposed to it indicated that the average American has a reason to have some concern.'' The chamber's imprimatur helped reassure Republicans about Breyer, and he was confirmed with a vote of 87 to 9. ''Frankly, we didn't feel like we had anyone on the court since Justice Powell who truly understood business issues,'' Conrad told me. ''Justice Breyer came close to that.''
 The Breyer and Ginsburg nominations also came at a time when liberal as well as conservative judges and academics were gravitating in increasing numbers to an economic approach to the law, originally developed at the University of Chicago. The law-and-economics movement sought to evaluate the efficiency of legal rules based on their costs and benefits for society as a whole. Although originally conservative in its orientation, the movement also attracted prominent moderate and liberal scholars and judges like Breyer, who before his nomination wrote two books on regulation, arguing that government health-and-safety spending is distorted by sensational media reports of disasters that affect relatively few citizens. 
 Since joining the Supreme Court, Breyer has also been an intellectual leader in antitrust and patent disputes, which often pit business against business, rather than business against consumers. In those cases, many liberal scholars sympathetic to economic analysis have applauded the court for favoring competition rather than existing competitors, innovation rather than particular innovators. ''The court deserves credit for trying to rationalize a totally irrational patent system, benefiting smaller new competitors rather than existing big ones,'' says Lawrence Lessig, an intellectual-property scholar at Stanford.
 Clinton's nominations of Ginsburg and Breyer may have been welcomed by the chamber, but with the election of George W. Bush, the chamber faced a dilemma. Ever since the Reagan administration, there had been a divide on the right wing of the court between pragmatic free-market conservatives, who tended to favor business interests, and ideological states-rights conservatives. In some business cases, these two strands of conservatism diverged, leading the most staunch states-rights conservatives on the court, Antonin Scalia and Clarence Thomas, to rule against business interests. Scalia and Thomas were reluctant to second-guess large punitive-damage verdicts by state juries, for example, or to hold that federally regulated cigarette manufacturers could not be sued in state court. As a result, under Conrad's leadership, the chamber began a vigorous campaign to urge the Bush administration to appoint pro-business conservatives. 
 When it came time to replace Chief Justice William Rehnquist and Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, the candidate most enthusiastically supported by states-rights conservatives, Judge Michael Luttig, had a record on the Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit that some corporate interests feared might make him unpredictable in business cases. (''One of my constant refrains is that being conservative doesn't necessarily mean being pro-business,'' Conrad told me.) The chamber and other business groups enthusiastically supported John Roberts, who had been hired by the chamber to write briefs in two Supreme Court cases in 2001 and 2002. At the time of Roberts's nomination, Thomas Goldstein, a prominent Supreme Court litigator, described him as ''the go-to lawyer for the business community,'' adding ''of all the candidates, he is the one they knew best.'' When Roberts was nominated, business groups lobbied senators as part of the campaign for his confirmation.
 The business community was also enthusiastic about Samuel Alito, whose 15-year record as an appellate judge showed a consistent skepticism of claims against large corporations. Ted Frank of the American Enterprise Institute predicted at the time of the nomination that if Alito replaced O'Connor, he and Roberts would bring about a rise in business cases before the Supreme Court. Frank's prediction was soon vindicated.
 ''There wasn't a great deal of interest in classic business cases in the last few years of the Rehnquist Court,'' Carter Phillips, a partner at Sidley Austin and a leading Supreme Court business advocate, told me. In 2004, Judge Richard Posner, a founder of the law-and-economics movement, argued that the Rehnquist Court's emphasis on headline-grabbing constitutional cases had politicized it, and called on the court to hear more business cases. The Roberts court has unambiguously answered the call. As Phillips told me, Roberts ''is more interested in those issues and understands them better than his predecessor did.'' 
 IV.
 Exactly how successful has the Chamber of Commerce been at the Supreme Court? Although the court is currently accepting less than 2 percent of the 10,000 petitions it receives each year, the Chamber of Commerce's petitions between 2004 and 2007 were granted at a rate of 26 percent, according to Scotusblog. And persuading the Supreme Court to hear a case is more than half the battle: Richard Lazarus, a law professor at Georgetown who also represents environmental clients before the court, recently ran the numbers and found that the court reverses the lower court in 65 percent of the cases it agrees to hear; and when the petitioner is represented by the elite Supreme Court advocates routinely hired by the chamber, the success rate rises to 75 percent.
 Faced with these daunting numbers, the progressive antagonists of big business are understandably feeling beleaguered and outgunned. ''The fight before the court is generally not an even one,'' said David Vladeck, who once worked for the Public Citizen Litigation Group and now teaches law at Georgetown. ''There's us on one side, with a brief or two, and industry on the other side, with a well-coordinated campaign of 10 or 12 briefs, with each one written by a member of the elite Supreme Court bar that address an issue in enormous depth.'' He added, ruefully, ''You admire their handiwork, but it's frustrating as hell to deal with.''
 To gauge the degree of the frustration, I recently paid a visit to Ralph Nader, a few weeks before he announced his most recent campaign for president of the United States. It was a surprise to find that his office, the Center for Study of Responsive Law, shares an address in a grand building with the Carnegie Institution for Science. But the office itself, reassuringly, is buried on the ground floor, where Nader received me at a conference table surrounded by file cabinets stuffed with faded back issues of Mother Jones and The Nation.
 Nader was uncontrite about his 2000 run against Al Gore -- which is often credited with helping George W. Bush win the presidency -- and he insisted that because Clinton appointed justices like Breyer, Gore would have done the same. ''Breyer hasn't been worse than I feared, because I had real concern when he was nominated,'' Nader told me. He conceded that, like Breyer, Democratic justices appointed by President John Kerry would presumably have been better on civil rights and liberties than John Roberts and Samuel Alito. Nevertheless, he disparaged Breyer as a ''deregulation quasi-ideologue'' who was able to weave a ''tapestry of illusion'' in his arguments by dealing in abstractions.
 The main casualty of the 2000 run, Nader said, is that he is no longer collaborating with America's trial lawyers. They would ordinarily be his natural allies in representing consumer interests, but they donated heavily to Gore's campaign. After 2000, the trial lawyers ''have been vitriolic,'' Nader explained. He blames them for not using their money to help counteract the influence of the Chamber of Commerce and other business groups before the federal courts. In part as a result of their stinginess, he said, his colleagues at Public Citizen are underfinanced and worn down. ''There were some lawyers who left Public Citizen because they got tired of losing,'' he said. ''Everyone is desperately trying to hold on to whatever issues are left, and then they become demoralized and discouraged.''
 Thirty years after the Chamber of Commerce founded its litigation center to counteract his influence, Nader all but conceded defeat in the battle for the Supreme Court. With the decline of economic populism in Congress, the weakening of trade unions and the rise of globalization, the political climate, he lamented, was passing him by. ''I recall a comment by Eugene Debs,'' Nader said, looking at me intensely. ''He said: The American people live in a country where they can have almost anything they want. And my regret is that it seems that they don't want much of anything at all.''
 Nader chuckled quietly and shook his head. ''I say ditto.''
 V.
 If there is an anti-Nader -- a crusading lawyer passionately devoted to the pro-business cause -- it is Theodore Olson. One of the most influential Supreme Court advocates and a former solicitor general under President George W. Bush, Olson is best known for his winning argument before the Supreme Court in Bush v. Gore in 2000. But Olson has devoted most of his energies in private practice to changing the legal and political climate for American business. According to his peers in the elite Supreme Court bar, he more than anyone else is responsible for transforming the approach to one of the most important legal concerns of the American business community: punitive damages awarded to the victims of corporate negligence.
 Punitive damages -- money awarded by civil juries on top of any awarded for actual harm that victims have suffered -- are designed to penalize especially egregious acts of corporate misconduct resulting from malice or greed, and to deter similar wrongdoing in the future. In the 19th century, courts generally demanded a clear assignment of fault in cases where victims sued for injuries caused by malfunctioning products. It was hard for plaintiffs to recover in personal-injury cases unless the corporation was obviously at fault. But in the 20th century, in liability cases involving a rapidly expanding class of potentially dangerous products like cars, drugs and medical devices, courts increasingly applied a standard of ''strict liability,'' which held that manufacturers should pay whether or not they were directly at fault.
 The animating idea was that manufacturers were in the best position to prevent accidents by improving their products with better design and testing. They and their insurance companies (rather than society as a whole) would shoulder the costs of accidents, thus giving them an incentive to make their products safer. Encouraged by Ralph Nader's book, ''Unsafe at Any Speed,'' published in 1965, courts began to see car accidents as predictable events that better car design could have prevented. In 1968, for example, a federal court held that car manufacturers could be sued for failing to make cars safe enough for drivers to survive crashes, even if the driver was at fault for the crash.
 A series of well-publicized awards in the 1980s and '90s culminated in the largest punitive damage award in American history the $5 billion levied against Exxon after the Exxon Valdez oil spill in 1989. This was hardly typical: the median punitive award actually fell to $50,000 in 2001 from $63,000 in 1992. Nevertheless, critics like Olson claimed that multimillion-dollar punitive-damage verdicts were threatening the health of the economy. They resolved to fight back on several fronts. In his first Supreme Court argument, in 1986, Olson set out the broad contours of his argument: for most of English and American history, private litigants were entitled to be compensated for whatever damages they suffered, including pain and suffering, but any public wrongs like the failure of American business to make cars safer by adopting air bags should be addressed by legislation or regulation, not by the courts.
 Olson decided that his clients deserved not just a lawyer who could argue a case but a lawyer who could change the political culture. ''You had to attack it in a broad-scale way in the legislatures, in the arena of public opinion and in the courts,'' he told me recently. ''I felt the business community had to approach this in a holistic way.'' He set out, in lectures and op-ed pieces, to publicize especially egregious examples. The poster child for punitive-damage abuse, widely derided in TV and radio ads paid for by the business community, was a New Mexico grandmother who, in 1994, was awarded $2.7 million in punitive damages when she scalded herself with hot McDonald's coffee. Consumer advocates countered that she had originally asked for $20,000 for medical expenses, which McDonald's refused to pay, and the award appeared to have the effect of persuading McDonald's to serve its coffee at a safer temperature. Nonetheless, the campaign to vilify plaintiffs' lawyers has been effective enough that the American Association of Trial Lawyers recently changed its name to the fuzzier American Association for Justice.
 The business community made other inroads against punitive damages. Corporations financed campaigns against pro-punitive-damage state judges who had been elected with the assistance of large contributions from plaintiffs' lawyers. The business community also helped persuade more than 30 states to either impose caps on punitive-damage awards or direct substantial portions of the awards to be paid into special state funds. In 1996, it helped persuade the Republican Congress, led by Newt Gingrich, to pass legislation that would cap punitive-damage awards in product-liability cases in every state court in the country. But in 1996, President Clinton, with what must have been perverse pleasure, vetoed the bill on the grounds that it violated principles of federalism and states rights to which conservatives claimed to be devoted. 
 Thwarted by Clinton, and unable to persuade Congress to override the veto, opponents of punitive damages turned their attention back to the Supreme Court, looking for a victory they were unable to win in the political arena. Here, they were remarkably successful. As late as 1991, the court had refused to impose limits on a large punitive-damage award. But in a case in 1996, the court held for the first time that punitive-damage awards had to be proportional to the actual damage incurred by the plaintiff. The case involved a man who said he was deceived by BMW when it sold him a supposedly ''new'' car that was, in fact, used and had received a $300 touch-up job. The court, in a 5-4 opinion, overturned a $2 million punitive-damage award as ''grossly excessive.'' In 2003, the court clarified what it meant: a single-digit ratio between punitive damages and compensatory damages was likely to be acceptable.
 Last year, the business community watched with anticipation as Roberts and Alito revealed their views about punitive damages. The case involved the estate of a heavy smoker who sued Philip Morris for deceitfully distributing a ''poisonous and addictive substance.'' A jury had awarded the estate $821,000 in compensatory damages and $79.5 million in punitive damages -- a ratio of about 100 to 1. In a 5-4 opinion written by Breyer, the court held that it was unconstitutional for a jury to use punitive damages to punish a company for its conduct toward similarly affected individuals who are not party to the lawsuit.
 This spring, the court will decide the Exxon Valdez punitive-damage case, which many consider the culmination of the business community's decades-long campaign against punitive damages. In 1989, the Exxon Valdez tanker, whose captain had a history of alcoholism, ran into a reef and punctured the hull; 11 million gallons of oil leaked onto the coastline of Prince William Sound. A jury handed down a $5 billion punitive-damage award.
 After the verdict, Exxon began providing money for academic research to support its claim that the award for damages was excessive. It financed some of the country's most prominent scholars on both sides of the political spectrum, including the Nobel laureate Daniel Kahneman and Cass Sunstein, a law professor at the University of Chicago. (Sunstein says he accepted only travel grants, not research support, from Exxon; and Kahneman stresses that the financing had no influence on the substance of his work.) In a 2002 book, ''Punitive Damages: How Juries Decide,'' Sunstein studied hundreds of mock-jury deliberations and concluded that jurors are unpredictable and often irrational in punitive-damage cases. Jury deliberations, he found, increase the unpredictability, as well as the dollar amount of the final awards. Sunstein concluded that a system of civil fines determined by experts, rather than punitive damages determined by juries, might be more sensible. When Exxon appealed the $5 billion verdict in 2006, it was reduced by an appellate court to $2.5 billion. The reduced verdict is once again being challenged as excessive. 
 Walter Dellinger, the lawyer now arguing Exxon's case before the Supreme Court, is no Republican activist. Like Sunstein, he is one of the most respected Democratic constitutional scholars, as well as a former acting solicitor general for President Clinton. Last month, in his argument before the court, Dellinger argued that because Exxon has already paid $3.4 billion in fines, cleanup costs and compensation connected with the Exxon Valdez spill, and because it didn't act out of malice or greed in failing to monitor the alcoholic captain, additional punitive damages would serve no ''public purpose.''
 During the argument, Breyer noted that the $2.5 billion punitive damage award represents a less than 10-to-1 ratio between punitive damages and compensatory damages, which is in the single-digit range that the Supreme Court has considered acceptable in the past. But Breyer also seemed concerned at other points that punitive-damage awards have not been routine in maritime cases like this one, and that the award might create ''a new world for the shipping industry.'' Alito, who owns Exxon Mobil stock, did not participate, and because a tie would affirm the $2.5 billion punitive-damage award, the plaintiffs who are opposing Exxon need only four votes to prevail. But whether Dellinger gets five votes, a significant triumph is already behind him: he persuaded the court to take the case in the first place. 
 VI.
 Ted Olson and the Chamber of Commerce aren't only trying to persuade the Supreme Court to cut back on large punitive-damage awards; they're also arguing that consumers injured by dangerous or defective medical devices and drugs in some cases shouldn't be able to file product-liability suits at all. Because there is no national product-liability law that allows federal suits for personal injuries, consumers who are injured by, say, defective heart valves or artificial hips have to sue in state courts under state tort law. By asking the Supreme Court to prevent injured consumers from suing in state court, the business community, supported by the Bush administration, is trying to ensure that these consumers often have no legal remedy for their injuries. And the Supreme Court has been increasingly sympathetic to the business community's arguments. 
 In a Supreme Court case Olson argued in December, he stood before the justices and argued that the manufacturers of defective medical devices -- like heart valves, breast implants and defibrillators -- should be immune from personal-liability suits because the federal Food and Drug Administration had approved the devices before they were marketed and the manufacturers had complied with all federal requirements. The case involved Charles Riegel, who had an angioplasty in 1996 during which the catheter used to dilate his coronary artery burst. Riegel, who needed advanced life support and emergency bypass surgery, eventually sued the manufacturer of the catheter, Medtronic. The company is colloquially referred to in the business community as ''the pre-emption company'' because of its practice of arguing that the Food and Drug Administration's ''premarket approval'' of its products pre-empts product-liability suits in state courts. 
 The lawyer representing Riegel's estate before the Supreme Court, Allison Zieve of Public Citizen, countered that Congress never intended to ban state product-liability suits when Senator Edward Kennedy sponsored a bill regulating medical devices in 1976. (Kennedy himself filed a brief in the case noting that he indeed intended no such thing.) ''Lawyers think this is a close issue, but any time I talk to a nonlawyer about it, they're shocked,'' Zieve told me after the argument. ''People think: of course, if somebody makes a defective product you can sue.''
 It's one thing to argue that the federal government's ''premarket approval'' of food, drugs and medical devices should pre-empt clearly inconsistent state laws and regulations. After all, if states imposed safety requirements that conflicted with the federal standard, the resulting regulatory confusion would make a national (and global) market impossible. But Olson's claim that federal regulation of medical devices and drugs should also pre-empt product-liability suits under state tort law is one of the more creative and far-reaching legal arguments of the business groups that litigate before the Supreme Court.
 This type of argument arose out of the tobacco litigation of the 1980s and '90s, which culminated in a $206 billion settlement paid by the top tobacco companies to a consortium of 46 state attorneys general in exchange for dropping tort suits against the companies. The tobacco litigation began modestly: in 1983, Rose Cipollone, a New Jersey woman dying of lung cancer, sued several of the country's largest tobacco companies for their failure to give adequate warnings about the dangers of smoking. After spending tens of millions of dollars fighting the verdict, the companies decided to take their defense to the next level. They argued that because the federal government required cigarette companies to have warning labels, tobacco companies couldn't be subject to tort suits in state courts. Jury verdicts, they argued, are no less a form of regulation than laws explicitly adopted by state legislatures.
 In a decision in 1992, the Supreme Court endorsed part of the companies' argument. The decision unleashed a torrent of similar ''pre-emption'' claims by the manufacturers of dangerous drugs, defective medical devices and cars without air bags. And after the election of President Bush in 2000, the business community's crusade was aggressively supported by the White House. At the same time that the White House was scaling back on federal health-and-safety enforcement, it insisted that consumers should not be able to sue federally regulated industries in state court. Bush appointed as the general counsel of the Food and Drug Administration a former drug- and tobacco-company lawyer named Daniel Troy. With Troy's support, the F.D.A. reversed its position, held for 25 years, and argued for the first time that its premarket approval of medical devices should prevent injured consumers from bringing product-liability suits in state court.
 After her Supreme Court argument in the Medtronic case, Zieve told me she wasn't sure what to expect. Until the arrival of Chief Justice Roberts, groups like Public Citizen had found that they had a better chance of winning pre-emption cases before the Supreme Court than in the lower courts. But during the first two years of the Roberts Court, the justices had decided two pre-emption cases in favor of the corporate defendants.
 The trend has continued. On Feb. 21, the Supreme Court handed Zieve a crushing defeat: an 8-1 opinion immunizing the makers of defective medical devices from product-liability suits. The lone dissent was written by Ruth Bader Ginsburg, who objected that Congress could not have intended such a ''radical curtailment'' of state personal-injury suits when it regulated medical devices in 1976. Ginsburg, who is devoted to liberal judicial restraint, has consistently opposed efforts to second-guess punitive-damage awards or expand federal pre-emption. I called Zieve soon after the Supreme Court issued its opinion, and she sounded shocked. ''It's really unfathomable to me,'' she said. ''I wasn't sure that this was a business-friendly court, but now I'm finding it harder not to view it that way.'' Zieve said that, as a result of the decision, ''I think the industry will keep unsafe devices on the market longer and be slower to improve products.''
 In the eyes of advocates like Zieve and Public Citizen, the public is now caught in a Catch-22: at the very moment that agencies like the F.D.A. are being strongly reproved by critics -- including the agency's own internal science board -- for being unwilling or unable to protect public health, the court is making it harder for people to receive compensation for the injuries that result. On rare occasions, the Roberts Court has held that the Bush administration's deregulatory efforts circumvent the will of Congress -- like the 5-4 decision last year holding that the Environmental Protection Agency acted capriciously when it adopted a rule that said it had no legal authority to regulate greenhouse gases. But by and large, the Supreme Court defers to agencies that refuse to regulate public health and safety. ''The industry has a lot of money, and they can routinely hire the biggest names in the biggest firms, while we're doing it on our own,'' Zieve told me. ''We don't charge anything -- we're free. It didn't cost $250,000 to get us to write the brief.'' 
 VII. 
 The Supreme Court is unlikely to reconsider its pro-business outlook anytime soon. Nevertheless, there are several currents in American political life that run counter to the court, even if they may not be strong enough, or suitably directed, to reverse it. There are, for example, economic populists in both political parties -- John Edwards Democrats and Mike Huckabee Republicans, to cite just two types -- who express concern about growing economic inequality and corporate corruption, and blame unchecked corporate power for America's escalating economic problems. These populists tend to be from the working and middle classes rather than the professional classes, and their numbers may be growing. In recent Pew surveys, 65 percent of Americans agreed that corporations make excessive profits -- the highest number in 20 years. Moreover, about half the country now asserts that America is divided on economic lines into two groups -- the ''haves'' and ''have nots'' -- up from only 26 percent two decades ago. And the number of Americans who view themselves as ''have nots'' has doubled to 34 percent today from 17 percent in 1988. Responding to pressures from this demographic, a Democratic Congress -- bolstered by states-rights conservatives -- might well try to pass legislation to counteract the court's recent decisions barring product-liability suits for defective medical devices.
 What about the executive branch? It seems unlikely that John McCain, if he were elected president, would push back against the court: he has already pledged to appoint ''judges of the character and quality of Justices Roberts and Alito,'' rather than justices more devoted to states rights, like Scalia and Thomas. As for Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton, both have sounded increasingly populist notes in an effort to attract union and blue-collar supporters, ratcheting up their attacks on corporate wealth and power, singling out the drug, oil and health-insurance industries and promising to renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement. But despite their rhetoric, it is not clear that either candidate would actually appoint justices any more populist than Bill Clinton's nominees. ''I would be stunned to find an anti-business appointee from either of them,'' Cass Sunstein, who is a constitutional adviser to Obama, told me. ''There's not a strong interest on the part of Obama or Clinton in demonizing business, and you wouldn't expect to see that in their Supreme Court nominees.''
 Still, the possibility does exist. If the economy continues to decline and blue-collar voters end up being crucial in the election, a Democratic president might appoint an economic populist to the Supreme Court as a kind of payback. Earlier this month, on the campaign trail in Ohio, Obama mentioned Earl Warren, who served as governor of California before becoming chief justice, as a model of the kind of justice he hoped to appoint. ''I want people on the bench who have enough empathy, enough feeling, for what ordinary people are going through,'' Obama said. He praised Warren for understanding that segregation was wrong because of the stigma it attached to blacks, rather than because of the precise nature of its sociological impact. Appointing a former politician to the court would almost certainly introduce a more populist element: the Supreme Court that in 1954 decided Brown v. Board of Education included, in addition to a former governor, three former senators, a former Securities and Exchange Commission member and two former attorneys general. (By contrast, the Roberts court is composed of nine former judges.) 
 Whatever happens in November, Robin Conrad says the Chamber of Commerce is prepared to lobby as hard as ever for the appointment of pro-business justices. ''If we do have a Democrat president, and that president has opportunities to nominate to the court,'' she said in our meeting as I glanced at her Hillary Clinton action figure, ''we want to be able to express ourselves and work with that president.'' Regardless of how many justices retire in the next presidential term, Conrad is confident that, having helped to transform the Supreme Court in less than 30 years, she and her colleagues can assure American business of a sympathetic hearing for decades to come.
 When I told Conrad that Ralph Nader told me that lawyers were leaving Public Citizen because they were tired of losing, she achieved a look of earnest concern. ''I hope if they feel they've lost,'' she said, ''they lost for a good reason -- not because they've been overpowered or muscled by the big, bad business community, but they've lost because reason won.''
 Conrad looked at me squarely, and then added, ''I guess if Ralph Nader wants to say we did him in'' -- she paused to weigh her words -- ''so be it.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: May 18, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on March 16 about the Supreme Court and its tilt toward business interests misspelled the surname of a friend whom Lewis F. Powell Jr. wrote to before becoming a justice about his view that the American economic system was ''under broad attack.'' He was Eugene B. Sydnor, not Snydor. (A letter from a reader about the misspelling was overlooked by editors.)

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY ANDY FRIEDMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); CONSERVATISM (85%); LIBERALISM (85%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); PETITIONS (77%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (76%); CONSUMER LAW (64%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (50%); HOMELESSNESS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (84%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); RUTH BADER GINSBURG (58%); DAVID SOUTER (57%); STEPHEN BREYER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2008



409 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: Through Bush-Colored Glasses

 BODY:
President Bush admitted on Friday that times are tough. So much for the straight talk.
 Mr. Bush went on to paint a false picture of the economy. He dismissed virtually every proposal Congress is working on to alleviate the mortgage crisis, sticking to his administration's inadequate ideas. And despite the rush of serious problems -- frozen credit markets, millions of impending mortgage defaults, solvency issues at banks, a plunging dollar -- he said that a major source of uncertainty today is whether his tax cuts, scheduled to expire in 2010, would be extended. 
 This was too far afield of reality to be dismissed as simple cheerleading. It points to the pressing need for a coherent plan to steer through what some economists are now predicting could be a severe downturn. Mr. Bush's denial of the economic truth underscores the need for Congress to push forward with solutions to the mortgage crisis -- especially bankruptcy reform to help defaulting homeowners. Lawmakers also must prepare to execute, in case it is needed, a government rescue of people whose homes are now worth less than they borrowed to buy them. 
 Mr. Bush said he was optimistic because the economy's ''foundation is solid'' as measured by employment, wages, productivity, exports and the federal deficit. He was wrong on every count. On some, he has been wrong for quite a while.
 Mr. Bush boasted about 52 consecutive months of job growth during his presidency. What matters is the magnitude of growth, not ticks on a calendar. The economic expansion under Mr. Bush -- which it is safe to assume is now over -- produced job growth of 4.2 percent. That is the worst performance over a business cycle since the government started keeping track in 1945. 
 Mr. Bush also talked approvingly of the recent unemployment rate of 4.8 percent. A low rate is good news when it indicates a robust job market. The unemployment rate ticked down last month because hundreds of thousands of people dropped out of the work force altogether. Worse, long-term unemployment, of six months or more, hit 17.5 percent. We'd expect that in the depths of a recession. It is unprecedented at the onset of one. 
 Mr. Bush was wrong to say wages are rising. On Friday morning, the day he spoke, the government reported that wages failed to outpace inflation in February, for the fifth straight month. Productivity growth has also weakened markedly in the past two years, a harbinger of a lower overall standard of living for Americans. 
 Exports have surged of late, but largely on the back of a falling dollar. The weaker dollar makes American exports cheaper, but it also pushes up oil prices. Potentially far more serious, a weakening dollar also reduces the Federal Reserve's flexibility to steady the economy. 
 Finally, Mr. Bush's focus on the size of the federal budget deficit ignores that annual government borrowing comes on top of existing debt. Publicly held federal debt will be up by a stunning 76 percent by the end of his presidency. Paying back the money means less to spend on everything else for a very long time. 
 The fiscal stimulus passed by Congress, and touted by Mr. Bush on Friday, could juice growth for a quarter or two later this year. But the economy's fundamental weaknesses indicate that Americans are ill-prepared for hard times. That makes the need for clear-eyed policies all the more urgent. We need them from the president, Congress and the contenders for the White House.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); US DOLLAR (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (87%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (87%); WAGES & SALARIES (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); INFLATION (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BUDGETS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); LIVING STANDARDS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (72%); TAX LAW (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); EXPORT TRADE (70%); PRODUCTIVITY (70%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (67%); NEWS BRIEFS (67%); OIL & GAS PRICES (60%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2008



410 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1137 words

HEADLINE: Beyond The Noise On Free Trade

BYLINE: By N. GREGORY MANKIW. 
N. Gregory Mankiw is a professor of economics at Harvard. He was an adviser to President Bush and advised Mitt Romney in his campaign for the Republican presidential nomination.

 BODY:
NO issue divides economists and mere Muggles more than the debate over globalization and international trade. Where the high priests of the dismal science see opportunity through the magic of the market's invisible hand, Joe Sixpack sees a threat to his livelihood. This gap in perspective grows especially wide whenever the economy experiences short-run difficulties, as it is now. By all indications, the issue could come to dominate the presidential campaign.
 Economists are, overwhelmingly, free traders. A 2006 poll of Ph.D. members of the American Economic Association found that 87.5 percent agreed that ''the U.S. should eliminate remaining tariffs and other barriers to trade.'' 
 The benefits from an open world trading system are standard fare in introductory economics courses. In my freshman course at Harvard, we start studying the topic in the second week, and we return to issues of globalization throughout the year. The basic lessons can be traced back to Adam Smith of the 18th century and David Ricardo of the 19th century: Trade between two countries creates winners and losers, but it leaves both nations with greater overall prosperity. 
 The general public, however, is less likely to take its cue from Adam Smith than from Lou Dobbs. In December, an NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll asked Americans, ''Do you think the fact that the American economy has become increasingly global is good because it has opened up new markets for American products and resulted in more jobs, or bad because it has subjected American companies and employees to unfair competition and cheap labor?'' 
 When this question was asked a decade ago, the public was almost evenly split. In the recent poll, however, only 28 percent endorsed globalization, while 58 percent opposed it. As the economy continues to weaken from problems in the housing and credit markets, you can expect to hear more about foreigners stealing American jobs, regardless of the true merits of the case.
 This shift of public opinion toward economic isolationism may well become a political problem for John McCain. Compared with those of either of his possible Democratic rivals, his track record shows him to be a more unequivocal free trader. Here are some examples:
 In 2002, Mr. McCain voted to give the president ''trade promotion authority,'' under which trade agreements were no longer subject to amendment by Congress. Barack Obama was not yet in the Senate at that time, but Hillary Rodham Clinton voted against the measure.
 In April 2005, Mr. McCain voted to table a bill proposed by Senators Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, and Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, that would have authorized a 27.5 percent tariff on Chinese imports if China failed to revalue its currency. Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama voted in support of the tariff proposal.
 Also in April 2005, when 58 senators asked President Bush not to offer large cuts in farm subsidies as part of the Doha trade negotiations, Mr. McCain declined to put his name on the letter. Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama were among the signatories defending the subsidies.
 In June 2005, Mr. McCain voted to ratify the Dominican Republic-Central America Free Trade Agreement, which lowered trade barriers with Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua and the Dominican Republic. Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama voted against the treaty (although, in his most recent book, Mr. Obama wrote, ''over all, Cafta was probably a net plus for the U.S. economy'').
 In recent months Mr. McCain has expressed support for the pending free-trade agreement with South Korea, the world's 12th-largest economy and the seventh-largest trading partner of the United States. Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama oppose it.
 The most prominent recent flare-up in this debate is over the North American Free Trade Agreement. Negotiations for Nafta began under the first President Bush, and the treaty was eventually passed under (the first?) President Clinton. 
 Al Gore famously debated Ross Perot about the measure on ''Larry King Live'' on CNN. While Mr. Perot warned of a ''giant sucking sound'' sending American jobs south of the border, Mr. Gore gave Mr. Perot a framed portrait of Reed Smoot and Willis C. Hawley, the congressmen responsible for the tariffs that in the 1930s helped make the Depression great. It was a fine moment, both for political theater and mainstream economics.
 Today, Nafta could be hailed as a successful example of the bipartisanship that Mr. Obama promises. Most economists agree with Lawrence H. Summers, a Treasury secretary in the Clinton administration, who has said that Nafta ''was really a watershed as to whether America was going to stand for larger markets, was going to stand for forward defense of our interests by trying to have a more integrated global economy.''
 ''It contributed to the strength of our economy,'' he added, ''both because of more exports and because imports helped to reduce inflation.''
 Instead of becoming a beacon of bipartisanship, however, Nafta is the latest whipping boy for the anti-globalization crowd. During their last debate, Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama said they would withdraw from the treaty unless Canada and Mexico agreed to further concessions. Canadian authorities were quick to respond that if negotiations were reopened, they would ask for some concessions of their own. True to form, Mr. McCain offered his unconditional support for the landmark agreement.
 With the two political parties apparently divided on trade policy, you might expect those free-trade-loving economists to be predominantly Republicans. But that's not the case. One reason is that economists are not single-issue voters. Like everyone else, they are divided over contentious issues like health policy, the Bush tax cuts and the war in Iraq.
 BUT another reason is that many economists don't really believe the populist rhetoric coming from the Clinton and Obama campaigns. They expect that once in office, either candidate would pursue a policy more like that of Mr. Clinton, who relied heavily on the advice of economic moderates like Mr. Summers and Robert E. Rubin, another former Treasury secretary. When reports surfaced recently of an Obama economic adviser telling the Canadian government to ignore his candidate's anti-Nafta rhetoric, some people were appalled, but many Democratic economists I know were secretly relieved.
 It is hard to be confident, however, that on issues of trade policy either Democratic candidate would act like the last Democratic president. Maybe the candidates' records as legislators are not good indicators of what their policies might be as president. Maybe campaign rhetoric about Nafta is nothing more than that. But counting on it requires, one might say, the audacity of hope. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (67%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (67%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (67%)

PERSON: ADAM SMITH (87%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (55%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2008



411 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; TECHNOLOGY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1099 words

HEADLINE: Importing a Decongestant for Midtown Streets

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

DATELINE: HAWTHORNE, N.Y. 

 BODY:
 WHEN Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg proposed a congestion pricing plan last year, some residents of car-averse New York might have thought he was trying to cap the cost of nasal remedies. 
 But thanks to the attention -- and controversy -- the proposal sparked, New Yorkers and the rest of the country soon learned that congestion pricing was a catchall term for plans that charge drivers to enter crowded city centers and busy highways.
 Mr. Bloomberg's plan to unclog Midtown Manhattan streets and raise money for mass transit would make New York the first city in the United States to introduce congestion pricing. The mayor took cues from London, Stockholm and other foreign cities now trying this solution. 
 For the most part, those pricing systems have worked as promised, cutting traffic, generating billions of dollars in fees and making drivers consider alternatives to using their cars. Encouraged by the results, London plans to introduce new charges based on a vehicle's carbon emissions; Singapore is going a step further, using the toll and traffic data it collects to predict vehicle flow patterns with technology developed at I.B.M.'s research center here.
 Unlike a highway where access is limited to a small number of entrances, a tollbooth network would be impractical for Midtown's avenues and cross streets. The New York plan would rely on the E-ZPass readers already in millions of cars; cars without the radio-frequency E-ZPass tags would be identified by video cameras for billing. 
 But first the City Council and State Legislature would need to approve the plan, which would charge car drivers a daily fee of $8 (or $21 for trucks) to enter Manhattan below 60th Street between 6 a.m. and 6 p.m.; drivers can re-enter the zone that day without paying again. 
 If the plan is approved by March 31, the city would receive $350 million in federal aid. Still, legislators representing New York's suburbs and other boroughs have expressed serious concerns that the fees are an unfair burden on drivers from their districts -- though the plan is expected to raise about $500 million a year to help expand mass transit in some of those areas.
 Even if the plan is scuttled this time, New York will eventually adopt some form of congestion pricing, traffic experts say.
 ''Road space is a scarce resource and congestion is hampering our economy, so you're going to see a need for more mass transit investment,'' said Kate Slevin, executive director of the Tri-State Transportation Campaign, a New York-based group that advocates for public transportation. ''We're heading towards a user-fee mentality.''
 While New York officials try to win acceptance for their plan, London is forging ahead. In the five years since its introduction, the system has reduced traffic 21 percent, the subway has carried record numbers of customers and bus and bicycle ridership has jumped by about 45 percent.
 London's system, which uses video cameras rather than radio tags to identify cars and bill drivers, brought in about $429 million last year, but 42 percent of that money was used to collect the fees. That rate is about four times that of the E-ZPass system, according to Jonathan Peters, an assistant professor of finance at the College of Staten Island, who said that using video cameras to track and bill drivers increased costs.
 Undeterred, London has continued to expand its plan. In October, vehicles with large engines will be charged a new, higher fee based on carbon dioxide emissions. One maker of powerful cars, Porsche, has begun a legal challenge, saying it is unjust to penalize drivers for the type of car they own.
 Transportation analysts add that the higher fees may alienate drivers who have largely accepted that congestion charges have made roads less crowded.
 ''People can see a tangible benefit with congestion pricing, but it's another leap of logic to say what kind of car they should be driving,'' said Scott Le Vine, a transportation consultant at the Center for Transport Studies at Imperial College London.
 The Swedish Road Administration has taken a more conservative approach in Stockholm. There, congestion pricing was introduced as a seven-month trial. Convinced of its utility, voters then permanently approved it.
 ''If you confront people with a congestion tax, most people will say no,'' said Louise Jarn Melander, a spokeswoman for the road administration's congestion tax department, who said traffic into the city center fell 22 percent during the trial. ''But if people saw that traffic was reduced and not hard to handle, they will be more in favor.''
 Stockholm's system depends almost entirely on license plate cameras, a method chosen because Swedish law requires that the agency have photographic evidence when assessing taxes. The plate numbers are read from the photos by an optical character recognition program developed by I.B.M., which provided a demonstration of a similar system at its Industry Solutions Lab here. According to Ms. Melander, the system reads plates accurately 93 percent of the time; plates that can't be read by the software are entered manually. 
 Three-quarters of drivers pay by having their bank account debited, while others can pay online or at retailers like 7-Eleven. The fee is based on the time of day, increasing for peak travel hours.
 The proportion of alternative-fuel cars, which are exempt from fees, entering the city has risen to 10 percent, from 3 percent during the trial. Cars with foreign plates are also exempt.
 In a taste of the future, Singapore, which has dabbled in congestion pricing perhaps longer than any city, is working with I.B.M. and others to develop technology that will predict traffic up to an hour in advance. The system fuses congestion fee data with information from video cameras, G.P.S. devices in taxis and sensors embedded in streets.
 ''It is the aspiration of most traffic authorities in the world to predict traffic conditions in advance and use this information to manage traffic conditions before they occur,'' said Kian Keong Chin, a director at Singapore's Land Transport Authority.
 The algorithms I.B.M. developed could help the authority set traffic signals, plan for big events, alert drivers about conditions ahead and set prices for road use. Using this combination of technology and public policy to develop a variable pricing system may prove more successful in modifying consumer behavior than previous attempts to reduce traffic. 
 ''Predicting traffic helps you predict pricing,'' said Laura Wynter, an I.B.M. researcher working with the authority.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ROAD FEE: In London's trial run, above, lanes were clearly marked to signal the start of the congestion zone. Cameras read license plates in Stockholm, right, for billing. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SVEN NACKSTRAND/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT BARBOUR/GETTY IMAGES) CHART: Paying on the Fly: New York City would use E-ZPass as part of its congestion pricing system, but Stockholm, which has the most successful system to date, depends mainly on license plate cameras. Chart details cameras and laser beams through car. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (90%); CONTACTLESS PAYMENTS (90%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); APPROVALS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (75%); EMISSIONS (53%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%); SWEDEN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2008



412 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; BUDGETS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 668 words

HEADLINE: Corzine Presses Towns To Combine Services

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH DWOSKIN

DATELINE: TRENTON 

 BODY:
 MUNICIPAL leaders in New Jersey's smaller communities say they are being forced to shoulder the burden for a state that can't manage its own affairs.
 Gov. Jon S. Corzine's latest budget proposes cutting $190 million in aid to municipalities, with the sharpest reductions aimed at towns with fewer than 10,000 people, an effort to get some of them to consider consolidation.
 About 180 of those small towns stand to lose all their aid, while others will see their funding slashed by half. More than 300 mayors and other local leaders gathered in Trenton recently to complain loudly and passionately about the cuts, in what is most likely the opening act of a months-long battle with the governor, who told them the idea of small-town governments may soon be a thing of the past. 
 In a video message to the mayors, the governor said New Jersey's 566 municipalities, 616 school districts, 486 local authorities and 186 fire districts or companies are too expensive in today's grim budget reality.
 ''The size of government, and often home rule, is hurting taxpayers and raising their cost of living,'' Mr. Corzine said.
 Last week, there were already signs that the governor's grand plan to nudge the small towns toward consolidation by penalizing them may not be acceptable to legislators, who must vote on the final budget by June 30. At a hearing in New Brunswick on Wednesday, several senators vowed to give New Jersey's small towns as much as $168 million more in state aid.
 But municipal leaders are still nervous. 
 ''The people on State Street are out of step with the people on Main Street,'' William Dressel Jr., executive director of the State League of Municipalities, said recently. In his 34 years as an advocate, Mr. Dressel said he had never seen so much frustration over budget issues or such a cookie-cutter approach to policy.
 ''I haven't heard anything that gives me comfort as to how these cuts are going to address real quality-of-life issues in our communities,'' he added. 
 At the March 6 meeting in Trenton, their anger and frustration spilled out. Hundreds of local officials, from the economically depressed municipalities in Camden County to the tourist-filled boroughs along the Jersey Shore, used words like ''injustice'' and ''disrespect'' to tell the governor's representative that they have already slashed their budgets to the bone and consolidated many services. 
 Joseph V. Doria Jr., the newly appointed commissioner of the state's community affairs office -- and a former mayor of Bayonne -- told the local leaders that the ''state cannot keep on spoon-feeding'' towns. But mayor after mayor said they had already made many of the changes the governor is seeking. 
 ''It feels as though the legislative decisions have been made based on a pseudo-belief that municipal governments have a money tree in our backyard,'' said Marianne Smith, manager of Hardyston Township in Sussex County. Hardyston already has more than a dozen shared-services agreements with neighboring towns, Ms. Smith said. With just over 8,000 residents, the town stands to lose half its aid.
 ''It wasn't really fair because here we are, trying to do the right thing, and we're still put on the chopping block, just based on population,'' she said. 
 The state has not conducted a study to measure the effects of consolidating services. But after the meeting, Javier E. Inclan, the governor's deputy chief of staff, said the state would consider providing grants to towns that have already taken those steps. Municipal leaders are now gearing up for a series of public hearings over the coming months in the assembly and senate budget committees before the final budget vote.
 ''You're cutting us by 68 percent,'' Mayor Vincent Barrella, from the shore town of Point Pleasant Beach, announced at the meeting. ''Why don't you tell me how to cut my number of tourists by 68 percent then?''
 ''I'm a first-time mayor, so I apologize if I'm a little irreverent,'' he added before taking his seat.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: FACING CUTS: Marianne Smith, manager of Hardyston Township. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WARREN WESTURA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); MAYORS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (72%); COST OF LIVING (67%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (67%); APPOINTMENTS (65%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (93%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2008



413 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 16, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1035 words

HEADLINE: What's the Real Racial Divide?

BYLINE: By MATT BAI. 
Matt Bai, who covers politics for the magazine, is the author of ''The Argument: Billionaires, Bloggers and the Battle to Remake Democratic Politics.''

 BODY:
When old-time Democrats in Washington reminisce about the days of brokered conventions -- floor fights and frantic early-morning calls, deals cut under the haze of cigar smoke -- they talk about them the way a paleontologist might describe the hurtling stride of a velociraptor: an awesome spectacle, to be sure, but not one you would really want to see up close. Last week, Democrats woke up to find that the unthinkable may be upon them. There might still be an unforeseen turn in the titanic clash between Hillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama, but the way it looks now, the outcome will probably rest with the party's nearly 800 superdelegates, many of whom will no doubt expect to be bribed and beseeched by both campaigns. If that's the case, there is about as much chance of settling the issue before the convention as there is of, say, Obama waking up one morning and deciding that ''hope'' is kind of a dumb slogan after all. 
 You can already discern the outlines of the argument that Clinton will make to the superdelegates: The contest is basically a draw, and now it's time to choose the candidate who can be elected. Sure, Barack's won all those little states like North Dakota and Idaho, but what does that really get you? I'm the candidate who has won all the big states, and that's what matters in November. In fact, Clinton has already declared that Democrats will never carry states like Idaho and Alaska, which sided with Obama -- an argument that has to rankle Howard Dean, the party chairman, who has been pouring money into rural states as part of his ''50-state strategy'' for expanding the electoral map.
 Clinton's argument highlights the most vexing contrast of this Democratic campaign. Obama, fueled by overwhelming African-American support, has trounced Clinton in most big cities, while Clinton has pounded him in outlying areas. In Ohio, for instance, Obama won only the four largest urban areas in the state, while Clinton took 70 percent of the vote in smaller cities and towns; if you took only a passing glance at the electoral maps of states like Ohio, Missouri and Texas, you would think you were looking at one of those stark red-and-blue maps from recent general elections, with Obama cast as the Democrat and Clinton as the Republican. And yet, oddly, it is Obama who has emerged as the preferred candidate of sparsely populated rural states that are thought to be more conservative, and it is Clinton who has taken the larger, industrialized states. (Obama did carry his home state, Illinois, and neighboring Missouri, but he won the latter by only a single percentage point.) To put this simply, Obama wins in major urban areas but can't seem to win in urbanized states, while Clinton wins in rural communities but consistently loses in rural states. Why?
 One relevant fact, as many Clinton supporters have pointed out, is that rural states often hold caucuses rather than primaries, which require the kind of local organizing at which Obama's team excels. It might also be that the economic downturn has had a more traumatic effect in bigger states, making the voters there responsive to Clinton's more pragmatic message. It is also possible, however, that the disparity between Obama's performance in urban primaries and rural caucuses tells us something larger -- and counterintuitive -- about race in America. 
 The assumption has always been that a black candidate should perform worse among white voters in states with less racial diversity because those voters are supposedly less enlightened. In fact, the reverse has been true for Obama: in the overwhelmingly white states of Wisconsin and Vermont, for instance, he carried 54 and 60 percent of the white voters respectively, according to exit polls, while in New Jersey he won 31 percent and in Tennessee he won 26 percent. As some bloggers have shrewdly pointed out, Obama does best in areas that have either a large concentration of African-American voters or hardly any at all, but he struggles in places where the population is decidedly mixed. 
 What this suggests, perhaps, is that living in close proximity to other races -- sharing industries and schools and sports arenas -- actually makes Americans less sanguine about racial harmony rather than more so. The growing counties an hour's drive from Cleveland and St. Louis are filled with white voters whose parents fled the industrial cities of their youth before a wave of African-Americans and for whom social friction and economic competition, especially in an age of declining opportunity, are as much a part of daily life as traffic and mortgage payments. As Erica Goode wrote in these pages last year, Robert Putnam and other sociologists have, in fact, found that people living in more diverse areas evince less trust for others -- no matter what their race. Maybe it shouldn't surprise us that while white Democrats in rural states are apparently willing to accept the notion of a racially transcendent candidate, those living in the shadow of postindustrial atrophy seem to have a harder time detaching from enduring stereotypes, and they may be less optimistic that the country as a whole would actually elect a black candidate.
 For Obama, no matter what social currents may be at play, the issue is hardly academic. At two critical junctures in the past six weeks, he has been on the precipice of securing the nomination only to fall frustratingly short in primaries in the most populous states. For this reason, the contest next month in Pennsylvania, the last of the big battleground states to hold a primary (aside from possible do-overs in Florida and Michigan), may carry a significance beyond the delegates themselves. There is no question that Obama could lose to Clinton in that state and still go on to give the acceptance speech in Denver. But this may also be his last chance to reassure his supporters -- and maybe even himself -- that he can break through whatever barriers have limited an otherwise stellar and historic campaign. Obama holds himself out as the candidate whose own life and lineage embody the nation's new racial complexities. The question is whether he can win the sprawling states that embody them too. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY J.D. POOLEY
GETTY IMAGES)
CHART: CITY LIMITS: In the 2008 Democratic primaries, the division of votes in some states has been consistent across rural and urban areas
in others, urban, suburban and rural voters have behaved differently. (Source: Edison Media Research and Mitofsky International exit polls
 CHART BY CHARLES M. BLOW) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (87%); CITY LIFE (85%); CITIES (85%); SUPERDELEGATES (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICS (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (70%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (68%); RACE & RACISM (66%); CONSERVATISM (63%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2008



414 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1467 words

HEADLINE: As the Economy Falters, So Do State Budgets

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
Programs for the elderly are being slashed in Maine. Government jobs are being eliminated in New Jersey. Prison construction has been put off in Virginia. Some schools in California will end their music programs.
 About half of the state legislatures nationwide are scrambling to plug gaps in their budgets, shot through by rapid declines in corporate and sales tax revenue, distressed housing markets and a national economy on the verge of a recession.
 Many states are reporting their largest budget shortfalls since the recessions of 2001 and 1991-2. In some states where tax increases are generally anathema, including Maryland and Kentucky, governors are looking to raise some levies.
 ''It is not just the standard downturn where unemployment rises for a while, income tax and sales tax revenues are weak, and ultimately the economy recovers,'' said Iris Lav, the deputy director of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a liberal research group in Washington that tracks state budgets. 
 Ms. Lav pointed to a confluence of factors -- including weak consumer spending, high energy prices, dropping housing values and growing foreclosure rates -- that suggest states will face a protracted struggle to keep their budgets afloat. 
 ''This all will make it harder to recover,'' she said.
 As of last week, at least 25 states were expecting budget shortfalls for the 2009 fiscal year, according to the budget center, findings that are consistent with other state roundups and an informal phone survey by The New York Times. It is the largest number since 2002, when in the aftermath of the 2001 recession 37 states were forced to cut their budgets.
 Many of the states this year owe their problems to stark declines in tax revenues after an implosion in housing markets. California is looking to fill a $14.5 billion hole for its next fiscal year, and Arizona's $1.8 billion budget gap is 16 percent of its general fund, the largest percentage in the nation. 
 In New York, the incoming governor, David A. Paterson, a Democrat who takes over Monday for Eliot Spitzer, faces the immediate task of controlling state spending and finding revenues in the face of a projected $4.4 billion budget gap.
 Florida has seen its sales tax revenue decline for two straight fiscal years, the first time officials there recall that happening, the result of a collapsing housing market that has homeowners spending less. The state, which has no income tax, relies heavily on sales taxes for its state programs. 
 Other states have their own problems. Kentucky has its largest budget crisis in state history, sparked by the movement of manufacturing jobs overseas. New York's budget has felt the wounds delivered by its mercurial friend Wall Street.
 Some states are filling holes in their current budgets as they look toward the next fiscal year -- or in the case of states that operate on two-year budget cycles, in the face of dire predictions about future revenues. 
 In most cases, states have moved to cut state spending, particularly in education. Ms. Lav said that eight states are cutting into the budgets for higher education, and nine states are cutting into their financing for primary and secondary education. (There is some overlap between those two groups.)
 Delaware will not finance new school construction, and in Arizona, where school enrollment continues to explode, the Legislature, which wants to continue to pay cash to build schools, is fighting the governor, who would prefer to borrow for that construction in light of the state's woes.
 ''Most places don't have to build a school every year,'' said Barrett Marson, the spokesman for the Arizona House Republicans. ''We have to.'' 
 To help close a $600 million budget gap in Virginia, the state made hundreds of thousands of dollars in cuts at universities, including dorm cleaning staff, library budgets and graduate assistantships. (The governor wrote the state a check, giving back 5 percent of his salary, to help balance the books.)
 In California, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger's proposed budget for 2008-9 includes a $4.4 billion cut in public education, the largest ever considered in the state. School districts, preparing for next year's budgets, are already contemplating cuts to their staff. In the Alameda school district in Northern California, trustees voted to reduce the $83.7 million budget by cutting $200,000 to the sports programs, eliminating music programs for all children below fourth grade and increasing class sizes in ninth grade to an average of 29 students, up from 20.
 Ballooning health care costs have vexed many states over the last decade, and nine are now trimming their Medicaid programs, particularly programs for children. 
 Those cuts range from large -- in New York, for example, Mr. Spitzer had been contemplating cuts of $1 billion in health care spending -- to small, as in Rhode Island, where Gov. Donald L. Carcieri wants to take roughly 2,000 children of illegal immigrants off the Medicaid rolls. In the last recession, nearly 35 states cut eligibility for public health programs, causing well over one million people to lose health coverage, according to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. 
 In Delaware, the state is looking to fill $50 million to $75 million in shortfalls. ''The economic climate is deteriorating here,'' said Jennifer Davis, the director of the State Office of Management and Budget. 
 ''Good state budget managers kind of manage their budgets like a household,'' Ms. Davis said. ''When gas and milk costs go up, there are only so many ways to solve it. You don't eat out, you stop going to movies, you cut out the discretionary stuff.''
 Other states are biting deeply into social service programs. In Maine, the state is facing a $190 million shortfall for its current budget. It is starting with about $65 million in proposed cuts to social services. 
 There has already been a reduction in money for home-based services for the elderly, a lowered Medicaid reimbursement rate for hospital-affiliated physicians, a freeze in enrollment to the state's Medicaid program for some low-income adults, and a cut in reimbursement rates for foster parents. ''It's a pretty big problem,'' said Roger Q. Fenn, the spokesman for Maine's senate president, Beth Edmonds.
 Also in Maine, the judicial branch anticipates a three- to six-week period of delaying payments to vendors and lawyers, coinciding with the term ending the fiscal year.
 ''Lawyers have been very patient in dealing with us on this,'' said Leigh Saufley, the state's chief justice.
 Many states are cutting government employees or trimming raises. ''A 5 percent pay increase for teachers and state employees is now down to 3 percent,'' said Cathy Holland-Smith, the manager of budget and policy for the Idaho Legislature. ''And spending for new programs is down, from $28.5 million to $7.5 million.''
 While most states are looking to address their budget anguish through cuts, tax increases are occasionally broached. 
 The Maryland Legislature made the difficult choice of increasing the state's sales tax to 6 percent from 5 percent, raising its corporate taxes to 8.25 percent from 7 percent, and bumping the state's cigarette tax to $2 per pack from $1. In Kentucky, the governor has proposed a 70-cent increase on cigarette taxes, raising it to $1 a pack, and Mr. Schwarzenegger in California has spoken vaguely about closing ''tax loopholes'' in his state. 
 Raising taxes ''hasn't been discussed specifically,'' Mr. Fenn said. ''What has been mentioned is possible sales tax increases and other fees.'' Maine's sales tax is 5 percent.
 But not all is bleak. States that produce oil have are having a better time, as are states with strong agricultural economies, like Kansas, where revenues for the next fiscal year will increase 2.7 percent and financing for schools is going to be increased, officials said.
 It also helps to live in a state people have not been flocking to. 
 For example, North Dakota, seven months into its fiscal year, is $90 million ahead of official projections, said Pam Sharp, director of the State Office of Management and Budget. ''There is no shortfall at all,'' Ms. Sharp said. ''We're at 13 percent ahead of forecast.'' 
 She added: ''We haven't experienced the prime mortgage turnover. The states that are seeing that shortfall in sales taxes are states that have been hit pretty hard with the mortgages.''
 Ray Scheppach, the executive director of the National Governors Association, said things were likely to worsen over all. ''The major impact on states is the year after a recession stops or the following year,'' Mr. Scheppach said, because personal income taxes tend to lag economic recoveries. ''It is really sort of the worst as you begin to recover.''

GRAPHIC: MAPS: STATES SCRAMBLE TO FILL BUDGET GAPS: At least 25 states expect significant budget shortfalls in fiscal year 2009. Many of them have proposed various methods to help fill the gaps. (Source: Center on Budget Policies and Priorities) Maps showing the states expecting budget shortfalls in the fiscal year 2009. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); RECESSION (90%); SALES TAX (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); TAX LAW (76%); HOME PRICES (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); PRISONS (73%); BUDGET FORECASTS (72%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (70%); CONSUMER SPENDING (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); FORECLOSURE (66%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (56%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (58%); DAVID PATERSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2008



415 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 507 words

HEADLINE: Science at Risk

 BODY:
Nobody was greatly surprised last week when Stephen Johnson, the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, proposed new limits on smog-forming pollutants that were weaker than those his scientists had recommended -- and more to the liking of industry. In the Bush administration, contests between politics and science are usually resolved in favor of politics. 
 The big surprise was Mr. Johnson's proposal to rewrite the Clean Air Act to allow regulators to take costs into account when setting air quality standards. Since this would permanently devalue the role of science while strengthening the hand of industry, the proposal has no chance of success in a Democratic Congress.
 It was, though, a revelatory moment: one last cry of frustration from an administration that, despite great effort, and persistent lashings from Vice President Dick Cheney, has been largely unsuccessful in undoing three decades of environmental law. 
 Mr. Johnson's proposal would cut to the very heart of the Clean Air Act. As written in 1970, the act imposes one overriding obligation on the E.P.A. administrator: to establish air quality standards ''requisite to protect the public health'' with ''an adequate margin of safety.'' Economic considerations -- costs and benefits -- can be taken into account in figuring out a reasonable timetable for achieving the standards. But only science can shape the standards themselves.
 Congress wrote the law this way because it believed that air quality standards must be based on rigorous scientific study alone and that science would be the sure loser unless insulated from special interests. In 2001, in response to industry challenges, the Supreme Court unanimously reaffirmed the law's bedrock principles. 
 The law gives the administrator latitude in setting the standards, and no administrator is deaf to outside voices. In 1997, the E.P.A. administrator Carol Browner imposed tough standards for smog and soot that reflected the scientific consensus. In 2006, Mr. Johnson further tightened the soot standards and, last week, he tightened the ozone standards.
 His improvements, however, were relatively modest, and in both cases he rejected stronger recommendations from his Clean Air Scientific Advisory Committee, a group of outside experts. And he could not have been unmindful of constant whining from antiregulatory hard-liners at the Office of Management and Budget.
 Ozone has a direct impact on the rates of heart and respiratory disease. The present standard, expressed in terms of average concentrations at ground level, is 84 parts per billion; Mr. Johnson would lower that to 75, while the advisory panel recommended 60 to 70 parts per billion. The difference of a few points could prevent several thousand premature deaths.
 Mr. Johnson hailed his standard as the ''most health-protective'' in the nation's history. Technically, he was right. But if his proposed changes in the Clean Air Act ever became reality he could well be the last administrator to be able to make that claim. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIR QUALITY REGULATION (94%); AIR QUALITY (91%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (91%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SMOG (90%); PARTICULATE MATTER (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); BUDGETS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); HEART DISEASE (67%); HISTORY (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (84%)

PERSON: CAROL BROWNER (58%); DICK CHENEY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2008



416 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1207 words

HEADLINE: IN SWEEPING MOVE, FED BACKS BUYOUT AND WALL ST. LOANS

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Hoping to avoid a systemic meltdown in financial markets, the Federal Reserve on Sunday approved a $30 billion credit line to engineer the takeover of Bear Stearns and announced an open-ended lending program for the biggest investment firms on Wall Street.
 In a third move aimed at helping banks and thrifts, the Fed also lowered the rate for borrowing from its so-called discount window by a quarter of a percentage point, to 3.25 percent.
 The moves amounted to a sweeping and apparently unprecedented attempt by the Federal Reserve to rescue the nation's financial markets from what officials feared could be a chain reaction of defaults.
 After a weekend of intense negotiations, the Federal Reserve approved a $30 billion credit line to help JPMorgan Chase acquire Bear Stearns, one of the biggest firms on Wall Street, which had been teetering near collapse because of its deepening losses in the mortgage market. 
 In a highly unusual maneuver, Fed officials said they would secure the loan by effectively taking over the huge Bear Stearns portfolio and exercising control over all major decisions in order to minimize the central bank's own risk.
 The Fed, working closely with bank regulators and the Treasury Department, raced to complete the deal Sunday night in order to prevent investors from panicking on Monday about the ability of Bear Stearns to make good on billions of dollars in trading commitments.
 In a potentially even bigger move, the Federal Reserve also announced its biggest commitment yet to lend money to struggling investment banks. The central bank said its new lending program would make money available to the 20 large investment banks that serve as ''primary dealers'' and trade Treasury securities directly with the Fed.
 Much like a $200 billion loan program the Fed announced last Tuesday, this program will essentially allow the government to hold as collateral a wide variety of investments that include hard-to-sell securities backed by mortgages. But Fed officials told reporters on Sunday night that the new program would have no limit on the amount of money that can be borrowed.
 In a conference call with reporters, the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, said the central bank was moving to provide money to financial institutions that need it.
 ''The Federal Reserve, in close consultation with the Treasury, is working to promote liquid, well-functioning financial markets, which are essential for economic growth,'' he said. ''These steps will provide financial institutions with greater assurance of access to funds.''
 It was unclear just how much risk the Federal Reserve was taking on, especially in the bailout of Bear Stearns. But analysts said it was clear that JPMorgan Chase was getting an extraordinary bargain, buying Bear Stearns at a tiny fraction of its market value just one week ago, and with the Fed shielding it from much of the risk.
 Fed officials said they would take control of the investment holdings of Bear Stearns in order to maximize their value and minimize disruptions as a result of a cash squeeze. Without providing details, Fed officials insisted that the $30 billion loan was covered by even the most conservative estimates of the Bear Stearns holdings.
 Mr. Bernanke spent much of the weekend in his office in Washington, staying in constant telephone contact with officials at the New York Fed, which led the negotiations with JPMorgan Chase. Mr. Bernanke and board officials in Washington set the overall parameters for how much risk the central bank was willing to shoulder, and they consulted closely with the Treasury Department and its Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.
 But Mr. Bernanke had already been worrying for some time about the collapse of a major Wall Street bank, and Bear Stearns had been high on its watch list.
 Standard & Poor's 500 index futures expiring in June fell 2.9 percent on Sunday night, signaling a lower opening for United States stock markets on Monday morning.
 Last Tuesday, the central bank announced a $200 billion loan program that would allow the nation's biggest banks to borrow Treasury securities and post mortgage-backed securities as collateral. The financing gave 20 top investment banks 28-day loans at what amounted to wholesale rates -- at or slightly below the Fed's benchmark rate on overnight loans between banks.
 But the program did little to rejuvenate the credit markets, which have been paralyzed by fears about even conservative short-term-debt securities. On Wall Street, rumors about a possible collapse of Bear Stearns, which had been a leader in packaging mortgage-backed securities, gained gale-force strength.
 Monetary policy experts said they were stunned by the sweeping nature of the Fed's efforts, which they said were unprecedented in a host of different ways. But some were doubtful about whether the moves would solve the underlying problem of huge losses from bad lending practices.
 ''Emergency provision of loans is necessary but not sufficient,'' said Lawrence H. Summers, who was a Treasury secretary under President Bill Clinton. ''There is a fundamental issue, which is that the financial system is short of capital and is under pressure to contract.''
 Henry M. Paulson Jr., the current Treasury secretary, vigorously endorsed the Fed's rescue efforts on Sunday and made it clear he was much less worried about the ''moral hazard'' of bailing out a Wall Street firm than he was about a chain reaction of defaults if Bear Stearns were to abruptly collapse.
 ''The right decision here, I am convinced, was the decision that the Fed made, which was to do things, work with market participants to minimize the disruptions,'' Mr. Paulson said on ''This Week With George Stephanopoulos'' on ABC.
 Mr. Paulson and two top deputies, Robert Steel and Anthony W. Ryan, stayed in Washington rather than participate in person with the talks under way in New York. But Treasury officials said they stayed in constant telephone contact with the New York Fed and with Wall Street executives. 
 The New York Fed, which runs the Fed's daily market operation and has long been the Federal Reserve's primary channel for dealing with Wall Street, led the negotiations with JPMorgan Chase. 
 The principal issue, according to officials, was how much insurance the Fed was willing to provide to JPMorgan Chase in exchange for taking over Bear Stearns and its hard-to-quantify assets.
 Fed officials were racing to announce an agreement of some sort before financial markets opened in Asia, which meant reaching a deal on Sunday night. But even as they worked to engineer a takeover of Bear Stearns, Fed officials were canvassing executives at other Wall Street firms that might be in trouble as well.
 As rumors about problems at Bear Stearns swept across Wall Street last week, Fed and Treasury officials became convinced that they needed more weapons to help struggling investment banks. Although stock investors initially cheered the announcement Tuesday of the $200 billion lending program, the credit markets showed little reaction -- an indication that investors were still dubious about the mountain of mortgage-backed securities that companies like Bear Stearns were holding.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson said he was concerned about a ''chain reaction.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY FREDDIE LEE/FOX NEWS SUNDAY) (pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (92%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); BANK FAILURES (77%); SAVINGS & LOANS (77%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (53%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (96%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (90%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (96%); JPM (LSE) (96%); 8634 (TSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (96%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (96%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (96%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%); HENRY PAULSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2008



417 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: The B Word

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
O.K., here it comes: The unthinkable is about to become the inevitable. 
 Last week, Robert Rubin, the former Treasury secretary, and John Lipsky, a top official at the International Monetary Fund, both suggested that public funds might be needed to rescue the U.S. financial system. Mr. Lipsky insisted that he wasn't talking about a bailout. But he was.
 It's true that Henry Paulson, the current Treasury secretary, still says that any proposal to use taxpayers' money to help resolve the crisis is a ''non-starter.'' But that's about as credible as all of his previous pronouncements on the financial situation. 
 So here's the question we really should be asking: When the feds do bail out the financial system, what will they do to ensure that they aren't also bailing out the people who got us into this mess?
 Let's talk about why a bailout is inevitable.
 Between 2002 and 2007, false beliefs in the private sector -- the belief that home prices only go up, that financial innovation had made risk go away, that a triple-A rating really meant that an investment was safe -- led to an epidemic of bad lending. Meanwhile, false beliefs in the political arena -- the belief of Alan Greenspan and his friends in the Bush administration that the market is always right and regulation always a bad thing -- led Washington to ignore the warning signs.
 By the way, Mr. Greenspan is still at it: accepting no blame, he continues to insist that ''market flexibility and open competition'' are the ''most reliable safeguards against cumulative economic failure.'' 
 The result of all that bad lending was an unholy financial mess that will cause trillions of dollars in losses. A large chunk of these losses will fall on financial institutions: commercial banks, investment banks, hedge funds and so on.
 Many people say that the government should let the chips fall where they may -- that those who made bad loans should simply be left to suffer the consequences. But it's not going to happen. When push comes to shove, financial officials -- rightly -- aren't willing to run the risk that losses on bad loans will cripple the financial system and take the real economy down with it.
 Consider what happened last Friday, when the Federal Reserve rushed to the aid of Bear Stearns.
 Nobody expects an investment bank to be a charitable institution, but Bear has a particularly nasty reputation. As Gretchen Morgenson of The New York Times reminds us, Bear ''has often operated in the gray areas of Wall Street and with an aggressive, brass-knuckles approach.'' 
 Bear was a major promoter of the most questionable subprime lenders. It lured customers into two of its own hedge funds that were among the first to go bust in the current crisis. And it's a bad financial citizen: the last time the Fed tried to contain a financial crisis, after the collapse of Long-Term Capital Management in 1998, Bear refused to participate in the rescue operation.
 Bear, in other words, deserved to be allowed to fail -- both on the merits and to teach Wall Street not to expect someone else to clean up its messes.
 But the Fed rode to Bear's rescue anyway, fearing that the collapse of a major investment bank would cause panic in the markets and wreak havoc with the wider economy. Fed officials knew that they were doing a bad thing, but believed that the alternative would be even worse.
 As Bear goes, so will go the rest of the financial system. And if history is any guide, the coming taxpayer-financed bailout will end up costing a lot of money.
 The U.S. savings and loan crisis of the 1980s ended up costing taxpayers 3.2 percent of G.D.P., the equivalent of $450 billion today. Some estimates put the fiscal cost of Japan's post-bubble cleanup at more than 20 percent of G.D.P. -- the equivalent of $3 trillion for the United States.
 If these numbers shock you, they should. But the big bailout is coming. The only question is how well it will be managed.
 As I said, the important thing is to bail out the system, not the people who got us into this mess. That means cleaning out the shareholders in failed institutions, making bondholders take a haircut, and canceling the stock options of executives who got rich playing heads I win, tails you lose. 
 According to late reports on Sunday, JPMorgan Chase will buy Bear for a pittance. That's an O.K. resolution for this case -- but not a model for the much bigger bailout to come. Looking ahead, we probably need something similar to the Resolution Trust Corporation, which took over bankrupt savings and loan institutions and sold off their assets to reimburse taxpayers. And we need it quickly: things are falling apart as you read this. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); REAL ESTATE (72%); CHARITIES (72%); HEDGE FUNDS (72%); SUBPRIME LENDING (71%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (61%); HOME PRICES (52%)

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (58%); ALAN GREENSPAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2008



418 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 209 words

HEADLINE: Major Stock Markets in Asia Tumble

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
Major Asian stock markets fell sharply Monday as pessimism continued to spread despite the Fed's dramatic moves over the weekend, sending Tokyo's benchmark index to a three-year low. 
 The markets responded negatively to the purchase of Bear Stearns over the weekend by JPMorgan Chase. The acquisition, backed by the Federal Reserve, underscored the severity of the credit crisis in the United States and the weakness of the American economy.
 In Tokyo, the region's largest stock exchange, the benchmark Nikkei 225 index was trading at an almost three-year low. By midday, the index dropped 4.2 percent to 11,726.99, falling below 12,000 for the first time since August 2005. 
 Elsewhere in Asia, South Korea's benchmark Kospi index was also down 2.4 percent. Australia's S&P/ASX 200 index fell 2.4 percent, and in New Zealand, the NZX 50 index dropped 1.9 percent.
 The declines in Tokyo came even as the Japanese central bank, the Bank of Japan, moved to shore up financial markets by injecting $4.1 billion into short-term money markets. 
 Asian stocks have also been hurt by the weakness of the dollar, which erodes the value in local currencies of overseas profits and forces big exporters like Toyota and Sony to raise prices in foreign markets. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); CURRENCIES (75%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (58%); BANK OF JAPAN (55%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); ASIA (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); AUSTRALIA (75%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2008



419 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1093 words

HEADLINE: The Case for Another Drug War, Against Pharmaceutical Marketers' Dirty Tactics

BYLINE: By JANET MASLIN

 BODY:
By the time Melody Petersen gets around to interviewing Iowa's state nosologist near the end of ''Our Daily Meds,'' the facts that she cites don't even sound that grim. The nosologist's job is to catalog Iowa's deceased according to cause of death. He processes about 27,000 death certificates a year. And by his reckoning there were only five deaths caused by adverse reactions to prescription drugs in 2002. That low figure is jarringly out of whack with Ms. Petersen's investigative reporting in an angrily illuminating book on drug-related corporate malfeasance and patient peril.
 ''Could drugs be killing people but escaping all blame, leaving them to harm even more Americans until someone, finally, catches on?'' Ms. Petersen asks. Given the information that her book uncovers, this a purely rhetorical question. Her study cites reckless and questionable behavior in all aspects of drug companies' research and marketing ploys, even if much of this is familiar territory. It has been explored by earlier crusaders (notably Marcia Angell in ''The Truth About the Drug Companies'') and in Ms. Petersen's own journalism. She spent four years as a reporter covering the drug industry for The New York Times. 
 The newer and scarier material in ''Our Daily Meds'' concerns the increasingly serious consequences of Americans' dependency on prescription drugs. Disagreeing with Iowa's nosologist, Ms. Petersen says the lethal consequences of overprescribed or misprescribed drugs are too readily accepted as ''natural'' death. She cites the unwillingness of pathologists to question the wisdom with which doctors dispense medications. The reluctance of hospitals to perform autopsies, she says, has impeded medical research into what these interactions can do.
 ''Our Daily Meds'' begins by illustrating the established drug-company practices that have led to this sorry juncture. There is the rigging of studies, so that to be deemed ''effective'' a drug need only perform better than a sugar pill. There are the promotional strategies that evade the need for F.D.A. warnings by, say, planting logos for the sexual enhancement drug Viagra and the antidepressant Wellbutrin on Nascar vehicles. There is the co-option of doctors and university researchers by aggressive, payola-dispensing drug company representatives. 
 Ms. Petersen, who has done much of her digging with the help of obscure but gratifying corporate documents, even finds feedback from doctors about the bribe-style amenities offered by drug company junkets. (''Hotel too cold inside,'' one said, in an evaluation of a June 1998 drug company program, adding, ''Resort places preferred.'' From a different doctor, miffed at the lack of a chauffeur at another event: ''Hired car would have been much preferable.'' 
 But she moves to weightier matters in assessing the directions in which heavy drug dependence is leading Americans. First of all there are the business strategies that have created illnesses out of what used to be facts of life, labeled them as syndromes, and have hooked customers into long-term use of medication to cure them. (Detrol, the obnoxiously advertised cure for what its manufacturer calls ''overactive bladder,'' is a case in point, especially since it can cause hallucinations that resemble symptoms of Alzheimer's disease.) Second, there are the economics of creating chronic consumers for marginally necessary drugs.
 Irate as she is that in a period (1980-2003) when Americans doubled what they spent on cars they increased their spending on prescription drugs by 17 times, Ms. Petersen steps back to consider the long-term consequences of this shift in consumption. She notes that the first generation of children raised in front of ubiquitous, sunny drug-company advertisements (which became legal in 1997) has acquired the notions that prescription pills fix everything, and that they are less dangerous than street drugs. Then, looking to the elderly, she points out that increasing numbers of drugs are accumulating in these patients, with little regard for the consequences. 
 ''As older patients move through time, often from physician to physician,'' one doctor tells her, ''they are at increasing risk of accumulating layer upon layer of drug therapy, as a reef accumulates layer upon layer of coral.'' And when the side effects of sleeping pills or antidepressants mean more elderly people fall down, the solution is not likely to be the scaling back of such prescriptions. ''Instead,'' she writes, ''the companies have used the statistics on falls to create a new blockbuster pharmaceutical market for drugs they claim will reduce the chances of breaking a bone.'' The market for just two of these drugs, Fosamax and Actonel, is expected to be worth $10 billion by 2011.
 Ms. Petersen compiles this data in anecdotal style, even though they would have hit harder in more crystallized, succinct form. But although she rambles and repeats herself at times, this material remains tough, cogent and disturbing enough to have a serious impact. So do her recommendations at the end of this chilling investigation.
 Among them: Look at the pens and tissue boxes in your doctor's office. If they feature drug ads, then a drug company representative has been courting your doctor, trying to influence the ways in which that doctor issues prescriptions. Don't trust paid celebrity drug endorsements. Be aware that your symptoms may be caused not by illness but by medication, especially when more than one medication is involved. Ms. Petersen urges more study of these interactions, particularly on the part of police officers who can assess drunk drivers but not overmedicated ones. 
 ''Our Daily Meds'' also advocates more supervision of doctors' research articles, many of which are ghostwritten by drug company spokesmen. It calls for drug watchdog agencies that are not overseen by the government, since government officials can so easily be lobbied. Most drastically, she advocates prison time for executives implicated in pharmaceutical crimes. But those crimes are part of a time-honored tradition. As a federal investigator put it in 1937, after a barely tested elixir killed as many as 30 percent of the people who took it: ''Apparently they just throw drugs together and if they don't explode they are placed on sale.'' 
 OUR DAILY MEDS 
 How the Pharmaceutical Companies Transformed Themselves Into Slick Marketing Machines and Hooked the Nation on Prescription Drugs 
 By Melody Petersen 
 432 pp. Sarah Crichton Books/Farrar Straus & Giroux. $26. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MOLLY HAWKEY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (89%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (89%); AUTOPSIES (77%); MISCONDUCT (76%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (76%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (76%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (75%); NEWS REPORTING (75%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (70%); PATHOLOGY (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: Our Daily Meds (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2008



420 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: The Fungus That Conquered Europe

BYLINE: By JOHN READER. 
John Reader is the author, most recently, of the forthcoming ''Propitious Esculent: The Potato in World History.''

DATELINE: London 

 BODY:
 THE feast of Ireland's patron saint has always been an occasion for saluting the beautiful land ''where the praties grow,'' but it's also a time to look again at the disaster that established around the world the Irish communities that today celebrate St. Patrick's Day: the Great Potato Famine of 1845-6. In its wake, the Irish left the old country, with more than half a million settling in United States. The famine and the migrations changed Irish and American history, of course, but they drastically changed Britain too. 
 Americans may think of the disease that destroyed Ireland's potato crops, late blight, as a European phenomenon, but its devastations actually started with them. The origin of the fungal organism responsible, Phytophthora infestans, has been traced to a valley in the highlands of central Mexico, and the first recorded instances of the disease are in the United States, with the sudden and mysterious destruction of potato crops around Philadelphia and New York in early 1843. Within months, winds spread the rapidly reproducing airborne spores of the disease, and by 1845 it had destroyed potato crops from Illinois east to Nova Scotia, and from Virginia north to Ontario. 
 It then crossed the Atlantic with a shipment of seed potatoes ordered by Belgian farmers. They had been hoping that fresh stock would improve their yields. Unhappily, it brought the seeds of devastation.
 The warm damp spring of 1845 enabled late blight to become an epidemic. By mid-July, the disease had spread throughout Belgium and into the Netherlands. It went on to infect an area from northern Spain to the southern tips of Norway and Sweden, and east to Northern Italy. It moved inexorably through the British Isles and reached Connemara, on Ireland's west coast, in mid-October. The ruin of Europe's potato crops was complete. 
 Nothing like it had been known before. Neither the Vandal hordes nor the bubonic plague had penetrated Europe so deeply and so fast. The failure of the crop was a disaster for every farmer, market gardener and family in Europe that relied on potatoes. Few were unaffected; in Ireland, a population that in 250 years had grown from one million to more than eight million, solely because of the potato's unrivaled quality as a staple food, was threatened with starvation.
 The first intimations of Ireland's looming calamity reached the British government in August 1845. Although Britain was responsible for the social and economic iniquities which had made Ireland so susceptible, the government of the day deserves some credit for its efforts to avert mass starvation. There were political as well as logistical difficulties. 
 The Conservative prime minister, Sir Robert Peel, without seeking the approval of either cabinet or Parliament, authorized the banker Sir Thomas Baring to secretly buy $:100,000 of American maize for shipment to Ireland. But before any official relief program could proceed there was a political obstacle to overcome: Britain's Corn Laws, which imposed exorbitant duties on imported grain to ensure that it could never be cheaper than home-grown produce. 
 To Peel it was obvious that the Corn Laws would have to go, but his electorate of large landowners was vehemently opposed to their abolition. The Duke of Wellington, leader of the House of Lords, complained that Ireland's ''rotten potatoes have done it all -- they put Peel in his damned fright.'' Peel drew heavily on the news from Ireland as he urged Parliament to vote for abolition: 
 ''Are you to hesitate in averting famine which may come, because it possibly may not come? Are you to look to and depend upon chance in such an extremity? Or, good God! are you to sit in cabinet, and consider and calculate how much diarrhea, and bloody flux, and dysentery, a people can bear before it becomes necessary for you to provide them with food?''
 The bill abolishing the Corn Laws was passed in May 1846 in the House of Commons, with two-thirds of Peel's party voting against it and the entire opposition voting in favor. A month later, Peel was out of office. 
 As it turned out, far from Britain being flooded with cheap wheat, within weeks of the abolition the price of grain had reached heights rarely seen before. Speculation was rife, with dealers buying grain futures at two and three times the price of a few months before, draining the country's gold reserves and eventually threatening the stability of the Bank of England itself.
 Then, as fate would have it, the summer of 1847 brought news that Ireland's potato crop, though small, was doing well. The grain harvests also promised to be exceptionally good. Prices tumbled just as the grain bought months before at inflated rates began arriving in the ports. 
 Dealers who had gambled on high prices now found themselves unable to recoup their investments. Twenty major grain trading companies were brought down in September with total liabilities approaching $:10 million. An additional 99 trading and related firms collapsed in October as the crisis spread, bringing down 11 country banks and three of the biggest in Liverpool. 
 The London banks, though, survived and went on to prosperity, for Ireland's famine, by ending the Corn Laws, prompted the beginning of the free trade that established the success of Britain's industrial economy. Still, the banking crisis had such an impact on the British mind-set that it is the benchmark against which commentators compare subsequent banking problems. 
 Not since the 1840s have we seen anything like this, they declared as the Bank of England stepped in last year to save the Northern Rock bank from a collapse caused by the subprime mortgage debacle -- another American-born infection. At least our potatoes are safe. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POTATO FARMING (91%); MOLDS & FUNGI (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMINE (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); CHRISTIAN HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (78%); STARVATION (76%); HISTORY (70%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (63%); PRIME MINISTERS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (76%); ONTARIO, CANADA (70%) IRELAND (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); BELGIUM (90%); NETHERLANDS (79%); MEXICO (79%); SPAIN (79%); NORWAY (79%); SWEDEN (79%); CANADA (70%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2008



421 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1525 words

HEADLINE: IN SWEEPING MOVE, FED BACKS BUYOUT AND WALL ST. LOANS

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN; Jenny Anderson and Eric Dash contributed reporting.

 BODY:
In a shocking deal reached on Sunday to save Bear Stearns, JPMorgan Chase agreed to pay a mere $2 a share to buy all of Bear -- less than one-tenth the firm's market price on Friday.
 As part of the watershed deal, JPMorgan and the Federal Reserve will guarantee the huge trading obligations of the troubled firm, which was driven to the brink of bankruptcy by what amounted to a run on the bank.
 Reflecting Bear's dire straits, JPMorgan agreed to pay only about $270 million in stock for the firm, which had run up big losses on investments linked to mortgages.
 JPMorgan is buying Bear, which has 14,000 employees, for a third the price at which the smaller firm went public in 1985. Only a year ago, Bear's shares sold for $170. The sale price includes Bear Stearns's soaring Madison Avenue headquarters. 
 The agreement ended a day in which bankers and policy makers were racing to complete the takeover agreement before financial markets in Asia opened on Monday, fearing that the financial panic could spread if the 85-year-old investment bank failed to find a buyer.
 As the trading day began in Tokyo, however, markets tumbled more than 4 percent. In the United States, investors faced another week of gut-wrenching volatility in American markets.
 Despite the sale of Bear, investors fear that others in the industry, like Lehman Brothers, already reeling from losses on mortgage-related investments, could face further blows. 
 The deal for Bear, done at the behest of the Fed and the Treasury Department, punctuates the stunning downfall of one of Wall Street's biggest and most storied firms. Bear had weathered the vagaries of the markets for 85 years, surviving the Depression and a dozen recessions only to meet its end in the rapidly unfolding credit crisis now afflicting the American economy.
 A throwback to a bygone era, Bear Stearns still operated as a cigar-chomping, suspender-wearing culture where taking risks was rewarded. It was a firm that was never considered truly white-shoe, an outsider that defied its mainstream rivals.
 When the Federal Reserve helped plan a bailout in 1998 of Long Term Capital Management, the hedge fund, Bear Stearns proudly refused to join the effort. Until recent weeks, Alan ''Ace'' Greenberg, Bear Stearns's chairman for more than 20 years and a championship bridge player, still regaled its partners over lengthy lunches about gambling with the firm's money in its wood-paneled dining room.
 The cut-price deal for Bear Stearns reflects deep misgivings about its future and the enormous obligations that JPMorgan is assuming in guaranteeing the firm's obligations. In an unusual move, the Fed will provide financing for the transaction, including support for as much as $30 billion of Bear Stearns's ''less-liquid assets.''
 Wall Street was stunned by the news on Sunday night. ''This is like waking up in summer with snow on the ground,'' said Ron Geffner, a partner Sadis & Goldberg and a former enforcement lawyer for the Securities and Exchange Commission. ''The price is indicative that there were bigger problems at Bear than clients and the public realized.''
 The deal followed a weekend of frantic negotiations to save the ailing firm. With the Fed and Treasury Department patched in by conference call from Washington, Bear Stearns executives held the equivalent of a speed-dating auction over the weekend, with prospective bidders holed up in a half dozen conference rooms at its Madison Avenue headquarters. More than 150 JPMorgan employees descended on Bear Stearns to examine the firm's books and trading accounts.
 Even as those talks took place, Bear Stearns simultaneously prepared to file for bankruptcy protection in the event a deal could not be struck, underscoring the severity of its troubles.
 On Sunday night, Jamie Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorgan, held a conference call with the heads of major American financial companies to alert them to the deal and allay their concerns about doing business with Bear Stearns. 
 ''JPMorgan Chase stands behind Bear Stearns,'' Mr. Dimon said in a statement. ''Bear Stearns's clients and counterparties should feel secure that JPMorgan is guaranteeing Bear Stearns's counterparty risk. We welcome their clients, counterparties and employees to our firm, and we are glad to be their partner.'' While Bear Stearns toyed with suitors like big private equity firms like the J.C. Flowers & Company, the only meaningful bidder was JPMorgan.
 The deal is a major coup for Mr. Dimon, who slept only a handful of hours over the weekend while negotiating with Bear and government officials. Over the last few years, he has focused intensely on cutting costs, improving technology and integrating JPMorgan's disparate operations. But he also has been adamant about preparing the company for an economic downturn. 
 For JPMorgan, one of the few major banks to emerge relatively unscathed from the subprime crisis, the deal provides a major entry to prime brokerage, which provides financing to hedge funds. While that business has been lucrative in recent years, it has slowed as the financial markets have slumped.
 Bear also would give JPMorgan a much bigger presence in the mortgage securities business, which the bank's executives say they are committed in spite of the recent market downturn.
 There are, of course, some drawbacks to a deal, even at a bargain-basement price. Mr. Dimon has long expressed doubts that combining two big investment banks is a good idea. Bear's prime brokerage business would require a big technology investment. And there are often severe cultural issues and significant management overlap.
 It is unclear how many of Bear Stearns's employees, who together own a third of the company, will remain after the combination. People involved in the talks suggested that as much as a third of the staff could lose their jobs. The deal also raises the prospect that some employees at JPMorgan, which was already considering cutbacks, may face the prospect of additional layoffs as the two firms merge their operations.
 With Bear, JPMorgan also inherits a balance sheet that is packed with financial land mines, though the Fed has agreed to protect the firm from a certain amount of liability. Even though JPMorgan has performed well through this recent turbulence, it is unclear if it would want that additional risk.
 ''Having taken Bear Stearns out of the problem category, and the strong action by the Federal Reserve, we would anticipate the market will behave quite differently on Monday than it was Thursday or Friday,'' Michael Cavanaugh, JPMorgan's chief financial officer, told analysts during a conference call.
 The swiftness of Mr. Dimon's decision to buy Bear is remarkable given that he has not been an aggressive acquirer since he joined the firm after selling it BankOne, where he was chief executive. He has cautioned patience about making acquisitions, though he had suggested in recent months that the firm might be ready to make a major deal.
 Earlier this month, the co-chief executive of JPMorgan's investment bank, William T. Winters, said on a conference call with investors: ''If a special opportunity came up to acquire a prime broker at a decent return, we wouldn't hesitate. We've always said, 'Boy, if there was one for sale, we'd love to look at it.' ''
 A deal needed to be reached quickly to protect the business from collapsing entirely. With most if not all of its clients stopping trading with the firm, its days were numbered.
 James E. Cayne, Bear Stearns's former chief executive and one of its largest individual shareholder, will likely walk away with a little morethan $13.4 million, the value of his Bear stock holdings, according to James F. Redda & Associates. Those would have been worth $1.2 billion in January 2007, when Bear's stock was trading at a $171.51. Mr. Cayne has taken home more than $232 million in salary, bonus and other pay between 1993 and 2006, the time period for which there is publicly available data, according to Equilar, an as an executive compensation research firm.
 Many hedge funds had started expressing concern about Bear Stearns by late Thursday. Jana Partners, a large hedge fund, for example, sent a memo to its investors that said, ''In response to many recent inquiries regarding Bear Stearns, we are writing to inform you that we have no direct exposure to Bear Stearns or its affiliates through a prime brokerage relationship or otherwise.''
 Not all investors are expected to be pleased with the deal. A conference call with investors and analysts on Sunday night was broken up when a Bear Stearns shareholder sought an explanation of why he would be better off approving this transaction rather than seeing Bear Stearns file for a Chapter 11 bankruptcy.
 The JPMorgan executives demurred, instead referring the investor to Bear Stearns executives for an explanation. The shareholder declared that he would vote against the deal.
 Afterward, Mr. Cavanaugh said JPMorgan felt comfortable in pulling the trigger despite the short due-diligence process. ''We've known Bear Stearns for a long time,'' Mr. Cavanaugh said.

GRAPHIC: CHART: A HISTORY OF BEAR STEARNS: One of the oldest and last of the independent investment banks, Bear Stearns agreed on Sunday to sell itself to JPMorgan Chase. (Sources: Bear Stearns
 Hoover's) (pg. A16) Chart showing a timeline of Bear Stearns. GRAPH (Source: Bloomberg) Graph showing the federal funds target rate. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); BAILOUTS (76%); CHRONOLOGIES (76%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (76%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (75%); TAKEOVERS (73%); RECESSION (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (72%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); CARD GAMES (60%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (96%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (92%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (96%); JPM (LSE) (96%); 8634 (TSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (96%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (96%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (96%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (71%) UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (71%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2008



422 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: Alitalia Takes Offer For Buyout

BYLINE: By NICOLA CLARK

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
The board of Alitalia, the money-losing Italian airline, accepted a 747 million-euro takeover offer from Air France-KLM on Sunday, seizing a financial lifeline at the 11th hour after months of political indecision and labor resistance. 
 After a marathon meeting that began Saturday and lasted more than 10 hours, Alitalia's board issued a statement shortly after midnight announcing its unanimous approval of the offer. The $1.17 billion deal now awaits approval from the Italian government -- which owns 49.9 percent of the airline's shares -- as well as national and European Union regulators. 
 Under the terms of the proposal, Air France-KLM, the French-Dutch carrier, said it would exchange one of its shares for every 160 of Alitalia stock, valuing the Italian airline at 139 million euros, or about 0.10 euro a share. 
 That represents a discount of more than 80 percent to Alitalia's closing share price Friday of 0.53 euro. 
 Air France-KLM also said it would buy all of Alitalia's outstanding convertible bonds, worth around 608 million euros as of Friday. 
 Air France-KLM also said that it would inject 1 billion euros of capital into Alitalia through an offering of new shares to existing shareholders once the takeover was complete. 
 Air France-KLM said that pending the approval of the Italian government and Alitalia's unions, it expected to win approval for the deal from European Union regulators by the end of June. 
 Many Italians learned of the deeply discounted offer -- well below the roughly 1 billion euros that had been predicted in reports last week -- as they prepared for Palm Sunday celebrations. 
 ''Alitalia has given a painful yes to the French,'' the Italian business daily Il Sole-24 Ore wrote in an editorial published Sunday. The newspaper described the decision as ''hard to digest,'' but said that it was ''the only concrete solution'' for the airline. 
 The Italian government has spent roughly 4.3 billion euros over the last five years, trying to keep Alitalia afloat. But the European Union has barred Rome from giving any further financial assistance to the airline. 
 ''I think that the government has acted to arrive at a positive solution,'' Italy's labor minister, Cesare Damiano, said. He added that the government would study the impact of Air France-KLM's plan on Alitalia employees before rendering its final decision. 
 Airline executives warn that soaring fuel prices and the risk of a recession in the United States could wipe out much of the airline industry's anticipated profits this year, despite steady increases in global demand for air travel. Some say the expected slowdown may increase pressure on airlines in Europe and North America to merge. 
 ''If you believe that 2008 is going to be a very bad year economically, then obviously to the extent that they can get through consolidation of the industry quickly, then Air France can present this to the Italians as an alternative to going bust on their own in this environment,'' said Dan Solon, an independent airline analyst based in Barcelona, Spain. ''In a way, the economic situation opens the possibility for a pragmatic solution.'' 
 Maurizio Prato, chief executive of Alitalia, has long supported a combination with Air France-KLM, as the option that would give his airline the best chance of long-term survival in an increasingly crowded aviation market. 
 In recent years, Alitalia has faced fierce competition from discount airlines, including domestic rivals like Air One as well as foreign ones like easyJet and Ryanair. Its share of the Italian air travel market has fallen to around 30 percent from more than 80 percent a decade ago. 
 But political pressure has been strong for Alitalia to remain in Italian hands. After considering a number of domestic offers of questionable financial viability -- and a failed auction last summer -- the center-left government of Prime Minister Romano Prodi reluctantly agreed in December to enter exclusive negotiations with Air France-KLM. 
 Mr. Prodi's government collapsed in January, however, throwing the process into doubt as new elections were called for April 13 to 14. Silvio Berlusconi, the former prime minister who is leading in opinion polls for the elections scheduled next month, initially insisted that Alitalia should not be sold to a foreign rival, although he has since softened his position. 
 According to Italian news media reports late last week, the Finance Ministry is expected to meet on Monday to decide on the proposal. Jean-Cyril Spinetta, chairman of Air France-KLM, is expected to formally present the plan to Alitalia's union leaders on Tuesday. 
 Without the acquiescence of politicians and labor leaders, Alitalia risks running low on cash before the April elections. The carrier disclosed on Feb. 29 that its cash reserves were down to 282 million euros at the end of January, down 23 percent from Dec. 31. 
 Alitalia is losing more than 1 million euros a day and has about 1.3 billion euros in debt. 
 Under its proposal, Air France-KLM said it intended to preserve the Italian identity of Alitalia. But it also planned to overhaul Alitalia's flight network, basing the bulk of its operations at Leonardo da Vinci Fiumicino Airport in Rome and drastically cutting flights from Alitalia's second hub, Malpensa Airport in Milan, which frequently ranks high on travelers' lists of the worst airports in Europe. 
 Labor leaders and local politicians in northern Italy are still fiercely opposed to that plan, fearing the negative economic repercussions it could have for Milan as a European financial center. For Air France-KLM, acquiring Alitalia would give it a third major European hub alongside Charles de Gaulle International Airport in Paris and Schiphol Airport in Amsterdam. 
 Turning Alitalia's fortunes around will be an heavy task for the French-Dutch group. In addition to its financial troubles, the Italian carrier is saddled with a fleet of aging, fuel-guzzling aircraft and a bloated, strike-prone work force of 11,000. 
 Alitalia said Sunday that Air France-KLM's plan included the loss of around 1,600 jobs. The fate of an additional 8,300 people who work for Alitalia's maintenance subsidiary, Alitalia Servizi, remained uncertain. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO (91%); AIRLINES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (74%); STOCK OFFERINGS (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); BONDS (71%); RECESSION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); EASTER SEASON (63%)

COMPANY: ALITALIA - CIA AEREA ITALIANA SPA (92%); AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (90%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%)

TICKER: AF (PAR) (90%); AF (AMS) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%); ROME, ITALY (79%) EUROPE (94%); ITALY (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); FRANCE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2008



423 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; FIVE YEARS IN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2439 words

HEADLINE: Fateful Choice on Iraq Army Bypassed Washington Debate

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON

DATELINE: BAGHDAD 

 BODY:
When President Bush convened a meeting of his National Security Council on May 22, 2003, his special envoy in Iraq made a statement that caught many of the participants by surprise. In a video presentation from Baghdad, L. Paul Bremer III informed the president and his aides that he was about to issue an order formally dissolving Iraq's Army. 
 The decree was issued the next day.
 The broad outlines of the decision are now widely known, defended by proponents as necessary to ensure that Saddam Hussein's influence did not outlive his ouster from power. 
 But with the fifth anniversary of the start of the war approaching, some participants have provided in interviews their first detailed, on-the-record accounts of a decision that is widely seen as one of the most momentous and contentious of the war, assailed by critics as all but ensuring that American forces would face a growing insurgency led by embittered Sunnis who led much of the army.
 The account that emerges from those interviews, and from access to previously unpublished documents, makes clear that Mr. Bremer's decree reversed an earlier plan -- one that would have relied on the Iraqi military to help secure and rebuild the country, and had been approved at a White House meeting that Mr. Bush convened just 10 weeks earlier.
 The interviews show that while Mr. Bush endorsed Mr. Bremer's plan in the May 22 meeting, the decision was made without thorough consultations within government, and without the counsel of the secretary of state or the senior American commander in Iraq, said the commander, Lt. Gen. David D. McKiernan. The decree by Mr. Bremer, who is known as Jerry, prompted bitter infighting within the government and the military, with recriminations continuing to this day.
 Colin L. Powell, the secretary of state and a former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said he was never asked for advice, and was in Paris when the May 22 meeting was held. 
 Mr. Powell, who views the decree as a major blunder, later asked Condoleezza Rice, who was serving as Mr. Bush's national security adviser, for an explanation. 
 ''I talked to Rice and said, 'Condi, what happened?' '' he recalled. ''And her reaction was: 'I was surprised too, but it is a decision that has been made and the president is standing behind Jerry's decision. Jerry is the guy on the ground.' And there was no further debate about it.''
 When Mr. Bush convened his top national security aides before the March 2003 invasion, he was presented with a clear American plan on what to do with the Iraqi armed forces. American commanders and Jay Garner, the retired lieutenant general who served as the first American administrator in Iraq, planned to use the Iraqi military to help protect the country and as a national reconstruction force. 
 The plan was outlined in a PowerPoint presentation that Douglas J. Feith, a senior aide to Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld, gave at a National Security Council meeting that Mr. Bush convened on March 12, eight days before the invasion began. Republican Guard units, the forces deemed most loyal to Mr. Hussein, were to be disarmed, detained and dismantled. 
 But the rest of the army would be retained. Three to five of the divisions would be used to form the ''nucleus'' of a new Iraqi Army, according to a copy of the PowerPoint slide, which was obtained by The New York Times. Other Iraqi troops would be used as a reconstruction force to rebuild the nation. 
 The presentation also carried a caution about the risks of dismissing the army in the early months of an American occupation in a nation racked by high unemployment: ''Cannot immediately demobilize 250K-300K personnel and put on the street.'' 
 Col. John Agoglia, who served as a war planner for Gen. Tommy Franks at the United States Central Command, said the idea of using the Iraqi Army had long been an element of the invasion strategy. 
 ''Starting in June 2002 we conducted targeted psychological operations using pamphlet drops, broadcasts and all sort of means to get the message to the regular army troops that they should surrender or desert and that if they did we would bring them back as part of a new Iraq without Saddam,'' said Colonel Agoglia, who serves as the director of the Peacekeeping and Stability Operations Institute of the Army.
 Once the war got under way and many members of the Iraqi Army began to desert their posts, a different vision on how to proceed began to emerge at the Defense Department. 
 After Mr. Bremer was chosen in early May 2003 to replace General Garner as the civilian administrator in Iraq, he and his senior aide, Walter B. Slocombe, began to consult in Washington with senior Defense Department officials on how to build a new Iraq. The officials were working on a decree to rid the government of thousands of Baathists, members of Mr. Hussein's party, that Mr. Bremer planned to issue after he arrived in Iraq. Mr. Feith said the idea of issuing an order formally dissolving the army came from Mr. Bremer. 
 ''Bremer's original idea was a professional, downsized military,'' Mr. Feith said. ''It would not have an internal security mission or be a major factor in domestic politics. Bremer and his colleagues were thinking of how to create a military that would be suitable for a free and secure country. They were not thinking of using large numbers of Iraqis right away to play an immediate role in dealing with an insurgency, which had not yet fully developed.''
 Mr. Bremer said he did not recall who first proposed the decree dissolving the Iraqi Army. But he acknowledged that he and Mr. Slocombe favored the move. 
 A draft proclamation to dissolve Hussein-era institutions, including the Iraqi Ministry of Defense and all the organizations that reported to it, was sent to Mr. Rumsfeld on May 9, said Mr. Bremer, who added that Mr. Rumsfeld later approved the decree in a telephone conversation. (Mr. Rumsfeld declined to be interviewed.) When Mr. Bremer left for Iraq the next day, a separate memo was sent to senior Defense Department officials, as well as Generals Franks and Garner, along with a cover memo. 
 ''It is desirable that my arrival in Iraq be marked by clear, public and decisive steps,'' Mr. Bremer wrote in the memo. ''These should reinforce our overall policy messages and reassure Iraqis that we are determined to extirpate Saddamism.''
 Conflicting Views
 Though Mr. Bremer was the senior civilian official in Iraq, General McKiernan, the senior American military commander at the time, had a very different view on how to raise a new Iraqi military. 
 American commanders had hoped that Iraqi units would stay in their deployment areas and surrender en masse instead of running away. While Mr. Bremer argued that desertions meant that the Iraqi Army had disbanded, General McKiernan believed it could be re-established by recalling the soldiers as well as some generals and senior officers who commanded them.
 ''We knew they had either gone home or come out of uniform,'' said General McKiernan, who was in charge of the land forces during the invasion and was recently chosen to lead the NATO force in Afghanistan. ''The idea was to bring in the Iraqi soldiers and their officers, put them on a roster and sort out the bad guys as we went.''
 At the Central Command, Lt. Gen. John P. Abizaid, who served as the deputy commander, had a similar view. He told associates that Arab armies were traditionally large to keep angry young men off the street and under the supervision of the government. For General Abizaid, a three-division force was a good startingpoint, but he wanted to expand the force to as close to 10 divisions as possible. 
 As Mr. Bremer and Mr. Slocombe began to prepare their decree, one important question raised by the Pentagon was whether General McKiernan was on board. Mr. Slocombe assigned the task of determining General McKiernan's position to Col. Greg Gardner, an Army officer on his staff who has since retired from the military.
 Mr. Bremer's headquarters was in the Green Zone in central Baghdad, while General McKiernan's was at a base near the Baghdad airport several miles away. Colonel Gardner said that there were problems with telephone communications but that he finally reached a member of General McKiernan's staff who told him that the general accepted the decree. 
 ''I got the impression that Lieutenant General McKiernan was not all that keen about the course of action,'' Colonel Gardner said, ''but was clearly told that he did endorse the draft.'' Colonel Gardner added that he could not recall the name of the staff officer he spoke with. 
 General McKiernan, however, asserted that he neither reviewed nor backed the decree. ''I never saw that order and never concurred,'' he said. ''That is absolutely false.'' 
 Lt. Gen. J. D. Thurman, who serves as the Army's chief operations officer and was the top operations officer for General McKiernan at the time, had a similar recollection. ''We did not get a chance to make a comment,'' he said in an e-mail message. ''Not sure they wanted to hear what we had to say.'' 
 Rapid Acceptance
 As it came time to issue the decree, the scene shifted to Washington. In a May 22 note to President Bush, Mr. Bremer discussed his impressions of Iraq and alluded to the impending order to dismantle the Iraqi Army in general terms, saying he intended to dissolve ''Saddam's military and intelligence structures.''
 ''I was trying to give him a sense of what it felt like out there,'' Mr. Bremer recalled in an interview. ''So the purpose of the letter was not to say, here is a list of action items that need your approval. The purpose was to give him a sense of what we were up to, how it felt, how people reacted and how it felt to travel around.''
 That same day, Mr. Bremer, through a videoconference, was part of a National Security Council meeting held in the White House Situation Room, and said that he was planning to issue the decree disbanding the army. Mr. Bush seemed satisfied, and no officials spoke up to object, according to Mr. Bremer and other participants. 
 ''I don't remember any particular response from that meeting,'' Mr. Bremer said. ''If there had been an objection, I would have made note of it then.''
 Some participants in the session asserted, however, that though the Defense Department leadership may have known in advance of the proposed order, they did not. Mr. Bremer's handling of the issue appeared intended, they asserted, to keep much of the government in the dark until the last minute. 
 ''Anyone who is experienced in the ways of Washington knows the difference between an open, transparent policy process and slamming something through the system,'' said Franklin C. Miller, the senior director for Defense Policy and Arms Control, who played an important role on the National Security Council in overseeing plans for the postwar phase. ''The most portentous decision of the occupation was carried out stealthily and without giving the president's principal advisers an opportunity to consider it and give the president their views.''
 Mr. Bremer insisted that he was not trying to avoid scrutiny. As a diplomat, he said, he was trained to report through proper channels, and in the summer of 2003 they led to the Defense Department, which had been given the lead for postwar policy by President Bush. 
 ''I had clear instruction from the president to report through Rumsfeld,'' Mr. Bremer said. ''I was following the chain of command established by the president. It was not my responsibility to do inter-agency coordination.'' 
 There is a similar dispute over the role of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. A memo from Mr. Feith's office to Mr. Slocombe notes that the joint staff, which serves as a secretariat for the Joint Chiefs, provided comments on a draft of the decree to abolish the Iraqi Army. But the disbanding of the army came as a surprise to the officers working on Iraqi reconstruction issues. 
 Richard B. Myers, the retired Air Force general who served as Chairman of the Joint Chiefs at the time, said the issue was never debated by the chiefs. ''I don't recall having a robust debate about this issue, and I would have recalled this,'' General Myers said in an interview.
 Recriminations
 The May 23 decree did not put an end to the behind-the-scenes debate. Several weeks later, in a meeting with Mr. Bremer and Colonel Agoglia, Mr. Slocombe outlined a plan to methodically build a new Iraqi military. There would be three divisions over two years -- some 40,000 troops. The force would be focused on external threats. No officers who had served at the rank of colonel and above in the former army would be recruited.
 Colonel Agoglia, who was serving in Baghdad as a representative for the Central Command, recalled in an interview that he was taken aback by the small scale of the force. The American military was facing an array of security problems in Iraq, and Central Command planners, he said, wanted to recall three divisions every 90 days until the force reached a projected strength of 9 or 10 divisions. 
 ''Does General Franks know this?'' Colonel Agoglia said he demanded. Mr. Slocombe responded that the approach he had presented had been approved by the secretary of defense, according to Colonel Agoglia. Colonel Agoglia said he uttered an expletive and was asked by Mr. Bremer to leave the room. He promptly called General Abizaid's office to complain that the civilians' plan would produce too little, too late. 
 (Mr. Bremer and Mr. Slocombe said they did not recall such an episode. General Abizaid, who is now retired from the military, declined to comment for this article.)
 Mr. Bremer said that over the ensuring months efforts were made to accelerate the training and fielding of the Iraqi military. But critics complained that much of the damage was done. 
 In a Sept. 6, 2007, Op-Ed article in The New York Times, Mr. Bremer defended this initial decree. ''The disappearance of Saddam Hussein's old army rendered irrelevant any prewar plans to use that army,'' he wrote. He said there had been agreement ''that recalling the army would be a political disaster because to the vast majority of Iraqis it was a symbol of the old Baathist-led Sunni ascendancy.''
 Mr. Powell offered a different view.
 ''The troops might have been gone, but the army was not gone,'' he said. There was a structure there. There were units. There was an infrastructure.'' He said the plan had been to ''get rid of the officers who were Saddamites, and rebuild it from a structure that existed, not from ground zero all brand new.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mr. Bremer attended a graduation for Iraqi soldiers on Oct. 4, 2003. He was the biggest advocate of building a new army from scratch. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARWAN NAAMANI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (pg. A8)
Mr. Bremer in a farewell speech to marines at Camp Falluja on June 25, 2004, shortly before American administrative authority ended. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASHLEY GILBERTSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A8)
L. Paul Bremer III, then the top civilian administrator in Iraq, toured the ancient city of Babylon, 50 miles south of Baghdad, on May 22, 2003, the day before he dissolved the Iraqi Army. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEXANDER ZEMLIANICHENKO) (pg. A8)
 L. Paul Bremer (pg. A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (70%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (66%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (84%)

PERSON: CONDOLEEZZA RICE (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%); PARIS, FRANCE (53%) IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2008



424 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 684 words

HEADLINE: Paterson Is Calling the Shots On Swearing-In Formalities

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
If the swearing-in of David A. Paterson as the 55th governor of New York on Monday looks carefully choreographed, that is no accident.
 Mr. Paterson himself insisted on many of the details, like where it will be held, who will attend and even what it will be called. 
 As New York reeled from revelations that Gov. Eliot Spitzer was under federal investigation for his links to a prostitution ring, Mr. Paterson wanted his swearing-in ceremony to convey a sense of coming together. 
 So when he steps into the baroque chamber of the State Assembly here at 1 p.m. and is sworn in by the state's chief judge, Judith S. Kaye, he will do so in the presence of members of both houses of the Legislature and the state's highest-ranking elected officials -- with Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo expected to be among them.
 To dispel any notion that the event has a celebratory tone, Mr. Paterson and his staff are carefully referring to it as a swearing-in, not an inauguration.
 There was some debate among Mr. Paterson's top aides about whether to hold a large public ceremony or a small private one. It was felt that a large ceremony could give the appearance that Mr. Paterson was wallowing in Mr. Spitzer's downfall.
 But Mr. Paterson was aware of the symbolism of bringing together all three branches of government in the room known as ''the people's chamber.''
 His speech is expected to focus on restoring confidence and to call for setting aside partisan bickering so the state can heal.
 Mr. Paterson spent the weekend drafting the speech, rehearsing it and committing it to memory. Because he is legally blind, he does not have the luxury of being able to read from a teleprompter. So his remarks will be partly memorized and partly improvised, aides said.
 The past weekend was the political equivalent of a cram session before final exams for Mr. Paterson. He spent Saturday huddled with senior advisers at his home in Harlem, being briefed on a number of issues, including the economy and the worsening troubles on Wall Street. 
 And as he moved ahead with a flurry of last-minute preparations, a crane toppled and snapped on the East Side, killing at least four people and setting the city on edge. As rescue crews searched for survivors, Mr. Paterson received continuous updates and visited with rescue workers and emergency personnel at the scene on Saturday evening.
 The most urgent discussions between Mr. Paterson and his aides during the weekend focused on the state's budget, which was expected to be the most pressing matter facing Mr. Paterson during his first weeks in office. The deadline for the budget to be in place is April 1. 
 And as the economic outlook grows less and less predictable, it seems likely that managing the state's finances will dominate Mr. Paterson's first year in office.
 What his aides told him in recent days was not comforting. 
 ''We're on the verge of an economic crisis, if we're not already in one,'' said one of Mr. Paterson's senior aides. ''And that's the message he got.'' 
 With a consensus forming in the state budget office that the country has already slipped into a recession, Mr. Paterson is unlikely to support any budget that goes beyond the 5.3 percent growth in spending that the Spitzer administration had set, this aide said.
 ''It would not be unlikely, given the way things are going economically, that he would like to have even more conservative spending,'' the aide added. 
 When Mr. Spitzer proposed his $124 billion budget, he said that spending growth for the state should be held to 5 percent, with an absolute maximum of 5.3 percent. 
 The State Legislature has yet to pass its version of the budget, and typically it proposes more spending than the governor does. If that happens this year, it could provoke a showdown between the Legislature and the new governor.
 With the state still stinging over Mr. Spitzer's resignation, that type of confrontation is something Mr. Paterson, a veteran of more than 20 years in the Legislature, wants desperately to avoid. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Chris Garrison taped names to chairs in the chamber where David A. Paterson is to be sworn in. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (86%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (71%); JUDGES (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (65%); AMBULANCE & RESCUE SERVICES (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); PROSTITUTION (56%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); ELIOT SPITZER (58%); ANDREW CUOMO (58%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2008



425 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1026 words

HEADLINE: More Election Troubles in Florida, but That Doesn't Bother the Governor

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE, Fla. 

 BODY:
What does Gov. Charlie Crist, the staunchly sunny (and tan) chief executive of Florida, think about the national attention his state's latest ugly election dispute has drawn? 
 ''It's good,'' Mr. Crist said in an interview last week. ''We're trying to make sure that a huge bloc of Florida voters are not disenfranchised, and I think that's always a good thing.''
 Never mind that those voters are Democrats and Mr. Crist is a Republican who intends to help Senator John McCain of Arizona, his party's likely presidential nominee, win this largest of swing states. Mr. Crist is the self-proclaimed ''people's governor,'' well liked by constituents in both parties and eager to keep it that way.
 Mr. Crist's recent pleas for the Democratic National Committee to seat Florida's delegates at the nominating convention this summer -- a right lost after the state Democratic Party broke national rules by holding the primary before Feb. 5 -- undoubtedly help his image as a benevolent centrist. 
 But Mr. Crist, a career politician 15 months into his first term as governor, may well have other motives. 
 Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York won the state's unsanctioned Democratic primary on Jan. 29 by a wide margin. So seating the 210 delegates from Florida or allowing a revote could help her become the nominee of her party. 
 Many Republicans think Mr. McCain could beat Mrs. Clinton in Florida, which might explain Mr. Crist's push to get the Democratic delegates seated. Meanwhile, helping to prolong the Democratic battle over delegates -- instead of advocating that they simply not be counted, as the current rules require -- could be the governor's way of making trouble for the Democrats on behalf of Mr. McCain. 
 ''It wouldn't surprise me if he was having some fun with this,'' said Rick Wilson, a Republican consultant here. ''When your two enemies are beating each other to pieces, enjoy the show.''
 Asked about these theories, Mr. Crist looked distraught -- and more earnest than ever. 
 ''When I got sworn in as governor of Florida,'' he said, ''I literally became the governor of all the people. And I don't really care if they're Republicans or Democrats or independents. It's my job to fight for them.''
 Mr. Crist, 51, is frequently mentioned as a potential running mate for Mr. McCain, and has traveled with the senator a few times since endorsing him just before the Republican primary in Florida. 
 But the timing has been tricky. Florida is facing its worst financial crisis in decades, mostly because of the housing downturn, and the Republican-controlled Legislature is struggling to patch a $3 billion budget gap. 
 The state legislative session began March 4, the same day Mr. McCain clinched the Republican nomination. Mr. Crist gave a cheery State of the State address that night, playing down Florida's fiscal problems, and he went on the road with Mr. McCain the next morning.
 It is hard to believe that Mr. Crist, who critics say is always planning what office to run for next, is not raring to join the McCain ticket. (So far, he has been a state senator, education commissioner, attorney general and governor, not to mention president of his class at St. Petersburg High School and vice president of the student body at Florida State University.) But when asked, he did not let on.
 ''I think it's very flattering, obviously, but my focus is Florida,'' he said. ''We are in a budget challenge, as I prefer to call it, and we are trying to make sure that Florida's children get the best education possible. We want to continue to make sure that Florida is a safe place to be and to continue to reduce taxes, which we've done.''
 Does he want to finish his four-year term?
 ''Well,'' Mr. Crist said, ''I love being governor of Florida, and I feel blessed to have the opportunity to hold this job.''
 Would he promise to finish his term? 
 ''I'm going to promise to do everything I can to help my fellow Floridians,'' he said with a brilliant smile. 
 Some Republican lawmakers -- including Marco Rubio, the speaker of the House of Representatives, who is a conservative in the mold of former Gov. Jeb Bush -- are clearly irked by Mr. Crist's munificence toward Democrats. 
 The governor said last week that he would help the Florida Democratic Party carry out a mail-in revote by authorizing his secretary of state to help verify voter signatures. But Mr. Rubio said it would be ''ridiculous'' to involve state government.
 But while Mr. Rubio and other conservatives in Tallahassee have begun grumbling about Mr. Crist's centrism -- and his proposals to expand gambling and to dip into reserves instead of cutting more from the state budget -- his approval rating among voters remains high. 
 About 50 percent of the state's registered Republicans turned out for the primary in January, compared with 42 percent among Democrats. And many of the Republicans said in exit polls that Mr. Crist's endorsement of Mr. McCain was important to them.
 ''A lot of voters are following his lead,'' Mr. Wilson, the Republican consultant, said of Mr. Crist. ''He loves McCain, clearly, and they both sort of have that iconoclastic Republican thing that really works in a state like Florida.''
 Mr. Crist said he intended to do ''as much as I can within the parameters of my first duty, to the people of Florida,'' to help Mr. McCain. But he quickly added that in terms of stumping for Mr. McCain around the country, he would do ''whatever'' the campaign would like. 
 ''I was born in Pennsylvania, lived in Georgia, went to law school in Alabama,'' he said. ''I don't know if any of that means anything or not, but I'll do whatever I can to help him.''
 Anticipating that Mr. Crist will be a busy surrogate for Mr. McCain as Florida weathers a fiscal crisis, the state's Democratic Party has created a Web site, www.emptychaircharlie.com, to tally the days Mr. Crist does not devote to state business. 
 Mr. Crist said he disagreed -- ''respectfully,'' of course. 
 ''It sure wouldn't be a bad thing,'' he said, ''should Senator McCain win, which I believe he will, to have a friend in the White House. It's good for my state.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Charlie Crist of Florida wants the Democratic National Committee to seat delegates from his state at the convention. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVEN FRAME FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); EXECUTIVES (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (60%)

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (56%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (56%)

PERSON: CHARLIE CRIST (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (99%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2008



426 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 549 words

HEADLINE: Governor Paterson's Tests

 BODY:
David Paterson's inauguration Monday as New York's governor will bring a sigh of relief from many of the state Capitol's regulars. This is not necessarily good news for him or for the citizens he will pledge to serve.
 When 70 percent of New Yorkers voted for Eliot Spitzer in 2006, it was not because they thought he was a particularly likable guy. He wasn't. They wanted somebody to take a power hose to Albany and its corrupt and embarrassing Legislature. 
 Obviously, Mr. Spitzer could not do it. Even before he destroyed his career, his abrasive style alienated even potential allies and gave his enemies new energy to resist reforms. Mr. Paterson is known for his empathy and good humor. That could be a good thing so long as he is also ready to fight hard for what must be done. 
 The new governor has said he felt like he was in the classic nightmare -- sitting at an exam without going to any of the classes. It is a candid, funny and self-deprecating comment that Mr. Spitzer would never have made. But it is also mostly true. Mr. Paterson is smart and savvy, but his previous experience -- as the Democratic minority leader of the State Senate and lieutenant governor -- will provide little help for what lies ahead. 
 His first big test will be to negotiate the $124 billion state budget that is due in two weeks. He will make a good start if he negotiates in public instead of returning to the secretive sessions of the past. 
 One particularly contentious item will be the call by Sheldon Silver, the Assembly speaker, for a ''millionaire's tax'' of an extra 1 percent a year for five years. Business experts warn that Albany has plenty of hidden money and that a recession is not a time to raise taxes, even on millionaires. But a short-term surcharge might help deal with a looming deficit of $4.5 billion. In the long run, state leaders should be ready to overhaul the state's tax policies to relieve overburdened property owners. 
 One of Mr. Paterson's main challenges will be making sure state education money goes to school districts that need it most. For too long, Republican senators from Long Island have skewed the spending formulas to starve the cities in favor of their own suburban districts.
 To allay fears that his loyalties will be only to New York City, his hometown, Mr. Paterson has already promised, wisely, to continue a $1 billion upstate economic development plan. But he must also vigorously champion Mayor Michael Bloomberg's congestion pricing plan for the city. The state has until the end of this month to approve the plan, or lose $350 million in federal money. 
 Finally, the accommodating new governor needs to make certain he does not overaccommodate Albany's leaders. A campaign finance reform bill negotiated last year was watered down to a very weak broth by Mr. Silver and Joseph Bruno, the Senate leader.
 Mr. Paterson can prove that he is his own man -- and a leader to be reckoned with -- if he now pushes for a much tougher bill with lower limits on donations and a ban on soft money. There is no way to clean up Albany without first taking all of the tainted cash out of New York's political campaigns. Voters elected Mr. Spitzer and Mr. Paterson with just such a reform mandate. It is now Mr. Paterson's job to deliver on those reforms. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); EDUCATION FUNDING (69%); BUDGET DEFICITS (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); BUDGETS (69%); TAX INCREASES (68%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (65%); APPROVALS (64%); TAX LAW (63%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (60%); SUBURBS (50%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (50%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (92%); ELIOT SPITZER (78%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2008



427 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1737 words

HEADLINE: Open-Source Troubles In Wiki World

BYLINE: By NOAM COHEN

 BODY:
Since he helped create Wikipedia in 2001, Jimmy Wales has been called many things: benevolent dictator, constitutional monarch, digital evangelist and spiritual leader of the tens of thousands of volunteers who have made the online encyclopedia one of the top 10 most visited Web sites.
 Sue Gardner, the new executive director of the Wikimedia Foundation, which runs the various Wikipedia projects, said that when she first met Mr. Wales, ''he made a joke that he saw himself as the queen of England, waving to the crowd.''
 Unfortunately for him, the news media love a good royalty scandal and, in the last few weeks, he has been getting the royal treatment.
 Last month, Mr. Wales was accused of intervening to protect the Wikipedia page of a TV news commentator with whom he had a romantic relationship. The accusations were fueled by text messages, said to be between Mr. Wales and the commentator, Rachel Marsden, that were published on a gossip Web site. 
 He added to the online fuss on March 1 by addressing the issue on his own page, and announcing that the relationship was over. (Ms. Marsden put up a T-shirt and sweater he had left in her apartment on eBay. A bid of $500 for the T-shirt came up short.) 
 And there have been persistent questions, chiefly raised by a former employee, that Mr. Wales has abused his expense account, including filing for a $1,300 dinner for four at a Florida steakhouse that was ultimately denied and lacking receipts for $30,000 in expenses.
 In some ways, these allegations -- trivial and personal as they might seem -- illustrate the growing pains Wikipedia is now experiencing. The populist impetus for Wikipedia -- building an open-source encyclopedia -- has been spectacularly fulfilled with more than 2.2 million separate articles in English, 52 million unique visitors in December in the United States, according to comScore Media Metrix and brand recognition that puts it in the upper echelon with Google, Yahoo and Microsoft. 
 Until recently, however, Wikipedia was run more like a storefront community center than a digital-age powerhouse. What was a nine-person operation -- a top 10 Web site had a paid staff of less than 10 -- has just recently grown to a 15-person operation. Last year's $2.2 million budget grew to $4.6 million this year.
 ''A surprising number of people don't even know it is a nonprofit,'' Ms. Gardner said. ''They say, 'How do they make their money, anyway?' They assumed there were ads or some other way.'' In fact, the project relies on fund-raisers, and its latest one, Ms. Gardner said, received donations from 45,000 individuals, with a $30 average contribution.
 Mr. Wales and the board of the Wikimedia Foundation have tried to professionalize the project, moving its offices from St. Petersburg, Fla., to San Francisco, to be near the talent, entrepreneurial spirit and wealth of Silicon Valley. The board of seven trustees, made up of appointed and elected members including Mr. Wales, has brought in new administrators, beginning with Ms. Gardner, a former journalist who had run the Canadian Broadcasting Company's Web site.
 But members of the Wikipedia community -- scattered around the globe, writing in more than 200 languages -- remain consistent in their belief in a decentralized power structure and noncommercial principles. And they aren't sure what to make of the move to the big city, with its reputation as the home of irresistible temptations. 
 The persistent arguments about whether to accept any kind advertising, no matter how indirect, to increase revenue -- something Mr. Wales and Ms. Gardner among others say they oppose -- have recently flared up again. 
 And there have been questions raised about the foundation's close relationship with Roger McNamee of Elevation Partners, a venture capital firm in Silicon Valley, and who has helped arrange two sizable donations to Wikipedia.
 Some members further wonder if Mr. Wales, who has created a company, Wikia, to make money from wikis and to implement a volunteer-created search engine, will reduce his role within Wikipedia. 
 But Mr. Wales said he was adamant. 
 ''Dialing down is not an option for me,'' he said. ''Not to be too dramatic about it, but, 'to create and distribute a free encyclopedia of the highest possible quality to every single person on the planet in their own language,' that's who I am. That's what I am doing. That's my life goal.''
 Henry Mintz- berg, a professor of management at McGill University who studies organizations, said a visionary leader is crucial at the beginning. But, he said, ''what these people do is, they are determined and focused,'' he said, keeping the vision pure, ''not mixing it up.'' 
 It is natural that over time a visionary leader's role is diminished and that is good thing, he said, quoting Bertolt Brecht, ''unhappy is the land that has no heroes -- no, unhappy is the land that needs heroes.'' Despite some of the attacks on Mr. Wales, he is still largely a hero within the Wikipedia community -- walking through the annual conventions with assistants in tow, greeting the most enthusiastic Wikipedia contributors from across the globe, receiving invitations to the World Economic Forum in Davos, attending George Soros's birthday party.
 Ms. Gardner said there will always be a need for what Mr. Wales provides. 
 ''People want to reach out to someone, and they know his name -- it could be a famous person, a celebrity, or not -- if they have a problem with their entry they will contact him.'' 
 It was in this capacity that Ms. Marsden, a columnist and a former commentator on Fox News, said she had reached out to Mr. Wales, after her article page was being vandalized. She wrote via e-mail that ''Jimmy volunteered to make changes to my Wikipedia page after we became involved personally and romantically. Before that, he really couldn't have cared less.''
 Mr. Wales wrote on his user page that he would not interfere before meeting Ms. Marsden, and summed up, ''My involvement in cases like this is completely routine, and I am proud of it.'' However, the incident did pry open his personal life to Silicon Valley gossip sites (he said that he had been separated from his wife when he met Ms. Marsden) and has created the embarrassing spectacle of having his old laundry put up for auction on eBay.
 At the same time, a former foundation employee, Danny Wool, has created a blog where he has been detailing what he says were Mr. Wales's abuses of expense reimbursements, twisting Mr. Wales down-home nickname ''Jimbo'' to ''Jimbeau.'' 
 While the allegations involve a time before Ms. Gardner arrived, she said: ''I have done my own conversations with people, and I am satisfied that Jimmy hasn't used the Wikimedia Foundation money to subsidize his own personal expenses. I believe he has consistently put the foundation's interests ahead of his own.''
 Beyond the personal questions, many Wikipedia members have expressed reservations about the project's relationship with Elevation Partners. 
 Mr. Wales said in an interview that Elevation Partners had expressed interest initially in business opportunities with Wikipedia, but ''it took one meeting for them to realize it was off the table.'' He added: ''Certainly there can be no investment in Wikipedia. Wikipedia is a nonprofit and always will be.'' He said he also has had inquiries from other venture-capital firms, who likewise were told to look elsewhere.
 But the initial meeting with Elevation, Mr. Wales said, led to a relationship with one of its partners, RogerMcNamee, who stresses that he is acting as a volunteer entirely separately from his business. Mr. Wales describes him as ''a bit of a mentor in doing fund-raising.'' 
 Ms. Gardner said that Mr. McNamee in the past had lined up a $500,000 donation, and arranged another $500,000 donation that came through last week.
 Mr. McNamee would not confirm this, but did say, ''I am a Wikipedia volunteer -- I help with strategy, fund-raising and business development -- it has nothing to do with Elevation Partners. And no on should be confused about that.'' 
 Florence Nibart-Devouard, the chairwoman of the Wikimedia board, who has never met Mr. McNamee, did not sound enthusiastic. 
 ''It's not a huge concern right now, but I am not comfortable with the concept,'' she said, of venture capitalists consistently making donations to the foundation. ''I would much prefer a varied diverse base of donors, some could be large, some could be long-term friends, who help in finding new friends. I hope the foundation won't rely on these relationships.'' 
 She said that she had proposed a resolution, passed recently, to require that any donation larger than 2 percent of revenues be approved by the board. And she said she would ''make some noise'' if a venture capitalist were to try to become a board member.
 While Ms. Nibart-Devouard worries about the provenance of donations, Mr. Wales and Ms. Gardner say they must worry also about sustainability. ''A big piece of my day is thinking about money,'' she said. 
 Mr. Wales said that ''existing on donations keeps us on a shoestring budget'' adding that he was not opposed to leveraging Wikipedia's brand, consistent with its free-culture values, of course.
 ''There are some kinds of ways of using our brand name -- a trivia game, a branded home-edition trivia game, that kind of thing seems to fit,'' he said. Perhaps a Wikipedia documentary TV show. He said that Elevation Partners ''are flexible -- they could be involved in that kind of stuff.'' 
 ''We do not want to touch the core,'' he added. ''The core of Wikipedia is something people really believe in. That is too valuable for the world to screw it up.''
 As long as he is involved with Wikipedia, however, Mr. Wales will continue to be a guiding light for its many contributors -- as well as a lighting rod for its critics. 
 ''Recently, I was in Thailand and I was giving a speech there and spoke about opposition to censorship of the Internet in Thailand, how this was bad for their economy, and this made the newspapers,'' he said. ''That's really important, that I have the ability to do this.'' 
 But he conceded that along with ''my being some kind of celebrity -- not a real celebrity,'' comes scrutiny that ''isn't a welcome part of the job.'' 
 He added: ''People who have achieved a public voice find it a mixed bag.''

CORRECTION-DATE: April 1, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on March 17 about internal disagreements and accusations of favoritism at Wikipedia misstated the name of the Canadian network that once employed Sue Gardner, executive director at the Wikimedia Foundation, which runs the various Wikipedia projects. It is the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, not the Canadian Broadcasting Company.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Rachel Marsden, a New York columnist and former Fox News commentator who dated Jimmy Wales, tried to auction a T-shirt, among other items, that he left in her apartment.
 Roger McNamee of the venture capital firm Elevation Partners arranged two big donations toWikipedia.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C3) DRAWING: Jimmy Wales, one of the creators of the volunteer Internet encyclopedia, has drawn concerns over his ties to a venture capitalist. (pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); BRITISH MONARCHS (78%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (78%); RELIGION (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); VOLUNTEERS (77%); EXECUTIVES (73%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (72%); BUDGETS (69%); CHARITABLE GIVING (67%); RESTAURANTS (64%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (58%); TEXT MESSAGING (53%); BRANDING (50%)

COMPANY: WIKIMEDIA FOUNDATION INC (91%); GOOGLE INC (52%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (52%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (91%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%)

PERSON: JIMMY WALES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ENGLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2008



428 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 17, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 215 words

HEADLINE: This Week's Planned Economic Reports

 BODY:
RATE CUT EXPECTED The Federal Reserve meets on Tuesday, when it will decide how deeply to cut interest rates. A cut of a half point to three-quarters of a point is expected. 
 ECONOMIC SIGNALS Economic reports this week will include fourth-quarter current account deficit and industrial production and capacity utilization for February (Monday); producer price index for February and February housing starts (Tuesday); and leading economic indicators (Thursday).
 COMPANY REPORTS Earnings will be dominated by the big Wall Street banks. Reports will come from Bear Stearns (Monday); Adobe Systems, Darden Restaurants, Goldman Sachs and Lehman Brothers (Tuesday); Borders, General Mills, Morgan Stanley and Nike (Wednesday); and 3Com, Barnes & Noble and Palm (Thursday).
 VISA'S PUBLIC OFFERING Visa will price its initial public offering on Tuesday. The company plans to offer 406 million shares at $37 to $42 a share in a bid to raise about $15.8 billion, based on the midpoint of its price range.
 ET CETERA Advertising Age will have a digital marketing conference in New York (Tuesday and Wednesday).
 The New York International Automobile Show will have its press preview on Wednesday and Thursday. It opens to the public on Friday.
 It is a short week, with markets closed for Good Friday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK OFFERINGS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); PRODUCER PRICES (79%); INTEREST RATES (79%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); REAL ESTATE (74%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (74%); HOUSING STARTS (74%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (70%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (69%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (57%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); DARDEN RESTAURANTS INC (71%); ADOBE SYSTEMS INC (71%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (57%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (56%); MORGAN STANLEY (56%); GENERAL MILLS INC (56%); VISA INC (56%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); DRI (NYSE) (71%); ADBE (NASDAQ) (71%); ADB (FRA) (71%); HPQ (NYSE) (56%); MS (NYSE) (56%); GIS (NYSE) (56%); V (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS722511 FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (71%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (71%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (71%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (71%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311824 DRY PASTA, DOUGH & FLOUR MIXES MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED FLOUR (56%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (56%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (56%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (56%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (56%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2008



429 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 547 words

HEADLINE: In Our Schools: Two Educators' Groups Weigh In

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Educators or Kingmakers?,'' by David White, and ''Teaching Change,'' by Andrew J. Rotherham (Op-Ed, March 10): 
 Conservatives should not blame teachers' unions for wanting a voice in decision-making in our schools. Most teacher union contracts today represent a response to the one-size-fits-all industrial factory model in which management dictates to educators. 
 Progressive union leaders have fought to negotiate contracts tailored to the culture of a school and the work it does. In New York City, for example, since the 1980s, the United Federation of Teachers has negotiated school-based options to allow teachers and principals to agree to change certain contractual rules to fit the educational needs of individual schools.
 Today we have several models of collaboration among educators, principals and parents, including charter schools, which operate with fewer rules. The United Federation of Teachers represents the faculty at eight charter schools, two of which the union runs. 
 Experience shows us that the real key to successful schools is management that treats educators fairly and supports the mission of teaching and learning.
 It's also a mistake to blame union opposition to individual merit pay for poor teacher retention. Many teacher unions, including the U.F.T., support schoolwide performance bonuses in which all educators are recognized when students make academic progress.
 A study released this month by the Economic Policy Institute in Washington indicates that retention of good teachers would be easier if the profession was better paid. It shows a widening pay gap for teachers, who now earn about 14 percent less than people in comparable occupations with similar skill requirements, like accountants, reporters, registered nurses and clergy members. 
 Randi Weingarten President, United Federation of Teachers New York, March 13, 2008
 To the Editor:
 It's fine for commentary writers to speculate about what public school educators want. But the real experts on education are working in classrooms and schools with children every day. 
 We know that in contract negotiations, the key to success lies in the ability of school administrators and union leaders to build trust and develop positive working relationships. Anything less distracts leaders and teachers from their main responsibility: the education of children. 
 We also know that public education deserves to be part of the conversation in the 2008 election. Issues like national security and health care are important. Yet our country's future strength and prosperity are equally dependent on providing a quality education to the 50 million children in our public classrooms. 
 As the nation's largest organization of educators, the National Education Association is not content to sit back and wait. N.E.A. members are participating in the political process as delegates to the Democratic and Republican conventions to bring the voices of educators into the debate. 
 If we are a wild card in this presidential race, it's only to the extent that the major candidates have yet to articulate their long-term vision for guaranteeing a great public school education for every child. 
 Reg Weaver President, National Education Association Washington, March 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (93%); TEACHER UNIONS (92%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MERIT PAY (89%); CHILDREN (89%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (88%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); HEALTH CARE (76%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (76%); POLITICS (76%); WRITERS (73%); NURSES & NURSING (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (68%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (68%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (64%); PUBLIC POLICY (64%); NATIONAL SECURITY (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); RESEARCH REPORTS (51%); ECONOMIC POLICY (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (50%); RELIGION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: TEACHING FOR CHANGE (84%); UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (83%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2008



430 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section H; Column 0; Wealth&PersonalFinance; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 647 words

HEADLINE: Multiplying the Dollars Through Matching Gifts

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON

 BODY:
JUST as buying a home with a mortgage and investing money every month can grow an acorn into a mighty oak of wealth, charitable donations can also be leveraged. With a little knowledge and persistence a donated dollar can instantly become two, even six. 
 I know because for years I've been making donated money multiply this way and showing others how to do the same. 
 When I was a young father with six children, I made my first leveraged gift, generating four dollars for each one I gave away. Today, my eight children are grown and I am giving more, as well as generating $6.25 for each dollar I donated to my favorite cause last year. You can achieve similar results through your own giving while leveraging your donations even more by teaching others some simple points.
 My first such gift supported a cause I care about deeply, critical self-assessment by journalists. The beneficiary was feed/back: The California Journalism Review, which was published by San Francisco State University. 
 At a fund-raising party for this tiny magazine, I wore a white suit, a pink-and-teal necktie and a Panama hat so I would stand out when I rose to ask a room of cheapskate journalists to stop drinking and gossiping and listen to my pitch.
 I held up a crisp $100 bill, symbolizing my donation, and snapped it. Behind it I fanned out a second bill and then a third, representing matching gifts that would be made by The Los Angeles Times, for whom I reported at the time, and by my wife's employer.
 Next I folded one of the $100 bills to three-quarters its size and explained that thanks to the federal and state tax deduction, the gift would cost only $75. For each dollar given after tax, the cause of press self-examination would get four dollars.
 Finally, I read a list of news organizations with matching gift programs and asked my peers to be generous and apply for matching money.
 Later that evening, quite a few journalists, all of whom pride themselves on being in the know, told me that they had no idea that their employers had matching gift programs. A few even donated to feed/back.
 Combining these programs with a pledge paid over many years can turn a small sacrifice into a big benefit. That is how I am now turning a gift of about $100 a month into more than $100,000.
 The money finances the Jennifer Leonard Scholars, named for my wife, the president of the Rochester Area Community Foundation, who once wrote an expose of corporate clubs that blackballed certain charities. 
 The scholarships allow young women to get training from Investigative Reporters and Editors, known as IRE, and its affiliate, the National Institute for Computer-Assisted Reporting. 
 Turning a little money into a lot is like the magic of compound interest. But life can intervene and plans do not always work out.
 At first, I pledged $1,400 a year for 20 years to the IRE endowment. After tax, the cost was just $70 a month. The New York Times Company Foundation gave $2,100 in match money each year. That $3,500 total was matched by $1,750 more from the John S. and James L. Knight Foundation, which gives grants to journalists. 
 Each year just $840 from my pocket, after tax, became $5,250 for charity. After two decades, the fund would have $105,000, enough income to teach six novice reporters a year at weekend seminars how to mine mountains of official records for valuable facts.
 But past performance does not indicate future returns. Similarly, today's matching gift may shrink or disappear.
 The Knight Foundation has decided that it will match only those gifts made before 2011, while my pledge runs until 2019. Hard times have forced my employer to cut its matching gift by a third, but it is still a dollar-for-dollar match. That ends this year for me, though, as I leave The Times for other ventures. Luckily, I can speed up my gift to capture more of the match money now. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); CHARITIES (89%); MATCHING GIFTS (89%); JOURNALISM (88%); FUNDRAISING (78%); CHARITABLE GIVING (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (73%); FOUNDATIONS (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); NEWS REPORTING (73%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (72%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%)

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (66%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2008



431 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ITINERARIES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: Paper Is Out, Cellphones Are In

BYLINE: By SUSAN STELLIN

 BODY:
First came the kiosk, a strange addition to airport terminals when Continental Airlines began offering it as a check-in option in 1995. It was followed by Web check-in, introduced by Alaska Airlines in 1999.
 Now, with 80 percent of passengers using these self-service options, the next step is electronic boarding passes, which essentially turn the hand-held devices and mobile phones of travelers into their boarding passes.
 At least half a dozen airlines in the United States currently allow customers to check in using their mobile devices, including American, Continental, Delta, Northwest, Southwest and Alaska. 
 But so far, Continental is the only carrier in the United States to begin testing the electronic passes, allowing those travelers to pass through security and board the plane without handling a piece of paper. Their boarding pass is an image of an encrypted bar code displayed on the phone's screen, which can be scanned by gate agents and security personnel.
 When using the other airlines' mobile check-in services, customers still have to print a boarding pass at an airport kiosk, though most carriers are eager to eliminate this step once the Transportation Security Administration gives its approval. 
 The agency has been working with Continental since December to test electronic boarding passes, which for now can be used only for nonstop domestic flights out of the Houston hub of Continental.
 ''We definitely see this as the wave of the future,'' said Andrea McCauley, a T.S.A. spokeswoman. ''It's something we are very enthusiastic about pursuing.''
 The mobile check-in may well be the first step in direct communications between airlines and passengers as they travel. Ultimately, Henry H. Harteveldt, a vice president with Forrester Research, said he expected airlines would use mobile messaging to communicate with passengers about on-board services, rebooking options, baggage pickup and ticket purchases.
 ''It's clear that mobile is the gateway to how airlines will interact with their customers in the future for almost anything,'' he said.
 The technology being tested by Continental uses a two-dimensional encrypted bar code, which is much tougher to copy than the one-dimensional bar code used by many airlines for boarding passes printed online. And that is a major reason the T.S.A. is expected to embrace the technology.
 ''We've seen indications that terrorists might seek to use fake boarding passes to attempt to enter the security line,'' Ms. McCauley said. ''When we scan the bar code, we know if it's been manipulated or if someone has tried to manipulate it in any way.'' 
 With the electronic boarding passes, passengers still need to show photo identification when they pass through security, and that identification must match the information in the bar code on the phone.
 The one-dimensional bar code is the symbol most familiar to consumers -- a series of vertical lines. The two-dimensional version looks more like the snow on a television screen that has lost its signal. It can hold more information and is more adaptable than the magnetic stripes that used to be the industry standard.
 Not only are those magnetic stripes more expensive to print; they also do not work with the Web and the mobile check-in options that carriers hope more passengers will embrace. 
 The International Air Transport Association, which establishes global guidelines for the airline industry, announced a standard for two-dimensional bar codes last October, and expects that its 240 members will be using these bar codes exclusively by the end of 2010.
 That will save the industry about $500 million annually, said Steven Lott, a spokesman for the transport association, and will also pave the way for wider adoption of electronic boarding passes, which several foreign carriers have already introduced.
 Air Canada, for instance, has been using electronic boarding passes with its mobile check-in service since last September, for flights to domestic and international destinations except those in the United States. (According to an Air Canada spokeswoman, the airline is awaiting approval from the T.S.A. to expand its service.)
 Other foreign carriers that use some type of digital boarding pass system include Japan Airlines, Scandinavian Airlines and Spanair.
 As mobile devices become more sophisticated and applications for smaller screens evolve, airlines expect passengers will be able to use their phones, BlackBerrys and other mobile devices for a growing number of services, like rebooking a ticket after a missed connection, switching seats, checking standby status or seeking an upgrade.
 ''We kind of like the idea long term of having a kiosk in your pocket,'' said Mark Bergsrud, senior vice president for marketing programs and distribution with Continental.
 So far, he said, Continental has been happy with its test of electronic boarding passes and hopes to expand this option to other airports in the United States this spring. The airline also is looking into offering mobile check-in for reservations that include more than one traveler. Right now, it is only available for single-passenger itineraries.
 Mr. Harteveldt of Forrester Research says mobile check-in is an option many travelers want.
 ''Our research shows that about 47 percent of frequent travelers are interested in using their phones for flight check-in, and about 42 percent said they'd be interested in using their mobile phone as a boarding pass,'' Mr. Harteveldt said.
 Even if mobile check-in requires that the traveler stop at a kiosk to get a boarding pass, he said, travelers still benefit from confirming their spot on the plane and getting priority for things like seat assignments, standby queues and upgrades on airlines that consider check-in time for these lists. 
 And if Mr. Harteveldt is right, and mobile devices become a crucial part of traveling, that means battery chargers and reliable wireless signals will be even more critical for a stress-free trip.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A security worker scanning the image of a bar code on a BlackBerry as part of Continental Airlines' electronic boarding pass pilot program. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (91%); AIRLINES (91%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (78%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (76%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); COMPUTER SCANNERS (73%); TEXT MESSAGING (71%); APPROVALS (69%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (69%); TICKET SALES (67%); TERRORISM (50%)

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (92%); T SA AUTOMOTIVE COMPONENTS (67%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: US TRANSPORTATION SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (55%)

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (92%); FORR (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (67%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2008



432 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1355 words

HEADLINE: Plunge Averted, Markets Look Ahead Nervously

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ; Jenny Anderson, Keith Bradsher, Michael M. Grynbaum and David Leonhardt contributed reporting.

 BODY:
With the Dow Jones industrial average up slightly more than 21 points by the end of trading Monday on the New York Stock Exchange, it may have looked like a calm day on Wall Street.
 But under the surface, the scene was far from serene. After policy makers hastily arranged a sale of the embattled investment bank Bear Stearns to JPMorgan Chase over the weekend, stocks and other financial instruments fluctuated wildly during much of the day as investors started worrying about who and what would be next in the line of fire.
 Traders beat down stocks like Lehman Brothers and commodities like oil and wheat.
 After a shaky opening, the worst fears of a market plunge were avoided. Although Federal Reserve officials do not place much significance in the performance of markets in a single day, they took some comfort from the fact that many markets were relatively stable on Monday after the initial fall. 
 In early trading Tuesday, Asian markets rose for the first time in four days, led by financial companies. 
 But nervousness pervaded Wall Street despite efforts by the Fed and the Bush administration to soothe investors and assure them that Washington will do everything in its power to restore order to the financial system. 
 ''There is something mixed up in the market,'' said Edward Rombach, an analyst at Thomson Financial. ''The market is eating itself up.''
 In the case of Lehman Brothers, some investors fear that the firm is vulnerable to the same ills that undid Bear Stearns. Like Bear Stearns, Lehman is small and more reliant on the mortgage business than its rivals. Its defenders, though, say that Lehman is much better positioned to ride out the financial storm. 
 And even as nerve endings remained frayed, there were a few notable signs of improvement on Wall Street, Mr. Rombach and other specialists noted. Particularly encouraging was the sharp narrowing of the spread between ultra-safe Treasuries and bonds backed by Fannie Mae, the government-chartered buyer of mortgages -- a sign that investors are willing to consider riskier investments. 
 If that move toward a more normal assessment of risk persists, it could help drive down interest rates on home loans in the coming days. 
 The broad Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, meanwhile, closed down less than 1 percent, recovering much of its losses from early in the day and bucking a strong downdraft from Europe and Asia.
 Specialists say their biggest worry now is not whether the economy is already or will soon be in a recession. Far more fundamental and troubling is the health of the financial system that greases the wheels of capitalism. 
 ''Recessions come and go -- that is something investors can deal with,'' said Marc D. Stern, chief investment officer at Bessemer Trust, an investment firm in New York. ''The bigger issue is, Can our financial system be restored to a sense of normalcy? In recent weeks we have been moving away from that, which is potentially very serious.''
 Mr. Stern said he was encouraged by the Fed's response to the problems at Bear Stearns. In addition to facilitating the firm's sale to JPMorgan, the central bank also started directly lending to securities firms, something it has not done since the Depression of the 1930s.
 The policy-making committee of the Fed is expected to cut its benchmark short-term interest rate at a scheduled meeting on Tuesday by as much as one percentage point, from the current 3 percent, making it cheaper for banks to borrow from each other.
 Since last summer, the Fed has tried many approaches to ease the strain in the credit markets. It has cut its benchmark rate from 5.25 percent in a series of jagged steps. It has aggressively lent money to banks and accepted lower-quality collateral that might not even be tradable in the market. 
 Despite those efforts, financial conditions have worsened. And specialists say the latest measures might meet the same fate if banks and securities firms do not put to work the new money the Fed is offering to lend to them.
 ''The Fed can do no good at all if they effectively print money and give it to the banks, and the banks dig a hole in the ground and put it in there,'' said Donald Brownstein, president of Structured Portfolio Management, a hedge fund in Stamford, Conn., that specializes in mortgage securities.
 Other investors are worried that the Fed's extensive intervention will put the central bank at risk of significant losses and that it will create a ''moral hazard'' by bailing out institutions that should be allowed to fail. And some complain that the Fed's backing for a $30 billion loan to Bear Stearns by JPMorgan shifts all the risk to Washington while keeping the profits on Wall Street. 
 ''The government is taking all the downside and none of the upside,'' said Douglas A. Dachille, chief executive of First Principles Capital, a bond trading firm.
 On Wall Street, however, the Fed's moves, especially its decision to lend directly to 20 securities dealers, were welcomed.
 ''They stand committed to protect the system,'' said Richard S. Fuld Jr., the chairman and chief executive of Lehman Brothers. Mr. Fuld said the Fed had eliminated the liquidity concerns that had cast a pall over brokerage firms like his. He also said his firm, the biggest underwriter of mortgage securities on Wall Street during the housing boom, had plenty of cash and access to safe securities it could sell if it needed to raise money. Investors, however, did not see it that way. Shares of Lehman fell $7.51, or 19 percent, to $31.75. The stock is down 51.5 percent for the year and is among the worst performers in the stock market. 
 Another financial firm that found itself under assault was MF Global, one of the world's biggest commodities brokers. Its shares fell $11.30, or 65 percent, to $6.05, on rumors that it was losing clients and rival firms were refusing to deal with it.
 Last month, MF Global announced that a trader had lost $141.5 million betting on wheat futures with money he did not have. The firm had turned off risk controls for some traders because the controls slowed transactions.
 Reassurances from the New York Mercantile Exchange and the United States Commodity Futures Trading Commission that MF Global remained on sound footing did little to stem the negative sentiment.
 MF also appears to be suffering from broader worries that commodities have become speculative bubbles.
 Crude oil, for instance, was up nearly 90 percent on Friday from a year ago. On Monday, oil futures fell 4.1 percent, or $4.53, to $105.68 a barrel. Most commodities, with the exception of hogs, gold and nickel, fell on Monday. A Goldman Sachs index that tracks raw materials had its biggest one-day drop in more than three years.
 Many investors have been betting that oil, wheat and other commodities will buck other investments on the belief that growth abroad, particularly in China and India, will sustain demand in the face of the housing-led downturn in the United States. 
 But skeptics say the slowing demand here will push down prices on commodities markets in the United States and in other countries, many still highly reliant on American consumers.
 ''Wall Street likes a good growth story,'' said Tobias Levkovich, the chief equity strategist at Citigroup. ''And that's the argument for global growth -- they will keep growing irrespective'' of the United States.
 Stock markets in China and India suffered the biggest losses on Monday. The Shanghai A share market was down 3.6 percent, the Hang Seng index in Hong Kong was down 5.2 percent and the Niftyindex in India was down 5.1 percent. Early Tuesday, the Shanghai A was drifting lower, but the Hang Seng was trading slightly up and the Nikkei in Japan was up nearly 1.5 percent.
 Investors in the region were also troubled by a weekend of news reports of unrest in Tibet and adjacent Chinese provinces.
 ''Local investor sentiment is not good,'' said Ricky Chan, a stockbroker at Phoenix Capital Securities Ltd. in Hong Kong. ''The Hong Kong market is really caught in the middle between happenings in China and the United States.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Albert Young on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange on Monday. After a shaky opening, the market closed up slightly.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) CHART: Dow Industrials (Source: Bloomberg)(pg. A1) Chart details line graph for the dow jones.
 Ripple Effects (Source: Bloomberg) Charts detail line graphs for market activity. (pg. A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RECESSION (89%); BONDS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (74%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (69%); MORTGAGE RATES (69%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (69%); INTEREST RATES (64%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (94%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (92%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (67%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (64%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (57%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (94%); JPM (LSE) (94%); 8634 (TSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (94%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (94%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (94%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (64%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2008



433 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 362 words

HEADLINE: When a Safety Net Can Lead to Risky Behavior

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
Critics of the Federal Reserve's role in the sale of Bear Stearns have raised the specter of moral hazard. What is moral hazard?
 It describes the possibility that people will take foolish risks when they believe that they will be protected from the consequences of their decisions. In this case, the critics are worried that investment firms will repeat their recent run of reckless investments, based on a belief that the government will bail them out again. 
 The classic examples of moral hazard involve insurance. When people can insure themselves against a bad event, like a car accident, they may become more willing to engage in dangerous behavior that could lead to that event.
 ''If you have flood insurance, you are more likely to build your house on a flood plain,'' said N. Gregory Mankiw, a Harvard professor and the author of a popular economics textbook. ''If you have fire insurance, you'll be less careful about smoking on the couch.''
 In recent years, the number of Americans living in places that are at risk from hurricane damage has risen significantly. If their insurance policies had been more expensive -- if the residents had been forced to bear the full costs of their decisions -- some would say fewer of them might have moved to coastal areas.
 The importance of moral hazard can at times be exaggerated. Studies have shown, for example, that seat-belt laws have greatly reduced driving deaths, even if they also led to some increase in aggressive driving.
 Critics of a bailout for Wall Street or for homeowners who took out mortgages they could not in fact afford have said that lenders and borrowers should be forced to face the full consequences of their decisions.
 Government officials have defended their moves by saying they are trying to prevent a rolling series of financial crises that could have a much larger cost than the steps taken so far. Defenders of the Fed's plan also note that investors in Bear Stearns, the latest and biggest casualty on Wall Street, have not done so well for themselves in the end: JPMorgan Chase agreed to buy the firm for $2 a share, down from a share price of more than $170 as recently as early 2007.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); FLOOD ZONES (77%); BAILOUTS (76%); REAL ESTATE INSURANCE (75%); FLOOD INSURANCE (75%); DRIVER BEHAVIOR (75%); INSURANCE POLICIES (70%); HURRICANES (69%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (69%); TROPICAL STORMS (66%); COASTAL AREAS (66%); AUTOMOTIVE RESTRAINT REGULATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (84%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2008



434 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section H; Column 0; Wealth&PersonalFinance; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1962 words

HEADLINE: Breaking The Silence

BYLINE: By JOHN LELAND. 
Fred Bierman contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
WHEN Dal LaMagna, founder of the Tweezerman company, considered how to leave his wealth to his two children, he thought back to his early 30s, just before he achieved success. At the time, said Mr. LaMagna, 61, ''I thought if I could get 600 bucks a week, I could retire on that, and I would be very happy.'' 
 So Mr. LaMagna, who built a $30 million company -- which makes beauty tools like tweezers -- before selling it in 2004, set up charitable lead trusts for his son and daughter to provide them weekly incomes of about $600, starting when they turn 30 years old. (They are now 19 and 27.)
 ''If you give them more, it's counterproductive to their motivation,'' said Mr. LaMagna, who has spent some of his children's potential inheritance on antiwar causes, including his own campaigns for Congress and president. ''I didn't want to take away from them the drive to do things for themselves.'' 
 With the largest intergenerational transfer of wealth in American history now under way -- the Boston College Center on Wealth and Philanthropy has estimated that $41 trillion will change hands by 2052 -- Mr. LaMagna and others are reconsidering the meaning of inheritance, thinking not just about the money but about the values they want to pass with it.
 Families have often avoided the discussion of inheritance, which involves both death and money. But as the nature of wealth in America changes, many people are beginning to talk more openly about their money and the purpose it has for them. 
 These discussions are taking place against a backdrop of changing estate tax laws, innovative trust instruments, armies of newly minted wealth advisers, a troubled economy with markets in upheaval and family ties that are complicated by divorce, remarriage, adoption and domestic partnership. Not to mention the public spectacles of Anna Nicole Smith and Paris Hilton. 
 Among the parents' considerations are whether to give now or later; how to provide for the companies or foundations they started; whom they want to manage their children's trusts; and how to protect themselves from catastrophic health care costs. Add to the mix new financial services like children's wealth camps, family mission statements, ''ethical wills'' and, above all, the question: What sort of lives do they want their children to lead?
 Patricia Angus, principal of wealth advisory services at Shelterwood Financial Services in New York, said that many of her clients were changing how they define wealth.
 ''The definition is broadening to include not just financial capital but human, social and intellectual capital,'' Ms. Angus said. ''Professionals used to think it was just, How do I transfer my financial assets at the lowest tax costs? Now people are asking, What is the purpose and meaning of what I'm doing here, and how do I pass those down? It's not about death. It's about an experience in life, an opportunity to talk as a family about purpose and values that might not otherwise come up. For people who just write a document and put it in a drawer to be opened on their death, I don't see that opportunity coming up.''
 Many still want to pass down as much wealth as possible. But for others, the change in philosophy reflects the fact that there are more millionaires who have earned their wealth rather than inherited it. A 2007 U.S. Trust survey of people with $5 million in investable assets found that only 20 percent of their wealth was inherited. Other surveys put the figure lower.
 In the U.S. Trust survey, half the respondents said they did not fully discuss their estate plan with their children. 
 But once you get them talking, the conversation is often more about values and meaning than about tax strategies. An entrepreneur might see a dollar in his or her pocket as an incitement to work harder or think more creatively, but in an heir's wallet it can be an invitation to slough off. As more Americans hire advisers to manage the financial content of their wealth, they say they are busy managing its philosophical or ethical legacy themselves. 
 For Gary Williams, 57, the question of how much is too much has changed from year to year. When his son was 18, he said, ''I wouldn't have handed him a dime. He wasn't responsible. I've seen it happen. If you do, it's just money to them.''
 Mr. Williams, who runs a debt collection service in Rock Hill, S.C., said that money was not the biggest consideration in his children's legacy. He and his wife have had detailed conversations about their finances and charitable giving with their son and daughter, who are now 31 and 27, and have asked them to help direct their gifts.
 ''They understand that they're not going to receive our entire wealth,'' Mr. Williams said. ''They may inherit the company and some of our wealth, but the things we believe in -- the church, scouting, serving youth -- we hope to sustain those when we pass on.''
 He said he had not fixed a number for their inheritance, and that the final distribution may not be equal -- maybe his son, who is now more involved in the family business, will get a greater share of the company, and his daughter, who wants to stay at home after she has children, will get the beach house. 
 In the meantime, he gave them a total of $48,000 to invest, with the profits going toward an annual family retreat. ''The long-term result is them learning to work together,'' he said. At least once a year, the family sits down together to discuss investments, charities and other issues. 
 ''Our goal is not to give them all of our assets as much as give them the knowledge to manage the assets they have, and give them the ability to do what they want in life,'' Mr. Williams said. ''Your self worth comes from how you get where you're going. If it's given to them in a limousine, they're not going to get there very well.''
 Charitable foundations and trusts have multiplied in the last decade, to the point that ''now everyone and his mother can set up a foundation,'' said Mina Sirkin, a lawyer who specializes in estate planning in Woodland Hills, Calif.
 In a 2007 survey of people with assets above $500,000, by PNC Financial Services Group, 30 percent said that their heirs had to meet certain conditions to receive their inheritance. Fourteen percent said they put restrictions on how the heirs could use the money. 
 Like other Americans, the PNC sample expressed contradictory positions about inheritance: only 17 percent said it was more important to give to charities than to family members, but the majority, 62 percent, said that every generation should be responsible for creating its own wealth. 
 Ms. Sirkin said that among her clients, ''no one thinks there's too much to give to the children. Your view of money is usually relative. The other day a couple came in, they're worth $15 million; in a little while they'll be worth $30 million, and if you ask them, Is this too much for your 21-year-old, they don't believe it, because they're accustomed to it.''
 Frank and Ruth Butler disagreed about how much was enough. Mr. Butler, 78, a retired chief executive of Eastman Gelatine, a subsidiary of Eastman Kodak, wanted to give his fortune to charity. Mrs. Butler, 76, wanted to subsidize the education of their three grandchildren. So they divided their resources in half, creating an educational trust from Mrs. Butler's side and a charitable foundation from Mr. Butler's, to be administered with their children. The grandchildren have all finished college now, and there is still money in the education fund.
 ''My feeling is that our children have already benefited greatly from being in our family,'' Mr. Butler said. Mrs. Butler said her view was: ''I felt our children would not be able to help their children as we helped them. I wanted it to be clear that they didn't have to limit their choice of colleges.''
 The idea of not handing down one's wealth -- and of making that decision in the name of class values -- fits a society in which wealth is increasingly entrepreneurial. In more aristocratic societies, benefactors expect heirs to assume their class values along with their estates. By contrast, many self-made millionaires say that too much inheritance might work against their values -- specifically the values that enabled them to make the fortune in the first place. 
 Martin Rothenberg, 74, who started a company that makes voice-recognition software, said he hoped not to leave his children anything. ''My goal is to have my bank account run out on the day that I die,'' he said.
 After Mr. Rothenberg received $10 million in the sale of his company, Syracuse Language Systems, he set up a charitable foundation and a community foundation for his three children to run, with assets of just under $5 million. With some of the remainder, he started a company called Glottal Enterprises, which makes speech aids for people with impaired hearing -- ''a small company that loses money,'' he called it. 
 ''I think they all probably would like more money,'' he said of his children. ''In one case that was communicated directly, as money for grandchildren for schooling, but not strongly. But by giving out the money early, that settled it. They can't think of my money as their money because there isn't any money.''
 Mr. Rothenberg's daughter Sandra, 39, said that it was she and her siblings who pressed to settle the inheritance early. 
 ''The kids wanted it earlier, not after he died, so we didn't have to spend the rest of our lives wondering, if we did this, would he cut us out of his will?'' said Ms. Rothenberg, who teaches corporate social responsibility at the Rochester Institute of Technology. ''We didn't want money to be a factor in our relationship. I think part of him wanted it over with, too.''
 Mr. Rothenberg said that he gave his children some money for basic needs, but that for large sums, ''giving them money that they can give away is more valuable than giving them money that they can spend. And as a practical matter, there are times when they might make a donation to a local charity, say $10,000, and it would be hard for them to take their own money to do that. That's been very freeing for them.'' 
 Even in close families, inheritance often gets messy, especially when children have different needs and abilities to manage money, said Beth Kaufman, an estate planning lawyer at Caplin & Drysdale in Washington. 
 ''There's a tension,'' she said. ''Do you give the responsible children money outright and put the others' money in a trust? Do you make the responsible kid trustee for the irresponsible one? That can really damage a sibling relationship.'' 
 A sure recipe for disaster is leaving a vacation property jointly to the children, she said. ''All of us as parents want to believe our children will be friendly when we're gone,'' Ms. Kaufman said. ''The reality is you're leaving them a white elephant.''
 In the end, the parents are gone, and the heirs must deal with what remains -- a statement of purpose, a foundation they may or may not support, a trust they may not feel they need. David Wallechinsky, the son of the writer Irving Wallace, said he managed his mother's finances for the last seven years of her life. Now, at 60, having his inheritance meted out by trustees feels like an indignity, he said. ''It was as if we had entered a looking-glass world in which, instead of gaining an inheritance, we lost control of the family trust.''
 But recently he received copies of his parents' papers, which are archived at the Claremont Colleges in California. He said this was his real inheritance.
 ''I suppose I should be concerned about the money, but I want to leave my kids a family history and a family intellectual history, because we're fortunate enough to have one.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SETTING PRIORITIES: Martin Rothenberg, with his granddaughter Rachel Batizfalvi, set up charitable foundations for his children to run instead of giving them lots of money to spend on themselves.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
MOTIVATION: Fearing complacency, Dal LaMagna, founder of the Tweezerman company, set up trusts to provide only small incomes for his children.
TREASURES: David Wallechinsky, left, the son of the writer Irving Wallace, says his real inheritance is copies of his parents' papers.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANN JOHANSSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY LORI WASELCHUK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDY RASH)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILIP GREENBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. H1)
SPARE TIME: Frank and Ruth Butler, above, at a wildlife sanctuary near their home in Topsfield, Mass., where they are volunteers. Dal LaMagna, left, in a bungalow he owns on Long Island. Martin Rothenberg, below, and his granddaughter on a run.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 HEIRS: Above, Gary Williams, who owns a collection agency in South Carolina, with his wife, Peggy, and daughter, Alice Davis. Right, Amy Wallace and David Wallechinsky, the children of Irving Wallace, in their father's library.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANN JOHANSSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. H5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (89%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (89%); PERSONAL TRUSTS (89%); CHARITIES (89%); FAMILY (78%); ESTATE TAX (78%); FOUNDATIONS (76%); MARRIAGE (73%); TAX LAW (73%); PHILANTHROPY (70%); ETHICS (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (60%); HISTORY (52%)

COMPANY: TWEEZERMAN INTERNATIONAL LLC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON COLLEGE (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (58%)

PERSON: PARIS HILTON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2008



435 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 704 words

PERSON: Julia Vadala Taft 

HEADLINE: Julia Vadala Taft, 65; Led Overseas Relief Efforts

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

 BODY:
Julia Vadala Taft, a former assistant secretary of state who coordinated the federal government's response to earthquakes, floods, famine and locust infestations in foreign countries in the 1980s, died Saturday at her home in Washington. She was 65.
 The cause was colon cancer, said her son, William H. Taft 5th. 
 In December 1987, after four jolts of a strong earthquake leveled swaths of towns and cities in Armenia in less than four minutes, leaving at least 55,000 people dead, Ms. Taft arrived in the devastated landscape by military plane, carrying only her daughter's pink sleeping bag. The cargo plane was otherwise packed with relief supplies. 
 On another relief mission, in 1992, this time as an official for a nonprofit organization, Ms. Taft found herself in war-torn Sarajevo, hunkered down in a hotel bathtub wearing a helmet and a bulletproof vest as the building came under fire. 
 Ms. Taft was director of the United States Office of Foreign Disaster Assistance from 1986 to 1989, during the Reagan administration. She led a staff of 21 full-time workers who, as part of the Agency for International Development, coordinated the relief efforts of the State Department, the Pentagon, other government agencies and private groups like CARE and Save the Children in responding to the aid requests of foreign governments.
 The disasters Ms. Taft and her staff dealt with in 1988 alone included flooding in Bangladesh, which covered an area almost three times the size of New Jersey and left 25 million people homeless; less-publicized floods in the Dominican Republic and India; displaced people in Burundi; a poisonous gas eruption that killed 1,200 in Cameroon; and a locust plague in Ethiopia. In 1986, Ms. Taft's office administered $130 million in federal aid to alleviate famine in Ethiopia.
 In an interview on Monday, former Secretary of State Colin L. Powell said of Ms. Taft, a longtime friend: ''She was an image of American openness and generosity. Her professional life was committed to people trying to get by on a dollar a day, those who are hungry, without clean water, without medicine, without homes.''
 Ms. Taft also did major work in helping refugees both in America and abroad. In 1975, President Gerald R. Ford named her director of the Interagency Task Force on Indochina Refugees, which managed the resettlement of more than 130,000 evacuees from Cambodia, Laos and Vietnam after the fall of Saigon.
 From 1994 to 1997, Ms. Taft was president of InterAction, a coalition of more than 150 nongovernmental organizations that work on international aid and development. In 1997, President Bill Clinton appointed her assistant secretary of state for population, refugees and migration, a post she held for four years. From 2001 to 2004, Ms. Taft was director of the United Nations Bureau for Crisis Prevention and Recovery, and in 2002, she led the United Nations task force for aid in Afghanistan.
 Julia Ann Vadala Taft was born on July 27, 1942, on Governors Island in New York Harbor, where her father, Col. Anthony Vadala, was a surgeon in the Army Medical Corps. Her mother was Shirley Harris Vadala. A grandfather was a baron in Catania, Sicily. 
 In 1974, Ms. Vadala married William Howard Taft 4th, a former deputy secretary of defense and a great-grandson of President William Howard Taft. Besides her husband and her son, William, who lives in Manhattan, Ms. Taft is survived by two daughters, Maria Taft of Woodside, Calif., and Julia Taft of San Francisco. Her first marriage, to Fred Malone, ended in divorce.
 Ms. Taft earned a bachelor's degree in 1964 and a master's in 1969 from the University of Colorado, both in international politics. After a fellowship in the White House, she became an aide to Elliot L. Richardson, then secretary of the Department of Health, Education and Welfare. That led to her appointment in 1975 as director of the resettlement task force for Vietnam War refugees.
 ''An extraordinary experience,'' she said in an interview with The New York Times at the time, ''being right at the point where decisions are made about the futures of people and how to treat them most humanely so that they retain their integrity and get viable opportunities.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Julia V. Taft, then the U.S. special coordinator for Tibet, with the Dalai Lama in 2000.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SHAWN THEW/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); REFUGEES (89%); FAMINE (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); DISPLACED PERSONS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CHILDREN (77%); VEHICLE & BODY ARMOR (75%); VIETNAM WAR (75%); APPOINTMENTS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (67%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); HOMELESSNESS (64%); COLORECTAL CANCER (57%)

COMPANY: SPAREBANKEN VEST ASA (69%)

ORGANIZATION: SAVE THE CHILDREN (55%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (69%)

BILL CLINTON (55%); DALAI LAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%) UNITED STATES (95%); ETHIOPIA (92%); ARMENIA (92%); VIET NAM (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); TIBET (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); CAMEROON (79%); VIETNAM (79%); BANGLADESH (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); BURUNDI (79%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (66%); CHINA (58%)

CATEGORY: Philanthropy

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2008



436 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 356 words

HEADLINE: Manufacturing Activity Shows Declines

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
The outlook for the nation's manufacturers has gone from bad to worse.
 A closely watched measure of manufacturing activity in the New York area plunged in March to the lowest level on record, as orders and shipments contracted for a second consecutive month. 
 The housing crisis has taken a severe toll on manufacturers, who usually supply materials to home builders and furnishers. Last month, amid a widespread economic slowdown, customers vanished and the ones who remained paid less.
 The index, measured by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, fell to minus 22.2 from minus 11.7, on a scale where negative figures indicate contraction. It was the lowest recorded level since the survey began in early 2001.
 Adding to the gloom, the Fed also reported that industrial production levels across the nation unexpectedly fell in February. Declines at manufacturers, factories and utility companies sent overall production down 0.5 percent, the first decrease in four months, after a 0.1 percent rise in January.
 ''Export demand is cushioning the manufacturing downturn, but can't prevent it,'' Nigel Gault, chief United States economist at Global Insight in Lexington, Mass., wrote in a research note.
 The slowdown in production most likely reflects reduced demand from consumers, who are feeling squeezed by the softening labor market and the general downturn in the economy. Production of automobiles, consumer goods and business supplies all declined in February. 
 And factories are not producing up to their full potential. Capacity utilization, which measures the proportion of plants in use, fell to 80.9 percent, its lowest reading since November 2005, from 81.5 percent in January. 
 In a separate report, the Commerce Department said that the current-account balance, a broad measure of the nation's international trade deficit, narrowed to a deficit of $172.9 billion in the final three months of 2007, an unexpected improvement from a deficit of $177.4 billion in the previous quarter.
 The United States purchased fewer products from overseas in the fourth quarter, and foreign investments in domestic businesses swelled.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (94%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (72%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (66%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (84%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2008



437 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section H; Column 0; Wealth&PersonalFinance; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1324 words

HEADLINE: Jittery Market Calls for a Steady Hand

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
EVER since the credit crisis began last summer, the markets have been so choppy that even the most seasoned investors are complaining of motion sickness. The rest of us, looking to secure our retirement nest eggs and have enough left for our children and favorite causes, are nervous. 
 But how can we position ourselves to survive -- and prosper from -- these turbulent times?
 The answer makes many money managers and financial advisers sound as if they were captains of the seven seas. Don't stray too far from the investment path you have charted. Make a few midcourse adjustments to your portfolio. Keep your eyes on the horizon in spite of the markets' wild swings. 
 ''Our clients are prone to emotion-driven decisions: they get too excited during good times and too pessimistic during bad times,'' said Evan Roth, a financial adviser for BBR Partners, which caters to about 60 families with assets worth $20 million or more. ''You just have to stay disciplined when you see panic on the street.'' 
 That, of course, is easier said than done -- especially when the economy is teetering toward a recession. But here are five principles to remember. 
 DO NOt TRY TO TIME THIS MARKET Most people earn their fortunes by trusting their own instincts. But as investors, the same people may find that those instincts are often wrong. The problem is worse in volatile markets. 
 ''For the average investor, timing markets is a disaster,'' said Jeremy J. Siegel, a finance professor at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania.
 Instead of focusing on an investment's fundamentals, investors let their feelings get in the way. Just ask your neighbor who bought technology stocks in March 2000 or a second home in southern Florida in late 2006. 
 ''If you are making decisions to put money out because of how it worked in the past and are greedy, be careful,'' said Andrew P. Mehalko, chief investment officer of GenSpring Family Offices in New York. ''If you are selling because you are fearful, be careful.'' 
 In fact, many advisers recommend doing the reverse: buy more of your losers and sell some of your winners. Investments that have performed poorly will typically do better; those that have done well will fall to their longer-term historical rates. 
 Pay attention to the news but don't become a day trader. Instead of seeking to invest at the exact top or bottom of a market, evaluate whether you are getting a reasonable return. 
 TODAY'S HEADLINES CAN BE TOMORROW'S INVESTMENT It is hard to read the financial pages these days without noticing the steady stream of brutal headlines. If the country falls into a recession, there will be more bad news in the weeks ahead. But it is also important to keep it all in perspective.
 So far, the stock market has sunk about 13 percent from its high last August, leading many investment advisers to think there is more room for it to fall. 
 Still, there have been only two 50 percent drops since the Depression. And while there are those who can remember when stocks were cheaper relative to other classes of assets -- like bonds, real estate and commodities -- stocks are inexpensive. 
 ''Investors looking long-term will be very well rewarded,'' Professor Siegel of Wharton said. 
 Many advisers say that yields on Treasury inflation-protected securities, known as TIPS, which are indexed to inflation, remain too low. The steep downturn in the economy and housing market has made both commercial and residential real estate less appealing. 
 But there may be opportunities ahead. Many advisers are becoming interested in high-yield bonds, where the drastic widening of spreads is painting an economic picture worse than many economists are projecting. 
 In the municipal market, there are investment-grade credits that yield more than their taxable counterparts, said Leo Grohowski, chief investment officer for BNY Mellon Wealth Management. ''Much, if not all, of the bad news is getting priced in.''
 And it is probably prudent to have a portion of your portfolio in cash; Jes Staley, head of asset management business at JPMorgan Chase & Company, suggests as much as 15 percent of your investments. 
 ''For all the turmoil that is going on in the credit markets and housing markets,'' at some point they are going to be a very good buy, he said, adding that it was appropriate ''to have some cash at hand to take advantage of that opportunity.'' 
 REBALANCE YOUR INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO Many investors wait until the end of the year to do their financial housekeeping. That may be convenient. But in volatile markets, it may not suffice. After all, many of the moves now occurring in a month's time have normally taken a quarter or a full year. 
 ''It's a mistake to have an alarm go off on the calendar to say it's time to rebalance,'' Mr. Roth said. ''It's time to rebalance when your allocation strays too far from your long-term targets.'' 
 Consider this past January: on average, municipal bonds were up 2.5 percent while domestic stocks were down more than 6 percent. For an investor who owns a portfolio containing both, that translates into an 8 percent spread in just one month. 
 By doing nothing, people in this situation have essentially made their portfolios more conservative, advisers say. Just to get back to their long-term allocation plans means they should be buying more stocks. 
 It is probably not worth incurring the trading costs or taxes that would result from tweaking your portfolio if it fluctuates only a few percentage points. But taking action could make a big difference when there are big market swings. 
 COMMUNICATE WITH YOUR FINANCIAL ADVISER Financial advisers earn their keep in turbulent times. A good one should be able to walk clients through the holdings in their portfolios and explain the clients' investment strategies and how much they could lose. Then, at least once a week, the adviser should follow up by phone. 
 ''We have to be communicating and articulating to our clients,'' said Mr. Staley of JPMorgan Chase. ''The greatest worry is the unknown.''
 But clients have responsibilities, too. Not only should they scrutinize their portfolios, but they should also ask about the overall strategy: what economic conditions are going to affect my portfolio the most? How am I protected or exposed to a more severe real estate or dollar decline?
 For those invested in nontraditional areas like hedge funds, selecting a fund manager is even more critical. And clients should also be sure to ask how their adviser is being paid. 
 Some financial advisory firms receive a portion of fees for steering their clients to certain money management funds. So if those funds underperform, there is less incentive for the firm to suggest that clients withdraw their money.
 HARVEST YOUR TAX LOSSES High net worth investors have generally used up their tax exemptions. So for some investors, selling some securities at a loss to offset other investment gains might be sensible. 
 But they must be mindful when selling to avoid replacing those securities with identical investments. 
 The so-called wash sale provision of the tax code disallows losses from the sale of stock within 30 days of the sale if you acquire shares or options of the same or an identical security. That means that if those shares rebounded, an investor would have to wait 31 days before going back into the market -- or forfeit any benefit. 
 There are complex ways to get around the rule. ''Sell the stock, and at the same time sell a put option'' on the stock as long as its exercise price is not way above the prevailing market price, said Robert Willens, who has his own tax advisory firm. That enables you to avoid officially acquiring shares, even if the option potentially requires you to do so at a later date. 
 ''If you want to be continuously invested, this is a strategy that allows you to seemingly have your cake and eat it, too,'' Mr. Willens said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: STREET SMART: Evan Roth, above, a financial adviser for BBR Partners, and Jes Staley, head of asset management business for JPMorgan Chase. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILIP GREENBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (86%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); CHILDREN (77%); FAMILY (77%); EXECUTIVES (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); NEWS BRIEFS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2008



438 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 940 words

HEADLINE: Home Sweet Investment

BYLINE: By ALEX TABARROK. 
Alex Tabarrok is a professor of economics at George Mason University and the research director for the Independent Institute.

DATELINE: Fairfax, Va. 

 BODY:
 FEAR is ruling the financial markets. Billions of dollars have been lost in mortgage-related investments. The Federal Reserve worked madly over the weekend to engineer a takeover of Bear Stearns and avert a systemic meltdown. But the big fear remains. How low will house prices go?
 If prices continue to fall, mortgage defaults will move well beyond the subprime sector. Trillions of dollars in losses for investors are not impossible. But that doesn't mean they are inevitable. 
 In 1997, inflation-adjusted house prices were close to their average levels over the previous half-century. Only four years later, the price of the average home nationwide exceeded anything ever seen before in the United States. Prices continued to rise for another five years, peaking in 2006 at nearly twice the average price in 1997 (as can be seen on the graph on the bottom right, which is based on data collected by the Yale economist Robert Shiller). If house prices are heading back to the levels seen in 1997, then we are facing catastrophe. 
 But there are good reasons to believe that much of the increase in prices was a rational response to changes in fundamental factors like interest rates and supply. The deeper fundamentals continue to suggest strong housing prices for the future. 
 Sure, speculation did run rampant toward the end of the housing boom. (The debut of the reality television show ''Flip That House'' on Discovery Home Channel, followed shortly by ''Flip This House'' on A&E, was a clear sign that the boom's end was near.) Prices will fall further, especially in the speculative developments built on the outskirts of the major cities. So yes, we overshot the fundamentals.
 Still, especially in coastal areas where zoning regulations have restricted the supply of land that developers can build on, house prices were driven up by increasing population, low interest rates and strong economic growth.
 More and more people want to live on the coasts, but land is hard to come by in places like Manhattan and San Francisco. Cities and regions built on ideas -- like Boston, Los Angeles, New York and the San Francisco Bay Area -- have grown even as areas built on manufacturing, like Detroit and the Rust Belt, have declined. And of course, government isn't getting any smaller, so Washington and its suburbs, another hot spot of rising house prices during the boom, will continue to grow. 
 Even in places where land seems plentiful, zoning and other land-use regulations have made it scarce. To meet demand, we should encourage high-density development, but homeowners fought to restrict housing supply when house prices were increasing. Now that house prices are falling, the incentives of owners to restrict supply are even stronger.
 Several studies estimate that the average house prices of 2004 were close to fundamental levels, so we may see prices stabilize near that level. 
 Granted, a catastrophe is not impossible -- it did happen in Japan. House prices shot up in Japan in the late 1980s, and by 1999 they had collapsed. The graph on the top right, of Japanese and American house prices, does make for a worrying comparison. (The data come from the Standard & Poor's/Case-Shiller national home price index and a similar index for Japan.)
 But the resemblance isn't as close as the graph makes it appear. The Japanese run-up in home prices was faster and reached higher levels than the one in the United States. In addition, the Japanese population at the time wasn't growing, and today it's shrinking. (None of the major presidential candidates favor drastic reductions in immigration, so population growth in the United States will continue.) As a result of these and other problems, the Japanese economy was moribund from 1992 to 2002, which kept housing prices low. 
 There are two very real problems for the housing market: tougher credit conditions and slower growth. Here the United States faces a self-fulfilling prophecy problem. 
 If the financial markets can predict where and when house prices will stabilize, then credit conditions can quickly return to normal, the economy can expand and house prices will indeed stabilize. 
 But if the financial markets remain uncertain about when the decline in house prices will end, then fear will tighten credit even further, which would strangle the housing market and generate even more fear.
 We have nothing to fear but fear itself, but fear itself can be pretty scary. The best way to overcome fear is to look at the long run. The typical homebuyer keeps a home for 10 years or more, so there is time for those who bought in 2005 and 2006 to weather the current decline in prices. Those who bought at the top are unlikely to see any windfalls from house appreciation, but they will not necessarily suffer from buyers' remorse. Owning a home has its advantages: the deduction on mortgage interest is substantial and too much of a sacred cow to ever be repealed, and there is a certain security and satisfaction to owning your own home. 
 The collapse of housing prices certainly feels painful, and for some homeowners, it will be. But the houses are still there, as good as ever. Most of the gains going up were paper gains, and most of the losses going down are paper losses. 
 The strength of an economy comes, fundamentally, from what it can produce. Can America still produce homes? Yes. Can America still produce desirable urban and suburban areas that people are willing to pay a fortune to live in? Yes. 
 That's the real bottom line. The United States has some of the most valuable real estate in the world. Markets should not forget that. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY AUGUST HEFFNER) CHARTS Chart details two line graphs for U.S. House Prices versus those in Japan, and National Index of Real U.S. House Prices from 1950-2007. (Source: Statistics Bureau Japan, S.&P./Case-Shiller Home Price Index)
 (Source: Irrationalexuberance.com) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME PRICES (92%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); ZONING (87%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); SUBPRIME LENDING (73%); LAND USE PLANNING (72%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (68%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (64%); REALITY TELEVISION (64%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%); POPULATION GROWTH (57%)

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%) JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2008



439 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: Bipartisan Group of Lawmakers Propose Universal Health Plan for New Jersey

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

DATELINE: TRENTON 

 BODY:
Thrusting New Jersey again into the vanguard of social change, a bipartisan group of legislators unveiled a proposal on Monday that would require all residents to have health care coverage within three years.
 If adopted, New Jersey would become the fourth state to require universal health coverage, following Massachusetts, Maine and Vermont. But at a time when New Jersey is reeling from financial problems, and the country appears headed toward a recession, the plan would avoid adding to the budget and would instead try to redistribute federal and state dollars in a more efficient way. 
 About 1.4 million of New Jersey's residents -- or nearly 1 in 5 -- do not have health insurance. To bridge that gap, State Senator Joseph F. Vitale, a Democrat from Middlesex County who is chairman of the health committee, recommended that the state focus first on enrolling more children in the existing NJ Family Care program for families who earn as much as 350 percent of the federal poverty level, or about $74,200 for a family of four. 
 Then, Mr. Vitale said, the state would focus on cutting costs while establishing a self-financed plan, run by the state, to provide individuals with health insurance at affordable rates on a sliding scale.
 The insurance would be required, not an option: Residents would need to prove they have health insurance, similar to the way drivers must obtain auto insurance. It would be financed, Mr. Vitale said, by using small surpluses in NJ Family Care and Medicaid and revamping the costly and much-maligned system of Charity Care, under which the state reimburses hospitals for costs associated with caring for the poor, often in emergency rooms.
 ''Through these reforms, we will become better stewards of our limited health care dollars, by using those dollars to cover the uninsured, rather than by throwing those dollars away on inappropriate care in an inappropriate setting, like we do today,'' said David L. Knowlton, president of the New Jersey Health Care Quality Institute, a nonprofit foundation. Mr. Knowlton, a Republican, is a former deputy commissioner of health under former Gov. Thomas H. Kean. 
 The sponsors said that they hoped to introduce legislation formalizing the proposal in the next few days. They also said they would like to enact it before the July 1 budget deadline.
 Gov. Jon S. Corzine, a Democrat, has said he favors universal health care. But given the state's fiscal difficulties, he offered a guarded assessment of the legislators' proposal.
 ''The public is well aware that there is nothing closer to my own agenda than providing universal health care,'' Mr. Corzine, who traveled to Albany on Monday to attend Gov. David A. Paterson's swearing-in ceremony, said in a statement. ''But I'm a realist, and I understand that the current budget circumstances may inhibit our ability today to reach that common goal.''
 New Jersey has long had a reputation of being one of the more aggressive states in trying to expand health care, said Sonya Schwartz, program manager for the National Academy for State Health Policy in Washington. In December, for instance, the state reached an agreement with Horizon Blue Cross Blue Shield allowing middle-income families to obtain health insurance for children at lower rates -- at a loss of up to $1 million in the first year for Horizon.
 But now, New Jersey will be trying to learn from -- though not necessarily copy -- the example set by, most prominently, Massachusetts.
 New Jersey's plan would be similar in that the responsibility for obtaining the insurance would rest with residents and would expand existing state and federal health insurance programs. But unlike Massachusetts, New Jersey would use a single plan administered by the state rather than requiring individuals to buy such a plan in the private market, which Mr. Knowlton said drove costs higher.
 ''The Massachusetts model is one we don't want to follow,'' said State Senator Robert W. Singer, a Republican from Ocean County. ''We do not want a Band-Aid approach. We want a permanent solution.''
 Initially, key interest groups representing employers and health care providers applauded the proposal as laying a solid foundation for reducing costs and moving the state closer to universal coverage.
 ''While most of our members provide health insurance, those that don't have consistently said the cost is what is preventing them from purchasing insurance,'' said Jim Leonard, a vice president with the New Jersey Chamber of Commerce. ''This initiative will make health insurance more affordable.''
 But some unions and consumer groups reacted tepidly, saying it could prompt employers to drop health insurance plans.
 ''Of grave concern is the proposal's underlying policy that seeks to shift the cost of coverage away from a shared responsibility between employers and employees,'' said Phyllis Salowe-Kaye, executive director of New Jersey Citizen Action. ''Senator Vitale's proposal would have insurance costs borne solely by consumers and taxpayers.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (95%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FAMILY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); BUDGETS (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (77%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (77%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); HOSPITALS (77%); MEDICAID (77%); CHARITIES (75%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (74%); LEGISLATION (73%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (72%); FOUNDATIONS (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (67%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (58%); DAVID PATERSON (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); MAINE, USA (92%); VERMONT, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2008



440 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 842 words

HEADLINE: As Dollar Keeps Falling, Talk of a Move by Japan

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
The dollar, which tumbled to an almost 13-year low against the yen on Monday, may soon find a protector here -- the Japanese finance ministry.
 With broad powers over Japan's nearly $5 trillion economy, the ministry has intervened in the past when the dollar fell sharply, notably late in 2003 and early in 2004 when it sold some $350 billion worth of yen to buy mostly dollars, propping up the value of the American currency. 
 A weak dollar hurts big Japanese exporters like Sony and Toyota by driving down the value of their overseas earnings in yen, and leading them to raise prices abroad to compensate. 
 Many economists and currency analysts are beginning to wonder whether the dollar's sharp declines in recent weeks will push the ministry to try another large-scale intervention. 
 So far, it has chosen not to act, signaling a willingness to let market forces take their course. But if the dollar continues its drop, threatening Japan's export-led economic growth, analysts say the government could come under increasing pressure to act.
 ''The ministry has shown itself very reluctant to intervene this time,'' said Tohru Sasaki, chief foreign exchange strategist at JPMorgan Chase in Tokyo. ''But the ministry may feel it has to do something'' if the dollar continues to fall. 
 JPMorgan Chase's agreement on Sunday to buy Bear Stearns rekindled uncertainty over the fate of American banks in the extremely tight credit market. On Monday, the dollar remained below parity of 100 yen, falling as low as 95.72 here during the trading session, its worst level since August 1995. In New York later, it settled at 98.04 yen. In the last month, the dollar has dropped more than 10 percent against the yen.
 Concern for Japanese corporate profits, combined with fears of the effects of an American recession, drove the benchmark Nikkei 225 stock index down 3.7 percent on Monday, to a two-and-a-half-year low. Early Tuesday, the index was higher.
 Over the weekend, articles in Japanese newspapers discussed when the finance ministry would be forced to step in and help to shore up the dollar. On Monday, Finance Minister Fukushiro Nukaga added to the speculation by calling the dollar's recent declines ''excessive,'' signaling growing concern.
 If the ministry does act, it will bring with it some of the world's deepest pockets. During previous interventions in the currency markets, the ministry accumulated about $1 trillion worth of United States Treasury debt and other non-yen assets, helping give Japan foreign currency reserves second only to China's. 
 It would also bring the prestige of a powerful financial institution with considerable autonomy to act in the national interest, though the ministry's wings have been clipped in recent years by a series of scandals.
 Yet economists and currency analysts say it still appears reluctant to take action, at least alone. One reason is that there is widespread doubt here that Japan can do much on its own to slow the dollar's decline; the sources of the dollar's weakness, this argument goes, lie in the United States, which is in the midst of a severe housing slump and a broad economic slowdown. 
 The ministry also appears unwilling for now to break ranks with other leading economies, which have frowned on such interventions in favor of market forces. Economists point out that any attempt to move currency exchange rates could also undermine the efforts from Tokyo, Washington and other capitals to persuade the Chinese to free the value of their currency, the yuan, and let it rise on world markets.
 Japan may also be reluctant to act for fear of angering the United States. As the dollar's fall drives down the prices of American goods, this appears likely to increase exports from the United States, limiting the American trade deficit. By intervening to prop up the dollar, Tokyo risks dimming a rare bright spot in an otherwise gloomy economic outlook, economists say.
 Still, the Japanese government may be eager to make some move, even a symbolic one, to remind the public and the markets that it can lead. Economists and investors complain that the country appears to be adrift under Prime Minister Yasuo Fukuda, who has failed to articulate a clear economic vision. And political gridlock has prevented Parliament from naming a successor to the departing central bank chief.
 Economists say the finance ministry may try to find some formula for taking more substantial action, such as a currency market intervention with other nations. Another possibility, some say, is intervening by selling yen to buy American mortgage-backed securities. 
 That might win Washington's approval by helping to ease the credit squeeze in the United States, but given such securities' role in precipitating the crisis of the last several months, it might well set off cries of dismay here.
 Still, if market conditions continue to deteriorate, Richard Jerram, chief economist in Tokyo of Macquarie Securities, said of the finance ministry, ''they may feel they have to send a signal.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Traders in Tokyo monitored stock and yen figures Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KOICHI KAMOSHIDA/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (91%); US DOLLAR (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); JAPANESE YEN (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); PUBLIC DEBT (67%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (94%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (54%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (94%); JPM (LSE) (94%); 8634 (TSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (94%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (94%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (94%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) JAPAN (97%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2008



441 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: Corporate Sponsorship for a Wind Farm

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH

 BODY:
Companies have long been willing to pay a lot of money to attach their names to prominent places. The future home of the New York Mets in Queens will be called Citi Field, after Citigroup. The Academy Awards ceremony takes place at the Kodak Theater in Los Angeles. 
 So at a time when most companies are scrambling for a prime seat on the green bandwagon, why not a company-branded wind farm? 
 John Deere Wind Energy is building an eight-turbine, 10-megawatt wind farm in Panhandle, Tex., that is scheduled to open in May. 
 Steelcase, the big furniture company in Grand Rapids, Mich., has committed to buying the farm's entire output of renewable energy credits -- the alternative energy version of carbon offsets, usually just called R.E.C.'s -- for its first five years of operation. And it is paying a premium -- it declines to say how much -- for the right to name it the Wege Wind Energy Farm, after Peter Wege, the son of the founder of Steelcase and a prominent environmentalist in Michigan.
 Nancy W. Hickey, the chief administrative officer of Steelcase, said both the name and the purchase fit in with Steelcase tradition. Steelcase is well on the way, she said, toward reaching its goal of reducing its carbon footprint by 25 percent by 2012, ''and this is another way to help get us there.'' Energy credits from the wind farm will offset the equivalent of 20 percent of the power used by Steelcase operations. 
 Ms. Hickey said the Wege name (pronounced WEGG-ee) is strongly associated with environmentalism, so the naming fits well with the Web-based ''Green Giants Campaign'' that the company initiated in January to draw attention to prominent environmentalists. 
 Even without the naming rights thrown in, it is unusual for a company other than a utility to buy all of the energy credits of a project before it is built. But environmental experts say such deals may become commonplace. 
 ''The demand for wind power and for R.E.C.'s is outpacing the supply, so I won't be surprised to see more companies trying to lock up the renewable energy credits that become available,'' said Andrew Winston, an environmental consultant and co-author of ''Green to Gold,'' a book about environmental marketing.
 Environmentalists, meanwhile, are hoping he is right. ''After all, the best environmental policies are the ones where there's a strong economic rationale for doing the right thing,'' said Mark S. Brownstein, managing director for business partnerships for the Environmental Defense Fund. 
 The access to upfront money could also herald a new era for small wind farms, said Elizabeth Salerno, manager of policy analysis for the American Wind Energy Association. ''This could really make more communities embrace local wind projects,'' she said.
 Whether it can make shareholders and customers embrace Steelcase is not as clear. Steelcase will affix ''provided by Steelcase'' to all of the Wege farm's signs and promotional materials. But branding specialists say it should have placed its own name front and center. 
 ''So many people care about the environment now that you really can get a lot more juice from naming a wind farm than from naming a stadium,'' said Hank Stewart, vice president for strategic messaging at the environmentally themed advertising agency Green Team. ''But they really missed an opportunity by not leading with their brand name.''
 Michael Watras, president of the brand consulting firm Straightline, said that using the Wege name just muddles what should have been a straightforward message. ''Few people know who Peter Wege is, so it creates a disconnect in people's minds,'' he said. ''If they'd called it the Steelcase Wind Farm, the tagline could have said, 'We support an eco-friendly environment.' ''
 In a sense Deere & Company also has a vested interest in Steelcase's adding luster to its reputation. That could attract more customers for naming rights to wind farms. 
 In general, it costs $1 million to $2 million to build each turbine on a wind farm. Bradley W. Johnson, John Deere's director for business development, said his company would probably have built this farm even without the extra money. But he expects that premium prices for naming rights would enable Deere to undertake projects that are too small to be economically practical right now. 
 ''It costs us $350,000 to bring in a crane, whether you are building 4 turbines or 40,'' Mr. Johnson said. ''And you have the same legal fees, and costs of mobilizing a crew or negotiating contracts with utilities.'' 
 Mr. Johnson said that several companies had already expressed interest in providing upfront financing for small wind farms in exchange for naming rights. Ted G. Rose, vice president for business development for Renewable Choice Energy, which arranged the deal between Deere and Steelcase, envisions naming rights catching on for all sizes of farms.
 ''This is a new business model, and it could attract any brand that wants to be linked with sustainability,'' he said. ''Imagine the G.M. wind farm, the Apple wind farm -- it's not unthinkable at all.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Steelcase, the furniture company, is paying to name a new wind farm in Panhandle, Tex., after the son of the company's founder. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEELCASE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIND ENERGY (93%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); WIND POWER PLANTS (90%); SPONSORSHIP (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); CARBON OFFSETS (89%); EXECUTIVES (87%); ENVIRONMENTAL INDUSTRY (79%); BASEBALL (78%); GREEN MARKET (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT (76%); ENERGY DEMAND (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING & CONSULTING (61%); WRITERS (60%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); STEELCASE INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (84%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); SCS (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS337215 SHOWCASE, PARTITION, SHELVING & LOCKER MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS337214 OFFICE FURNITURE (EXCEPT WOOD) MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS337211 WOOD OFFICE FURNITURE MANUFACTURING (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (77%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); MICHIGAN, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2008



442 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: Troubled Outlook for New York City Economy Turns a Lot Grimmer

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
The outlook for New York City's economy and its main engine, the financial services industry, had already taken a bleak turn before the sudden failure of Bear Stearns, the fifth-largest firm on Wall Street.
 Investment banks and brokerage firms started cutting their payrolls last fall as the weakening market for mortgages translated into huge losses. Employment in the city's securities industry dropped by about 8,000 jobs from August to January, a decline of about 4 percent.
 Now, with the impending loss of several thousand high-paying jobs at Bear Stearns, city officials and economists are bracing for the downturn to steepen. How deep it will be and how long it will last are open questions. 
 ''Who knows?'' said William C. Thompson Jr., the city's comptroller. ''We had been preparing for tougher times. This means things are going to get a little tougher. We just don't know how many jobs are going to be lost because of this.''
 Bear Stearns had about 14,000 employees, and as many as 8,000 of them worked in the city. Last year, those workers collected more than $3.4 billion in pay and benefits, or an average of about $242,000 per employee.
 Bear Stearns was one of the 25 largest employers in the city and accounted for about one of every 25 jobs in the city's securities industry. It was not the first major Wall Street firm to collapse. Drexel Burnham Lambert and Kidder Peabody fell more than a decade ago. But Bear Stearns was a bigger component of a more consolidated industry.
 On Monday, officials of JPMorgan Chase, which agreed to buy Bear Stearns and stave off a bankruptcy, declined to estimate how many of the jobs would be saved. But representatives of the firm did not dispute reports that the sale would probably result in the elimination of most of them.
 Already, the rescue has implications for the redevelopment of Lower Manhattan. JPMorgan announced last year that it would build a headquarters for its investment-banking operations at the site of the former Deutsche Bank building, where there was a deadly fire last year.
 But JPMorgan officials have now decided to move that unit instead to Bear Stearns's glass tower in Midtown Manhattan. Government officials who were briefed on the revised plan said on Monday that they expected JPMorgan to honor its commitment to the World Trade Center area by moving other employees there.
 The comptroller's office estimates that the city collects $20 million in taxes for every $1 billion paid out in cash bonuses. In 2007, year-end bonuses for city residents totaled about $30 billion, producing about $600 million in income tax revenue for the city.
 A significant drop in profits on Wall Street has a direct and possibly painful effect on the city and state budgets.
 ''New York City and state are over-dependent on the financial industry for tax revenues,'' said Kathyrn S. Wylde, president of the Partnership for New York City, a business-advocacy group. She estimated that Wall Street accounts for one-fifth of the business taxes collected in New York.
 ''Even a mild downturn on Wall Street causes tremendous problems, and this is much more than a mild downturn,'' Ms. Wylde said. ''This is potentially a sustained period of significant losses. That translates into the need to significantly revise budgets.''
 Even generally optimistic financial executives like Alan H. Fishman, the chairman of Meridian Capital, a mortgage broker, said they were unsure how long it would take the city to absorb the latest blow.
 ''Nobody's ever seen something like this,'' Mr. Fishman said, referring to the fallout from the mortgage mess. ''If you'd asked everybody how serious this was two weeks ago, they would have said, it's serious but it will pass. Now they would say it's very serious.'' 
 Two weeks ago, before Bear Stearns's solvency was in doubt, the city's Independent Budget Office forecast that Wall Street would cut an additional 20,200 jobs in the city by the end of 2009. It also projected a decline in business taxes collected by the city from $6 billion last year to $5.6 billion this year to $5 billion next year.
 Mr. Thompson, the comptroller, said that projections of overall city revenue being flat in the first half of this year may turn out to have been too rosy.
 ''No matter what, looking forward, you're not going to have a Bear Stearns to be able to grow,'' he said. ''We'll have one less major firm, and that is an additional concern on top of everything else.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CITIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); INCOME TAX (60%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (94%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (90%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (94%); JPM (LSE) (94%); 8634 (TSE) (94%); DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (94%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (94%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (94%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2008



443 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ITINERARIES ON THE ROAD; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: A Cross-Country Flight That Can Cure a Bad Mood

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
 THE Internet service didn't work in my room at the Sheraton Four Points hotel near the airport here. The flickering save-the-planet bathroom light made it difficult to shave, and the plastic hand-held showerhead was like something you would find at some dreary bed and breakfast.
 So I was in no mood for a bad trip when I left for a 7 a.m. Virgin America flight to New York. And I didn't get one. 
 Virgin Atlantic, 25 percent owned by the Virgin Group, the parent of Virgin Atlantic Airways, began operations last August, flying between Los Angeles and San Francisco and New York. Virgin America plans to begin service on Tuesday from its seventh city, Seattle. 
 To ensure that I would have access to both first class and coach, I booked in first, for $659 one way. On Monday, the Virgin America walk-up first-class fare was $799, compared with various major airlines' walk-up fares of $3,500 for some nonstops and as low as $877 for a one-stop on that route.
 The violet lighting at the airplane entrance was a careful evocation of the Virgin Atlantic experience. But the biggest surprise was the seat, which had 55 inches of legroom, compared with the typical 40 inches or less in first-class cabins on most domestic narrow-body flights. An electronic control reclined the seat and raised a leg rest, though the seat mounts make it difficult to fit a laptop underneath.
 The plane, an Airbus A320 with 8 seats in first and 141 in coach, departed on time. The in-flight service was excellent, with breakfast appetizers followed by a stuffed tomato with home fries. Lunch was a sandwich wrap. 
 The in-seat entertainment system had live television and on-demand selections that included about three dozen movies. In coach, the seats are leather, too, and also have individual screens, though movies cost up to $7. One touch-screen feature allows coach passengers to order a snack or a drink, without having to wait for the cart. As in first class, each coach seat had access to a power port to plug in an electronic device. Wi-Fi is expected to be available in the fall.
 While first class was full on my flight, coach was sparsely populated. That was especially noticeable because I can't remember the last time I was on a plane that wasn't packed full.
 The flight landed on time at Kennedy International Airport, which I usually avoid. A few days later, C. David Cush, Virgin America's chief executive, told me that Virgin had planned to begin service to Newark, a much more convenient airport for me, but that federal flight caps to address congestion meant ''there is just no more room'' to add flights there this year.
 Mr. Cush said that my flight, with 60 passengers, was ''anomalous'' because early Wednesday mornings in winter are slow for travel out of San Francisco. For the rest of this month, he said, Virgin transcontinental flights were about 80 percent full, roughly the industry average.
 Virgin America flies to and from San Francisco, Los Angeles, New York, Las Vegas, San Diego, Washington, D.C., and now, Seattle. The airline will add two other cities ''east of the Mississippi'' this year, and plans to add 40 more cities in major business centers within five years, Mr. Cush said.
 At Los Angeles International, Virgin has already been credited (or condemned, depending on who's talking) with starting a fare war that has also caused competitors to add flights and compete on pricing. Last week, Virgin had a sale with round-trip coach fares of about $295 between Los Angeles or San Francisco and New York.
 A flashy start-up is a risky bet. Virgin, however, has ''deep pockets,'' said Mr. Cush, a former executive at American Airlines. 
 The airline, Mr. Cush says, is marketing heavily to what is known in the industry as the unmanaged business-travel segment, which includes small businesses and entrepreneurs who do not have access to the big corporate discounts that major airlines offer. So far, he said, overall demand for domestic air travel ''is not slackening'' despite steadily rising fares and economic anxieties.
 ''The silver lining is we have a very efficient fleet -- our A320s on average use 30 percent less fuel than the average for the entire U.S. fleet. We're confident that if anyone can make it, we can,'' he said.
 E-mail: jsharkey@nytimes.com 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRIS GASH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); AIR FARES (78%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (78%); AIR SERVICE (75%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: VIRGIN GROUP LTD (91%); VIRGIN ATLANTIC AIRWAYS LTD (84%); FOUR POINTS HOTEL (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2008



444 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: Aftershocks of a Collapse, With a Bank at the Epicenter

BYLINE: By JENNY ANDERSON

 BODY:
Shocked by the rapid demise of Bear Stearns and its fire sale to JPMorgan Chase, investors sold off the stock of Lehman Brothers and several other financial firms Monday. 
 Lehman's shares began the day 35 percent lower than on Friday and recovered slightly, ending at $31.75, down $7.51, or 19.1 percent. A whopping 224 million shares traded hands, or 16 times the normal volume.
 Since the mortgage market crisis unfolded in the summer, investors have fretted that Lehman Brothers will stumble, and its stock has fallen from a peak of $82 a share then. The firm was a major player in the market for subprime and prime mortgages, and it is the smallest of the major Wall Street firms. 
 Still, the storied investment bank has defied expectations more than once, as in 1998, when it seemed to teeter after a worldwide currency crisis, only to rebound strongly.
 ''It's not surprising that people are looking to Lehman next,'' said Jeffrey Harte, a brokerage stock analyst at Sandler O'Neill & Partners, a Chicago-based research firm. He said Lehman and Bear Stearns had a number of similarities. Both had relatively small balance sheets, they were heavily dependent on the mortgage market, and they relied heavily on the ''repo'' or repurchase market, most often used as a short-term financing tool. 
 Richard S. Fuld Jr., Lehman's famously intense leader who flew back from India over the weekend, says that Lehman has studied the past and is in good shape today, with a comfortable level of funding, or liquidity.
 ''We learned a ton in '98,'' Mr. Fuld said. ''We have a much different liquidity profile today than we did then.''
 Mr. Fuld was referring to investors' panic after Russia defaulted on its debt, pushing a big hedge fund to the precipice.
 The Wall Street bailout of that fund, Long Term Capital Management, proved to be the nadir in that financial crisis of nearly a decade ago. ''Ninety-eight was pretty ugly for us,'' he said. ''This is uglier for the system -- it's more pervasive and more global.''
 Lehman was not the only financial stock hit hard on Monday. MF Global, a large global commodities broker, dropped 65 percent, while Washington Mutual fell 12.8 percent, and Morgan Stanley closed down 8 percent. The Amex broker-dealer index fell 10.3 percent.
 According to an analysis by Buckingham Research Associates, an independent research firm, Lehman has $169.8 billion in total liquidity, compared with $168.6 billion at Goldman Sachs, and a considerable step up from the $35.3 billion at Bear Stearns. In an examination of all the major brokers over the weekend, Buckingham concluded that Lehman, though now the smallest firm on the Street, has the highest percentage of liquidity (25 percent) of total assets, suggesting a strong cushion.
 According to the firm's securities filings, Lehman has $35 billion in cash and liquid assets and $160 billion in unencumbered assets -- like loans and securities backed by commercial mortgages that it can use as collateral to borrow more, should it desire.
 Lehman's doubters are not convinced, citing several issues. Recent concerns about financing essentially amount to a question of confidence. Lehman's management is battling that issue by being far more aggressive in talking about its financial strength than it did a decade ago. 
 The skeptics point to the rapid growth of Lehman's Level 3 assets -- those that the firm says have no ''observable'' market value. Those assets more than doubled in the last six months of last year, rising to $42 billion.
 Other areas for concern include Lehman's $39 billion in commercial real estate assets and $37 billion more in residential mortgages, businesses that have been hammered this year. If the moves in the real estate indexes were applied to the firm's totals, Lehman would take an estimated hit of $5 billion to $6 billion. (Lehman's critics declined to be identified because hedge funds that short a company's stock are often accused of profiting from another company's pain). 
 Lehman has argued in the past that it saw the mortgage crisis coming and hedged effectively against some of the downturn.
 Mr. Fuld, who is often referred to as ''the warrior'' or ''the survivor,'' is not shying from skeptical markets. Having admitted he made a mistake by ignoring market rumors in 1998, he made a public statement on Monday.
 ''The Federal Reserve's decision to create a lending facility for primary dealers and permit a broad range of investment-grade securities to serve as collateral improves the liquidity picture,'' he said, and ''from my perspective, takes the liquidity issue for the entire industry off the table.''
 Shares of many other financial institutions followed Lehman's shares down on Monday, but JPMorgan rose $3.77, or 10.3 percent, to $40.31. That helped support the Dow Jones industrial average, which rose 21.16, or 0.18 percent, to 11,972.25. 
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 11.54, or 0.9 percent, to 1,276.60. The Nasdaq composite index fell 35.48, or 1.6 percent, to 2,177.01.
 The benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 14/32, to 101 19/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction, fell to 3.31 percent, from 3.47 percent. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Richard S. Fuld Jr., the chairman and chief executive of Lehman Brothers, said his firm learned a lot after a worldwide currency crisis in 1998 and is a stronger company today. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C8) GRAPHS: CAPACITY UTILIZATION: Total industrial output as a percentage of capacity, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Federal Reserve) (pg. C8)
3-MONTH TREASURY BILLS: High rate at weekly auction. (Source: The Bond Buyer) (pg. C8)
THE DOW MINUTE-BY-MINUTE: position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) (pg. C8) CHART: ROUGH DAYS FOR MANY FINANCIAL STOCKS: Investors sold off the stock of Lehman Brothers and other financial firms Monday after the fire sale of Bear Stearns to JPMorgan Chase, whose stock rose in contrast to its peers. (Source: Bloomberg) (pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (76%); COMMODITIES TRADING (71%); CURRENCIES (71%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (71%); SUBPRIME LENDING (71%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (67%); HEDGE FUNDS (62%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (94%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (92%); SANDLER O'NEILL + PARTNERS LP (69%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); OPTIMISA PLC (51%); MF GLOBAL HOLDINGS LTD (51%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (51%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (94%); JPM (LSE) (94%); 8634 (TSE) (94%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (94%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (94%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (94%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (51%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (51%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (51%)

PERSON: RICHARD S FULD (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); INDIA (54%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2008



445 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE 2008 CAMPAIGN: THE WAR, THE DISPUTED PRIMARIES AND THE FORMER PRESIDENT; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: Anniversary Highlights Iraq War's Role in Campaign

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY; Jeff Zeleny contributed reporting from Scranton, Pa.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
This week's fifth anniversary of the invasion of Iraq provoked an intense exchange over the war Monday among the three presidential candidates, illustrating the deep divisions over how to proceed there even as the violence has ebbed. The day left little doubt that the issue would be a major area of difference between the two parties this fall.
 Though they could have allowed the milestone to be overshadowed by the crisis on Wall Street, Senators John McCain, Hillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama aggressively seized on Iraq. That they did so, in the face of risks for each of them in the handling of the issue, was evidence of the large role all sides believe the war will continue to play in months ahead, even as the weakening economy takes center stage. 
 Of the three, Mrs. Clinton, Democrat of New York, moved the most aggressively, and perhaps most unexpectedly, given the extent to which her vote in 2002 to authorize the war has caused her problems with Democratic primary voters. 
 She delivered a speech here in which she renewed her pledge to begin withdrawing troops within 60 days of becoming president. But she also used her platform to attack both Mr. Obama, who she again said had been inconsistent on the war, and Mr. McCain.
 Mr. McCain, the Arizona Republican who has championed the war and was long an advocate of the eventual policy of increasing the American troop presence in Iraq, was in Baghdad to mark the anniversary. The senator, who has long said his candidacy could rise or fall on what happens in Iraq, declared in an interview there that Mrs. Clinton's approach was a prescription for defeat at the hands of Al Qaeda.
 And Mr. Obama, Democrat of Illinois, eagerly engaged Mrs. Clinton for challenging the depth of his opposition to the war. He talked again of having spoken out against it from the outset, a distinction that has served him well in the primaries. Mr. Obama has been parrying criticism from both Mrs. Clinton and Mr. McCain, who, though offering starkly different views of what should be done in Iraq, have similarly questioned his credentials to be commander in chief.
 While Iraq may have faded from public consciousness a bit, in reflection of a drop in the number of casualties and rising concern about the economy, it remains a politically defining issue for both parties, one sure to shape the arguments about national security this fall. The day's back-and-forth amounted to a preview of that debate.
 ''Despite the evidence, President Bush is determined to continue his failed policy in Iraq until he leaves office,'' Mrs. Clinton said at a lightly attended speech at George Washington University. ''And Senator McCain will gladly accept the torch and stay the course, keeping troops in Iraq for 100 more years if necessary.
 ''They both want to keep us tied to another country's civil war, a war we cannot win. And that, in a nutshell, is the Bush-McCain Iraq policy: Don't learn from your mistakes -- repeat them.''
 Mrs. Clinton argued that the troop ''surge'' advocated by Mr. McCain had failed to produce the kind of change that the White House promised, as evinced by the fact that the troop level in Iraq at the end of the surge will be the same as at the beginning.
 Talking to CNN in Baghdad, Mr. McCain said Mrs. Clinton ''obviously does not understand or appreciate the progress that has been made on the ground.'' But more tellingly, he returned to what has been the main Republican argument against Democrats since the Sept. 11 attacks, suggesting that they would not protect the nation from terrorism.
 ''If Mrs. Clinton's plan to begin withdrawal in 60 days is enacted,'' he said, ''I just think what that means is Al Qaeda wins.'' 
 Mrs. Clinton sought to make a case that Mr. Obama could not be counted on to withdraw American forces as rapidly as possible. 
 She said he had not taken action in the Senate to stop the war and pointed to remarks by Samantha Power, who stepped down this month as an Obama foreign policy adviser after calling Mrs. Clinton a ''monster'' and suggesting that as president Mr. Obama would not necessarily abide by the troop withdrawal schedule he has laid out as a presidential candidate.
 ''One choice in this election is Senator McCain, who is willing to keep this war going for 100 years,'' Mrs. Clinton said. ''You can count on him to do that. Another choice is Senator Obama, who has promised to bring combat troops out in 16 months. But according to his foreign policy adviser, you can't count on him to do that.''
 Mr. Obama responded at a town-hall-style meeting in Monaca, Pa.
 ''The truth is, the judgment of Hillary Clinton and John McCain gave George Bush a blank check for war,'' Mr. Obama said. ''With all due respect, I'm not about to allow Senator Clinton to get away with saying that was just about speeches. Because of that vote, we have fought a war that has cost us thousands of lives, cost us over a trillion dollars.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton spoke about the war on Monday at George Washington University in Washington
Senator John McCain visited Iraq, where he met with an Air Force crew in Baghdad
and Senator Barack Obama took part in an MTV discussion with Iraq veterans in Scranton, Pa.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM BOURG/REUTERS)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY MASTER SGT. ANDY DUNAWAY/UNITED STATES AIR FORCE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX BRANDON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANNIVERSARIES (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); IRAQ WAR (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); CIVIL WAR (73%); ARMED FORCES (71%); INTERVIEWS (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (59%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (59%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%); SCRANTON, PA, USA (59%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2008



446 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section H; Column 0; Wealth&PersonalFinance; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1123 words

HEADLINE: Tapping a Flow of Cash From the Credit Crisis

BYLINE: By PAUL SULLIVAN

 BODY:
THE United States may have already entered a recession set off by the upheaval in the subprime mortgage market and sharp declines in house prices nationwide. For the rich, however, the mortgage crisis and housing slump have created opportunities to leverage their real estate holdings for other investments. 
 ''There's a lot of talk about a credit crisis, but the fact is there's plenty of available capital for wealthy clients,'' said Michael J. McPartland, a managing director at Citigroup and head of residential real estate at Citigroup Global Wealth Management, where the average mortgage size in 2007 was $1.7 million on homes worth $2 million to $3 million.
 From a wealth management perspective, the crisis is about house values and not about subprime mortgages, said Erin M. Gorman, national sales manager for mortgage products at the Bank of New York Mellon. ''The wealthier borrower is going to ride the storm out,'' she said.
 For many rich people, that means repositioning their investment portfolios, and a big part of that is being accomplished by borrowing against homes, some bankers say. The Federal Reserve's lowering of interest rates to try to keep the economy from sliding into recession has had the effect of making mortgages on seven- and eight-figure homes attractive. ''Money is cheap right now,'' Ms. Gorman said. 
 Such highly leveraged mortgages and refinancings, which have landed many so-called prime borrowers in difficult straits when the value of their houses sank, are now a flow of money that can be put into higher-yielding investments.
 ''They're not looking at this as a mortgage, but as a way to accomplish some other goal they have in mind,'' said Jan Reuter, a residential real estate executive at U.S. Trust, Bank of America Private Wealth Management. ''Most of them have the ability to pay off the loan if it doesn't make sense anymore.''
 She cited the example of a client who recently took out a $15 million mortgage on an apartment in New York City, something he would not have done with higher interest rates. The loan allowed the borrower to buy the property without liquidating other investments that would have meant paying capital gains taxes.
 There are three popular options that the very rich have been using to get cash out of real estate they own: 
 Interest-only mortgages, the bane of so many less affluent borrowers, are well suited for the wealthy. With them, wealthier borrowers can reap the full tax benefits of a mortgage while reducing the principal only when it suits them. ''It's a cash flow management tool,'' Mr. McPartland said. 
 Adjustable-rate mortgages, or ARMS, are a second popular tool. Ms. Gorman says clients can get one-month ARMs with rates in the high 3 percent range. ''ARMs historically have not been a bad play for wealthy clients,'' she said. ''If the market moves against them, they can pay down or pay off their mortgages.''
 Jeff Kauffman, president and chief executive of Northern Trust's Personal Financial Services Business in the Northeast, takes a slightly longer view, recommending adjustable-rate mortgages that lock in a lower rate for up to 7 or 10 years -- as long as there are no prepayment penalties. 
 With these clients, financing the full value of a home, or even several homes together, is always an option. Since the start of the year, Ms. Gorman said, she has seen a rise in the number of borrowers taking out $10 million to $20 million mortgages and has gone as high as $50 million for a group of properties. 
 But a third, simpler strategy for people in the highest tax bracket is a $1 million mortgage and a $100,000 home equity loan on a property that did not have a mortgage before. This amount hits the limit for federal mortgage interest deduction, Ms. Gorman pointed out. 
 One place where these strategies have been put to work is Naples, an affluent beach town in southwestern Florida. 
 From 2003 to 2006, speculator-driven price increases on high-end homes rose to 20 percent or more a year, compared with 7 percent to 10 percent in a normal real estate cycle, said Michael J. Timmerman, a senior associate at Fishkind & Associates, a financial consulting company based in Orlando, who has been tracking the real estate market in the southeastern United States for 25 years. Last year, by contrast, prices fell 5 to 8 percent, a slide that has continued at the same pace into 2008.
 While the midrange market is trying to regain its footing, the wealthy are using the flat market to their advantage. Ms. Gorman said she had a client in the Naples area who took out a $1 million loan on a $2 million condominium he owned outright. What made this attractive was a 10-year interest-only adjustable-rate mortgage with a rate in the low 5 percent range, which is locked in for the first five years. 
 ''Typically our clients do something different every three to four years, so that five-year window is a good window to lock in an interest rate,'' she said.
 Given the easy credit available to the rich for the homes they own, those who are looking to buy property are equally well positioned when it comes to getting second or third mortgages. 
 ''It's a good time to be an opportunistic buyer,'' said Mr. Kauffman of Northern Trust. ''I believe that applies to whether it's a unique real estate opportunity, a third home or land. There are fewer strong buyers out there.''
 Ruth Trettis, a broker at Premier Properties in Naples who has watched the market for 30 years, agreed. ''When the market was really on fire, we would have multiple offers on properties,'' she said, adding that right now the adage about location being paramount is more relevant than ever. ''We had a home in the beach block come on the market recently for around $4 million, and it sold very quickly.''
 Mr. Timmerman said he expected that the market would stabilize in the first quarter of 2009 as election-cycle uncertainty waned, and that prices would start to rise by the end of 2009.
 There are plenty who have done nothing with their homes and have weathered the worst of the storm without problems. Richard Cacciagrani, an owner of Toscano, a popular Boston restaurant, watched the value of his home four blocks from the beach in Naples climb so rapidly -- tripling in value from 2002 to 2005 -- that he couldn't imagine selling. ''My house appreciated so much that I was wondering if it was going to keep booming,'' he said. 
 It didn't. But now, instead of fretting over a lost opportunity of cashing in during the boom, he looks at the property more as another asset in his portfolio, and eventually, he will realize its value. ''They built two $1.2 million houses across the street and they sold,'' he said optimistically. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BUY/SELL: In affluent areas like Naples, Fla., above, people are using the flat real estate market to their advantage. Ruth Trettis, a broker in Naples, left, stands in a multimillion-dollar home for sale there. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP LITHERLAND FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (93%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (92%); CREDIT CRISIS (92%); MORTGAGE LOANS (91%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (91%); HOME PRICES (91%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (90%); RECESSION (90%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); AFFLUENT MARKET (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); CASH FLOW (75%); SALES MANAGEMENT (70%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (60%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (91%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); U S TRUST BANK OF AMERICA PRIVATE WEALTH MANAGEMENT (65%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%); BK (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAPLES, FL, USA (74%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (56%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2008



447 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1443 words

HEADLINE: Pledging Unity, Paterson Takes Albany's Helm

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE; Reporting was contributed by Sewell Chan, Danny Hakim, Trymaine Lee, Steven Lee Myers and Jeremy W. Peters.

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
Lt. Gov. David A. Paterson ascended to New York's highest office on Monday, pledging civility and unity in government to an enthusiastic and palpably relieved gathering of state lawmakers and officials.
 Mr. Paterson was sworn in as the state's 55th governor shortly after 1 p.m., almost exactly a week after reports that his predecessor, Gov. Eliot Spitzer, had been a customer of a prostitution ring and faced federal investigation. 
 In a speech lasting about half an hour, Mr. Paterson offered fond wisecracks and soothing oratory to an audience that clearly ached to move beyond what has been an unusually sordid ordeal even for Albany, a capital well acquainted with political scandal.
 Speaking to a joint session of the State Assembly and the Senate, Mr. Paterson alluded briefly to Mr. Spitzer's difficulties over the past year in working with the Democratic-controlled Assembly and Republican-controlled Senate. 
 ''What we are going to do from now on is what we always should have done: We are going to work together,'' said Mr. Paterson, a 53-year-old Democrat from Harlem. 
 ''With conviction in our brains and compassion in our hearts and the love for New York on our sleeves, we will dedicate ourselves to principle but always maintain the ability to listen.''
 But Mr. Paterson's remarks were most striking for what was absent from them. 
 There was no indication that Mr. Paterson intended to adopt as his own Mr. Spitzer's high-profile crusade to change the culture of Albany. Despite hints last week that continuity would be a key theme of the transition, there were few signs on Monday of what agenda Mr. Paterson might pursue as the state's chief executive, and aides said Mr. Paterson would begin to lay out his plans in the coming days and weeks.
 Unlike Mr. Spitzer, who fired shot after shot across the bow of Albany's political establishment in his inaugural address less than 15 months ago, Mr. Paterson warmly embraced the capital's two other major powers: the Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, and the Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno. 
 ''Let us grab the unusual opportunities that circumstance has handed us today and put personal politics, party advantage and power struggles aside, in favor of service, in the interests of the people,'' said Mr. Paterson, who served in the State Senate for more than 20 years.
 Moreover, in a speech with so many nods to other elected officials that even a former lieutenant governor made the cut, Mr. Paterson made no mention of Mr. Spitzer, who chose him to join the ticket for statewide office in 2006, and whose powerful and at times overbearing personality were the central fact of political life here for nearly a year and a half. 
 Mr. Paterson alluded only vaguely to Mr. Spitzer's resignation, noting that New York had experienced ''a very difficult week.'' He hewed closely to the theme of partnership, describing himself as Brooklyn-born, Long-Island-educated, and Harlem-residing, to rousing cheers from elected officials who hail from each of those areas.
 Indeed, so constant were the cheers throughout the new governor's time in the chamber that the audience even interrupted him with thunderous applause in the middle of his oath of office. 
 Only when his speech turned to the worsening economic downturn and its likely effect on the state budget gap did Mr. Paterson signal a challenge to the Legislature or to Albany's ranks of lobbyists and interest groups. 
 ''We are looking at an economy that is reeling, and I must say to all of you in government and all of you in business that you must meet with me in the next couple of weeks and adjust our budget accordingly,'' Mr. Paterson said, suggesting that budget austerity may be needed. 
 Mr. Paterson, New York's first blind governor as well as its first black one, also nodded to the historic nature of his swearing-in. 
 ''I have confronted the prejudice of race, and challenged the issues of my own disability,'' he said. ''I have served in government for over two decades. I stand willing and able to lead this state to a brighter future and a better tomorrow.''
 In a news conference following the address, Mr. Bruno seemed open to a political do-over.
 ''I think it's great relief,'' said Mr. Bruno, the state's top Republican. ''It's like a new day. The sun is shining.''
 At times, the event felt more like something of a coronation for Mr. Paterson, the scion of a Harlem political fraternity that remains powerful and well connected in New York politics. His father, Basil A. Paterson, a former state senator and secretary of state, stood behind Mr. Paterson when he first ascended the dais, as did his mother, his wife and his two children. They remained there as Mr. Paterson, a well-liked veteran of Albany, was greeted by exultant cheers and whistles, and a lengthy standing ovation.
 ''It's a great day for New York, and for those of us from Harlem, it's an even greater day,'' said Senator Bill Perkins, a Democrat from Manhattan, who replaced Mr. Paterson when he was elected lieutenant governor.
 New York's two United States senators, Charles E. Schumer and Hillary Rodham Clinton, were in attendance, along with Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, the former governors Hugh L. Carey and George E. Pataki, and the current governors of New Jersey, Connecticut and Massachusetts.
 An initial draft of Mr. Paterson's speech was prepared by aides, his advisers said, and he spent considerable time editing, memorizing and practicing the final address.
 Whereas Mr. Spitzer favored a Sermon-on-the-Mount style of oratory, Mr. Paterson at times sounded more like the announcer at a Las Vegas boxing match. At least a third of his speech was devoted to saluting the legislative leaders and other officials in attendance, each of whom was introduced with a flourish and a backslapping joke.
 Praising Mr. Bruno, for example, Mr. Paterson recalled that the leader of the Senate Republicans had once invited him to his upstate horse farm for dinner.
 ''I'll go,'' Mr. Paterson recalled replying. ''But I'm going to take my taster with me.''
 Other Senate Republicans, following Mr. Bruno's lead, appeared receptive to Mr. Paterson's overtures, at least for now. Asked whether Senate Republicans would give Mr. Paterson any breathing room on contentious matters like the state budget, one of them, John J. Bonacic, smiled broadly.
 ''For a day,'' he promised.
 In tone and affect, Mr. Paterson's speech did not seem to be aimed at the broader public. Rather, it seemed addressed principally to the lawmakers gathered before him, whom he has known for years as a colleague and peer, but must now lead.
 ''Let me reintroduce myself,'' he said toward the end of the speech, hinting at the transformation in progress. ''I am David Paterson, and I am the governor of New York State.''
 What kind of governor he will be remains to be seen. Some Democrats who support the procedural reform that Mr. Spitzer advocated -- greater government transparency; lower limits on campaign contributions -- appeared hopeful on Monday that the cause would escape the fate of its most visible champion.
 ''This was not a scandal about the politics and ideology of the Spitzer administration. It's a personal scandal,'' said Senator Liz Krueger, a Manhattan Democrat. ''We have a new governor, not a new government.''
 Privately, some Democrats were already looking beyond the budget, to this fall's elections, in which control of the State Senate -- the surviving statewide bastion of Republican power in New York -- will be at stake.
 Entering office last year with overwhelming popularity, Mr. Spitzer was expected to lead his party's efforts to retake the Senate. Over the last year and a half, his fund-raising and political support helped the Democratic minority win two more Senate seats in special elections.
 Mr. Paterson is not untested in such matters. Despite his friendship with Mr. Bruno, Mr. Paterson whittled four seats from the Republican majority during his years as Senate minority leader from 2003 to 2006. But his fund-raising ability and skills as a statewide political leader are not well tested, as senior Democratic officials acknowledged on Monday.
 Referring to Mr. Spitzer, Representative Joseph Crowley said, ''There's no question he had resources available both personally and in his ability to tap.'' The congressman, who is also the leader of the Queens County Democratic Party, continued: ''But there will be others to fill those voids, I think. David, being one of them, will have to step up in that regard, to ensure that the money that is needed will be raised and emphasis is put where it is needed.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 24, 2008

 CORRECTION:
A chart on Tuesday comparing Eliot Spitzer, the former governor of New York, with his successor, David A. Paterson, on various issues misidentified the court that in 2004 threw out New York's death penalty, which Mr. Spitzer favored under some circumstances and Mr. Paterson opposed. It was the State Court of Appeals, not the State Supreme Court.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Lt. Gov. David A. Paterson being sworn in on Monday as the 55th governor of New York by Chief Judge Judith S. Kaye in Albany.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A1)
Dignitaries at the swearing-in Monday included U.S. senators, two former New York governors, and three other states' governors.
 A firefighter awaiting the ceremony, with a hand on a program.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A19) CHART: The New Boss: Gov. David A. Paterson has taken positions similar to those of his predecessor, Eliot Spitzer, on many key issues, but often takes nuanced stances on controversial matters. (CHART BY FORD FESSENDEN, RUBINA MADAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A19)Chart details for Spitzer versus paterson. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); SCANDALS (76%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (72%); EXECUTIVES (62%); PROSTITUTION (56%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (94%); ELIOT SPITZER (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2008



448 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: State Official Resigns Post Amid Shift In Leadership

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
The changing of the guard at the state's troubled economic development agency was already under way when Gov. David A. Paterson took the oath of office on Monday. 
 On Sunday, the state's top economic development official, Patrick J. Foye, sent a letter to Mr. Paterson resigning as co-chairman of the Empire State Development Corporation, which had been riven by disputes between its top three executives and was regarded as dysfunctional by many real estate developers and business executives.
 Mr. Foye and the Spitzer administration had also endured widespread criticism of their decision in January to abandon the long-awaited expansion of the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center on the West Side of Manhattan after spending 13 months and more than $30 million studying the proposal. In addition, a $14 billion plan to rebuild Pennsylvania Station and transform the surrounding area with skyscrapers was foundering.
 Still, Mr. Foye's office was telling reporters last week that he had no plans to leave his job. But, according to two people who knew him, Mr. Foye, a friend of former Gov. Eliot Spitzer and his wife, learned over the weekend that there was little support for him among Mr. Paterson's camp.
 ''I came to state government with Governor Spitzer, and I decided it was appropriate to leave at the same time he does,'' Mr. Foye said in an interview on Monday.
 The Paterson administration announced on Monday that Avi Schick, president of the development corporation, would serve as acting chief executive for economic development efforts in New York City and the surrounding counties. It is unclear whether it will be an interim appointment.
 Mr. Schick, who has developed a powerful political ally in Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, has been involved in the redevelopment of the World Trade Center site, Columbia University's plans to expand its campus into Harlem and the Atlantic Yards housing and sports arena project in Brooklyn.
 Daniel Gunderson, the other co-chairman who ran an office in Buffalo, will continue to oversee upstate efforts.
 Mr. Foye's chief of staff, Alexandra Stanton, resigned her position on March 7.
 As for his future, Mr. Foye said he planned to join the private sector but would not practice law or become a lobbyist. He dismissed criticisms of the development corporation as dysfunctional, saying that it had reformed the state's Empire Zones, which award valuable tax benefits to companies across the state, but had often failed to check whether the companies kept their promises to create new jobs.
 Kathryn S. Wylde, president of the Partnership for New York City, said that whatever infighting had occurred between the three men was the product of a structure put in place by Mr. Spitzer that divided responsibilities, but left no single person in charge. The partnership represents many of the city's largest employers.
 ''E.S.D.C. is an agency that has to have a clear strategy under which it negotiates deals,'' Ms. Wylde said. ''For that, you need strong centralized leadership. Having a trifurcated structure is not a practical way to conduct business.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Patrick J. Foye resigned in a letter to the new governor. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIRK CONDYLES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); RESIGNATIONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); LOBBYING (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%)

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (72%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (90%); ELIOT SPITZER (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2008



449 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1328 words

HEADLINE: Bush Supports Fed's Actions, But Critics Quickly Find Fault

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS; Adam Nagourney and Steven R. Weisman contributed reporting from Washington, and Jeff Zeleny from Monaca, Pa.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Bush on Monday welcomed the Federal Reserve's sweeping intervention in the nation's financial markets as his administration faced accusations that it had supported the bailout of a prestigious investment bank while doing little to address the hardships of Americans facing foreclosures on their homes.
 Meeting with his economic aides at the White House in the morning in the first of two meetings on the economy, Mr. Bush again sought to project optimism at a time of financial turbulence after the Fed's brokering of the takeover of Bear Stearns by JPMorgan Chase. 
 Mr. Bush singled out Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. for praise, saying he had shown ''the country and the world that the United States is on top of the situation,'' an assertion that was broadly disputed by the president's critics.
 ''I want to thank you, Mr. Secretary, for working over the weekend,'' Mr. Bush said in brief remarks in the Roosevelt Room. 
 The president's remarks and his schedule underscored the growing political concern about the economy on a day that would otherwise have been devoted to traditional St. Patrick's Day meetings and events. 
 The issue also spilled into the presidential campaign, drawing reactions from both Democratic contenders and the presumptive Republican candidate, underscoring how much the economy has overshadowed the war in Iraq, even as the fifth anniversary of the start of that war approaches on Wednesday. 
 Mr. Bush, between an Irish-American lunch on Capitol Hill and a dinner at the White House, met with a group of advisers and regulators that included Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, who has orchestrated a series of moves intended to rescue the nation's financial markets from what officials feared could have been a chain reaction of defaults. 
 Mr. Bush's handling of the economy has vaulted to the top of the political agenda, where the White House would clearly it rather not be. He stood accused on one hand of violating his own ideological opposition to government intervention and on the other of not doing enough to protect the nation's economy from the disarray in the markets. 
 ''Now that the president has shown his willingness to bail out Wall Street at taxpayer expense, I hope he will drop his opposition to proposals designed to help ordinary homeowners,'' Senator Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada and the majority leader, said in a statement. 
 Senator Barack Obama of Illinois declared the economy ''in shambles,'' but he and his rival for the Democratic presidential nomination, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, trod carefully, expressing concern about the broader market and, in Mrs. Clinton's case, for the employees of Bear Stearns, based in her home state, New York. 
 ''There is no doubt that we are teetering on a potential crisis on Wall Street that could have ramifications all across the country,'' Mr. Obama said at a news conference after meeting with voters during a campaign stop in Monaca, Pa., a town near the Ohio border. ''We have a credit market that is locked up.''
 Mrs. Clinton said that Main Street was as important as Wall Street, but like many Democrats, she did not directly criticize the government's intervention in the sale of Bear Stearns. In a statement, she noted that she had spoken with Mr. Paulson and the president of the New York Federal Reserve Bank, Timothy F. Geithner. She urged that the administration do more. 
 ''We have blown it,'' she said at a news conference in Washington in which she linked the economic turmoil in part to Iraq. ''And one of the reasons why we must end the war in Iraq is we cannot afford it. We have got to get control of our economic destiny. There are so many danger signs on the horizon.''
 Senator John McCain's campaign issued a statement expressing confidence in the Federal Reserve and Mr. Bernanke, but pointedly excluding any reference to the president. 
 ''John McCain understands the federal government's responsibility to ensure the stability of the U.S. financial system and is equally committed to protecting the pocketbooks of hardworking American families,'' the campaign said in a statement by Doug Holtz-Eakin, a senior policy adviser.
 The Fed's intervention in the case of Bear Stearns intensified calls for the administration to reverse Mr. Bush's well-known embrace of laissez-faire economic policies. 
 Mr. Bush's aides have argued that he has acted aggressively since August to address a financial crisis that was already on the horizon, pointing to the $168 billion economic stimulus package that he had negotiated with Congress this year.
 The Internal Revenue Service announced on Monday that the first of 130 million rebates -- typically $600 a person or $1,200 for most married couples -- would be sent electronically by the first week of May and later by mail until the end of July. 
 Mr. Bush's senior aides have said that they hoped the economy can withstand any further buffeting until the effects of those rebates are felt during the spring and summer of the year. The relative stability of Wall Street on Monday raised those hopes.
 But the speed of Bear Stearns's collapse pointed to the danger that the administration and the Fed could be forced to act again soon.
 A senior Treasury official, explaining Mr. Paulson's role, said the secretary was first alerted to a potential crisis at Bear Stearns Thursday afternoon. Mr. Paulson kept Mr. Bush abreast personally on discussions about the problem, giving him a heads-up Friday morning before the president left for a speech to the Economic Club of New York, that some sort of rescue was imminent, and then speaking to him on Sunday afternoon.
 By all accounts the crisis brought Mr. Paulson, Mr. Bernanke and Mr. Geithner into an unusually cooperative working relationship that, the senior official said largely excluded Mr. Bush's team of economic advisers.
 Mr. Paulson has been cautious about predicting the future of the markets and the possible necessity of further action to stabilize them. But since the beginning of the market turmoil last August, he has often mentioned that there would be failures of one or more institutions before things got better. Associates say he has taken a pragmatic approach and an attitude that the administration would do what it had to do to stabilize the broader markets.
 Mr. Paulson dismissed questions of whether the administration was bailing out a financial giant while homeowners faced foreclosure, noting that Bear Stearns shareholders received only $2 a share for stocks that not long ago had been worth $170.
 'This was an easy decision,'' Mr. Paulson said outside the White House after the president's second meeting with advisers and regulators. ''This is the right outcome. And again, in terms of the moral hazard, look at what happened to the Bear Stearns shareholders.''
 Many Democrats have called on the administration to do more to support legislative initiatives already on the agenda. 
 Senator Christopher J. Dodd, the Connecticut Democrat who is chairman of the Banking Committee, said on Monday in a conference call from Brussels that Mr. Bernanke and Mr. Paulson now might be more willing to back his plan to let the Federal Housing Administration guarantee mortgages if they have been modified by lenders.
 In his remarks at the White House, Mr. Bush suggested he would support additional measures. ''We obviously will continue to monitor the situation and when need be, will act decisively, in a way that continues to bring order to the financial markets,'' he said in the morning meeting.
 One prominent Republican, Representative Adam H. Putnam of Florida, chairman of the House Republican Conference, said the administration's response has been proper, balancing the need to react to economic uncertainty without having the government intervene excessively in the market.
 ''I think they appropriately hugged that line,'' Mr. Putnam said in a telephone interview.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Bush on Monday flanked by Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr., left, and Ben S. Bernanke, right, chairman of the Federal Reserve.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); FORECLOSURE (77%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (71%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (71%); IRAQ WAR (65%); ANNIVERSARIES (65%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (93%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (57%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (93%); JPM (LSE) (93%); 8634 (TSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); HENRY PAULSON (73%); BEN BERNANKE (59%); BARACK OBAMA (59%); HARRY REID (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2008



450 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1221 words

HEADLINE: Rescue Puts Credibility Of the Fed On the Line

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Far more than at any time before, the Federal Reserve is putting its vast resources and its reputation on the line to rescue Wall Street's biggest institutions from their far-reaching mistakes.
 Over the next few months, the central bank will lend hundreds of billions of dollars to banks and investment firms that financed a mountain of mortgages now headed toward default.
 No one knows how many financial institutions will be looking for money, or how much they will seek. No one knows how much in hard-to-value securities the central bank, in return, will have to hold as collateral. 
 And no one knows how much the Fed could lose if the borrowers fail to repay their loans or whether hundreds of billions of dollars will ultimately have to come from taxpayers to shield the nation's financial system from ruin. 
 In recent weeks, the central bank announced a series of emergency short-term loan programs that totaled about $400 billion. But on Sunday, Fed officials raised the stakes by offering investment banks a new loan program without any explicit size limit.
 These moves, along with a $30 billion credit line to help JPMorgan Chase take over the failing Bear Stearns, is fraught with more than financial risk.
 The biggest danger is damage to the Federal Reserve's credibility if it is seen as unwilling to let financial institutions face the consequences of their decisions. Central banks have long been acutely sensitive to ''moral hazard,'' the danger that rescuing investors from their mistakes will simply encourage others to be more reckless in the future. 
 Fed officials for years have cringed at the mention of a ''Greenspan put,'' an allusion to the belief of some investors that Alan Greenspan, the former Fed chairman, would use the Fed's powers to protect them against a plunge in financial markets and provide them with a metaphorical ''put'' -- an option to unwind their positions at an acceptable price. 
 But the moves undertaken by the current chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, amount to a much bigger insurance policy than anything Mr. Greenspan provided. 
 Mr. Bernanke had made clear for months that he wanted to avoid a bailout of Wall Street. But as an economic scholar who spent years studying the Depression of the 1930s, he had also drawn the lesson that panics in financial markets can transform a modest downturn into a cataclysm.
 Fed policy makers now contend that the consequences of not coming to the rescue would have been a cascade of bankruptcies and defaults on Wall Street that could have undermined the financial system and risked severe damage to the economy.
 Few analysts were ready on Monday to question the Fed's uncomfortable effort in balancing risks. But it could be months or years before the full consequences become apparent.
 Alan Blinder, a professor of economics at Princeton and a former Fed vice chairman, commented: ''These kinds of crisis- prevention measures always have to balance potential moral hazard costs down the line against the clear and present danger that something is going to happen right now.
 ''You're taking on substantial risks when you do something virtually unprecedented or you put money at risk. The Fed has now done both.'' 
 Another big risk is that the central bank, in providing a cushion of emergency loans, could jeopardize its reputation as an inflation fighter. On Tuesday, Fed officials are all but certain to sharply reduce their benchmark interest rate on short-term loans, the federal funds rate -- for the sixth time in six months. The Fed has already reduced the rate in rapid stages to 3 percent from 5.25 percent, and many analysts predicted Monday that it might lower it by a full percentage point more.
 Complicating the task, inflation pressures are unmistakable, even though the economy is widely thought to already be in a recession, and a downturn usually leads to slower increases in consumer prices.
 On Monday, the dollar continued to decline in value against the euro and the yen, a trend that tends to push up import prices. And in commodities trading in New York, the price of gold for April delivery was quoted as high as $1,006.90 an ounce before falling back to settle at $1,002.60. Those increases stem at least in part from growing concerns among global investors about inflation in the United States and the weakening dollar.
 Fed officials acknowledge that inflation has picked up slightly, but they assert that the much bigger risk is a recession caused by the squeeze in the financial markets.
 There were hints on Monday that the central bank's rescue operation might have bolstered confidence in the battered credit markets.
 Several measures of risk aversion receded slightly. Spreads between the higher yields that investors demand for debt securities compared with those for safer Treasury bonds declined slightly. So did prices for credit default swaps, which amount to insurance premiums paid to protect bondholders in the case of a default.
 ''The early evidence is that the Fed is starting to get some traction,'' said Michael Darda, chief economist at MKM Partners, a hedge fund and trading firm in Greenwich, Conn. Mr. Darda, who has been critical of the Fed for being inattentive to inflation pressures, said he nonetheless sympathized with policy makers' fears about a financial market crisis.
 ''This is really a very ugly situation for the Fed to be in,'' Mr. Darda said. ''They're making a calculation about what is the greater evil, and they've made a decision that letting the credit crisis exhaust itself is too big a risk.''
 Analysts caution that for all its might, the Federal Reserve and its loan program face limits unless officials decide to start printing more money to pay for the rescue.
 At the moment, the central bank has committed cash and Treasury bonds that are in its own reserves, totaling about $800 billion. But having agreed to provide at least $400 billion in short-term loans, and probably more, it is pledging a big share of its resources to the rescue.
 ''The Fed is now running on less than a half tank of gas,'' Laurence H. Meyer, a forecaster at Macroeconomic Advisers and a former Fed governor, wrote in a note to clients. ''The Fed seems to be running out of room for these types of measures.''
 Officials at the central bank brushed aside such concerns, noting that many of the loans would be limited to 28 days and that the longest-term loans have to be repaid within 90 days. Fed officials also say that the combined rescue effort is not as big as the sum of the individual loan programs implies, because some institutions will simply shift from an earlier program that is less convenient to the newest one announced on Sunday.
 If the rescue effort fails, taxpayers could indirectly wind up having to assume part of the cost. Tax revenue does not pay for the Federal Reserve's operations, including the rescue effort, because the Fed earns income from its trading operations.
 But the Fed does pay the Treasury a regular stream of money every year out of its trading profits, lowering the amount it needs to borrow from outsiders. If the new borrowers on Wall Street are unable to repay, and if the market value of the securities they pledge as collateral continues to drop, the losses will come out of the Fed's payments to the Treasury.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Protesters have rallied in Washington recently urging more attention be given to the plight of homeowners facing foreclosure. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); GREAT DEPRESSION (64%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%); INSURANCE POLICIES (60%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (55%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (79%); BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2008



451 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 619 words

HEADLINE: Who Will Come to the Rescue?

 BODY:
The more the Federal Reserve does to avert financial contagion, the clearer it becomes that the Fed alone cannot solve the problems in the financial system. To many Americans, it's now obvious that taxpayers will have to step in. Less obvious is that if the United States government doesn't stabilize the markets, foreign governments increasingly will, in exchange for an ever larger stake in the American financial system.
 Over the weekend, Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson Jr. said the government would do ''what it takes'' to keep order in the financial markets. On Monday, President Bush echoed that point, when he wasn't making inappropriate jokes. The American people need an explanation of what they may have in mind. 
 The Fed's huge loans and interest rate cuts can buy time for flagging banks. They can also help prevent specific problems, like last weekend's near collapse of Bear Stearns, from causing a chain reaction. They cannot save defaulting homeowners, transform bad mortgage loans into good ones, or do the same for hundreds of billions of dollars of securities tied to those loans. 
 As those problems persist, financial institutions are under increasing pressure to write off their losses, cutting ever deeper into their capital. As capital shrinks, creditors have to clamp down on lending, to good and bad borrowers alike, no matter what the Fed may do.
 That is why Mr. Paulson and the Fed chairman, Ben Bernanke, have been hounding financial companies to raise more equity. In the first round of write-downs, Citigroup, Merrill Lynch and Morgan Stanley raised tens of billions of dollars from cash-rich foreign governments, including Abu Dhabi, China, Kuwait and South Korea.
 It's clear that the Bush administration and Mr. Bernanke would welcome greater ownership of the nation's financial institutions by foreign governments. That's an effective short-term fix, and could conveniently avert a financial meltdown on their watch. But it also means a long-term transfer of a chunk of the future revenues of the American financial system to foreign governments. 
 Many of those governments have complex, often tense, relationships with the United States, and many are secretive about their holdings, their objectives and the strategies by which their portfolios are managed. Among the most opaque are the funds of Dubai, Qatar, China, Abu Dhabi and Kuwait. Secrecy does not mean that the governments will necessarily be bad actors, but it is a big mistake to do such serious business with an opaque counterparty. 
 Yet the administration is encouraging more investments, no questions asked. Administration officials have tried -- and failed to date -- to get various government investors to agree even to voluntary transparency standards. Attempts to establish rules governing levels of ownership by foreign governments and reciprocity for American investors in other countries, essential to secure and fair dealing, have also gone nowhere. 
 This week several Wall Street firms will release their latest results, and they will probably be ugly. The drive to raise capital will very likely get more intense. So the Bush administration should work with Congress now to prepare the taxpayer-financed bailout that seems all but inevitable. If Washington stopped acting as if it had no role to play, it might seem less desperate to foreign investors, and Mr. Bush might have another chance to persuade them to provide more transparency.
 The administration and federal regulators are largely to blame for getting the country in this mess by turning a blind eye to reckless lending and investing. They must not compound the error by turning a blind eye to what may be waiting just down the road.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); HOMEOWNERS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); INTEREST RATES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); MORTGAGE LOANS (52%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); MORGAN STANLEY (90%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (56%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (53%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); MS (NYSE) (90%); ALMUDON (KUW) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (53%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (53%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%); HENRY PAULSON (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ABU DHABI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (68%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); KUWAIT (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2008



452 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; MEDIA; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: Times Company Agrees To 2 Outsiders on Its Board

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

 BODY:
The New York Times Company has struck a deal with a pair of hedge funds that want to shake up the company, giving the funds two seats on the board in order to avoid a proxy fight, the two sides announced Monday.
 The agreement with Harbinger Capital Partners and Firebrand Partners marks the first time since the Times Company went public in 1967 that it has accepted directors nominated by outsiders, Times Company executives said. 
 It also settles, for now, the most serious bid the company has faced to loosen the control of the chairman, Arthur Sulzberger Jr., and his family. The funds have amassed 19 percent of the company's common stock, which may be the largest stake any nonfamily shareholder has held in those four decades.
 The new arrangement could make for some uncomfortable internal politics, but it is not clear that it will have any effect on the company's direction. A two-class stock structure gives the Sulzberger family undisputed control of a majority of the board, and the Harbinger-Firebrand group has said that it has no plan to challenge that control.
 In a statement released by the company, Mr. Sulzberger said, ''Both the board and management welcome the perspectives and insights of our proposed new directors.''
 In the same statement, Philip A. Falcone, senior managing director of Harbinger, said, ''Our nominees look forward to working with the other directors and management to build and deliver value for all shareholders.''
 The hedge funds have argued that the company should sell many of its assets -- including, possibly, the headquarters building in Manhattan, The Boston Globe, some smaller newspapers and a minority stake in the Boston Red Sox -- and invest aggressively in Internet companies. But the funds have also been careful not to criticize management directly, and have said that once privy to inside information, they may have a different view of the company's strategy.
 A person close to the funds' leaders said that the Harbinger-Firebrand team could have won a proxy fight, but that the effort would have been expensive and damaging to relations with management. He was given anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss their strategy.
 What they want is ''a seat at the table,'' he said, and ''to understand the board and the management's thinking, and add expertise and horsepower to their thinking.''
 Janet L. Robinson, the Times Company's chief executive, has said that the company was always open to asset sales and Internet purchases; it sold its television stations last year, and has bought a handful of online companies, including About.com, in the last three years. But she insists that the company must act prudently, not selling just to sell or buying just to buy.
 Analysts have generally supported the company's recent strategy, though some would like to see deeper cost-cutting and have cast doubt on the hedge funds' proposals.
 The funds had nominated candidates for all four seats elected by holders of Class A stock. Under the pact, the company agreed to nominate two of them -- Scott Galloway, a founder of Firebrand and the leading strategist of the hedge funds' bid, and James A. Kohlberg, chairman of Kohlberg & Company.
 A Sulzberger family trust owns almost 90 percent of the company's Class B stock, which is not publicly traded, and has the sole power to vote on most of the board seats.
 Under the truce with the hedge funds, the number of directors elected by Class B stock will rise to 10, from 9. The number of Class A directors will rise to 5, from 4. William E. Kennard, who was one of the company's original Class A director nominees, will instead become a Class B nominee.
 The company also agreed to reimburse the hedge funds for out-of-pocket expenses in connection with the director nominations and related filings, up to $250,000.
 Until now, the family and its allies on the board have effectively controlled the Class A election as well as the Class B.
 But in recent years, a falling stock price, a sharp downturn for the newspaper industry and mounting shareholder discontent have relaxed that grip as never before. In 2006, 30 percent of Class A shareholders withheld their votes for directors, and last year, 42 percent did so. The major shareholder that led that campaign, Morgan Stanley Investment Management, gave up its attempts to force a change and sold its stake in the company.
 Times Company stock, which peaked above $50 a share in 2002, has mostly traded between $15 and $20 since last October. That opened the door for the Harbinger-Firebrand partnership to buy more than twice as many shares as Morgan Stanley held.
 The company reported earnings of $209 million on $3.2 billion in revenue last year. Like most major newspaper companies, its advertising revenue was sharply lower in 2007, and has continued to fall in 2008. The industry is suffering the twin blows of a long-term shift of readers and advertisers to the Internet and a downturn in the overall economy.
 Times Company shares closed at $18.74 on Monday, up 24 cents from Friday's close.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Scott Galloway, left, a founder of Firebrand Partners, and James Kohlberg, chairman of Kohlberg & Company. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); HEDGE FUNDS (89%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); COMMON STOCK (74%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); BASEBALL (63%); INTERNET & WWW (63%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (94%); ABOUT.COM INC (50%)

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (94%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (94%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (94%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: ARTHUR SULZBERGER JR (78%); JANET L ROBINSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2008



453 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 447 words

HEADLINE: Pilots' Talks Apparently Fail In a Northwest-Delta Hookup

BYLINE: By JEFF BAILEY

 BODY:
Pilots at Delta Air Lines and Northwest Airlines appear to have given up efforts to combine their seniority lists, which was considered essential to the two carriers' hopes for a merger without crippling rancor. 
 Both carriers may soon announce cutbacks in service instead, as they adjust to $100-a-barrel oil and an expected slowdown in business travel.
 Lee Moak, chairman of the Delta chapter of the Air Line Pilots Association, said in a letter to the carrier's 6,300 pilots on Monday that seniority talks with Northwest's 4,500 pilots -- he did not name Northwest, but others have confirmed that the two sides were in negotiations -- had broken off.
 Seniority is prized by airline pilots because it determines most aspects of their careers, including their level of pay, what type of plane they fly, whether they are captains or co-pilots, and how vulnerable they are to being laid off. 
 The most recent big airline merger, the combination in 2005 of US Airways and America West Airlines, is still caught up in disputes over pilot seniority.
 With that in mind, executives at Delta and Northwest had offered pilots stock in a combined airline, an improved union contract and a voting seat on the board in exchange for completing the difficult business of merging seniority lists ahead of time.
 Northwest and Delta declined to comment. A spokesman for Northwest pilots could not be reached.
 Northwest has a large number of senior pilots. Delta has fewer because many of the old ones took early retirement before the carrier's bankruptcy filing in 2005 so they could collect lump-sum pension payments. The two groups had negotiated for weeks.
 Mr. Moak, in his letter, contended that Delta pilots ''presented a rational and fair integration method.'' Of Northwest, he added, ''The other committee took a different approach.''
 He struck a note of regret over the two groups' failure to agree. 
 ''We were in a position to shatter the traditional merger mold as it related to labor integration,'' Mr. Moak wrote.
 The carriers, and others in the industry, are expected to continue reducing domestic flights in the face of the high fuel costs and a deteriorating economy. Delta executives are scheduled to make a presentation to investors on Tuesday and could outline service cutbacks and other moves. 
 Roger King, an analyst at CreditSights, said in a report Monday that at current fuel prices and without a significant increase in fares, the airline industry will lose billions of dollars this year. 
 ''Airlines have to capitulate with radical changes to their business plans,'' he said, or risk draining their cash reserves and again being in serious financial trouble.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRCRAFT PILOTS (93%); AIRLINES (92%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (90%); MERGERS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (76%); EARLY RETIREMENT (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); LABOR UNIONS (66%); PERSONAL FINANCE (64%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (64%)

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (94%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (91%); AMERICA WEST AIRLINES INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS (57%)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (94%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (91%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2008



454 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1328 words

HEADLINE: Bush Supports Fed's Actions, But Critics Quickly Find Fault

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS; Adam Nagourney and Steven R. Weisman contributed reporting from Washington, and Jeff Zeleny from Monaca, Pa.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Bush on Monday welcomed the Federal Reserve's sweeping intervention in the nation's financial markets as his administration faced accusations that it had supported the bailout of a prestigious investment bank while doing little to address the hardships of Americans facing foreclosures on their homes.
 Meeting with his economic aides at the White House in the morning in the first of two meetings on the economy, Mr. Bush again sought to project optimism at a time of financial turbulence after the Fed's brokering of the takeover of Bear Stearns by JPMorgan Chase. 
 Mr. Bush singled out Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. for praise, saying he had shown ''the country and the world that the United States is on top of the situation,'' an assertion that was broadly disputed by the president's critics.
 ''I want to thank you, Mr. Secretary, for working over the weekend,'' Mr. Bush said in brief remarks in the Roosevelt Room. 
 The president's remarks and his schedule underscored the growing political concern about the economy on a day that would otherwise have been devoted to traditional St. Patrick's Day meetings and events. 
 The issue also spilled into the presidential campaign, drawing reactions from both Democratic contenders and the presumptive Republican candidate, underscoring how much the economy has overshadowed the war in Iraq, even as the fifth anniversary of the start of that war approaches on Wednesday. 
 Mr. Bush, between an Irish-American lunch on Capitol Hill and a dinner at the White House, met with a group of advisers and regulators that included Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, who has orchestrated a series of moves intended to rescue the nation's financial markets from what officials feared could have been a chain reaction of defaults. 
 Mr. Bush's handling of the economy has vaulted to the top of the political agenda, where the White House would clearly it rather not be. He stood accused on one hand of violating his own ideological opposition to government intervention and on the other of not doing enough to protect the nation's economy from the disarray in the markets. 
 ''Now that the president has shown his willingness to bail out Wall Street at taxpayer expense, I hope he will drop his opposition to proposals designed to help ordinary homeowners,'' Senator Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada and the majority leader, said in a statement. 
 Senator Barack Obama of Illinois declared the economy ''in shambles,'' but he and his rival for the Democratic presidential nomination, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, trod carefully, expressing concern about the broader market and, in Mrs. Clinton's case, for the employees of Bear Stearns, based in her home state, New York. 
 ''There is no doubt that we are teetering on a potential crisis on Wall Street that could have ramifications all across the country,'' Mr. Obama said at a news conference after meeting with voters during a campaign stop in Monaca, Pa., a town near the Ohio border. ''We have a credit market that is locked up.''
 Mrs. Clinton said that Main Street was as important as Wall Street, but like many Democrats, she did not directly criticize the government's intervention in the sale of Bear Stearns. In a statement, she noted that she had spoken with Mr. Paulson and the president of the New York Federal Reserve Bank, Timothy F. Geithner. She urged that the administration do more. 
 ''We have blown it,'' she said at a news conference in Washington in which she linked the economic turmoil in part to Iraq. ''And one of the reasons why we must end the war in Iraq is we cannot afford it. We have got to get control of our economic destiny. There are so many danger signs on the horizon.''
 Senator John McCain's campaign issued a statement expressing confidence in the Federal Reserve and Mr. Bernanke, but pointedly excluding any reference to the president. 
 ''John McCain understands the federal government's responsibility to ensure the stability of the U.S. financial system and is equally committed to protecting the pocketbooks of hardworking American families,'' the campaign said in a statement by Doug Holtz-Eakin, a senior policy adviser.
 The Fed's intervention in the case of Bear Stearns intensified calls for the administration to reverse Mr. Bush's well-known embrace of laissez-faire economic policies. 
 Mr. Bush's aides have argued that he has acted aggressively since August to address a financial crisis that was already on the horizon, pointing to the $168 billion economic stimulus package that he had negotiated with Congress this year.
 The Internal Revenue Service announced on Monday that the first of 130 million rebates -- typically $600 a person or $1,200 for most married couples -- would be sent electronically by the first week of May and later by mail until the end of July. 
 Mr. Bush's senior aides have said that they hoped the economy can withstand any further buffeting until the effects of those rebates are felt during the spring and summer of the year. The relative stability of Wall Street on Monday raised those hopes.
 But the speed of Bear Stearns's collapse pointed to the danger that the administration and the Fed could be forced to act again soon.
 A senior Treasury official, explaining Mr. Paulson's role, said the secretary was first alerted to a potential crisis at Bear Stearns Thursday afternoon. Mr. Paulson kept Mr. Bush abreast personally on discussions about the problem, giving him a heads-up Friday morning before the president left for a speech to the Economic Club of New York, that some sort of rescue was imminent, and then speaking to him on Sunday afternoon.
 By all accounts the crisis brought Mr. Paulson, Mr. Bernanke and Mr. Geithner into an unusually cooperative working relationship that, the senior official said largely excluded Mr. Bush's team of economic advisers.
 Mr. Paulson has been cautious about predicting the future of the markets and the possible necessity of further action to stabilize them. But since the beginning of the market turmoil last August, he has often mentioned that there would be failures of one or more institutions before things got better. Associates say he has taken a pragmatic approach and an attitude that the administration would do what it had to do to stabilize the broader markets.
 Mr. Paulson dismissed questions of whether the administration was bailing out a financial giant while homeowners faced foreclosure, noting that Bear Stearns shareholders received only $2 a share for stocks that not long ago had been worth $170.
 'This was an easy decision,'' Mr. Paulson said outside the White House after the president's second meeting with advisers and regulators. ''This is the right outcome. And again, in terms of the moral hazard, look at what happened to the Bear Stearns shareholders.''
 Many Democrats have called on the administration to do more to support legislative initiatives already on the agenda. 
 Senator Christopher J. Dodd, the Connecticut Democrat who is chairman of the Banking Committee, said on Monday in a conference call from Brussels that Mr. Bernanke and Mr. Paulson now might be more willing to back his plan to let the Federal Housing Administration guarantee mortgages if they have been modified by lenders.
 In his remarks at the White House, Mr. Bush suggested he would support additional measures. ''We obviously will continue to monitor the situation and when need be, will act decisively, in a way that continues to bring order to the financial markets,'' he said in the morning meeting.
 One prominent Republican, Representative Adam H. Putnam of Florida, chairman of the House Republican Conference, said the administration's response has been proper, balancing the need to react to economic uncertainty without having the government intervene excessively in the market.
 ''I think they appropriately hugged that line,'' Mr. Putnam said in a telephone interview.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Bush on Monday flanked by Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr., left, and Ben S. Bernanke, right, chairman of the Federal Reserve.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); FORECLOSURE (77%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (71%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (71%); IRAQ WAR (65%); ANNIVERSARIES (65%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (93%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (57%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (93%); JPM (LSE) (93%); 8634 (TSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); HENRY PAULSON (73%); BEN BERNANKE (59%); BARACK OBAMA (59%); HARRY REID (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2008



455 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Science Desk; BASICS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1104 words

HEADLINE: In Most Species, Faithfulness Is a Fantasy

BYLINE: By NATALIE ANGIER

 BODY:
You can accuse the disgraced ex-governor Eliot Spitzer of many things in his decision to flout the law by soliciting the services of a pricey prostitute: hypocrisy, egomania, sophomoric impulsiveness and self-indulgence, delusional ineptitude and boneheadedness. But one trait decidedly not on display in Mr. Spitzer's splashy act of whole-life catabolism was originality. 
 It's all been done before, every snickering bit of it, and not just by powerful ''risk-taking'' alpha men who may or may not be enriched for the hormone testosterone. It's been done by many other creatures, tens of thousands of other species, by male and female representatives of every taxonomic twig on the great tree of life. Sexual promiscuity is rampant throughout nature, and true faithfulness a fond fantasy. Oh, there are plenty of animals in which males and females team up to raise young, as we do, that form ''pair bonds'' of impressive endurance and apparent mutual affection, spending hours reaffirming their partnership by snuggling together like prairie voles or singing hooty, doo-wop love songs like gibbons, or dancing goofily like blue-footed boobies. 
 Yet as biologists have discovered through the application of DNA paternity tests to the offspring of these bonded pairs, social monogamy is very rarely accompanied by sexual, or genetic, monogamy. Assay the kids in a given brood, whether of birds, voles, lesser apes, foxes or any other pair-bonding species, and anywhere from 10 to 70 percent will prove to have been sired by somebody other than the resident male. 
 As David P. Barash, a professor of psychology at the University of Washington in Seattle, put it with Cole Porter flair: Infants have their infancy; adults, adultery. Dr. Barash, who wrote ''The Myth of Monogamy'' with his psychiatrist-wife, Judith Eve Lipton, cited a scene from the movie ''Heartburn'' in which a Nora Ephronesque character complains to her father about her husband's philanderings and the father quips that if she'd wanted fidelity, she should have married a swan. Fat lot of good that would have done her, Dr. Barash said: we now know that swans can cheat, too. Instead, the heroine might have considered union with Diplozoon paradoxum, a flatworm that lives in gills of freshwater fish. ''Males and females meet each other as adolescents, and their bodies literally fuse together, whereupon they remain faithful until death,'' Dr. Barash said. ''That's the only species I know of in which there seems to be 100 percent monogamy.'' And where the only hearts burned belong to the unlucky host fish.
 Even the ''oldest profession'' that figured so prominently in Mr. Spitzer's demise is old news. Nonhuman beings have been shown to pay for sex, too. Reporting in the journal Animal Behaviour, researchers from Adam Mickiewicz University and the University of South Bohemia described transactions among great grey shrikes, elegant raptorlike birds with silver capes, white bellies and black tails that, like 90 percent of bird species, form pair bonds to breed. A male shrike provisions his mate with so-called nuptial gifts: rodents, lizards, small birds or large insects that he impales on sticks. But when the male shrike hankers after extracurricular sex, he will offer a would-be mistress an even bigger kebab than the ones he gives to his wife -- for the richer the offering, the researchers found, the greater the chance that the female will agree to a fly-by-night fling. 
 In another recent report from the lubricious annals of Animal Behaviour entitled ''Payment for sex in a macaque mating market,'' Michael D. Gumert of Hiram College described his two-year study of a group of longtailed macaques that live near the Rimba ecotourist lodge in the Tanjung Puting National Park of Indonesia. Dr. Gumert determined that male macaques pay for sex with that all-important, multipurpose primate currency, grooming. He saw that, whereas females groomed males and other females for social and political reasons -- to affirm a friendship or make nice to a dominant -- and mothers groomed their young to soothe and clean them, when an adult male spent time picking parasites from an adult female's hide, he expected compensation in the form of copulation, or at the very least a close genital inspection. About 89 percent of the male-grooming-female episodes observed, Dr. Gumert said in an interview from Singapore, where he is on the faculty of Nanyang Technological University, ''were directed toward sexually active females'' with whom the males had a chance of mating. 
 Significantly, males adjust their grooming behavior in a distinctly economic fashion, paying a higher or lower price depending on the availability and quality of the merchandise and competition from other buyers. ''What led me to think of grooming as a form of payment was seeing how it changed across different market conditions,'' Dr. Gumert said. ''When there were fewer females around, the male would groom longer, and when there were lots of females, the grooming times went down.'' Males also groomed females of high rank considerably longer than they did low-status females with nary a diamond to their page.
 Commonplace though adultery may be, and as avidly as animals engage in it when given the opportunity, nobody seems to approve of it in others, and humans are hardly the only species that will rise up in outrage against wantonness real or perceived. Most female baboons have lost half an ear here, a swatch of pelt there, to the jealous fury of their much larger and toothier mates. Among scarab beetles, males and females generally pair up to start a family, jointly gathering dung and rolling and patting it into the rich brood balls in which the female deposits her fertilized eggs. The male may on occasion try to attract an extra female or two -- but he does so at his peril. In one experiment with postmatrimonial scarabs, the female beetle was kept tethered in the vicinity of her mate, who quickly seized the opportunity to pheromonally broadcast for fresh faces. Upon being released from bondage, the female dashed over and knocked the male flat on his back. ''She'd roll him right into the ball of dung,'' Dr. Barash said, ''which seemed altogether appropriate.'' 
 In the case of the territorial red-backed salamander, males and females alike are inclined to zealous partner policing and will punish partners they believe to have strayed: with threat displays, mouth nips and throat bites, and most coldblooded of all, a withdrawal of affection, a refusal to engage. Be warned, you big lounge lizard: it could happen to you.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SERGE BLOCH)(pg. F1)
 (pg. F6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RODENTS (90%); PROSTITUTION (89%); MARRIAGE (86%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); GENETIC SCREENING (75%); ANIMALS (74%); FISHES (74%); PRIMATES (74%); BIRDS (74%); DNA (70%); BIOLOGY (69%); MUSIC (66%); LEGAL PATERNITY (65%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (64%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (63%); PSYCHOLOGY (63%); DNA TESTING (51%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (68%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2008



456 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 18, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: Siemens Cuts Its Earnings Outlook Sharply Amid Delays and Canceled Orders

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: FRANKFURT 

 BODY:
The German engineering giant Siemens, which has been trying to put a huge corruption scandal behind it, gave investors another rude shock Monday, disclosing that delays and canceled orders would cut its quarterly earnings by 900 million euros, or $1.4 billion.
 The wholly unexpected warning suggests that the company's new chief executive, Peter Loscher, has not yet gotten a grip on the problems at Siemens, which has undergone a wholesale overhaul. 
 Just a month ago, Mr. Loscher said Siemens was on track to meet its earnings targets for this year. The company, a supermarket for industrial products as diverse as locomotives and light bulbs, set an ambitious goal of growing twice as fast as the global economy as a whole.
 Now, though, Siemens is back under a cloud -- this time because of business woes rather than bribery charges. 
 Shares of the company, which is based in Munich, plummeted more than 15 percent in Frankfurt. That is the largest single-day drop in nearly two decades, and it dragged down a German market already badly rattled by the financial turmoil in the United States.
 ''The least you can say is that management was not on top of things,'' Jochen Klusmann, head of research at BHF Bank in Frankfurt, said. ''A lot of confidence gets destroyed when the management acts this way.''
 Siemens said the problems were centered in its energy, transport and technology groups. They included bottlenecks with parts suppliers for power plants and a shortage of engineers to build the plants, and technical flaws in a tram that Siemens had built for Amsterdam and other cities.
 Siemens also hit bumps supplying a high-speed magnetic-levitation train to China, and a British state agency canceled a contract for a computer system from Siemens's information technology division.
 ''We're coming to terms with our past,'' Mr. Loscher said in a conference call with reporters, noting that the losses surfaced in a painstaking review. ''We've mercilessly uncovered the issues.''
 Mr. Loscher said Siemens would meet its goals for 2010, but declined to give guidance on this year or 2009. That raised fears among analysts of more nasty surprises, especially as the broader economy slows.
 ''I don't believe this is a one-time problem,'' Mr. Klusmann said. ''I wouldn't be surprised if Siemens comes out in a few months and says the weak dollar, and the global economy, are also a problem.''
 He may not have to wait that long. Siemens's chief financial officer, Joe Kaeser, said the company was scaling back its investments in some areas to prepare for such a slowdown. He made his comments in an interview with the magazine Euro, scheduled to be published on Tuesday.
 During the long corruption investigation of Siemens, the company's healthy order book was a bulwark against the steady news of senior executives' being taken into custody or forced to resign.
 The company's stock held up, even in the face of news that Siemens had found 1.3 billion euros ($2 billion) in ''suspicious payments'' that may have been used as bribes of foreign officials to win contracts. 
 Investors gave Siemens the benefit of the doubt last summer when it recruited Mr. Loscher, a little-known Austrian executive from a drug maker, Merck, to replace Klaus Kleinfeld as chief executive. Mr. Kleinfeld and the chairman, Heinrich von Pierer, had been forced to resign during the corruption scandal, though neither was accused of wrongdoing.
 Mr. Loscher, 50, initially won praise for pursuing a ''zero tolerance'' policy against corruption. He reorganized Siemens into three broad areas -- industry, energy and health care -- and installed new managers.
 But analysts said the profit warning indicated that Siemens's business practices are deep-rooted and difficult to change. Some investors even asked whether cleaning up its ethics had handicapped its ability to do business.
 ''People in the market have been saying, 'without corruption, maybe they aren't able to deliver,' '' said Markus Barth, an asset manager at Nordinvest in Hamburg, which holds 20,000 shares of Siemens. ''I cannot imagine their whole business model was based on corruption.''
 Some of the problems disclosed on Monday are longstanding. Siemens has had bottlenecks since 2004 with suppliers for its power generation plants. It has also had a shortage of engineers, a problem it attributes to the escalating demand for plants.
 Siemens's city tram, known as Combino, has had structural problems since 2004, when the company told public transportation authorities to recall trams with more than 120,000 kilometers (74,000 miles) of service, because of possible cracks in their aluminum bodies.
 ''Loscher said he never wanted to hear the word Combino again,'' Mr. Klusmann said, recalling a presentation by the chief executive. ''It's such a small part of their revenues. What else needs to happen for them to take a decisive step: close it, sell it, just get out of it?''
 Siemens, he said, has always measured success by its ability to win orders and grab market share. Its focus in these uncertain times, he said, must switch to delivering on its existing contracts.
 The latest setback, analysts said, is sure to subject Mr. Loscher to fresh scrutiny. ''If you invest in Siemens, you must believe in his skills, that he can make it more profitable,'' Mr. Barth said. ''But looking at their stock performance today, there seems to be very little trust.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Peter Loscher, the chief executive of Siemens, said a month ago that the company was on track to meet profit goals for this year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); CORRUPTION (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); SCANDALS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); WHOLESALERS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); TRAINS (75%); BRIBERY (73%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (72%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (70%); MAGNETIC LEVITATION (70%); POWER PLANTS (69%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (69%); US DOLLAR (67%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (64%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: SIEMENS AG (92%); ING BHF-BANK AG (55%)

TICKER: SIN (SWX) (92%); SIE (LSE) (92%); SIE (FRA) (92%); SIE (BIT) (92%); SI (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (92%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%)

PERSON: PETER LOESCHER (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (93%) GERMANY (94%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NETHERLANDS (68%)

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2008



457 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1190 words

HEADLINE: Dollar's Fall Is No Cause For Alarm In Euro Zone

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: FRANKFURT 

 BODY:
When the euro tiptoed above $1.30 four years ago, finance ministers from Germany, France and Austria wrung their hands about how it would hurt Europe's exporters, some muttering that the United States should put its economic house in order.
 Now, the euro is skirting $1.60, and most Europeans are stoic. While the currency continues to absorb the brunt of the dollar's decline -- the Federal Reserve's rate cut Tuesday will only add to the pressure -- Europe has learned to live with the almighty euro.
 Because of new markets abroad, leaner companies at home and the positive side effects of a weak dollar, European exporters have withstood the loss of competitiveness that comes with a buoyant currency.
 Last week, as the euro rocketed into uncharted territory against the dollar, Europe reported a healthy gain in industrial output, with Germany, France, Italy, and Spain all chipping in good numbers. Exports in Germany rose 9 percent in January over the same month in 2007. 
 While a surging euro is indisputably a burden for Europe's exporters, making their goods more expensive in the United States and dollar-linked markets, it has not yet had a sharp effect on Europe's economy, which continues to grow, although at a more subdued pace.
 Anton F. Borner, who leads an association of German exporters, said he viewed inflation as a bigger threat than exchange rates. At a recent meeting with two European Central Bank governors, he urged them not to lower rates, even though it would have taken pressure off the euro.
 ''Some of my members asked, 'Was it necessary for you to say it that strongly?' '' he recalled in an interview. 
 ''I said 'Yes. We're not focused on quarterly results. We're looking for long-term results.' ''
 Mr. Borner predicts that Germany will ship 1.02 trillion euros worth of goods this year, 5 percent more than last year. At the latest exchange rate, that works out to some $1.6 trillion, enough to keep Germany neck and neck with China for the title of world's merchandise export champion.
 ''It's quite an impressive figure, given the situation with the dollar,'' said Mr. Borner, president of the B.G.A. or Federation of German Wholesale and Foreign Trade.
 There are several reasons for Europe's resilience, not least the painful cost-cutting by its companies, which has made them globally competitive for the first time in a decade. Many exporters have relocated production outside Europe, where costs are lower and not denominated in euros.
 A strong euro has its benefits, beyond giving European tourists an occasion to go on shopping sprees in Manhattan. It makes imported raw materials cheaper for European manufacturers, and it cushions Europeans somewhat from the rising price of oil, which is traded in dollars. 
 The euro has risen 18 percent against the dollar in the last year. But economists point out that the trade-weighted exchange rate -- which measures the euro against a basket of currencies from its trading partners -- matters more. By that yardstick, the euro has risen a more manageable 8.6 percent.
 With the development of the global economy, Europe no longer relies as heavily as it once did on the United States for trade. While the weak dollar and the faltering American economy are hampering trans-Atlantic exports, shipments to Russia and the Middle East are booming. Germany, Italy and other European countries specialize in the kinds of goods -- sophisticated machinery and equipment -- for which these fast-growing countries have a seemingly bottomless appetite.
 ''Emerging markets and oil-producing countries are in a fantastic position,'' said Norbert Walter, the chief economist of Deutsche Bank. ''They are a good underpinning for a considerable chunk of exports.''
 Still, these reassuring trends have not muffled the drumbeat of anxiety from some European executives and politicians. Many are convinced that Europe cannot ward off the effects of a weak dollar indefinitely. A collapse in exports would be a serious threat, particularly in countries like Germany, where consumers are not spending enough to fuel the economy.
 ''The longer we stay at current levels, the more the damage will be; it's only a matter of time,'' said Holger Schmieding, the head of European economics at Bank of America in London.
 In the last three months of 2007, he said, exports from the euro zone to the United States fell 8 percent, compared with the same period in 2006. That trend is unlikely to turn around soon. And yet, order books are bulging at German machinery makers and other exporters.
 BMW last week reported a 9 percent gain in profit in 2007, surprising analysts, despite the United States being its largest market. The weak dollar hurt BMW, according to Norbert Reithofer, the chairman, but BMW made up for the loss with cost savings and strong sales.
 BMW is moving to expand a so-called natural hedge against the rising euro, its assembly plant in Spartanburg, S.C. The carmaker said recently it would centralize production of its X Series sport utility vehicles at the plant, investing $750 million and adding 500 new jobs.
 Nor did the soaring euro prevent the European Aeronautic Defense and Space Company from scoring a landmark victory over Boeing, winning a $35 billion contract from the Air Force for it and an American partner, Northrop Grumman, to supply aerial refueling tankers.
 EADS, the parent of Airbus, attributed its first annual loss in five years partly to the decline of the dollar. It said it would increase its currency hedging to offset the exchange rate. But the dollar's weakness will give Boeing a hefty advantage over Airbus.
 Even in light of good cost control and the benefits of structural changes, ''there's no way you can easily digest such a massive shift in exchange rates,'' Mr. Walter said, adding that in the last seven years, the euro has nearly doubled against the dollar.
 While there are occasional eruptions of anxiety, politicians and executives here have avoided calling on the European Central Bank to intervene in the market to curb the rise of the euro. Few have even demanded lower rates, which would make the euro less attractive to investors.
 In part, this is because the bank's president, Jean-Claude Trichet, has rebuffed efforts to put pressure on the bank, notably the remarks last fall by the French president, Nicolas Sarkozy.
 Mr. Trichet himself has expressed some concern in recent days about sharp movements in exchange rates. But he has placed his emphasis squarely on the weak dollar, noting that American officials always say that a strong dollar is in the interests of the United States. 
 In part, the public quiescence about the euro is because business is still strong. ''The order books look good,'' Mr. Schmieding said. ''It's difficult for companies to complain while exports are still rising.''
 Mr. Walter, however, said he was not comforted by full order books. ''It's not the intake of orders that matters,'' he said, ''but the cancellation of orders or requests for delays in shipments.'' Has that begun? ''We haven't seen it yet,'' he said, ''but we could begin to see it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Traders in the Chicago Mercantile Exchange's eurodollar options pit on Tuesday. The value of the euro settled at $1.57. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TANNEN MAURY/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (pg. C4) GRAPH: CHANGING PARTNERS: Europe has relied less heavily on the United States as trade has increased with Asian and Eastern European nations. (Source: Eurostat) (pg. C1) Graph showing Europe's reliancy on the United States declines. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); EURO (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); EXCHANGE RATES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (74%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); PRICE INCREASES (67%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (66%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%); STATISTICAL OFFICE OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES (59%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (59%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (74%); ILLINOIS, USA (59%) EUROPE (99%); GERMANY (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); FRANCE (93%); AUSTRIA (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); SPAIN (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2008



458 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1261 words

HEADLINE: Indianapolis Pinning Lots of Hopes on Airport Project

BYLINE: By ROBERT SHAROFF

DATELINE: INDIANAPOLIS 

 BODY:
A $1.1 billion airport redevelopment project here -- the largest civic project in the history of Indianapolis -- is part of a larger campaign by this city of more than 780,000 residents to recast itself as a hub for national distribution as well as a center for advanced manufacturing and sports-related tourism.
 The project, which began in 2001, includes a new terminal building, a new control tower and also a new entrance to the airport off Interstate 70. All but the terminal are finished. 
 The project, which has been financed using a combination of federal grants and passenger, landing and concession fees, will officially open this fall. 
 ''We wanted to create a memorable new image for the city while at the same time take some of the stress out of flying,'' said John J. Kish, the executive director of the Indianapolis Airport Authority. 
 The centerpiece is the terminal: a 1.2-million-square-foot steel-and-glass pavilion with a swooping roofline designed by the architect Ripley A. Rasmus of the HOK Group in St. Louis. ''It's a building on the scale of the great train terminals of the 19th century,'' Mr. Rasmus said. ''It's a Union Station-scale space.''
 Among the distinctive features is a monumental central hall accessible to both passengers and visitors. It has a five-story window wall with a view of downtown Indianapolis in the distance. 
 ''It's the place where you have your first and last impression of the city,'' Mr. Rasmus said. ''It also has the seating capacity of a basketball arena, if the airport is having a really bad day.''
 The new terminal will have 40 gates and the ability to expand to 100 gates. The current terminal has 34 gates. Parts of the old structure date from the 1930s, and the authority plans to demolish it.
 The new terminal is also notable for being one of the first designed for the heightened security procedures in air travel in recent years. 
 Among the security-driven innovations are two large halls -- one for each concourse -- designed to accommodate passenger screening as well as a separate circulation system for vendors and employees. 
 ''In the past,'' said Mr. Kish, ''everybody went through the same checkpoint. If you were a vendor delivering supplies, you used the same hallways as the passengers. Now we have segregated passageways for vendors.'' 
 Mr. Rasmus also kept environmental considerations in mind in the design, introducing semi-opaque skylights and glass curtain walls as well as a radiant heating and cooling system in the floor. The special glass filters and diffuses sunlight, reducing excess light and heat. The radiant system reduces air-conditioning costs by cooling only those areas people actually occupy. The airport also has a storm-water run-off recycling system that treats water contaminated with de-icing chemicals. 
 ''This is a fairly deep green project,'' Mr. Rasmus said. ''It will be notably more energy-efficient, comfortable and well integrated in terms of systems than most airports.'' 
 Mr. Kish said the city hoped the project would ignite growth at the airport. Home to a major Federal Express hub, Indianapolis is currently one of the largest airports in the country in terms of freight handling. In terms of passengers, it ranks 45th. 
 ''The terminal has an economic function,'' he said. ''Hopefully, it will encourage more direct flights and more international flights from Indianapolis.''
 Erin Heitkamp, regional director of airport affairs for Northwest Airlines, the airport's largest carrier, described the terminal as ''an absolutely gorgeous facility'' that will ''significantly enhance the passenger experience.'' 
 She added, however, that Northwest has no immediate plans to expand its level of service in Indianapolis beyond its current 47 daily flights to 21 cities. 
 The terminal also has double the amount of retail space -- about 90,000 square feet -- of the older building. 
 Jeremiah Wise, director of new airport business development, said the airport solicited concessionaires last November and received 275 responses for the 50 available retail slots. 
 ''We're looking for a mix of retail and food and beverage, including a white-tablecloth restaurant,'' he commented. 
 A leading measure of airport retailing is sales per passenger. Indianapolis now generates $7.71 per passenger, a total of about $34 million annually. 
 ''If you look at the top American airports,'' said Mr. Wise, ''the range for per-passenger sales is about $8.50 to $13. We're definitely looking for much stronger sales in the new facility.'' 
 Retailing has become a more important component of airports in recent years, accounting for as much as 40 percent of overall revenue in some cities. 
 ''The fact that people are spending more time in airports affects offerings,'' said Ann Ferraguto, a principal with Air Projects, a consulting firm based in Alexandria, Va. Nationwide, ''we're seeing a lot more popular and high-end retailers like Hugo Boss, Tumi and Lilly Pulitzer, and also celebrity chefs like Wolfgang Puck go into airports.''
 The new airport is one of several large civic projects set to open in the next few years that officials hope will have a transforming effect on Indianapolis's tourist and convention industry. 
 The others include a new stadium for the Indianapolis Colts football team and an addition to the convention center that will double current capacity to 750,000 square feet. The stadium will be completed this summer and the convention center addition in 2010. The two projects -- which will be connected by enclosed walkways -- are costing about $1 billion. 
 Depending on how it is calculated, tourism is Indianapolis's third- or fourth-largest industry, with a total economic impact of about $3.56 billion a year. Much of this is sports-related, with the largest event being the annual Indianapolis 500 automobile race.
 The race, which is held on Memorial Day weekend, attracts about 400,000 visitors and has an economic impact of $300 million. With attendance of 350,000, ''it's the largest single-day sporting event in the world'' in terms of paid admissions, said Robert Schultz, director of the Indianapolis Convention and Visitors Association. 
 The new airport is also being credited with attracting other new businesses. In the last year, both Medco Health Solutions and the Purdue Research Foundation have announced projects to be built in or near Indianapolis, which has a metropolitan area population of 1.6 million.
 Medco, a mail-order pharmacy and benefits management firm based in Franklin Lakes, N.J., is building a 318,000-square-foot automated pharmacy in Whitestown, a close-in northwest suburb. The project costs $140 million and will be finished in July 2009. 
 ''The key issues for us were the work force and having access to a distribution network that allows us to get our packages to patients in the right time frame,'' said Richard Jones, vice president and general manager of Medco. ''The airport is definitely a plus.''
 Late last year, the Purdue Research Foundation of West Lafayette, Ind., announced that it would build a new research park on 78 acres of land near the new airport entrance. The first phase, a 100,000-square-foot incubator facility for research operations, will break ground this spring and will be finished early next year. 
 ''It's location, location, location,'' said Joseph B. Hornett, senior vice president of the foundation. ''The site has huge visibility and access to the airport. It will be easy to talk to companies about moving here.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The central hall of the new terminal at the Indianapolis airport, top. Above right, John Kish, director of the Indianapolis Airport Authority, left, and Ripley Rasmus, the architect. The terminal as seen from the outside, above. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY WILLIAM ZBAREN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); AIRPORTS (89%); TRANSPORT TERMINAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); AIRPORT OPERATION (78%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (78%); INDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); AVIATION SECURITY (78%); PORT AUTHORITIES (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (76%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (71%); BASKETBALL (71%); HVAC SYSTEMS (60%); GRANTS & GIFTS (55%)

COMPANY: WALLS AS (60%); HOK GROUP INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (60%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (60%); NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (55%); NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (55%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (94%) INDIANA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2008



459 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 558 words

PERSON: Roland Arnall 

HEADLINE: Roland Arnall, 68, Mortgage Innovator

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

 BODY:
Roland E. Arnall, the founder of the Ameriquest Mortgage Company, which once billed itself as a sponsor of the American dream but later found itself at the center of the subprime mortgage crisis, died Monday in Los Angeles. He was 68 and lived in the Holmby Hills section of Los Angeles. 
 The cause was cancer, a family spokeswoman, Lisa Cohen, told The Associated Press.
 Mr. Arnall, whom President Bush named ambassador to the Netherlands in 2006, had recently resigned that post and returned to California to be with his son, Daniel, who has Hodgkin's lymphoma.
 When Mr. Arnall's nomination for the ambassadorship was being considered by the Senate in October 2005, the hearings before the Foreign Relations Committee took an unusual turn from foreign policy issues when Democratic senators raised questions about the practices of Ameriquest. 
 The fortunes of the company, then considered the nation's largest subprime mortgage lender, had soared during the long housing boom as it issued mortgages to people with weak credit histories.
 Investigations by attorneys general and banking regulators in more than 30 states had led to suits against Ameriquest and another pillar of the subprime market, the Household International Corporation. The suits were based on consumer complaints and claims of deceptive practices, including loans made with no documentation of a borrower's ability to pay, inflated estimates of house values and the issuing of mortgages with hidden and suddenly escalating adjustable rates.
 The Household case was settled in 2002, with the company agreeing to pay $484 million, much of it to compensate borrowers. Then, in 2006, Ameriquest's parent company, the ACC Capital Holdings Corporation, reached a $325 million settlement, with an agreement requiring Ameriquest to provide clear disclosures of loan terms, to improve how it conducts appraisals and to charge customers with similar credit histories the same interest rates. 
 Neither Ameriquest nor Household admitted to any wrongdoing. 
 Some consumer advocates at the time derided the settlements, in part based on what proved to be accurate predictions that subprime lending would continue to grow, forcing cash-short borrowers into delinquency and prompting the surge in home foreclosures that eventually occurred. 
 Last August, Ameriquest went out of business, and Citigroup, the financial services conglomerate, agreed to take over other divisions of ACC Capital Holdings, the parent company. By then, more than 15 subprime lenders had closed. 
 Born in Paris in 1939, Mr. Arnall emigrated to Canada after World War II, then moved to Los Angeles in the late 1950s. For a time, he sold flowers on the city's streets. By the 1970s, he was buying real estate and, in 1979, he started ACC Capital Holdings. 
 Besides his son, Daniel, Mr. Arnall is survived by his wife, Dawn, and a daughter, Michelle.
 Last year, Forbes magazine estimated Mr. Arnall's fortune at $1.5 billion. According to The Associated Press, he and his wife were among the top 10 donors to the Republican Party in 2003-5 and gave nearly $1 million to help pay for President Bush's second- inauguration celebration. 
 In 1977, Mr. Arnall helped start the Simon Wiesenthal Center, the Jewish human rights organization based in Los Angeles, and for many years he was chairman of its board.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); SUBPRIME LENDING (91%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); PARENT COMPANIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (87%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (87%); REAL ESTATE (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); CONSUMER LAW (72%); HOME PRICES (72%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (72%); LYMPHOMA (71%); CANCER (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (67%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (67%); WORLD WAR II (60%)

COMPANY: ACC CAPITAL HOLDINGS CORP (85%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (85%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (85%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); NETHERLANDS (88%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2008



460 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 706 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Fall Sharply in Shanghai as Chinese Officials Move to Stem Inflation

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

DATELINE: SHANGHAI 

 BODY:
Stock prices plummeted in China on Tuesday over inflation fears and growing concerns about the ripple effects of an economic slowdown in the United States. Showing its determination to hold down prices, the Chinese central bank then moved to tighten lending. 
 Shares on the Shanghai Stock Exchange tumbled nearly 4 percent, with the composite index ending at 3,668.90. The index is down nearly 40 percent from its record high last October. The fall in the Shenzhen composite index was even steeper Tuesday -- off 6.6 percent, to close at 1,082.28. 
 Shares appeared to be recovering somewhat in early trading on Wednesday, after the United States central bank cut interest rates in a bid to rekindle growth. 
 In Hong Kong, shares rose on Tuesday by 1.42 percent. Other Asian markets, including Japan, Taiwan, South Korea, India and Indonesia, also rebounded modestly after a sharp sell-off Monday. Some of those markets appeared to be extending those gains on Wednesday.
 The Tuesday sell-off in China came after Prime Minister Wen Jiabao said at a televised news conference on Tuesday morning that inflation this year would probably exceed the government's target of 4.8 percent, after a sharp rise last year. Continuing inflation is regarded as a sign that the Chinese economy may be overheating.
 Officials in Beijing now say that fighting inflation is the government's top priority. That could mean raising interest rates, a step that often discourages investors from buying stocks.
 After the markets closed, China's central bank said it would increase the reserve ratio for banks to 15.5 percent. The move, effective March 25, will force the banks to set aside slightly more money with the government, a step expected to tighten lending and slow inflation.
 The central bank has repeatedly increased the reserve ratio over the last few years, taking it to 15.5 percent from about 7 percent in 2004.
 Tuesday's stock sell-off is part of a wave of troubling economic and political news that appears to be striking this country at a time the government is preparing for the Olympic Games in Beijing and to celebrate the 30th anniversary of the start of China's market-friendly economic changes.
 While the Chinese economy is still sizzling and investment continues to pour into the country, analysts are beginning to worry that if rising inflation does not cut Chinese growth, then weakening demand in the United States for Chinese-made goods will.
 ''If the U.S. is falling into recession, and we think it is, it will mean downside pressure on exports from China and on economic growth,'' said Huang Yiping, chief Asia economist at Citigroup. ''This could be a bigger threat than inflation.''
 The analysts say that Chinese exports could also slow this year because of higher production costs and a rise in the value of the currency, the yuan, against the dollar in recent months.
 Analysts are already lowering their growth forecasts for China, with an eye toward the financial troubles of Wall Street firms. 
 Stock prices in Shanghai are going through an extraordinary reversal of fortune. After a spate of feverish investing that sent the Shanghai composite index up more than 350 percent in the last few years, the market has gone into a tailspin.
 New public offerings both here and in Hong Kong have dried up after two years of spectacular initial stock issues that swelled the ranks of China's billionaires.
 Wall Street banks, which late last year boasted of their exciting pipelines of stock offerings, have shelved deals or delayed offerings.
 Oddly, while the American economy seems headed toward recession, and China's economy is booming, the stock markets here have fallen more sharply than those in the United States, even though many investors in China seemed to think that the government would do whatever was required to keep stock prices high before the Olympics. 
 Great numbers of Chinese are involved in the market, some speculating with their life savings.
 David M. Webb, a shareholder activist who is an independent director of Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing, remarked, ''There was an urban myth that the stock market would not go down until after the Olympics, and how much has it gone down?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Investors, seen through their reflections Tuesday from an electronic board at a brokerage house in Wuhan, China, monitored the falling markets. Vast numbers of Chinese are in the market. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); INFLATION (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BANKING IN CHINA (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (69%); INTEREST RATES (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (67%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%); OLYMPICS (65%); ANNIVERSARIES (60%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%)

PERSON: WEN JIABAO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (94%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%) EAST CHINA (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); CENTRAL CHINA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (58%); HUBEI, CHINA (58%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); INDIA (79%); TAIWAN (79%); HONG KONG (79%); INDONESIA (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2008



461 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1035 words

HEADLINE: A Premiere Far From Hollywood

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CIEPLY; Brooks Barnes contributed reporting.

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
''Leatherheads,'' which was shot in the Carolinas, is about to get a hometown premiere, even if the hundreds of local people who worked as extras and bit players on this football comedy, set for release by Universal Pictures on April 4, have to do it themselves.
 Which, in fact, they do.
 The red carpet, all 75 feet of it, comes from the Bonitz Flooring Group on the east side of Greenville, S.C. At least seven limousines will shuttle guests from the parking lot so they can arrive at the Camelot Cinemas in style. 
 The extras and their families have already bought about 350 tickets for the April 4 Greenville premiere. Tickets are $25 each, and proceeds are earmarked for a charity that feeds the hungry in Darfur -- a favorite cause of the movie's director and star, George Clooney, who is not expected to attend.
 Hollywood loves the heartland, but only to a point. Movie crews perennially drop in, dazzle the locals, then pack up their stars and head back to Los Angeles or New York when they've soaked up enough color.
 But the local folks can find it hard to end the affair.
 Billings, Mont., pined for Tom Cruise and Nicole Kidman long after that famous couple spent time there on the set of ''Far and Away'' in 1991. Ten years later a committee tried, in vain, to entice them back for a ribbon cutting at the train depot, which was remodeled long after it was seen in the film.
 Marfa, Tex., played host to those who made this year's best-picture Oscar winner, ''No Country for Old Men,'' and a prominent runner-up, ''There Will Be Blood.'' But most Marfans didn't even have a chance to see ''There Will Be Blood'' until a few weeks before the Oscars -- and then only if they drove 26 miles to the Rangra Theater in neighboring Alpine.
 So people in the vicinity of Greenville, a small city in the foothills of the Blue Ridge Mountains between Atlanta and Charlotte, N.C., figured enough was enough. 
 ''Decade after decade, for well over a century now, the lowly movie extras have been ignored,'' Robert McClure, a paramedic who expects to appear on screen both as a coach and a man who marks downs on the sidelines in ''Leatherheads,'' explained via e-mail.
 Along with his fellow extras Bobby Brookshire (who played a peanut vendor), Tom Ervin (who, at 54, hoped to be cast as a player, but wound up a game official) and Rick Arboscello (another down marker), Mr. McClure was part of a self-appointed committee that decided that Greenville should have its own ''Leatherheads'' premiere.
 The event is scheduled for four days after Mr. Clooney is expected to grace a somewhat fancier benefit premiere for the American Film Institute at Grauman's Chinese Theater in Hollywood. (''None of us were invited,'' Mr. McClure wrote.)
 ''Leatherheads'' is a romantic frolic set against the backdrop of small-town football in the 1920s. In February 2007 Mr. Clooney, Renee Zellweger, John Krasinski and their associates popped into Greenville and its environs for a three-month shoot. For many of the natives it was even more fun than the blue crab and sweet onion soup at Restaurant O, a downtown dining spot favored by Mr. Clooney during his stay.
 More than 400 extras were hired, at about $9 an hour. The men got funny haircuts, short on the sides with lots of styling stuff on top. The stars were almost like pals, for a while.
 Mr. Clooney let the extras hang around when he was reviewing the takes. ''He'd turn around to us and say, 'Do you guys like that?' '' recalled Mr. Ervin, who most of the time works as a disability lawyer. 
 Speaking by phone last week, Mr. Ervin said he had been especially impressed by the 46-year-old Mr. Clooney's athletic prowess. ''He can throw a football in a tight spiral 40 yards,'' he said.
 As of Tuesday, however, Mr. Ervin said he was still awaiting a response to invitations he faxed last week to agents and public relations representatives for Mr. Clooney and Ms. Zellweger.
 Stan Rosenfield, Mr. Clooney's publicist, said he did not believe his client would attend the Greenville premiere. But he said Mr. Clooney planned to return to the Carolina upcountry next week as part of a whistle-stop tour -- perhaps partly by railroad -- planned to promote ''Leatherheads.'' In the movie Greenville and various South Carolina and North Carolina locations stand in for Duluth, Minn., and other places in the Midwest. 
 Ms. Zellweger's publicist did not respond to queries.
 A Universal spokesman said the Carolina locations had been chosen partly because the period look was relatively easy to establish there. In addition, South Carolina -- which has played host to a number of well-known films, including ''The Patriot'' with Mel Gibson and ''The Prince of Tides'' with Barbra Streisand -- offered economic incentives to support the production.
 Sometimes, of course, a movie comes to town and never really goes away. 
 ''We had a re-enactment of the cemetery scene last year,'' said Tom Whitehead, a retired journalism professor in Natchitoches, La., speaking of his town's enduring attachment to the movie ''Steel Magnolias,'' which was shot there two decades ago. Visitors to a local bed-and-breakfast can still sleep in Shelby Eatenton Latcherie's room, just as pink as when Julia Roberts, as Shelby, inhabited it in the film.
 At other times a crew can form unexpected attachments. The forthcoming comedy ''Just Add Water'' portrays the desert town Trona, Calif., as pretty much the worst place in the world -- but its makers took the town under their wing. 
 ''One of my actors actually adopted a little boy there,'' said Hart Bochner, who wrote and directed the film, set for release in Los Angeles next week.
 Then again, some movies don't show up at all. ''The Prize Winner of Defiance, Ohio,'' a 2005 picture that starred Julianne Moore, used locations in Ontario, Canada, despite the geographical promise of the title..
 As for Greenville, Representative Harry Cato -- chairman of the South Carolina Legislature's labor, commerce and industry committee, and an advocate of expanded film incentives -- said he would be on hand to help open ''Leatherheads,'' even without the stars.
 And if Mr. Clooney comes, he said, ''that'll be all right too.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Robert McClure, far right was among the local extras who decided that Greenville should have its own ''Leatherheads'' premiere. George Clooney (in uniform No. 7) is the star of ''Leatherheads,'' but scenes like this football game are filled with nonstars from Greenville, S.C., and vicinity. (PHOTOGRAPHS COURTESY OF ROBERT MCCLURE) (pg. E6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); CHARITIES (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (77%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (77%); FILM DIRECTORS (75%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (63%); PARAMEDICS (60%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (55%)

COMPANY: UNIVERSAL PICTURES (58%); BONITZ FLOORING GROUP INC (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE CLOONEY (69%); TOM CRUISE (57%); NICOLE KIDMAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GREENVILLE, SC, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (78%); BILLINGS, MT, USA (75%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%) SOUTH CAROLINA, SC, USA (94%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (75%); NEW YORK, USA (70%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (67%) UNITED STATES (94%); SUDAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2008



462 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: Wall St. Embraces the Fed's Relief Efforts

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM; Clifford Krauss contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Buoyed by an aggressive interest rate cut, investors sent stocks soaring to their biggest gain in five years on Tuesday. Shares of financial firms surged, for a day at least, and the Dow Jones industrial average gained 420 points.
 The rally capped a week of extraordinary efforts on the part of the Fed to restore confidence in the wake of the near collapse of Bear Stearns. But while relief washed over some corners of the credit market, questions remained about the extent to which the Fed's actions would resolve the lack of willingness among financial institutions to lend to one another.
 ''If you look at the policy moves over the last five days, the Fed is doing the best it can out of a bad situation,'' said Jerry Webman, the chief economist and senior investment officer of OppenheimerFunds. ''The issue now isn't about the price of money,'' he said. ''This is really about financial institutions' confidence in each other.'' 
 Shares of financial firms soared on the New York Stock Exchange, particularly companies that investors had fled a day earlier. Shares of Lehman Brothers fell 19 percent on Monday after it was rumored to be running out of money. On Tuesday, the firm's shares were up 46 percent, to $46.49, after reporting better-than-expected earnings for the first quarter.
 MF Global, one of the world's biggest commodities brokers, gained 35 percent, to $8.17 a share, a day after panicked investors sold off more than half its market value. 
 The surge in financial stocks buoyed the major stock indexes. The broadest measure of the American stock market, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, rose 4.24 percent, its best performance since October 2002. 
 The S.& P. 500 finished at 1,330.74, up 54.14 points. The Dow closed at 12,392.66, a gain of 420.41 points, or 3.51 percent. The Nasdaq composite index also gained 4.2 percent, or 91.25 points, to 2,268.26.
 Fixed-income markets, however, sent a more ambivalent message about confidence.
 The difference between the yields on 30-year Fannie Mae mortgage bonds and ultra-safe Treasury bills widened. Likewise, the difference between the yields on short-term loans between banks and United States government notes also grew. (A widening spread indicates greater risk.) 
 That unease is at the center of the credit crisis. The fact that investors remained uncomfortable, even after the Fed lowered rates, ''showed that there is still some concern in the credit markets,'' said David Kovacs, chief investment officer at Turner Investment Partners in Berwyn, Pa. 
 But there was also some relief. Spreads on other types of credit, including swaps and some government-backed corporate bonds, narrowed. And speculation arose that regulators will ease, possibly as early as Wednesday, capital requirements for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the big mortgage lenders. In return, Fannie and Freddie will have to commit to shoring up their capital. 
 Commodities like oil and corn recovered from a sell-off a day earlier. Analysts said the rebound in prices reflected hopes that the Fed's actions would avert an economic slowdown in the United States, with its accompanying reduction in demand for energy, metals and food.
 Crude oil gained 3.5 percent, to settle at $109.42 a barrel. 
 The benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 1 16/32, to 100 3/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction, rose to 3.49 percent, from 3.31 percent.
 Following are the results of Tuesday's Treasury auction of four-week bills:

GRAPHIC: GRAPH: THE DOW MINUTE-BY-MINUTE: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) Graph showing the position of the Dow industrial yesterday. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BONDS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (75%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); COMMODITIES TRADING (71%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (68%); EXECUTIVES (68%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (50%)

COMPANY: OPPENHEIMERFUNDS INC (69%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (63%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); MF GLOBAL HOLDINGS LTD (54%); TURNER INVESTMENT PARTNERS INC (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (69%); SIC6733 TRUSTS, EXCEPT EDUCATIONAL, RELIGIOUS, & CHARITABLE (69%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (63%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (63%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2008



463 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 502 words

 BODY:
FED CUTS INTEREST RATE Hoping to stabilize the financial markets, the Federal Reserve lowered its federal funds rate by three-quarters of a percentage point, to 2.25 percent. 
 How is it that a mess in subprime loans has left the economy on the brink of the worst recession in a generation? Economic Scene: David Leonhardt. [A1.]
 Despite steep declines in their first-quarter earnings, Goldman Sachs and Lehman Brothers beat analysts' expectations. [C1.]
 Shares of Bear Stearns closed higher as bondholders and shareholders bought stock in an effort to strengthen their hands in a battle over the company. [C1.]
 KING COAL Rising worldwide demand is turning American coal into a hot global commodity -- and helping to drive up the price domestically. [C1.]
 THE BENEFITS OF A STRONG EURO While the rising euro is a burden for Europe's exporters, it has not yet had a pronounced effect on Europe's economy. [C1.]
 LUCRATIVE AUCTION ENDS The Federal Communications Commission completed its auction of spectrum licenses as participants like AT&T, Verizon and Google bid more than $19 billion. [C2.]
 BETTER PROCESSORS Intel and Microsoft will finance two groups of university researchers to design a new generation of computing systems. [C2.]
 TRADER OUT OF JAIL An appeals court in France ordered that Jerome Kerviel, the former trader at Societe Generale, be released from prison while the investigation continued. [C3.]
 BACK TO HIS ROOTS After four years of fighting obstruction of justice charges, Frank Quattrone said he would return to his role as an investment banker. [C3.]
 AN $18 BILLION I.P.O. Shares of Visa began trading on the New York Stock Exchange in the largest initial public offering in American history. [C3.]
 KPMG TAX CASE In a move that could put pressure on other defendants in a tax shelter case, federal prosecutors brought a separate charge against one of the accused. [C3.]
 BUSINESSES ARE PAYING MORE The Labor Department reported an increase in producer price data, reinforcing fears that inflation is rising. [C5.]
 CHINESE STOCKS TUMBLE Inflation fears contributed to a decline in China's stock market, prompting the central bank to act in an effort to keep prices down. [C5.]
 ROSY FUTURE Appearing to make a case for either its independence or a higher offer from Microsoft, Yahoo sought to assure investors of its financial health by releasing an unscheduled yet upbeat outlook for the next two years. [C6.]
 OIL DISPUTE In a setback for Exxon Mobil, a freeze on $12 billion in assets belonging to Venezuela's state oil company was overturned by a British court. [C6.]
 COMMERCIALIZING WEB 2.0 In a sign of increased interest in online marketing, two corporations have signed sponsorship agreements with a Web site that facilitates offline meetings. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [C6.]
 AIRLINES CUTTING COSTS Delta Air Lines said it would offer buyouts to more than half its work force, while United Airlines said it would ground planes in the face of soaring oil prices. [C9.]

GRAPHIC: GRAPH 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); INFLATION (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); RECESSION (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); BONDS (78%); COAL INDUSTRY (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (76%); STOCK OFFERINGS (75%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (70%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (70%); TAX LAW (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); EXPORT TRADE (68%); WIRELESS REGULATION (67%); HISTORY (66%); APPEALS COURTS (65%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (62%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (60%); WEB 2 (60%); SPONSORSHIP (60%); SUBPRIME LENDING (57%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (52%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); SOCIETE GENERALE SA (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (57%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%); INTEL CORP (55%); GOOGLE INC (55%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (51%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (55%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); GLE (PAR) (58%); GLE (BIT) (58%); VZC (LSE) (55%); VZ (NYSE) (55%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%); INTC (NASDAQ) (55%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (55%); XOM (NYSE) (51%); DAL (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (55%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (51%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (51%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHINA (79%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (69%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2008



464 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1047 words

HEADLINE: A Meet-Up, Brought to You by Huggies

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
THE company whose tissue brand ''pops up one at a time,'' as the old ad slogan proclaimed, is popping up on a leading social networking site.
 The Kimberly-Clark Corporation, the maker of Kleenex tissues, is joining forces with Meetup for an initiative sponsored by the company's baby brands, like Huggies and Pull-Ups. The effort, aimed at mothers of young children, represents Meetup's first foray into sponsorship. The site is known as a facilitator of offline meetings of computer users who share interests like politics or parenthood.
 Kimberly-Clark is one of two marketers that have signed sponsorship agreements with Meetup, on undisclosed financial terms. The other is the American Express Company, whose Open division is collaborating on an initiative aimed at entrepreneurs and owners of small businesses. 
 The sponsorships are indicative of the increasing interest on Madison Avenue in a wide variety of online tactics that include social networking, blogs, virtual worlds, community Web sites, social media and word-of-mouth marketing.
 All are part of what is known as Web 2.0, the efforts to encourage two-way conversations between brands and consumers rather than the traditional top-down method of corporations talking at -- or down to -- potential customers.
 ''Brands can network like people network,'' said Kirk Cheyfitz, chief executive at Story Worldwide in New York, an agency that has worked for marketers like A&E Networks, Nestle, Toyota Motor and Unilever.
 There is, however, a danger for advertisers who turn up on a Web site like meetup.com or at the meetings that Meetup helps people arrange. If consumers perceive that Web 2.0 activities are being overly commercialized, they will decry the involvement of the marketers and mark down the value of the efforts to a big fat 0.
 Kimberly-Clark executives say they are aware of those risks.
 ''We started with feedback from Meetup members and organizers as to whether they would want a sponsor and what they would find of value from a sponsor,'' said Brad Santeler, director for media and relationship marketing at the Neenah, Wis., office of Kimberly-Clark.
 ''It's very transparent,'' he added. ''We asked them what they wanted, and we're providing that.'' For instance, Kimberly-Clark is paying the monthly fees that organizers of affinity groups usually pay to Meetup.
 Likewise, at American Express, said Marcy Shinder, vice president for brand strategy and marketing at the Open division in New York, ''we don't impose'' anything on the Meetup members.
 Rather, she added, ''we generate something together that's meaningful to them.''
 ''This group is honest,'' Ms. Shinder said of entrepreneurs. ''They'll tell you what they think.'' And so far, she added, the feedback from the 30 Meetup organizers with whom the company is working has been encouraging.
 In its foray into Meetup, Ms. Shinder said, the Open division is using as a template its ''authentic relationships'' with other organizations like Count Me In for Women's Economic Independence, which helps female entrepreneurs. Open is a founding sponsor of an online program called Make Mine a Million-Dollar Business (makemineamillion.org), introduced by Count Me In, which offers money, mentors and marketing assistance to fledgling firms run by women.
 Meetup has more than 37,000 groups with more than five million regular users, said Dominic Preuss, vice president for marketplace at Meetup in New York, and helps arrange about 80,000 physical get-togethers each month.
 ''If the organizers of groups feel 'sold to,' it would not be in our interest'' to make deals with marketers, Mr. Preuss said.
 ''It's not just about throwing money at them,'' he added. ''They have to see value in the sponsorship.''
 ''With any new program, there are things that work and things that don't work,'' Mr. Preuss said. What seems to work best so far, he added, are ''offers that are specific to groups, targeted and customized, that increase the value of their meet-ups.''
 For example, Kimberly-Clark is offering expectant mothers a ''Huggies Baby Countdown'' widget, which calculates how much longer their pregnancies will last based on their due dates. The widget can be downloaded from more than 20 Web sites like Facebook, Freewebs, iGoogle and MySpace.
 ''It's about creating opportunities for consumers who want to engage with our brands and giving them the tools to do that,'' Mr. Santeler of Kimberly-Clark said.
 His colleague, Kate Johnson, consumer relationship marketing manager, praised the Meetup sponsorship as a way for Kimberly-Clark to influence ''that over-the-fence decision'' made after one neighbor tells another about a product she likes -- or dislikes.
 ''When you have one mom talking to another, it's powerful,'' Ms. Johnson said. ''So we're offering them information and tools and activities; we're not in their face with advertising.''
 Similarly, said Ms. Shinder at American Express Open, the deal with Meetup would provide ''access and support.'' The access is to experts who can help with tasks like developing business plans and managing cash flow, she added, and the support is for ''Meetup organizers on how to put together great events.''
 ''If you look at entrepreneurs, they've been doing social networking before it had a name,'' Ms. Shinder said. ''We've learned that you reach them where they are.''
 The American Express Open sponsorship is scheduled to continue with the 30 Meetup groups through the end of the year, Ms. Shinder said, at which time ''we'll see how we can scale it out even more broadly.''
 ''Before we take it from 30 to 500,'' she added, ''we want to make the model as strong as possible.''
 The Kimberly-Clark sponsorship is a six-month pilot program with 100 Meetup groups, Mr. Santeler said, and is planned to run through June.
 Both companies also have extensive online presences. American Express Open has a Web site called openforum.com.
 Kimberly-Clark Web sites include huggiesbabynetwork.com, happyhealthypregnancy.com and huggieshappybaby.com.
 Kimberly-Clark intends to devote about 35 percent of its overall marketing spending this year to nontraditional media like the Internet, said a spokesman, Joey Mooring, compared with about 25 percent in 2007 and 10 percent in 2004.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL MEDIA (90%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); SPONSORSHIP (90%); PAPER & PACKAGING PRODUCTS (90%); WEB 2 (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); BRAND EQUITY (78%); BRANDING (78%); SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MFG (77%); MARKETING STRATEGY (76%); COMPANY STRATEGY (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (72%); CHILDREN (71%); CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT (68%); EXECUTIVES (65%); VIRTUAL REALITY (53%)

COMPANY: KIMBERLY-CLARK CORP (96%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (83%); NESTLE SA (54%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (54%); UNILEVER PLC/NV (54%)

TICKER: KMB (NYSE) (96%); AXP (NYSE) (83%); NESN (SWX) (54%); TYT (LSE) (54%); TM (NYSE) (54%); 7203 (TSE) (54%); UNIA (AMS) (54%); UNA (BIT) (54%); UNA (AMS) (54%); UN (NYSE) (54%); ULVR (LSE) (54%); UL (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (96%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (96%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (83%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (83%); NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (54%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE & VEGETABLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311225 FATS & OILS REFINING & BLENDING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2008



465 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: Competition Fuels Broadband Use in Europe

BYLINE: By STEPHEN CASTLE

DATELINE: BRUSSELS 

 BODY:
Fierce competition from new providers has pushed the level of broadband subscriptions in eight European countries above the levels in the United States and Japan, according to figures to be released Wednesday. 
 Growth could accelerate further if the European Commission succeeds in a drive to jolt those countries still dominated by former state monopolies, according to the top telecommunications regulator in Brussels.
 The commission says the European Union added 19 million broadband lines in 2007, the equivalent of more than 50,000 households per day. 
 ''We have four countries that are world leaders -- Sweden, Denmark, the Netherlands and Finland,'' said Viviane Reding, the European telecommunications commissioner. ''We have eight countries which have higher penetration rates than the U.S. and Japan. We are not doing badly at all.''
 In addition to the three Nordic countries and the Netherlands, four others -- Britain, Belgium, Luxembourg and France -- had surpassed the United States by July 2007. By January 2008, Germany had also done so.
 In an interview Tuesday, Ms. Reding vowed to press ahead with an effort to give regulators powers to force the so-called incumbent telecommunications companies to run their businesses in a way that would make it easier for new competitors to enter the market. In countries like Germany and France, former state monopolies have fought fiercely against such a move. 
 The European telecommunications market is now worth 300 billion euros (about $470 billion), or 2 percent of European gross domestic product, the commission says.
 ''Those who say that Europe is not a place of investment should cotton on,'' Ms. Reding said. ''It has roughly the same level of investment as the U.S. and the same as Russia and Japan together.'' 
 Half of the European Union countries could match the United States in broadband use by 2010, Ms. Reding said, if regulators take a tough stance to pry markets open. European Union broadband rates vary from 35.6 percent in Denmark to 7.6 percent in Bulgaria. The United States level was 22.1 percent as of July 2007, according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. 
 Ms. Reding emphasized her determination to encourage greater competition in the market and to give regulators the power to force ''functional separation'' -- obliging the owners of telecommunications networks to free the networks from their operating divisions. 
 In seven member states, more than 60 percent of the broadband market is in the hands of incumbents, she said.
 ''The dynamic market force is new entrants,'' Ms. Reding added.
 That analysis was disputed by the European Telecommunications Network Operators' Association, which represents the big operators. 
 ''The report clearly shows that, overall, existing tools with the regulatory framework are sufficient to achieve continuously increasing competition on markets for the benefits of consumers,'' Michael Bartholomew, director of the association, said in a statement. ''The real challenge that now needs to be tackled is to foster infrastructure-based competition and encourage the deployment of high-speed access networks. Functional separation is not the right answer to encourage this risky investment.''
 Asked about the recent increase in broadband penetration in Germany, Ms. Reding said it had occurred only under pressure from Brussels to encourage competition. ''The German regulator was rather passive,'' she said. ''After I pushed him, he started to push his market.''
 The commissioner said vast differences remained within the market, even in Western Europe. While French broadband penetration rates are reasonably similar in cities and rural areas there is a big disparity between the two in Germany. 
 And asked when half the European Union would match United States broadband penetration rates, she replied, ''With independent regulators who are not afraid to use the remedy of functional separation where other solutions don't work, we will be there by 2010.''
 The commission is battling to win agreement on a new European telecommunications regulator, a plan opposed by many big networks and several governments. Under the proposals, a European authority made up of national regulators could enforce functional separation.
 Ms. Reding said that she was confident that her ideas would prevail and pointed out that opponents predicted that her initiative to cap mobile phone roaming charges, which has been enacted, would never work. ''They said, when I started on roaming charges, that it was a dead duck,'' she said. 
 The commissioner said she welcomed a proposal from the British regulator, Ofcom, which suggested several amendments to her proposal. 
 And she accused opponents of functional separation of special pleading. ''Those who have a stronghold will do everything so that regulation doesn't bite,'' she said. ''Those who understand what is in the interests of investment and consumers will want these reforms to go ahead.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (92%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); BROADBAND (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (78%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (77%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); EURO (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (58%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (88%) EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); JAPAN (94%); BELGIUM (94%); GERMANY (92%); FRANCE (92%); DENMARK (88%); LUXEMBOURG (79%); FINLAND (79%); SWEDEN (79%); NETHERLANDS (73%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (73%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%); BULGARIA (54%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2008



466 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 427 words

HEADLINE: Increase in Producer Prices Feeds Fear of Rising Inflation

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
Businesses paid more for gasoline, automobiles and most products last month, reinforcing fears that inflation is rising. 
 While prices for grain and gasoline have skyrocketed in recent months, the pressures had not appeared to seep into the broader economy. But the core measure of the Producer Price Index, which excludes volatile energy and food products, jumped 0.5 percent in February, the Labor Department said on Tuesday. It was the biggest gain since November 2006. 
 Over all, prices paid by producers rose 0.3 percent, slowing slightly from a 1 percent gain in January. Food prices fell 0.5 percent. But with stark rises in costs for prescription drugs, motor vehicles and capital equipment, inflation clearly remains a threat, even as the economy slows.
 The report disappointed economists who had been cheered by a flat Consumer Price Index report last week. ''We believe the producer-price data probably is more indicative of reality given the strong advance in commodity prices and the sinking U.S. dollar,'' Michael T. Darda, chief economist at MKM Partners, a hedge fund and trading firm in Greenwich, Conn., wrote in a note to clients.
 Meanwhile, home construction fell again last month as builders scrambled to lower their inventories. Permits for new residential projects slumped 7.8 percent, to an annual rate of 978,000, seasonally adjusted, the slowest pace since the housing recession of the early 1990s.
 The decline in permits ''is a crystal clear indicator that demand for new housing is quite weak and can be expected to remain so, for the foreseeable future,'' Joseph Brusuelas, chief United States economist at IdeaGlobal, wrote in a research note.
 Groundbreakings for new homes fell to a 1.06 million annual rate, though the Commerce Department revised its January estimate up to 1.07 million. Apartment and condominium construction rose but starts of single-family homes dipped again.
 Home buyers have become scarcer and the values of houses have dropped as the housing market suffers through its worst slump in a generation. Economists say many buyers are standing on the sidelines, waiting for prices to fall even further, delaying the market's recovery until the summer at the earliest. ''There are still signs that house construction has room to fall further in the months ahead,'' Stuart G. Hoffman, chief economist at PNC Bank, wrote in a research note.
 Groundbreakings fell the most in the Northeast, with a 27.7 percent decline in housing starts. They stayed flat in the Midwest and rose slightly in the South and the West.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHS: HOUSING CONSTRUCTION: New private housing starts and permits authorized during the month, at a seasonally adjusted annual pace
PRODUCER PRICES: Index of finished goods prices, 1982 =100, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Commerce Department
 Source: Labor Department) Graphs showing that inflation is on the rise. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFLATION (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); GASOLINE PRICES (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); STATISTICS (89%); HOUSING STARTS (88%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (87%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (87%); FOOD PRICES (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RECESSION (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); BUILDING PERMITS (71%); CONDOMINIUMS (71%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (71%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (66%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (55%); HEDGE FUNDS (52%)

COMPANY: PNC BANK NA (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2008



467 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 329 words

HEADLINE: Text of the Federal Reserve's Statement

BYLINE: By THE FEDERAL RESERVE

 BODY:
Following is the statement released Tuesday by the Federal Reserve:
 The Federal Open Market Committee decided today to lower its target for the federal funds rate 75 basis points, to 2 1/4 percent. 
 Recent information indicates that the outlook for economic activity has weakened further. Growth in consumer spending has slowed and labor markets have softened. Financial markets remain under considerable stress, and the tightening of credit conditions and the deepening of the housing contraction are likely to weigh on economic growth over the next few quarters.
 Inflation has been elevated, and some indicators of inflation expectations have risen. The committee expects inflation to moderate in coming quarters, reflecting a projected leveling-out of energy and other commodity prices and an easing of pressures on resource utilization. Still, uncertainty about the inflation outlook has increased. It will be necessary to continue to monitor inflation developments carefully.
 Today's policy action, combined with those taken earlier, including measures to foster market liquidity, should help to promote moderate growth over time and to mitigate the risks to economic activity. However, downside risks to growth remain. The committee will act in a timely manner as needed to promote sustainable economic growth and price stability.
 Voting for the F.O.M.C. monetary policy action were: Ben S. Bernanke, chairman; Timothy F. Geithner, vice chairman; Donald L. Kohn; Randall S. Kroszner; Frederic S. Mishkin; Sandra Pianalto; Gary H. Stern; and Kevin M. Warsh. Voting against were Richard W. Fisher and Charles I. Plosser, who preferred less aggressive action at this meeting.
 In a related action, the board of governors unanimously approved a 75-basis-point decrease in the discount rate, to 2 1/2 percent. In taking this action, the board approved the requests submitted by the boards of directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, New York and San Francisco.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INFLATION (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); INTEREST RATES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); APPROVALS (75%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (73%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (72%); CONSUMER SPENDING (72%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (69%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (84%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%); KEVIN WARSH (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2008



468 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Style Desk; THE PRICE OF BEAUTY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1990 words

HEADLINE: For Top Medical Students, Appearance Offers an Attractive Field

BYLINE: By NATASHA SINGER

DATELINE: BOSTON 

 BODY:
March Madness has a different meaning for Thomas Hocker and Meena Singh, a married couple in their final year at the Harvard Medical School, who are waiting to learn Thursday if they have been accepted into their residency programs of choice. 
 Already saddled with about $330,000 in education loans, they borrowed $20,000 more so they could fly around the country this winter for about two dozen residency interviews each. All told, each applied to 90 such training programs.
 Ms. Singh, pregnant during interview season, gave birth to their second daughter in early January. Three days later, she flew to Miami for an interview.
 The search has been difficult not because they are mediocre students; indeed, each has a brand-name education, academic honors and published research on disease. No, it has been hard because they aspire to be dermatologists. 
 As thousands of medical students await word this week on residency programs, two specialties concerned with physical appearance -- dermatology and plastic surgery -- are among the most competitive. 
 Only 61 percent of seniors at American medical schools whose first choice was dermatology received a residency in that field last year, compared with 98 percent for those whose first choice was internal medicine and 99 percent for those seeking family medicine, according to a report by the Association of American Medical Colleges and the National Resident Matching Program, which pairs candidates and programs. Although there are far fewer positions in dermatology (320 residencies in 2007) than in internal medicine (5,517) and family medicine (2,603), the field is attracting some of the best and brightest future doctors.
 Seniors accepted in 2007 as residents in dermatology and two other appearance-related fields -- plastic surgery and otolaryngology (ear, nose and throat doctors, some of whom perform facial cosmetic surgery) -- had the highest median medical-board scores and the highest percentage of members in the medical honor society among 18 specialties, the report said. 
 The vogue for such specialties is part of a migration of a top tier of American medical students from branches of health care that manage major diseases toward specialties that improve the life of patients -- and the lives of physicians, with better pay, more autonomy and more-controllable hours. 
 ''It is an unfortunate circumstance that you can spend an hour with a patient treating them for diabetes and hypertension and make $100, or you can do Botox and make $2,000 in the same time,'' said Dr. Eric C. Parlette, 35, a dermatologist in Chestnut Hill, Mass., who chose his field because he wanted to perform procedures, like skin-cancer surgery and cosmetic treatments, while keeping regular hours and earning a rewarding salary. 
 Medical school professors and administrators say such discrepancies are dissuading some top students at American medical schools from entering fields, like family medicine, that manage the most prevalent serious illnesses. They are being replaced in part by graduates of foreign medical schools, some of whom return to their home countries to practice.
 ''We have a shortage in America of primary-care or family-type doctors,'' said Dr. Joel M. Felner, a cardiology professor who is the associate dean for clinical education at Emory University School of Medicine in Atlanta. Last year, the school enlarged its incoming class, hoping more students would specialize in the major diseases and preventative care, he said. ''We do need dermatologists, but I am more worried about the really sick people and dermatologists aren't taking care of them,'' Dr. Felner said. 
 Until recently, saving skin did not have the cachet of saving lives. Doctors in other fields jokingly dismissed dermatology as a province of red-spot diseases that could not really be cured, but weren't going to kill patients. Twenty-five years ago, the fiercest competition among medical students was for internal medicine and general surgery.
 But dermatology's status is rising, not just for the pay, hours and independence, but also because of the growing variety of treatments and devices in this fast-developing field that can help people in a looks-obsessed world. At a time of increased discussion of enhancing beauty, as well as narrowing standards for skin perfection, the public has a newfound esteem for doctors who treat appearance. 
 ''People greatly value the skin because it is what is on the outside that is the face you present to the world,'' Mr. Hocker said one evening last month after coming off a hospital shift in which he dealt with afflictions like heart failure and kidney failure. ''Most dermatological diseases won't kill you, but they can greatly affect your quality of life.''
 Some dermatology professors said the growing allure of their field among medical students has raised the bar for applicants over the last decade. ''Dermatology has always attracted bright students,'' said Dr. Harley A. Haynes, a dermatology professor at the Harvard Medical School who has been mentoring medical students there since 1970. ''But now we are getting more of the brightest and the best.''
 Dr. Haynes likes to joke that even faculty members might not be accepted for a residency if they applied today.
 A Psychological Lifeline
 For an idea of the competition facing dermatology aspirants, consider the application numbers. Last fall, 383 people applied for 6 places -- an average of about 64 applicants per spot -- in Harvard's dermatology program. By comparison, Harvard College received an average of 11 applications per offer of admission in the class of 2010.
 Mr. Hocker and Ms. Singh were well prepared for the Darwinian process of landing a dermatology residency when they met as classmates at the Harvard Medical School in 2003. Mr. Hocker, 27, holds a graduate degree from Cambridge University and an undergraduate degree in chemistry from Yale, where he was a champion hurdler. Ms. Singh, 26, was in several honor societies as a biomedical engineering student at the University of Southern California.
 During her senior year, she competed on an MTV reality show called ''Sorority Life,'' but was ejected midseason for being too studious.
 ''In one scene, you see her all happy getting the acceptance letter from Harvard and in the next scene, you see her crying up a storm because she has been de-pledged from the sorority,'' Mr. Hocker recalled fondly.
 Neither student had planned to become a skin specialist.
 Growing up in Kansas City, Kan., Ms. Singh loved visiting the hospital with her mother, an internist with long relationships with a diverse group of patients. Ms. Singh said she initially planned to emulate her mother, a physician who focuses on treating major adult diseases.
 A lecture on skin-pigment conditions like vitiligo changed her mind. 
 ''Nobody can see if you have hypertension or asthma, but everybody knows if you have a pigmentary disorder and these changes are a lot more obvious and devastating to patients with skin of color,'' Ms. Singh said. ''Having something on your skin is not life or death for people, but it can be equally important for them emotionally as a life-threatening disease.''
 Indeed, dermatology can be a psychological lifeline for people with severe skin problems. At pools or the beach, some people shun those with psoriasis who have scaly skin, fearing the condition is contagious, doctors said. People with deep acne scars say it affects their personal and professional lives.
 Then there is the growing popularity among otherwise healthy people of tweaking one's appearance with cosmetic treatments, from Botox injections to lip plumping and laser hair removal. Plastic surgeons, dermatologists and facial surgeons in the United States performed about 9.6 million such nonsurgical treatments in 2007, almost nine times the number a decade earlier, according to the American Society for Aesthetic Plastic Surgery. 
 'Your Input Is Valued'
 Mr. Hocker was finally sold on dermatology last year, while on a clinical rotation during which neurosurgeons called him and a dermatology resident to an intensive-care ward for a consultation. A patient, in a coma after surgery, was covered with mysterious red half-moon-shaped blisters. They could not determine the cause. Then Dr. Haynes of Harvard arrived.
 ''Dr. Haynes comes in and he is like a walking CAT scan, who eyeballs her from head to toe and has the diagnosis in 15 seconds,'' Mr. Hocker said. The verdict: a rare blistering disorder caused by an allergy to an antibiotic.
 Mr. Hocker said he liked the idea of drawing independent conclusions without tests or consultations with other doctors.
 ''The No. 1 thing that is going to save your life is the humdrum preventative stuff like blood pressure and cholesterol,'' Mr. Hocker said. ''But there is not a lot of respect for doctors who do that because anyone can get into it. But if you are an expert where no one else is, like the eye or the skin, your input is valued.''
 Dermatology also attracts students like Mr. Hocker because of the potential for basic research on skin diseases that can lead to new treatments. Mr. Hocker said he plans to focus his career on researching the role of genetics in problems like skin cancer and abnormal scarring; he took a year off during medical school to conduct melanoma research. 
 While students like Mr. Hocker choose dermatology planning on research careers, others end up focusing on cosmetic treatments like skin tightening and resurfacing. Half of the dermatology residents graduating over the last five years from the program at the Boston Medical Center have chosen postgraduate fellowships that teach a combination of skin-cancer operations and cosmetic procedures, according to Dr. Barbara A. Gilchrest, the chairwoman of dermatology at Boston University School of Medicine. 
 Work Less, Earn More
 Dermatologists say they enjoy the variety of a specialty that encompasses serious illnesses like skin cancer and psoriasis as well as conditions like uncombable hair syndrome.
 But students interested in such work also often factor in personal benefits. Internists, for example, worked an average of 50 hours a week in 2006 while dermatologists worked about 40 hours, according to an annual survey by Medical Economics magazine. Dermatology also offers more independence from the bureaucracy of managed care, because patients pay up front for cosmetic procedures not covered by health insurance.
 And while an internist earns an average of $191,525, a dermatologist earns an average of $390,274, according to an annual survey conducted by the Medical Group Management Association, whose membership includes more than 21,000 managers of medical practices. Dermatologists who specialize in cosmetic treatments or in skin-cancer operations can earn much more.
 For thousands of medical students nationwide, especially those trying to enter the most competitive fields, this week -- when residency acceptances are announced -- has been fraught with tension. The National Resident Matching Program uses an algorithm to pair applicants with the one program they have ranked highest that also preferred them, a system that leaves some applicants disappointed. 
 Mr. Hocker and Ms. Singh face even longer odds because they entered the match process as a couple, seeking positions at the same program, or at least in the same region.
 On Monday, when applicants learned whether they had been paired with a program at all, Mr. Hocker and Ms. Singh found out they will each obtain a residency. Thursday, they find out where.
 ''My friends going into general medicine and general surgery pretty much have an idea that they are going to be at their No. 1 or No. 2 school,'' Ms. Singh said. ''But we really could be anywhere in the country, together or not together.''
 She added: ''We would have a better chance of winning 'American Idol.' ''

CORRECTION-DATE: April 5, 2008

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on March 19 about why many medical students find lucrative specialty fields like dermatology more attractive than general medicine paraphrased comments by several people but put the paraphrases between quotation marks, a violation of The Times's rule that every word between quotation marks be what a speaker or a writer actually said.
 In particular, a quotation attributed to Thomas Hocker, a medical student, was an imprecise paraphrase of what he had said, according to the reporter's handwritten notes.
 After noting the importance of preventive medical care despite the often ''humdrum'' nature of the conditions treated, he said that ''these things that are so important don't compensate well enough,'' and cited ''lack of respect for what they do'' in a field ''viewed as easy because anyone can get into it'' as a reason doctors might hesitate to go into internal medicine. He had earlier said that in specialized fields like his own, dermatology, ''you know you are valued and your input is valued in the hospital.'' He did not say: ''But there is not a lot of respect for doctors who do that because anyone can get into it. But if you are an expert where no one else is, like the eye or the skin, your input is valued.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Meena Singh applied to 90 dermatology programs.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A1)
Meena Singh and Thomas Hocker, shown with their daughters, are Harvard Medical School seniors. As aspiring dermatologists, they face some of the hardest competition for their pick of residency programs.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(PHOTOGRAPH BY HAEYOUN PARK/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A12) CHARTS: How the Specialties Stack Up: Dermatology and plastic surgery are among the most competitive residencies.(Sources: National Resident Match Program
Association of American Medical Colleges
Medical Group Management Association)Chart details statistics for dermatology
Trends in U.S. Residencies: U.S. medical school seniors, who are typically the most sought-after by residency programs, are moving away from general practice and choosing specialties that offer higher pay, including those dealing with appearance. They are being replaced in part by graduates of foreign medical schools. Chart details line graph for HIGHER-PAYING SPECIALTIES and LOWER-PAYING SPECIALTIES.
 Two Specialties, Two Doctors: Both discuss why dermatology is the preferred choice among some top medical students and what incentives might lure the students away from general practice like internal medicine.Chart details various quotes and opinions.(pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAL EDUCATION (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); DERMATOLOGY (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); FAMILY PRACTICE (89%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (89%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (89%); INTERNAL MEDICINE (87%); STUDENT HONOR SOCIETIES (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); HEALTH CARE (78%); COSMETIC SURGERY & TREATMENTS (78%); MARRIAGE (78%); OTOLARYNGOLOGY (74%); CANCER (74%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); SKIN CANCER (70%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (70%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (69%); DIABETES (69%); HYPERTENSION (66%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF AMERICAN MEDICAL COLLEGES (82%); MEDICAL GROUP MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2008



469 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1598 words

HEADLINE: An Export in Solid Supply

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

 BODY:
These days, people really are taking coals to Newcastle. 
 That flow is part of a vast reorganization of the global coal trade that is making the United States a major exporter for the first time in years -- and helping to drive up domestic prices of the one fossil fuel the nation has in abundance.
 Coal has long been a cheap and plentiful fuel source for utilities and their customers, helping to keep American electric bills relatively low. 
 But rising worldwide demand is turning American coal into another hot global commodity, with domestic buyers having to compete with buyers from countries like Germany and Japan. 
 Environmental concerns have forced some American utilities to cut back on plans for coal-burning power plants. 
 Nonetheless, spot prices for two benchmark American grades of coal, from central Appalachia and the Powder River Basin of Wyoming, have been rising, with occasional dips, since last spring. 
 They eased in recent days but are still up by 93 percent and 64 percent, respectively, in the last year, according to figures from Doyle Trading Consultants and Evolution Markets.
 How high prices will go, and how quickly the increases will be passed along to electricity customers, remains to be seen. 
 American utility companies buy almost all their coal on long-term contracts, locking in prices for several years. 
 But as those contracts come up for renewal, price increases are likely, analysts said.
 ''Watch out, consumer,'' said David M. Khani, a coal analyst at Friedman, Billings, Ramsey Group. ''You're probably going to see accelerating electricity prices in 2009, 2010 and 2011.'' 
 Coal and utility executives predict that coal will remain the most economical fuel in years to come. But they concede that any significant rise could have an important inflationary impact since coal is used to produce about half the nation's electric power, and coal is also vital in steel production.
 For coal producers, the new demand abroad is good news at a time when coal is under political attack at home. More than 50 proposed coal-fired power plants were delayed or canceled over the last year because of concerns over greenhouse gas emissions.
 ''This export boom right now is the difference between slow growth in our markets and hyper-expansion in our markets,'' said Gregory H. Boyce, chairman and chief executive of Peabody Energy, the world's largest private coal company. ''You have two billion-plus people looking for a better standard of living. The world is energy-short and the U.S. coal sector is beginning to fill that gap.''
 Many environmental groups see the rising global trade as an ominous development, however, since it promises to confound efforts to limit global emissions. World consumption of coal has increased in recent years by more than 4 percent annually, a major reason that emissions of carbon dioxide are going up, not down. Carbon dioxide is the principal gas implicated in global warming.
 ''Any rise in coal use around the world is bad news for the environment,'' said Alice McKeown, who works on coal issues for the Sierra Club. ''The U.S. needs to be a leader on global warming, and increasing our coal exports is moving in the wrong direction.'' 
 The United States will export 7 or 8 percent of its coal production this year, up from about 5 percent last year, industry leaders predicted in interviews. Because of higher prices, the value of coal exports should double, to $3.75 billion.
 United States exports of coal grew from 49 million tons in 2006 to about nearly 59 million tons in 2007, according to coal industry statistics, while domestic production increased by 1 percent. Coal executives say they expect exports to reach 80 million tons this year, and with railroad and port improvements, to rise to as much as 120 million tons in the next few years.
 ''There's no question that the incremental rise in exports this year has driven the prices up,'' said Charles E. Zebula, senior vice president for fuel supply at American Electric Power, one of the country's largest utilities.
 Simultaneously, imports of coal are decreasing gradually as producers in Colombia and Venezuela turn to markets other than the United States for higher prices. The shifts are further tightening supplies of coal in the eastern United States, where stiffening regulations and various mine closings have limited output in recent years. 
 ''U.S. coal producers are trying as much as possible to ship coal to the highest bidder, and in many cases that means Europe,'' said Gordon Howald, a coal analyst at Calyon Securities. ''The once-stodgy coal industry has become an exciting global commodity.''
 Great Britain, the country that used its vast coal stocks to pioneer industrial development in the 18th century, has become a major coal importer in recent years, its own industry moribund. With Newcastle-upon-Tyne once being the center of a rich English coal region, the phrase ''hauling coals to Newcastle'' was a cliche describing an absurd economic proposition.
 Nowadays, however, coal arrives regularly at the Port of Tyne from suppliers in the Baltic and South America. American coal goes to other English ports at rising rates; figures from the Commerce Department show that in 2007, United States steam coal exports to the United Kingdom increased by 53 percent and coking coal, used in steel-making, by 20 percent, compared to the previous year.
 The boom in coal exports is partially linked to a falling dollar, which makes American coal cheaper on world markets. But there are deeper, longer-term reasons for the world to turn to the United States, which has 27 percent of the world's coal reserves, more than any country. 
 As it continues a building spree for coal-fired power plants, China is consuming so much coal that its ability to export is diminishing rapidly; it is expected to become a net importer. Other exporters like South Africa, Indonesia and Vietnam are cutting back for a variety of reasons, including growing domestic needs and local power shortages. Recent flooding in Australia has cut exports, at least temporarily, while an earthquake closed a major mine in Germany.
 Meanwhile India is building huge coal plants that will require growing imports, while Russia is using more and more coal to make natural gas available for export.
 As a result the pattern of world shipments for coal used for metallurgical and energy purposes is shifting. South Africa and other exporting nations that used to export to Europe are turning to Asia, where coal prices are higher, leaving European markets open for American exports. American coal is making its way to England, Spain, Japan and other countries that traditionally looked elsewhere.
 The increase expected this year will make the United States a major global exporter for the first time since the early 1990s. For years, low-cost producers in Australia, China and other countries grabbed the bulk of the international coal trade. But now the United States is becoming a low-cost producer, in part because the euro and other currencies have gained so much value in relation to the dollar.
 In the United States, plans to build new coal-fired plants are being shelved, and bankers are scrutinizing new projects because of uncertainties over future costs of carbon dioxide emissions. Both Democratic and Republican presidential candidates say they favor legislation to control global warming, which would presumably limit such emissions.
 As the coal industry sees it, exports could be crucial if the American market starts to shrink. Coal executives are talking about upgrading mines, rail and port facilities to meet increasing world demand.
 Just within the last couple of months,Peabody began sending coal from Wyoming to Europe, first by rail to the Mississippi River, then by vessel through the Gulf of Mexico. And for the first time in a decade, the company is shipping coal to Japan from the California coast.
 ''As U.S. coal demand is constrained because of increasing environmental regulation, coal production in the United States will increasingly go toward overseas buyers,'' Chris Ruppel, an energy analyst at Execution, a brokerage and research firm, predicted.
 The rise in coal prices has so far been invisible to most American consumers because price increases have yet to hit most utilities.
 American Electric Power said it had contracted for more than 90 percent of its coal for 2008 before recent price increases. The company said it expects to spend 13 percent more for coal this year than last, after spending about 5 percent more in 2007 compared with 2006.
 ''We're not going to see the spot market price in the customer's bill today,'' Mr. Zebula said. ''But clearly the price of the good has gone up and will increase over time.''
 Already, there are some signs of rising prices. Appalachian Power and Wheeling Power, both American Electric Power subsidiaries, on Feb. 29 filed papers seeking approval in West Virginia for a 17 percent increase in revenues, mainly to pay for costlier coal. If the request is approved, a residential customer using 1,000 kilowatt hours a month would see his bill increase from $64.55 to $73.94, starting in July. 
 Kenneth B. Medlock, an energy analyst at Rice University, predicted many more electricity consumers will begin to feel the coal price spike over the next year, particularly in states most dependent on coal, like Kentucky, Illinois and Ohio. 
 ''Their power bill is going to go up, but it also will start to affect the prices of goods they buy at the grocery store,'' he added.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Coal miners are still working in the German town of Bottrop, but the government has decided to end mining in the country by 2018 because German coal is the most expensive in the world. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIRSTEN NEUMANN/REUTERS) (pg. C7)
 An 80-foot wall of coal at Peabody Energy's North Antelope Rochelle mine in the Powder River Basin of Wyoming is an example of abundance in America. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PEABODY ENERGY) (pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (89%); COAL MINING (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); COAL INDUSTRY (89%); SPOT MARKET (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (74%); RIVERS (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); CONSUMPTION (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (71%); LIVING STANDARDS (69%); EXECUTIVES (63%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (62%)

COMPANY: PEABODY ENERGY CORP (84%); ARLINGTON ASSET INVESTMENT CORP (54%)

TICKER: BTU (NYSE) (84%); AI (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS213113 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR COAL MINING (84%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (84%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%)

PERSON: GREGORY H BOYCE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WYOMING, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (98%); GERMANY (88%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2008



470 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1265 words

HEADLINE: New Governor And Wife Talk Of Past Affairs

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM and TRYMAINE LEE; Reporting was contributed by David Kocieniewski and Jeremy W. Peters in Albany, and by Serge F. Kovaleski and Mike McIntire in New York.

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
In an extraordinary news conference on his first full day on the job, Gov. David A. Paterson acknowledged on Tuesday that he had had several extramarital relationships, including one with a state employee, but said he had done nothing illegal and had been faithful to his wife in recent years.
 Mr. Paterson said he made the disclosure because he wanted to clear his conscience and avoid being blackmailed. He said he hoped his openness about his past affairs would help him to gain the trust of New Yorkers and move forward to focus on governing.
 ''I didn't want to be compromised, I didn't want to be blackmailed, I didn't want to hesitate taking an action because the person on the other end might hurt me or my family,'' Mr. Paterson, a Democrat, said during the tense and often awkward appearance with his wife, Michelle Paige Paterson, at his side. ''I just thought this was the time to come forward and reveal this.'' 
 Mr. Paterson said no state funds had been used as he carried out his affairs. He said he may have used his campaign credit card for some expenses that he did not detail, but said, if so, he would have reimbursed his campaign for the spending.
 Mr. Paterson's revelation comes less than a week after Gov. Eliot Spitzer, who was caught on a federal wiretap arranging to meet with a prostitute, resigned, and a former governor of New Jersey, James E. McGreevey, and his estranged wife publicly traded claims about the nature of their sex life together. 
 Mr. Paterson said he had asked Mr. Spitzer to delay the effective date of his resignation until Monday as he grappled with how much to disclose about his past infidelities.
 ''I didn't know that I was even going to be here until last Wednesday,'' he said, referring to the office of governor. ''I put it back a few days to try and organize things, and this is one of the issues I just want to get straight with New York's citizens so that they know who their governor is and that their governor takes this office seriously.''
 The news conference capped an astonishing 24 hours that began with Ms. Paterson holding the Bible as her husband was sworn in before an ebullient audience of lawmakers in the Assembly chamber as dignitaries, including Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton and prominent black politicians, looked on. 
 Just after the swearing-in, while Mr. Paterson's supporters were still celebrating, the new administration was plunged into its first crisis, as a Daily News columnist inquired about a past affair and Mr. Paterson and his mostly untested advisers debated how to handle the matter.
 The governor and his wife told the columnist that they had each strayed during the marriage, and then Ms. Paterson, an executive at the Health Insurance Plan of New York, canceled a morning appearance in Manhattan and came to the capital to meet the crush of reporters.
 While ordinary New Yorkers seemed startled by the emergence of another story of sexual infidelity, reaction to the revelations in Albany was generally supportive, in part because the new governor, a former state senator, has a deep reservoir of good will among lawmakers. It remains to be seen, however, how long Republicans will give him a honeymoon. 
 ''This week has been a whirlwind,'' said Senator Kevin S. Parker, a Democrat from Brooklyn. ''I think what happened last week with Governor Spitzer was a terrible personal tragedy that then turned into a crisis for this state.''
 Mr. Paterson's revelations, he said, ''make him stronger.''
 ''I think a lot of people admire his forthrightness and his honesty,'' he added. 
 Senator Joseph L. Bruno, the Republican majority leader, said the Patersons' marital problems were nobody's business but their own, as he brushed off suggestions that the affair threatened to interfere with the state's business. 
 Neither the governor nor his staff would specify when he stopped having the affairs, beyond saying several years ago. 
 ''Several years ago, and there were a number of women,'' Mr. Paterson said during the news conference. 
 He did not supervise the state employee with whom he had an affair, he said, and did nothing to further the woman's career. Christine Anderson, a spokeswoman for Mr. Paterson, said the state employee worked in the executive branch of the Spitzer administration and was considering whether to continue to work for the new administration. 
 Campaign finance records indicate that the Paterson campaign paid the woman $500 for work she did for his State Senate campaign several years ago. 
 It remains unclear if other complications lie ahead for Mr. Paterson.
 The governor expressed uncertainty about whether he had used campaign funds to pay for hotel rooms for his assignations, but said he never would have knowingly done so. 
 Under state law, politicians are barred from using campaign funds for personal expenses. Mr. Paterson's campaign filings showed a handful of payments over several years to a hotel on West 94th Street, not far from his home, that Mr. Paterson's office has confirmed he used for an extramarital affair during that period. But he has also said his staff used the hotel on occasion. It was not clear on Tuesday who had made use of the hotel rooms.
 ''I would never use campaign funds for that purpose,'' Mr. Paterson said, but then added, ''There have been a couple of questions about the campaign funds and I'll have to check them out. There have been a few times when my credit card didn't work, I used the campaign credit card and reimbursed it. But I never knowingly used campaign funds.''
 While the governor dealt with the intensely personal issue, he also confronted a growing financial crisis. The State Division of Budget said on Tuesday that the nation was in recession, and Mr. Paterson moved late in the day to impose $800 million in new spending cuts, the third retrenchment made by the executive branch since it released its original budget in January and a sign of the precarious nature of the state's finances. The governor likened it to ''a fiscal challenge that we have not seen since the dark days following September 11.''
 The governor's mood was in marked contrast to his joking, effusive appearance in the Assembly chamber during his swearing-in, which included an impersonation of the Assembly speaker.
 When he opened his press conference, the governor said: ''I betrayed a commitment to my wife several years ago, and I do not feel I've betrayed my commitment to the citizens of New York State. I haven't broken any laws, I don't think I've violated my oath of office, and I saw this as a private matter.''
 ''This is something I think in a regular marriage we would have been wishing to go to our graves with,'' he said, adding, ''the reason that we disclosed the truth is so the citizens of New York State would know that when confronted with these questions, that we would be honest.''
 Mr. Paterson said he had had affairs at a time when he ''was jealous over Michelle'' but later said he ''didn't take the actions because I was jealous; I was just trying to explain how I was feeling.''
 ''I'm not trying to blame anyone,'' he added. ''I'm not trying to say I was upset, so you can't blame me. I was just pointing out that this happens to people.''
 Mr. Paterson said that he and his wife had sought counseling and had since resolved their marital problems. 
 For her part, Ms. Paterson said ''the message I try to teach my children is that a marriageis going to have peaks and valleys, so you want to show them how to get through them and how to work through them, because no marriage is perfect.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. David A. Paterson and his wife, Michelle Paige Paterson, talked openly of their infidelities at a news conference Tuesday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); MARRIAGE (78%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); RELIGION (72%); WIRETAPPING (71%); PROSTITUTION (50%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); ELIOT SPITZER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2008



471 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: Stalemate in Detroit: City Council Asks Mayor to Resign, but He Refuses to Go

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
The City Council on Tuesday asked Mayor Kwame M. Kilpatrick to resign in light of evidence that he had lied under oath and plotted to cover up an extramarital affair with his former chief of staff.
 The 7-to-1 Council vote is not binding, and Mr. Kilpatrick has vowed to remain in office.
 Nonetheless, the Council's action is a political blow for the mayor, and support for the measure was greater than expected. Council members spoke highly of Mr. Kilpatrick but said he could no longer govern effectively, given the scandal that has enveloped Detroit for nearly two months. 
 ''It is a vote of no confidence in the mayor's ability to move the city forward at this time,'' said Councilwoman Sheila M. Cockrel, who drafted some of the 33 reasons listed in the resolution for the mayor to step down. ''It is a tragedy -- an enormous talent that has been squandered.''
 The mayor's spokeswoman, Denise Tolliver, reiterated Mr. Kilpatrick's determination to remain in office.
 ''While certain members have been playing judge and jury in the court of public opinion, Mayor Kilpatrick has continued to stay focused on advancing bold initiatives, such as his economic stimulus package,'' she said in a statement. ''As Mayor Kilpatrick has said before, he will stay in office, he will stay focused on city business, and he will continue to lead our city forward.''
 The vote came a week after the mayor's annual State of the City speech, in which he angrily blamed racism for his troubles and accused the news media of having a ''lynch-mob mentality'' against him.
 ''The mayor's lack of discipline last Tuesday was the straw that broke the camel's back,'' Councilwoman Cockrel said.
 The only Council member to vote against the resolution was Monica Conyers, the wife of Representative John Conyers Jr., a Michigan Democrat; Ms. Conyers said the Council should have waited until it had more information before voting on such a statement. 
 ''I'm being neutral,'' Ms. Conyers said. ''I'm concerned with doing it the right way, based upon facts, and not doing a symbolic resolution that means nothing.''
 The Council's ninth member, Martha Reeves, the former Motown singer who had said she supported the resolution, was absent because of illness.
 Text messages between Mr. Kilpatrick and his former chief of staff, Christine Beatty, that were published in January by The Detroit Free Press indicate that they lied in testimony in a police whistle-blower lawsuit against the city last summer by denying that they had had a romantic relationship.
 The mayor agreed to settle the suit for $8.4 million hours after learning that the plaintiffs' lawyer, Michael Stefani, had copies of the text messages, Mr. Stefani said in a deposition. The Council said that when it approved the settlement, it did not know about a confidentiality agreement the mayor had struck to keep the messages hidden.
 The Council began debating whether to demand Mr. Kilpatrick's resignation several weeks ago. It delayed voting on the matter, however, in the hopes that the Wayne County prosecutor, Kym L. Worthy, would complete a criminal investigation of Mr. Kilpatrick and Ms. Beatty first. But Council members said they could not wait any longer.
 ''My vote is not an indictment of the mayor so much as it is a request for the city to get back to normal business,'' Councilwoman Barbara-Rose Collins said.
 Ms. Worthy has said she will announce next week whether Mr. Kilpatrick and Ms. Beatty, who resigned last month, will face any charges. Ms. Worthy told a Detroit television station last weekend that she had already made her decision but was waiting for the paperwork to be completed before disclosing it.
 If the mayor is convicted of a felony, he would lose his job under Detroit's charter.
 The only other situation in which Mr. Kilpatrick could be forced out is if Michigan's governor, Jennifer M. Granholm, decides to remove him. So far, she has resisted calls to intercede, though she denounced Mr. Kilpatrick's use of a racial epithet during last week's speech, which was broadcast live and uncensored on local television and radio. (The mayor used the word while describing messages that he said had been directed toward him and his family.)
 Lorenzo Houston, 57, one of several Detroit residents who spoke to the Council on Tuesday in support of Mr. Kilpatrick, said it would be detrimental ''to move a mayor who is making great progress for the city.'' Mr. Houston added, ''The people who elected him should determine what happens to him.''
 But another resident, Valerie Burris, 48, said Mr. Kilpatrick had betrayed his constituents.
 ''The mayor has disgraced us,'' she said. ''I know a lie when I hear a lie, and I don't want a mayor who lies to his people.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); CITIES (91%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); WITNESSES (90%); MAYORS (90%); TESTIMONY (78%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (78%); SEX SCANDALS (77%); JURY TRIALS (73%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (72%); LITIGATION (71%); JUDGES (66%); TEXT MESSAGING (50%)

PERSON: JOHN CONYERS (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2008



472 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: After an Admission, Unruffled Lawmakers Say It's Time to Get to Work

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS; Rebecca White and David Hirschman contributed reporting from New York City.

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
Gov. David A. Paterson and legislative leaders from both parties gathered on Tuesday afternoon in the same mahogany-paneled room of the State Capitol where, just hours before, Mr. Paterson had stood and admitted to marital infidelity.
 They were there to discuss the state budget and the darkening economic outlook, but the message they were sending had little to do with taxes or Wall Street: It was time to get on with running the state. 
 As he left the meeting, the Republican majority leader in the Senate, Joseph L. Bruno, said that the state's problems were bigger than the governor's marital issues. Mr. Paterson's revelations, he added, would not affect his ability to serve as governor. 
 ''Not in any way,'' Mr. Bruno said. ''Not in any way.''
 Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, a Democrat, said that because Mr. Paterson had confronted his past indiscretions, they should not be an issue. ''He went out publicly, and he answered all the questions, and that's it,'' Mr. Silver said. ''Now let's move on.''
 It seemed that few here had the stomach for another political crisis, still rattled by the resignation of Eliot Spitzer after he was implicated in a federal investigation into a prostitution ring. Even among Republicans, there was no talk of wanting to see Mr. Paterson, a Democrat, brought down by what many said was a private matter between husband and wife.
 Several senior Republicans said they were confident that Mr. Paterson would weather the controversy. 
 ''David will be able to govern,'' said Dean G. Skelos, a Republican state senator from Long Island. ''It's about the budget. It's about the issues facing the State of New York. And he has to deal with his own personal life.''
 Absent from the comments of lawmakers on Tuesday was any hint of the blood thirst that some politicians seemed to have for Mr. Spitzer after he acknowledged his own indiscretions. 
 James N. Tedisco, the Republican minority leader in the State Assembly who called on Mr. Spitzer to resign not long after the allegations were made public, was uncharacteristically terse when asked whether Mr. Paterson's admissions might jeopardize his ability to govern. 
 ''It's a private issue,'' Mr. Tedisco said. ''A private issue.''
 That no one pounced on Mr. Paterson seemed to reflect his good standing among Republicans and Democrats in Albany. Unlike Mr. Spitzer, who often antagonized members of both parties at the state house, lawmakers said that Mr. Paterson had built a reservoir of respect and good will during his two decades as a state legislator. 
 Mr. Bruno said: ''David is able to handle himself. He's always been a good friend and handled himself properly, and I expect he will continue to handle himself properly.''
 Mr. Silver said other families could find a lesson in what the Patersons endured, which he called a ''nice story.''
 ''He basically said, 'Here are the facts. It's not an uncommon occurrence in people's lives when marriages are failing, and this is how we worked it out,' '' Mr. Silver said. ''I think it should be a message to people who maybe find themselves in similar circumstances.''
 Many lawmakers denounced what they said was an unnecessary level of intrusion into the Patersons' personal lives.
 ''It's a matter that the family resolved themselves several years ago,'' said Assemblyman Michael Benjamin, a Democrat from the Bronx. ''The fact that he's expressed some honesty in discussing it is a credit to him. It has nothing to do with the business of the state or the business of the people. I think it's a one-day news story, and it will go away.''
 Others said that with all the recent drama in the state, they could hardly believe Albany was facing another political crisis of a sexual nature. 
 ''I can't keep up,'' said Senator Kemp Hannon, a Republican from Long Island. 
 Mr. Hannon added that while he did not think Mr. Paterson's admission would damage his ability to govern, it did present the new governor with a crucial leadership test on only his second day in office.
 ''We have real problems right now,'' Mr. Hannon said. ''And he now has a chance to rise to the occasion.''
 Around New York City, many people seemed to share the overriding sentiment in Albany, which was that problems in Mr. Paterson's marriage were unimportant unless they affected his work.
 ''What can I say, he's a human being,'' said Moon Haq, 31, a server at a restaurant near Union Square. ''It's his personal life, as long as it doesn't affect the city.''
 Karen Seiger, 42, who works in marketing, said Mr. Paterson's infidelities seemed less offensive to her than those of Mr. Spitzer, a man who looked hypocritical because he had built his career on ethics and reform. 
 ''The difference with Spitzer was the bulldozer of righteousness and ethics,'' she said. ''I think it's interesting that Paterson came right out with it. People can now focus on getting the work done in Albany. At the end of the day people are more worried about the economy and jobs in New York than they are about the governors having affairs.''
 Not everyone was so forgiving. 
 ''That is morally just not right,'' said Elvira Vincze, 71, a designer and civil engineer from Forest Hills. ''We have 350 million people in this country; don't we have someone decent for the job?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gov. David A. Paterson said that he and his wife, Michelle Paige Paterson, wanted to make their past extramarital affairs public on their own terms. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. B1)
 Gov. David A. Paterson, center, is flanked at a meeting on Tuesday by, from left, James N. Tedisco, Joseph L. Bruno, Sheldon Silver and Malcolm A. Smith. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); POLITICS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%); PROSTITUTION (50%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (94%); ELIOT SPITZER (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (86%) NEW YORK, USA (86%) UNITED STATES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2008



473 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: Estimates of Iraq War Cost Were Not Close to Ballpark

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
At the outset of the Iraq war, the Bush administration predicted that it would cost $50 billion to $60 billion to oust Saddam Hussein, restore order and install a new government. 
 Five years in, the Pentagon tags the cost of the Iraq war at roughly $600 billion and counting. Joseph E. Stiglitz, a Nobel Prize-winning economist and critic of the war, pegs the long-term cost at more than $4 trillion. The Congressional Budget Office and other analysts say that $1 trillion to $2 trillion is more realistic, depending on troop levels and on how long the American occupation continues. 
 Among economists and policymakers, the question of how to tally the cost of the war is a matter of hot dispute. And the costs continue to climb. 
 Congressional Democrats fiercely criticize the White House over war expenditures. But it is virtually certain that the Democrats will provide tens of billions more in a military spending bill next month. Some Democrats are even arguing against attaching strings, like a deadline for withdrawal, saying the tactic will fail as it has in the past. 
 All of the war-price tallies include operations in the war zone, support for troops, repair or replacement of equipment, reservists' salaries, special combat pay for regular forces and some care for wounded veterans -- expenses that typically fall outside the regular Defense Department or Veterans Affairs budgets. 
 The highest estimates often include projections for future operations, long-term health care and disability costs for veterans, a portion of the regular, annual defense budget, and, in some cases, wider economic effects, including a percentage of higher oil prices and the impact of raising the national debt to cover increased war spending. 
 The debate raging on Capitol Hill, on the presidential campaign trail, in research institutes and in academia touches on such esoteric factors as the right inflation index for veterans' health care costs; the monetary value of nearly 4,000 soldiers killed; and what role, if any, the war has had in higher oil prices.
 Some economists who track the war expenses say they worry that politicians are making mistakes similar to those made in 2002, by failing to fully come to grips with the short- and long-term financial costs. 
 ''The relevant question now is: what do we do now going forward? Because we can't do anything about the costs that have already happened,'' said Scott Wallsten, an economist and vice president of research with iGrowthGlobal, a Washington research institute. ''We still don't hear people talking about that.''
 Congressional Democrats, led by Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, the chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, have sought to spotlight the rising costs and limited political progress in Iraq. 
 ''This administration still has no clear exit strategy for our troops, no path to political reconciliation, and no accounting of the costs to our budget or economy,'' Mr. Schumer said.
 The White House press secretary, Dana M. Perino, acknowledged that costs had risen higher than predicted, but said the administration was committed to giving the military everything it needed for success. 
 ''None of these calculations take into account the cost of failure in Iraq,'' Ms. Perino said. ''Should Al Qaeda have safe haven in Iraq, we are more likely to be attacked again on our homeland. We know the cost of that.'' 
 On the campaign trail, the Democratic candidates, Senators Barack Obama and Hillary Rodham Clinton, often say that money for the war would be better spent at home, as Mrs. Clinton did Tuesday when she pegged the war costs at ''well over $1 trillion.'' 
 ''That is enough,'' she continued, ''to provide health care for all 47 million uninsured Americans and quality pre-kindergarten for every American child, solve the housing crisis once and for all, make college affordable for every American student and provide tax relief to tens of millions of middle-class families.'' 
 But what the candidates often fail to note when making such points is that the full cost of the war has been added to the national debt, and that the money spent in Iraq would not necessarily be available for other programs. And, of course, anything short of an immediate withdrawal will entail billions more in continuing expenses. 
 Debate aside, there is general consensus that Congress will have allocated slightly more than $600 billion for Iraq operations through the 2008 fiscal year.
 And some analysts say that may be half the final price.
 ''Under reasonable scenarios, assuming we don't pull out rapidly, we may only be halfway through,'' said Steven M. Koziak, of the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessment, a nonpartisan research group. ''Even in direct budgetary costs, it's quite easy to get up on the order of $1 trillion for Iraq alone.'' 
 Meanwhile, the five-year anniversary of the war has focused a spotlight on the costs so far and on future projections. 
 In a new book, called ''The Three Trillion War,'' Mr. Stiglitz, the Nobel laureate, and a co-author, Linda J. Bilmes, a professor at Harvard, say the total economic impact may be a staggering $4 trillion or more. Even some economists who call themselves fans of Mr. Stiglitz say they think that number is exaggerated; the authors insist their projections are moderate. 
 Lawrence B. Lindsey, who was ousted as President Bush's first economic adviser partly because he predicted the war might cost $100 billion to $200 billion, also has a new book that serves in part as an I-told-you-so. 
 ''Five years after the fact, I believe that one of the reasons the administration's efforts are so unpopular is that they chose not to engage in an open public discussion of what the consequences of the war might be, including its economic cost,'' Mr. Lindsey wrote in an excerpt in Fortune magazine. 
 Mr. Lindsey insists that his projections were partly right. ''My hypothetical estimate got the annual cost about right,'' he wrote. ''But I misjudged an important factor: how long we would be involved.'' 
 He was not alone. 
 Congressional Democrats, for instance, predicted that the Iraq war would cost roughly $93 billion, not including reconstruction. 
 Virtually every forecast was off in this way. ''It's clear that operations in Iraq and Afghanistan have gone on longer and have been more expensive than the projections initially suggested,'' Peter R. Orszag, director of the Congressional Budget Office, said in an interview. 
 Only one economist, William D. Nordhaus of Yale, seems to have come close. In a paper in December 2002, he offered a worst-case estimate of $1.9 trillion, ''if the war drags on, occupation is lengthy, nation-building is costly.'' 
 Getting at the true costs is difficult though. Expenses like an overall increase in troops were paid from the base defense budget, not the war bills. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Getting at the true cost of the war is difficult. Expenses like a troop increase were paid from the base defense budget, not war bills.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SPENCER PLATT/GETTY IMAGES) CHART: The Costs So Far: Estimate by the Congressional Budget Office of the amount authorized each year for the Iraq war. Chart details bar graph for 2003-8 TOTAL AUTHORIZED for veterans and Iraqi military forces. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); ARMED FORCES (88%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (76%); APPROPRIATIONS (76%); NOBEL PRIZES (76%); INFLATION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); MILITARY BENEFITS (73%); AWARDS & PRIZES (71%); LEGISLATION (68%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (67%); WAGES & SALARIES (66%); POLITICS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (83%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); CHARLES SCHUMER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2008



474 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: Whitney Museum to Receive $131 Million Gift

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

 BODY:
Leonard A. Lauder, the cosmetics executive and chairman of the Whitney Museum of American Art, said on Tuesday that his art foundation would give the museum $131 million, the biggest donation in the Whitney's 77-year history. 
 The bulk of the money -- $125 million -- will go toward the Whitney's endowment, boosting it to $195 million from $70 million, Mr. Lauder said in a telephone interview. 
 The Whitney called the gift one of the largest donations ever to a New York museum's endowment. Mr. Lauder said that the money required the museum not to sell its Marcel Breuer building on Madison Avenue at 75th Street for an extended period, although he declined to specify how long.
 The Whitney announced last year that it planned to open a satellite museum downtown in the meatpacking district of Manhattan, which stirred speculation that it might sell its Breuer building.
 But Mr. Lauder said he was determined that the Whitney keep its hulking 1966 building. ''Like so many architecture lovers, I believe the Whitney and the Breuer building are one,'' he said. 
 Given the precarious state of the economy, Mr. Lauder, who turns 75 on Wednesday, emphasized that he could be depended on for the donation, which he said he had long planned. 
 ''Being old enough to have lived through several recessions, when I made the decision years ago, I asked my financial advisers to move the money into T-bills,'' he said. ''So it is sitting there and is very secure.'' 
 Mr. Lauder is chairman of the Estee Lauder Companies and, according to Forbes magazine, had a net worth of $3.2 billion in 2007.
 The gift includes $6 million to cover expenses until the donation is complete, which is expected to be by June 30, 2009. The money is a major infusion for the Whitney, which has been historically under-endowed. Its new endowment total of $195 million will still pale in comparison with those of institutions like the Museum of Modern Art, with an $850 million endowment. (Ronald S. Lauder, Leonard Lauder's brother, is a trustee and former board chairman at MoMA.) 
 Adam D. Weinberg, the Whitney's director, said the gift would help the Whitney sustain its ''risk-taking'' tradition. ''It will now be the first time our endowment will be large enough so that the Whitney can maintain its commitment to living artists and to adventurous programming,'' he said.
 Although Mr. Lauder's donation is likely to quiet rumors that the Whitney might decamp from the Breuer building, the museum's plans remain an open question. Since the Whitney set its sights on the meatpacking district, the city's arts world has fretted that the institution might not be able to afford two locations. 
 The gift was timed to encourage other Whitney trustees to donate generously to the downtown project. ''It has already generated tremendous support on the part of the trustees,'' Mr. Weinberg said. 
 Although he declined to say how much money had been raised for the new building or how much the Whitney still needed, he said that the initial, or so-called silent, phase of the capital campaign was ''going forward.'' 
 In November the Whitney announced that it had reached a conditional agreement with the city's Economic Development Corporation to buy a city-owned site at Washington and West Streets, the same place where the Dia Art Foundation had planned to build a museum. (In October 2006 Dia said it had scrapped that idea and would seek a different site in the city.) The Whitney satellite is to be designed by the Italian architect Renzo Piano. 
 Mr. Piano was also the architect for a proposed nine-story addition to the Breuer building that was abandoned in 2006. 
 The Piano scheme was the third time in more than a decade that the museum had commissioned a celebrity architect to design a major expansion, only to pull out. 
 To realize its new project in the meatpacking district, the museum needs to go through the zoning process, conclude the land purchase and determine the cost of designing and building the satellite and operating museums both uptown and downtown, Mr. Weinberg said. 
 ''We are studying the idea of a comprehensive Whitney, trying to see how the two programs would work,'' he said.
 In the world of museum fund-raising, endowment money is always the most difficult to solicit. Unlike donations for building projects, an endowment gift does not give a donor the opportunity to finance a namesake building, a promise extended to the Wall Street financier Stephen A. Schwarzman last week when he gave the New York Public Library $100 million to jump-start its $1 billion expansion. In return, the library's main branch on Fifth Avenue at 42nd Street is being renamed the Stephen A. Schwarzman Building. 
 Mr. Lauder's gift surpasses that of Mr. Schwarzman as well as a $100 million endowment gift pledged to MoMA by David Rockefeller, a chairman emeritus of the Modern, in 2005. But unlike Mr. Lauder's gift, Mr. Rockefeller's donation will not be completed until after his death. In the meantime Mr. Rockefeller is giving $5 million a year, as if the money were already invested in the endowment. 
 Mr. Lauder's gift is not the first major donation he has made to the Whitney. Since becoming its chairman in 1994, he has led the campaign for the new fifth-floor galleries in the Breuer building, which are devoted entirely to the permanent collection. 
 Six years ago he led a three-year initiative to acquire about $200 million worth of art by masters like Jasper Johns, Roy Lichtenstein, Andy Warhol, Ellsworth Kelly, Barnett Newman and Jackson Pollock. 
 Mr. Lauder's American Contemporary Art Foundation was responsible for the largest single group of art in that gift, including major works by Mark Rothko, Franz Kline, Warhol and Pollock. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Whitney wants to develop this site in the meatpacking district as a museum satellite. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. E6)
Leonard A. Lauder (PHOTOGRAPH BY AMY SUSSMAN/GETTY IMAGES) (pg. E1)
 One requirement of the gift to the Whitney is that it not sell its Marcel Breuer building on Madison Avenue. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF GOLDBERG/ESTO) (pg. E1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); GRANTS & GIFTS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); ENDOWMENTS (89%); COSMETICS (89%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (51%)

COMPANY: ESTEE LAUDER COS INC (93%)

TICKER: EL (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (93%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC5122 DRUGS, DRUG PROPRIETARIES, & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES (93%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (93%)

PERSON: LEONARD LAUDER (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2008



475 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: Can We Get Back to Business, Please?

 BODY:
Hours after replacing a New York governor who resigned because of a prostitution scandal, Gov. David Paterson has confessed to extramarital affairs during his decades as a legislator in Albany. The new governor insisted Tuesday that he broke no laws, misused no campaign funds and violated no oaths of office. 
 Instead, in what seemed more like an ''Oprah Winfrey Show'' than a gubernatorial press briefing, Governor Paterson described a bad patch in his marriage in which he and his wife, Michelle, both committed infidelities. His wife, standing at his side, said: ''No marriage is perfect.''
 If all that is true, then Mr. Paterson's personal revelations were just that: personal. At this point in the case of Eliot Spitzer, federal authorities are investigating possible lawbreaking. Unless Mr. Paterson is guilty of abuse of office, this tabloid moment should be the end of it. We would agree with the Republican Senate majority leader, Joseph Bruno, that the new governor's ''personal life is his personal life.''
 The timing is, however, unfortunate. A former state senator and lieutenant governor, the accidental governor was only beginning to introduce himself to New Yorkers who do not live in his native Harlem or work, as he has for so long, in Albany. On Monday, he introduced a wider public to his considerable wit and a graciousness that included a promise to use the ''collective talents'' in Albany's political community to achieve progress. 
 But in his first major speech, Mr. Paterson revealed only the barest hints about his agenda. He talked about education, which rallied the hopes of teachers. He examined the need for public service, a great boost to government workers. And he warned that because the economy is ''reeling,'' politicians and interest groups will need to come by his new office to help figure out how they can all live with less.
 But so little of the Paterson plan is clear that progressives were painting him as liberal (''his political ideals ... should make all New Yorkers excited,'' the Working Family Party cheered). At the same time, some supporters, like the Rev. Al Sharpton, were arguing that Mr. Paterson is a pragmatist who will govern from the political middle.
 Perhaps more important than his politics is his leadership style. The burden now lands heavily on this new governor to prove how a likable but untested lawmaker can manage one of the most powerful and most important state jobs in the country.
 The clues about his management abilities should become clear very quickly. In the next two weeks, he and his old friends in the Legislature will carve up a $124 billion state budget, and at that point, Mr. Paterson should plan to spread any of the necessary pain around fairly.
 It will not be easy. But this is the most urgent public business right now for New Yorkers and their leaders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SEX SCANDALS (90%); SCANDALS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); LIBERALISM (69%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (68%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (90%); ELIOT SPITZER (58%); OPRAH WINFREY (56%); AL SHARPTON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2008



476 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1306 words

HEADLINE: Fed Trims Rates Sharply, Sending the Markets Up

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS; Steven Lee Myers contributed reporting from Jacksonville, Fla.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve reduced short-term interest rates for the sixth time in six months on Tuesday, capping an extraordinary series of measures it has taken to stabilize financial markets. The cut was smaller than investors had been expecting, though, and exposed some signs of a split among policy makers.
 The central bank lowered its federal funds rate -- the rate it charges banks for overnight loans -- by three-quarters of a percentage point, to 2.25 percent, and left the door open to additional rate cuts in the months ahead.
 Though it was one of the biggest one-day rate cuts in decades, investors had been betting heavily that the Fed would cut its benchmark rate a full percentage point in response to strong evidence that a recession has begun and to the deepening crisis on Wall Street. 
 But two members of the Fed's policy-making committee dissented, saying they favored an even smaller rate cut, and the policy group as a whole expressed new worries about inflation -- a possible argument against aggressive rate cuts.
 ''Inflation has been elevated, and some indicators of inflation expectations have risen,'' the Fed said in a statement that accompanied the rate decision. ''It will be necessary to continue to monitor developments carefully.'' 
 Some analysts saw the cut of three-quarters of a point as a compromise to appease those who wanted less. Others surmised that the Fed might have been reluctant to cut rates further immediately in part because as the rates inch closer to zero, the Fed leaves itself less room to maneuver in case of further financial shocks. 
 Investors reacted ambivalently to the initial news of the rate cut but pushed stock prices sharply higher by the end of the day. A rally began in the morning after two major investment firms, Goldman Sachs and Lehman Brothers, reported profits that were higher than expected and reassured investors that they had adequate capital. Stock prices pulled back within minutes of the Fed's afternoon announcement, before resuming their rise.
 By the day's end, the Dow Jones industrial average was up 420 points, or 3.51 percent, to 12,392.66. 
 The Fed's statement and the vote highlighted a growing conflict about how to lift the economy out of a downturn while controlling inflationary pressures, which have become apparent in the falling value of the dollar and the prices of everything from energy to food.
 The Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, has in recent weeks put top priority on propping up the economy, by both reducing interest rates and by unveiling a blizzard of emergency loan programs for cash-short banks and investment firms.
 Frederic S. Mishkin, a Fed governor who is close to Mr. Bernanke, has argued in several recent speeches that some indicators of inflation pressure, like the falling dollar or the yields on inflation-adjusted Treasury securities, are not as ominous as they might appear.
 The two dissenters in Tuesday's decision were Richard W. Fisher, president of the Dallas Fed, and Charles I. Plosser, president of the Philadelphia Fed, both of whom have been outspokenly hawkish about inflation issues in recent months.
 Several analysts said the dissent and the Fed's warning on inflation indicated that policy makers struggled to agree on even the smaller rate reduction.
 ''I'm disappointed,'' said Robert V. DiClemente, chief United States economist at Citigroup. ''It's not as if we're trying to gauge policy priorities on a sunny day. I'd like to know how you're going to get inflation in an environment with suffocating financial restraint and pervasive slowing in demand.''
 Mr. Bernanke, who took over as Fed chairman two years ago, has been more open to debate and dissent among policy makers than his most recent predecessor, Alan Greenspan.
 Mr. Bernanke and other top Fed officials have acknowledged that consumer prices are rising faster than they would like, but they have predicted that inflation pressures will abate in part because of slowing economic growth.
 In its statement on Tuesday, the Fed reiterated Mr. Bernanke's prediction that inflation would probably ''moderate'' in the months ahead. But it also cautioned that ''uncertainty about the inflation outlook has increased.'' 
 Ethan Harris, chief economist at Lehman Brothers, discounted the inflation warning as ''boilerplate'' language intended to assuage the Fed's inflation hawks.
 ''I don't take it seriously,'' Mr. Harris said. ''The upside risks on inflation are actually very low. The economy is really quite weak, and we are probably in a recession right now. We're just at the beginnings of a consumer slowdown.''
 With the growing financial anxieties, economic concerns have replaced the war in Iraq as the dominant issue in the presidential campaign.
 Democrats in Congress and on the campaign trail have blasted President Bush, saying that he has responded too slowly and supported the bailout of banks and investment firms but not homeowners.
 On Tuesday, just as the Fed was announcing its rate cut, Mr. Bush continued to act as cheerleader in chief by emphasizing the economy's underlying strength.
 ''I understand there's short-term difficulty,'' he told workers and local lawmakers in Jacksonville, Fla. ''But I want people to understand that in the long term, we're going to be just fine. People will still be able to work.''
 Without offering any details, Mr. Bush said the government would do more if necessary. ''The point I want to make to you is, if there needs to be further action we'll take it -- in a way that does not damage the long-term health of our economy.'' 
 Many private economists contend that the economy has already slipped into a recession. The Labor Department estimates that the nation lost 63,000 payroll jobs in February, the second straight month of job losses and the third month of job losses in the private sector.
 But the Fed's biggest worry in recent days has been on Wall Street, where investors have become so frightened about the rapidly deepening losses in mortgage-backed securities that credit markets have become increasingly paralyzed.
 Mr. Bernanke has stunned investors over the past several weeks by unveiling a series of increasingly bold programs to lend hundreds of billions of dollars to banks and Wall Street investment firms.
 On Sunday, Fed officials agreed to lend up to $30 billion to JPMorgan Chase to engineer its takeover of Bear Stearns, a major Wall Street firm that was near collapse.
 But the Fed's most powerful weapon against a slowdown is lower interest rates. 
 With the latest reduction, the federal funds rate is far below the rate of inflation, meaning that the ''real,'' or inflation-adjusted, interest rate is below zero. It is also well below the European Central Bank's benchmark interest rate of 4 percent or the Bank of England's rate of 5.25 percent. 
 A lower federal funds rate usually leads to lower interest rates for commercial borrowing and for consumer loans like mortgages.
 Mr. Bernanke has offered few hints about what the Fed might do if its current efforts fail to stabilize the markets or the economy.
 But analysts said the Fed had a long list of options. Having already agreed to accept mortgage-backed securities and other securities as collateral for loans to banks and investment firms, the Fed could go one step further and start buying up hard-to-sell securities itself. 
 If the Federal Reserve feels compelled to reduce the fed funds rate even more, it would have to start grappling with the question of what to do if the rate declines to zero.
 In 2003, when the overnight rate was heading to new lows, Mr. Bernanke himself suggested one possible course of action -- the Fed could easily infuse more money into the economy by buying up billions of dollars in longer-term Treasury securities and perhaps even commercial bonds.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Brokers on the trading desk Tuesday at ICAP in Jersey City soon after the Federal Reserve announced it was cutting rates.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK LENNIHAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. A13) CHART: Fed's Benchmark Rate Chart details line graph for Fed Funds Rate.(Source: Federal Reserve)(pg. A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INFLATION (89%); US DOLLAR (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); CURRENCIES (77%); RECESSION (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); STOCK INDEXES (71%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2008



477 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONALA3-10
 Economists and Officials Argue Cost of the Iraq War
 A Nobel Prize-winning economist and critic of the Iraq war pegs the long-term cost at more than $4 trillion. The Congressional Budget Office and other analysts say $1 trillion to $2 trillion is more realistic. Among economists and policy makers, the question of how to tally the cost is a matter of hot dispute. A9
 U.S. Reaches Out to Egypt 
 After ruling out talks with Hamas, the Bush administration is now using Egypt as an intermediary to open a channel between Israel and representatives of the militant Islamist group, in what some diplomats say could be a softening of the American stance.A10 
 Merkel Visits Israel
 Angela Merkel became the first German chancellor to address the Israeli Parliament, crowning a three-day visit intended to upgrade ties between Israel and Germany. The visit is seen as highly symbolic by each side as Israel prepares for the 60th anniversary of its establishment against the background of the Holocaust.A9 
 A new poll shows that a majority of Palestinians support the attack this month on a Jewish seminary in Jerusalem that killed eight young men, an indication of the alarming level of Israeli-Palestinian tension in recent weeks.A10
 China Blames Dalai Lama
 China called for an international investigation of the Dalai Lama, accusing him of masterminding the violent Tibetan protests spreading across China, but he denied those allegations and invited international observers to scour his office.A6
 One of the most prominent human rights advocates in China stood trial on subversion charges in a proceeding that centered on whether his public criticism of the Communist Party represented a threat to the state.A3 
 NATIONALA11-17 
 Obama Confronts Divide Over Race in America
 Senator Barack Obama delivered a sweeping assessment of race in America, bluntly confronting the divisions between black and white as he sought to dispel the furor over inflammatory statements by his pastor. A1 
 Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton's hopes of ending the primaries with game-changing victories from new contests in Florida and Michigan grew dim as Florida scuttled plans for a new vote and Michigan lawmakers appeared far from a deal. A15 
 Senator John McCain's trip overseas was supposed to highlight his foreign policy acumen, but all did not go according to plan in Amman, Jordan, when Mr. McCain, fresh from a visit to Iraq, misidentified some of the main players in the Iraq war. A15 
 Case Over Right to Bear Arms
 In a case challenging the District of Columbia's handgun ban, the Supreme Court appeared ready to embrace an interpretation of the Second Amendment that protects the right to own a gun for personal use. A1 
 Mayor Is Asked to Step Down
 The City Council in Detroit asked Mayor Kwame M. Kilpatrick to resign in light of evidence that he had lied under oath and plotted to cover up an extramarital affair with his former chief of staff. A11 
 A Wolf's Howl in Digital Form
 The long, lonely howl of a wolf is going digital. Under a research project at the University of Montana in Missoula scientists are betting that the famous call-and-response among wolves can be used to count and keep track of the animals. A11 
 EDUCATION
 Education Law Is Relaxed
 The Bush administration, acknowledging that the federal No Child Left Behind law is diagnosing too many public schools as failing, said that it would relax the law's provisions for some states, allowing them to distinguish schools with a few problems from those that need major surgery. A11 
 NEW YORK/REGIONC14-15
 Paterson Acknowledges Extramarital Affairs
 Gov. David A. Paterson, in an extraordinary news conference on his first full day on the job, acknowledged that he had had several extramarital relationships, including one with a state employee, but said he did nothing illegal and had been faithful to his wife in recent years.A1 
 Verdict in Nixzmary Case
 A deeply divided jury in Brooklyn convicted Cesar Rodriguez, the stepfather of 7-year-old Nixzmary Brown, of first-degree manslaughter -- but acquitted him of second-degree murder -- for his role in her fatal 2006 beating, inflicted as punishment for stealing a snack from the refrigerator and jamming his computer printer with toys.C14 
 ARTSB1-8
 Whitney's $131 Million Gift
 Leonard A. Lauder, the cosmetics executive and chairman of the Whitney Museum of American Art, said on Tuesday that his art foundation would give the museum $131 million, the biggest donation in the Whitney's 77-year history. B1
 DINING OUTD1-8
 Party Over for Fat Pack
 The Fat Pack, a group of epicureans who travel all over to sample the fattiest gastronomic pleasures, are learning what happens when their philosophy of excess meets the body's limits of endurance.D1
 OBITUARIESC11-12
 Anthony Minghella
 A British filmmaker who won an Academy Award for his direction of ''The English Patient,'' and whose other work included ''Breaking and Entering,'' ''The Talented Mr. Ripley'' and ''Cold Mountain,'' he was 54. C11
 BUSINESS DAYC1-11
 Fed Cuts Rates Again
 The Federal Reserve reduced short-term interest rates by three-quarters of a percentage point, to 2.25 percent -- capping an extraordinary series of measures it has taken to stabilize financial markets. A1 
 Banks Start Stock Rally
 Goldman Sachs and Lehman Brothers reported better-than-expected earnings, and all of Wall Street cheered. Despite reporting steep declines in first-quarter earnings, both banks beat analysts' expectations, easing worries and sending stocks soaring. C1 
 Today in BusinessC2 
 EDITORIALA18-19
 Editorials: Mr. Obama's profile in courage; citizenship, thwarted; can we get back to business, please?
 Column: Maureen Dowd.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOBEL PRIZES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); RIGHT TO BEAR ARMS (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); IRAQ WAR (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (88%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); AWARDS & PRIZES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); HAMAS (75%); JEWS & JUDAISM (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); HOLOCAUST (74%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); BUDGETS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); GENOCIDE (72%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); SUPREME COURTS (70%); GUN CONTROL (69%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (65%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%); CITIES (60%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (58%); HAMAS (57%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); ANGELA MERKEL (68%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%); DALAI LAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AMMAN, JORDAN (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (55%) ISRAEL (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (94%); IRAQ (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); EGYPT (91%); GERMANY (90%); JORDAN (79%); TIBET (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2008



478 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 995 words

HEADLINE: The Way Out of the Financial Ditch

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''In Sweeping Move, Fed Backs Buyout and Wall St. Loans'' (front page, March 17):
 Finally, we can see the essence of George W. Bush's compassionate conservatism in his administration's Wall Street rescue. Will Washington soon extend the same care and compassion to America's schools, family farmers, people without health care and our inner cities? 
 Socialism for the rich is not enough. 
 Bruce Ehrlich Boston, March 17, 2008
 To the Editor:
 The only real way to revive the collapsing American economy is to restore faith in it. And the best way to do that is to end the Iraq war and balance the federal budget.
 A balanced budget was the cornerstone of our economy during the peace and prosperity era of the Clinton administration. Any other measures are nothing more than Band-Aids.
 Michael Boyajian Fishkill, N.Y., March 17, 2008
 To the Editor:
 As taxpayer money is being mobilized to bail out the investment bank Bear Stearns, I hope someone is ensuring that the obscenely large bonuses paid to investment bankers (presumably for good performance?) are discontinued. 
 Janet S. Johnston Bellingham, Wash., March 17, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Your March 18 editorial ''Who Will Come to the Rescue?'' commented that ''the Bush administration should work with Congress now to prepare the taxpayer-financed bailout that seems all but inevitable.'' What is inevitable could not be more apparent. 
 But the only inevitable action that will take place will be President Bush's using his bully pulpit to stall until the new president takes office. It will be left up to the new president to make the tough, intelligent decisions necessary to clean up the mess left by the previous administration. 
 Darlene Popovic San Francisco, March 18, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''The Bailout Artists'' (column, March 18):
 David Brooks asserts: ''In normal times, the free market works well. But in a crisis like this one, few are willing to sit back and let the market find its own equilibrium.'' 
 I would like to point out that the current financial crisis is a perfect counterexample to Mr. Brooks's assertion that the free market works well in normal times. In these most recent ''normal'' times, the market was freely allowed to engage in reckless lending and investing practices that resulted in the current crisis. 
 Jim Choike Stillwater, Okla., March 18, 2008
 To the Editor:
 I still fail to understand why home ownership is treated as an inalienable right and not a privilege. And now the government's misguided undertaking is simply cementing this notion of entitlement.
 In the blame game that has unfolded around the miseries of the housing market, the people who made the irresponsible purchases and took on mortgages they could never afford should be held accountable, not assisted out of their mistakes, which have been driving this country's economy into a steady decline. 
 What did they expect when they took on mortgages they wouldn't be able to pay off in hundreds of years? Why must they be allowed to continue living in homes they own at the expense of us, the more responsible taxpayers who do know what we can and cannot afford to own? 
 Margarit Ordukhanyan New York, March 18, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''The B Word,'' by Paul Krugman (column, March 17):
 The national mortgage calamity, often dubbed the subprime crisis, will continue for several years as various iterations of adjustable rate mortgages come of age. 
 Instead of a bailout as outlined in the column, a solution is required that stabilizes home values involving participation from homeowners, lenders and government. 
 For the last several months I have discussed such a plan with elected officials, government agencies and investment firms that own mortgages at risk. 
 ''Appreciating America'' is a plan I put forward that will help homeowners who need to be refinanced to prevent foreclosure. 
 This plan involves using a shared appreciation second mortgage to finance the shortfall between the amount owed and the current value of the home. 
 This is a financial instrument commonly used in commercial real estate transactions, and was recently supported in a speech by Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman. 
 After five years, the homeowner and the lender will share in any appreciation of the home, giving all involved a stake in preventing foreclosure and rebuilding property values. 
 The plan can be adopted by all mortgage servicers, promoted to ailing homeowners and supported by the Federal Housing Administration. It can be carried out immediately. 
 Let's not talk about bailouts until we provide bootstraps and solutions. 
 Nicholas Bratsafolis Chairman and Chief Executive Refinance.com New York, March 18, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''F.D.R.'s Safety Net Gets a Big Stretch'' (news analysis, Business Day, March 15):
 The rescue of Bear Stearns by the federal government from the brink of disaster demonstrates the value of a financial safety net. The fabric of that safety net is the notion of spreading risk between leveraged institutions and financially stable ones. 
 That sounds suspiciously like social insurance, which spreads risk and its financial consequences among members of a population. 
 A cornerstone of universal coverage in many countries, it has been demonized as ''socialized medicine'' in the current health reform debate.
 Curiously, the Bush administration practices ''socialized finance'' to save financial institutions from their own bad decisions and risky investments but sees little value in a social safety net that would protect uninsured citizens from poor health and financial ruin.
 Don't uninsured Americans deserve protection from medical bankruptcy in the same way that financial institutions are now protected from insolvency? 
 Alan B. Cohen Boston, March 15, 2008
 The writer is a professor of health policy and management at Boston University and executive director of the university's Health Policy Institute.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY OLIVER MUNDAY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (87%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); REAL ESTATE (76%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); BANK FAILURES (75%); FAMILY FARMS (73%); CONSERVATISM (72%); IRAQ WAR (72%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (62%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (57%)

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2008



479 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1270 words

HEADLINE: Obama Urges U.S. to Grapple With Race Issue

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA 

 BODY:
Senator Barack Obama delivered a sweeping assessment of race in America on Tuesday, bluntly confronting the divisions between black and white as he sought to dispel the furor over inflammatory statements by his former pastor.
 Mr. Obama again condemned the more incendiary remarks of the pastor, the Rev. Jeremiah A. Wright Jr. But, drawing on his experiences as the son of a white mother and a black father, Mr. Obama went on to try to explain to white voters the anger and frustration behind Mr. Wright's words and to urge blacks to understand the sources of the racial fears and resentments among whites.
 While his immediate political goal was to tamp down any doubts that his association with Mr. Wright has caused among voters as he battles for the Democratic presidential nomination, Mr. Obama also sought to link his theme of understanding and reconciliation to more concrete issues at stake in the election as the economy weakens.
 ''The fact is,'' he said, ''that the comments that have been made and the issues that have surfaced over the last few weeks reflect the complexities of race in this country that we've never really worked through -- a part of our Union that we have yet to perfect. 
 ''And if we walk away now,'' he continued, ''if we simply retreat into our respective corners, we will never be able to come together and solve challenges like health care, or education, or the need to find good jobs for every American.''
 After running a campaign that in many ways tried not to be defined by race, Mr. Obama placed himself squarely in the middle of the debate over how to address it, a living bridge between whites and blacks still divided by the legacy of slavery and all that came after it. 
 His language reached at times for the inspiration and idealism of the civil rights movement, but for the most part addressed the politics of race in straightforward terms that seemed intended to keep the discussion grounded in the realities of the moment. 
 ''It's a racial stalemate we've been stuck in for years,'' Mr. Obama said. ''Contrary to the claims of some of my critics, black and white, I have never been so naive as to believe that we can get beyond our racial divisions in a single election cycle, or with a single candidacy -- particularly a candidacy as imperfect as my own.''
 For Mr. Obama, who is engaged in an intense fight for his party's nomination with Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, the 37-minute speech five weeks before the Pennsylvania primary was an attempt to realign his campaign after a turbulent two weeks. Images of Mr. Wright, replayed again and again on television, threatened to damage a coalition of black and white voters that Mr. Obama has been trying to forge.
 ''I can no more disown him than I can disown my white grandmother,'' he said, ''a woman who helped raise me, a woman who sacrificed again and again for me, a woman who loves me as much as she loves anything in this world, but a woman who once confessed her fear of black men who passed by her on the street, and who on more than one occasion has uttered racial or ethnic stereotypes that made me cringe.''
 The speech, delivered before a small audience of local supporters, elected officials and clergy members at the National Constitution Center, was broadcast live on cable. His words were directed at a variety of constituencies, including the superdelegates who, it now seems likely, will decide the nomination, and white voters in states like Pennsylvania that could be vital both in the primary and in the general election.
 Mr. Obama stayed up well into the night writing much of the speech himself, aides said. His words carried familiar strains of the biography he wrote more than a decade ago about his search for racial identity.
 In recent days, televised images of Mr. Obama have been accompanied by old sermons of Mr. Wright delivering a blistering critique on white America. As the days go on, it remains an open question whether the images of the pastor will fall to the side and Mr. Obama's campaign message regains its prominence. This speech was a political risk, his advisers said, whose wisdom may not be fully known for months.
 ''It was very dicey at a time when race is misunderstood by some and overplayed by others,'' L. Douglas Wilder, the mayor of Richmond, Va., who was the nation's first elected black governor, said in an interview. ''It was a very, very difficult subject to bring up. It had to be approached in a way that was really something of substance.''
 Mr. Obama indicated that he wanted to move quickly to other issues, scheduling two high-profile speeches over the next two days on topics other than race. 
 ''I suppose the politically safe thing would be to move on from this episode and just hope that it fades into the woodwork,'' Mr. Obama said. ''We can dismiss Reverend Wright as a crank or a demagogue, just as some have dismissed Geraldine Ferraro, in the aftermath of her recent statements, as harboring some deep-seated racial bias.''
 He noted that his candidacy had been successful in predominantly white states and in largely black states, but he conceded that the nation's racial divisions remained firmly ingrained and that black anger and white resentment was rarely interchangeably understood. 
 ''For the men and women of Reverend Wright's generation, the memories of humiliation and doubt and fear have not gone away, nor has the anger and the bitterness of those years,'' Mr. Obama said. ''That anger may not get expressed in public, in front of white co-workers or white friends, but it does find voice in the barbershop or the beauty shop or around the kitchen table.'' 
 ''In fact, a similar anger exists within segments of the white community,'' he said. Later, he added: ''So when they are told to bus their children to a school across town, when they hear that an African-American is getting an advantage in landing a good job or a spot in a good college because of an injustice that they themselves never committed, when they're told that their fears about crime in urban neighborhoods are somehow prejudiced, resentment builds over time.'' 
 A few hours after the speech, Mrs. Clinton arrived at City Hall here for a campaign stop. She said she had not seen it, but said she was ''very glad'' that Mr. Obama had made it, given that race had been a ''complicated'' issue in America marked by ''pitfalls'' and ''detours.'' 
 For nearly a week, Mr. Obama has struggled to distance himself from statements by Mr. Wright, who had cast the government as racist, corrupt and murderous among other things. Mr. Obama concluded over the weekend that he had failed to resolve the questions, aides said, and told advisers he wanted to address the firestorm in a speech.
 Standing against a backdrop of eight American flags on Tuesday morning, Mr. Obama offered the most thorough explanation to date about his association with the church and his pastor, whom he has known for nearly 20 years. 
 ''For some, nagging questions remain. Did I know him to be an occasionally fierce critic of American domestic and foreign policy? Of course,'' he said. ''Did I ever hear him make remarks that could be considered controversial while I sat in church? Yes. Did I strongly disagree with many of his political views? Absolutely -- just as I'm sure many of you have heard remarks from your pastors, priests or rabbis with which you strongly disagreed.''
 ''The profound mistake of Reverend Wright's sermons is not that he spoke about racism in our society,'' he added. ''It's that he spoke asif our society was static, as if no progress has been made.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Barack Obama spoke on race Tuesday in Philadelphia.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA KOURKOUNIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A1)
 Michelle Obama listening to her husband in Philadelphia on Tuesday. The Obamas' relationship with their former pastor in Chicago has drawn criticism.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA KOURKOUNIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); SLAVERY (62%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); JEREMIAH A WRIGHT JR (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); MICHELLE OBAMA (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (84%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2008



480 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 936 words

HEADLINE: City Faces Prospect of Its Smallest Police Force Since the 1990s

BYLINE: By AL BAKER

 BODY:
Facing budget woes and a recruiting crisis, the New York Police Department is poised to shrink to its smallest size in about 15 years, a reality reflected in a plan by the Bloomberg administration to trim funds for 1,000 police officer positions this year. 
 The mayor's plan, to be carried out in the new fiscal year, would drop the maximum number of positions allowed to 36,838. The actual number of officers at work today is only 35,800 because of unfilled positions brought on by the recruitment crisis. Further stretching the availability of officers for duty is that roughly 220 officers are on military leave. Because of fluctuations in hiring, a low point of 34,624 officers is projected for the end of June. 
 That is just below the 34,641 officers in June 1993, a time when a program by Mayor David N. Dinkins to pump up the police force was under way. That program, Safe City Safe Streets, instituted in 1991, was Mayor Dinkins's answer to the rising crime rate and, in conjunction with a federal program to pay for police officers, prompted a steadily swelling force for several years. 
 The number peaked in October 2000 with 40,800 officers. The first new officers of Mr. Dinkins's program were entering the police academy by 1993.
 Now, further budget troubles are looming, 2,400 officers are set to retire this year and low starting wages are failing to attract enough replacements. Some city officials and others worry that the number of officers will not meet the new, reduced authorized head count.
 Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly warned of the dangers of the cuts on Wednesday after outlining the department's budget for lawmakers on the City Council's Public Safety Committee, many of whom seemed to empathize with him.
 Citing the steady real estate values in Manhattan, Mr. Kelly said the links between a sizable police force and a vibrant metropolis could not be overstated.
 ''So I think it's very important to maintain a robust police force in this department to keep the city moving forward,'' he said, ''because if we slip, I think -- in terms of this level of security, a sense of security -- that a lot of other things that are moving in a very positive direction in the city could slip as well.''
 He said he faced two jobs: traditional crime fighting and increased security due to the elevated possibility of terrorism.
 Hiram Monserrate, a Democratic councilman from Queens, said, ''I know if there was a Mayor Kelly, we wouldn't be facing this issue.'' Mr. Kelly is thought of as a potential candidate in the next mayoral race.
 Declining crime rates are a favorite subject for debate among sociologists, criminologists and academics, many of whom say factors like the economy or drug use have a big effect on them.
 ''Despite the fact the police staffing has declined quite substantially, crime has continued to go down,'' said Preston Niblack, a deputy director of the Independent Budget Office, a city-funded agency independent of the mayor's office. ''But I think the rate at which crime has been going down has started to slow. The question I find myself asking is, 'How low can crime go?' ''
 Going forward, Mr. Niblack said, the city will be forced to confront more limited resources. ''Hopefully, its recruitment problems will improve,'' he said of the department. ''But I think we are probably getting to a historic low in terms of the crime rate.''
 A spokesman for the Bloomberg administration questioned whether the force's low point for the last two years would differ from the projected low point for next year. 
 ''The budget proposal removes funding for positions that are not being filled, due to recruitment,'' said the spokesman, Jason Post.
 He said the average number of officers on the street under the proposed budget would decrease only slightly from the average force strength of fiscal years 2005, 36,149; 2006, 36,197; and 2007, 36,132.
 After the fiscal crisis of the 1970s, the police force shrank. The head count hovered around 28,000 in the late 1970s and early 1980s, according to the Budget Office, which tracks the number by pinpointing it at the end of each fiscal year. The first officers hired under Mr. Dinkins's program hit the streets in 1994.
 In 2002, when Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg came into office and confronted less wealthy times after the terrorist attack of Sept. 11, 2001, he cut the authorized strength of the police force to 37,038. Then he raised it to 37,838. The new number, 36,838, will last until July 2009, when it will revert to 37,838.
 In a statement, Patrick J. Lynch, the president of the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association, said the proposed cuts would force the police to their lowest strength in 16 years. 
 Mr. Lynch said it was not the starting salary, $25,100 for the first six months of employment, that was the source of the recruitment problems. Rather, Mr. Lynch said, the top pay, $59,585 after five and a half years, was repelling potential applicants and siphoning off veterans because it was not competitive with that of other local police departments. 
 But Mr. Kelly said there had been no recruiting problems until the starting salary was cut by 40 percent beginning in June 2005.
 Councilman Peter F. Vallone Jr., a Queens Democrat, said that staffing levels were a ''huge source of concern right now'' and that his local precinct had fewer than 170 officers, down from 320. ''The beat cop is gone,'' he said. ''The bike cop is gone. The people on the street are yelling that they need those cops back, and based on what we heard today, we're not going to see that in the foreseeable future.''

GRAPHIC: GRAPH: SHRINKING THE FORCE: The number of police officers in New York City rose in the 1980s and 1990s, but the force shrank after 9/11, partly because of budget cuts. (Source: New York Police Department) (pg. B6) Graph showing a decline in the police force due to budget cuts. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (93%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CITIES (89%); CRIME RATES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); CITY LIFE (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); REAL ESTATE (69%); SOCIOLOGY (60%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (50%); TERRORISM (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2008



481 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 131 words

HEADLINE: More Arts in the Schools

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''City Schools Fail to Comply With State Rule on Arts Classes'' (news article, March 7): 
 Although it is disappointing that only 4 percent of New York City's elementary schools now meet the state's arts education standards, the Department of Education deserves credit for acknowledging this in its new report and has pledged to improve that performance. 
 The fact that nearly all schools now have some teaching in the arts is real progress after the disastrous elimination of arts programs during the fiscal crisis of the 1970s -- a tragedy we need to avoid during this economic downturn. 
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg should be encouraged to continue to fight for the arts in the schools.
 Randall Bourscheidt President, Alliance for the Arts New York, March 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (88%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (88%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (88%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: ALLIANCE FOR THE ARTS (56%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2008



482 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: In the Heart of Pennsylvania, a Weary Electorate

BYLINE: By PAUL VITELLO

DATELINE: JOHNSTOWN, Pa. 

 BODY:
In a city like this, which was suctioned clean of its old life more than a quarter-century ago and has been waiting ever since for a new one, people do not so much ignore national politics as gaze upon it with the long-distance stare of the combat-weary.
 Ask a middle-aged man what he does for a living, and most often the answer is not one thing but a chain of jobs, usually starting with something in the high-paying lost world of steel or coal and then descending a paycheck ladder: to bus driver, mechanic, maintenance man, cook, often more than one job at a time. 
 People say yes, the war is worrisome, the economy is worrisome. But here some 80 miles east of Pittsburgh, where worry seems to come with the drinking water, they answer questions about those and other pressing issues of the 2008 presidential campaign with a ''what's your point?'' twist of the mouth. 
 ''We all hope for the best,'' Fern Yarnick, 78, a retired secretary and sometime columnist for The Tribune-Democrat, the local daily, said Wednesday. ''Nobody wants to tell you too much about how bad it is. People are tired of discussing.''
 In three days of interviews in smaller cities like this one in Pennsylvania, where the presidential campaigns are moving in for an April 22 primary that matters greatly to the closely matched Democratic contenders, voters and nonvoters voiced varying points of view on the issues but seemed to share a common sense of uncertainty.
 It was an uncertainty about the power of a president -- any president -- to fix anything that appears to many fundamentally broken, whether it is the hope of reaching or remaining in the middle class, or American foreign policy in the Middle East, or the expectation of corporate loyalty to longtime employees.
 ''My dad worked for DuPont for 35 years, and now that he's retired they keep raising his health insurance premiums, so he and my mom have to decide whether to get their teeth fixed or not,'' said Diane Farley, 45, a research assistant at Pennsylvania State University in the town of State College.
 In former boomtowns like Johnstown, the resentment toward the big companies is not exactly forgotten but is almost absorbed as part of a communal subconscious, expressed with a wave of the hand at the looming smokestacks and endless blocks of brick foundry crumbling at the heart of the city.
 ''Look at it,'' said Arthur Swope, who once worked there. ''This place used to be something.'' 
 The minutiae of an election campaign as long as this one -- debates on the comparative meaning of ''reject'' and ''denounce''; the measure of how conservative is conservative, how antiwar is antiwar -- seem to disappear quickly in the mist of personal and local history through which most people take the measure of a politician.
 Mrs. Yarnick, for instance, said she would vote for Senator John McCain, the presumptive Republican nominee, ''because he spent all those years in a P.O.W. camp and he doesn't talk about it,'' an indicator of a reserve that she sees as a sign of the character and good manners she admires in her neighbors.
 Peter Contacos, 42, the fourth generation of his family to own and operate Coney Island Lunch, a downtown Johnstown business that survived two floods and the loss of thousands of regular customers when Bethlehem Steel eliminated 15,000 jobs in the 1970s and '80s, will not vote for Senator Barack Obama, ''because his name is Barack Hussein Obama -- case closed.'' Mr. Contacos, an avid hunter who proudly displays pictures of himself with a magnificently maned lion he killed in Botswana, said he considered Mr. Obama ''a terrorist.''
 James Troutman, 61, a self-described liberal Democrat who gave up hunting after shooting his first rabbit as a boy but who has lived his whole life outside Harrisburg in the deeply Republican hunting-happy town of Millerstown, where he was a schoolteacher, said he could not decide between the two Democratic contenders. ''Both of them are divisive figures,'' Mr. Troutman said, and he thinks the rancor of contemporary politics will be the next president's greatest challenge.
 ''I may not decide before I enter the voting booth,'' he said.
 Johnstown, a geological teacup of a place in the valley between two rivers, is distinctive in having suffered three killing floods in the last 119 years, and having recovered miraculously from two of them. Its struggles since the last flood, in 1977, which coincided with the decline of steel and coal, make it more typical of the cities of central and southwestern Pennsylvania.
 ''This area, it's like they wrote it off,'' said Mr. Swope, a retired electrician. ''A billion dollars a day for the war, and when a bridge collapsed over here,'' he said, mentioning a nearby hamlet, ''they didn't even bother fixing it.''
 The 116-year-old bridge carried State Route 1012 over Clearfield Creek in the town of Dysart. Investigators said it collapsed moments after a snowplow crossed on Dec. 11.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Coney Island Lunch has been owned by one Johnstown family for four generations. Not that there have been no obstacles.
 Arthur Swope, a retired electrician, remembers Johnstown in its boom times. ''This area,'' he said, ''it's like they wrote it off.''(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JEFF SWENSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); INTERVIEWS (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (61%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (50%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JOHNSTOWN, PA, USA (91%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2008



483 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1471 words

HEADLINE: A Break for Freddie and Fannie

BYLINE: By JANE BIRNBAUM

 BODY:
They took out adjustable-rate mortgages at the peak of the housing bubble to buy homes they would otherwise not be able to afford. Or they refinanced existing mortgages to take cash out. And now, two or three years later, the day of reckoning is here.
 These are not lower- and middle-income borrowers, but more affluent consumers with annual incomes of $100,000 or more who are increasingly being ensnared in the home mortgage crisis.
 People in all income categories ''are facing the shock of new payments that can be twice as much as previous ones,'' said Susan M. Wachter, professor of business and a real estate specialist at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. 
 Nor will falling interest rates help most of these homeowners, as their low initial payments skyrocket and the worth of their homes erodes, said Allen Fishbein, director of housing and credit policy at the Consumer Federation of America. 
 According to Loan Performance, a unit of First American CoreLogic, a real estate information company based in Santa Ana, Calif., about 870,000 borrowers took jumbo ARMs -- mortgages of $417,000 or more -- from 2005 to 2007. 
 In the fourth quarter of 2007, 8.10 percent were two or more payments late, it found, while 2.62 percent were in the foreclosure process and 1.35 percent had been foreclosed. All the numbers were up from the third quarter. 
 Mark Zandi, chief economist for Moody'sEconomy.com, predicted that eventually 8 percent of these jumbo ARMs will be foreclosed. In the first quarter of 2008, ''the delinquency and foreclosure rate will clearly be higher,'' he said. 
 Today's ARMs were ''designed to fail, so you have to refinance,'' Ms. Wachter said. ''It shouldn't be surprising that values go up and down in this kind of situation. And when you most need to refinance you can't -- the crux of the crunch.'' 
 Jeffrey Conner, a San Francisco real estate lawyer, says he regularly hears from his clients ''that lenders assured them they could always refinance.''
 So what are these homeowners to do now? 
 Refinancing requires some equity. Even if homeowners put a substantial amount of money down, many have no equity because their homes are worth less than they owe. In real estate parlance, their mortgages are under water. 
 Richard Geller, founder of Mortgage Relief Formula, a for-profit venture based in Fairfax, Va., that counsels troubled ARM borrowers, said he received calls from affluent consumers in almost every major metropolitan area. At the moment, Manhattan appears to be the only exception in the weakening market, Mr. Geller said. ''It's really late in the schedule and will be the last place prices soften,'' he added. 
 The first step for distressed homeowners, said Rhonda Porter, a certified mortgage planning specialist and broker in Seattle, is to pull out their loan documents and see what they say.
 Sean O'Toole, founder of ForeclosureRadar.com, which tracks California foreclosures, divided borrowers into two camps. ''If you have equity, you have choices,'' he said. ''If you don't, you have to work on a loan modification with your lender.'' 
 Consumers with substantial equity, high credit scores and documented income should be able to find conventional refinancing, he said. 
 Homeowners with at least 3 percent equity may qualify for refinancing through the Federal Housing Administration. On March 6, it began making loans up to $729,750, a new higher limit that expires Dec. 31 unless Congress extends it. Limits are 125 percent of median home prices, by county. Consumers can find their local limits at https://entp.hud.gov/idapp /html/hicostlook.cfm. 
 To find a qualified lender or broker, consumers may call (800) CALL-FHA, look in the Yellow Pages or visit www.fha.gov for the four regional centers. 
 Loan modifications entail freezing or reducing interest rates and may also include balance reductions. 
 ''But if your payments are still going to be more than half your gross income, the lenders won't do it because they figure you're going to default later,'' Mr. Geller said. ''It's not rational to dedicate your life to making the next $5,000 monthly payment on an asset declining in value.'' 
 Negotiating a loan modification means understanding that in most cases ''the lenders really don't want to force people into foreclosure because that virtually guarantees large losses in the market,'' said Dean Baker, an economist with the Center for Economic and Policy Research in Washington. 
 ''It's a game of chicken,'' Mr. Baker said. ''And you can't play it effectively unless you know what your risks are, including whether lenders can come after your other assets if you walk away.'' 
 Borrowers should determine if they live in a state with nonrecourse laws. In general, lenders in those states cannot pursue borrowers for money owed. But these laws are complex and change often, so consulting with a lawyer may be necessary, Mr. Geller said. He has compiled a list of nonrecourse states at www.mortgagereliefformula.com/recourse. 
 Every affluent borrower who took an ARM has a different story. 
 In Oceanside, Calif., north of San Diego, people paid $650,000 to $750,000 in 2003 and 2004 for row houses on Cleveland Street, said Chris McBrearty, certified mortgage planning specialist, in Carlsbad, Calif., who wrote many mortgages there. When prices for the houses rose as high as $1.5 million in 2005, many of those people refinanced with ARMs to take out cash, he said. 
 But while the borrowers had the best intentions, life -- job losses, divorces, deaths -- changed their financial circumstances, Mr. McBrearty said. Now, with a most recent listing at $920,000, ''nothing is selling on the street, and even for those with some equity, the products needed to refinance such large loans are not out there.'' 
 One of those homeowners, a lawyer who spoke only on condition of anonymity for professional reasons, said he refinanced his mortgage with an ARM in January 2006 to take $510,000 out to invest in a hotel. ''I planned to run the hotel with my lovely wife,'' he said. 
 Their strategy was to sell the house after a couple of years, but when they put it on the market in April 2007, there were no buyers. The lawyer, now divorced, calculated that the mortgage payments, now $6,200 a month, plus taxes consume 96 percent of his net income, which includes occasional rent from vacationers who use the house. He lives with relatives and sleeps on the floor. 
 ''I don't regret what I did,'' he said. But a foreclosure would hurt his career and finances, he said. ''And I was raised to pay back what I borrow.'' 
 His strategy now is to sell when prices revive. But that could take time, because a bank just sold a neighbor's foreclosed home for $850,000. 
 Elizabeth Hamilton, the maiden name of a Los Angeles real estate consultant who did not want to be identified for professional reasons, said she turned to a nonprofit housing counseling agency when she was making no progress in persuading her lender to reduce the interest rate for the ARM she took on her $1.5 million home. The introductory rate was 7.9 percent for two years and payments were $6,541.
 Now the interest rate is 10.25 percent and payments are $8,013. She cannot afford the payments, she said, because her husband has died and her income has fallen. ''I need an interest rate reduction so I can get myself and children back on track,'' she said. 
 A housing counselor, certified by the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development, quickly got through to her servicer's loss mitigation department, where loan modifications are made. Now Ms. Hamilton needs to provide more personal financial information. 
 The best no- or low-cost housing advisers have contacts with lenders' decision makers. ''Our view is you need counselors who will negotiate for you,'' said Bruce Dorpalen, director of counseling for Acorn Housing, a nonprofit counseling group. 
 Mr. Geller said he had heard of just one loan balance reduction won by a borrower. 
 That borrower, a real estate consultant in California who did not want to be identified because he feared angering his lender, said he used his understanding of state law to negotiate the refinancing. He bought a condominium two years ago for $450,000 and invested another $50,000 for improvements. His ARM had a 5.5 percent initial rate that was soon resetting to 7.25 percent. But his condo is now worth only about $350,000. 
 His lender agreed to give him a 6 percent fixed-rate mortgage and, he said, to knock $135,000 off the principal. 
 The agreement came only after he stopped paying his mortgage for two months. ''I am very happy and grateful to the lender because what I owe on my condo now is in line with its worth,'' he said. ''I'm ecstatic.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In Oceanside, Calif., some people paid $650,000 to $750,000 for row houses in 2003 and 2004. Prices rose as high as $1.5 million in 2005, and some people refinanced to take out cash. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SANDY HUFFAKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. C7) GRAPHS: RISKY OPTIONS: The mortgage crisis is increasingly affecting prime borrowers -- those with good credit scores -- who took out adjustable rate mortgages. One type of ARM that was popular with borrowers buying homes of $1 million or more was an option ARM. That mortgage gave homeowners several options for repayment. The figures below, provided by Bryan Copley of JCO Financial in the Seattle area, were for a hypothetical house in San Diego that sold in 2005 for $1 million. Since then, the median home price there has fallen about 17 percent, and that $1 million house is now worth about $775,000 to $830,000. (Source: Bryan Copley (JCO Financial) (pg. C7) Graph showing how the mortgage crisis is affecting prime borrowers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE LOANS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); HOUSING BUBBLE (90%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); FORECLOSURE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (76%); CONSUMER LAW (76%); AFFLUENT MARKET (76%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%)

COMPANY: CORELOGIC INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%)

TICKER: CLGX (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (55%); NAICS524127 DIRECT TITLE INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (55%); SIC6361 TITLE INSURANCE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2008



484 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1102 words

HEADLINE: Dismal Year Is Forecast For Car Sales

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC; Nick Bunkley contributed reporting from New York.

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
The American auto industry is bracing for what may be its worst year in a decade. 
 Several industry forecasters have sharply cut their projections for new-vehicle sales to less than 15.5 million this year, and abandoned rosy predictions for a rebound in the second half.
 The gloomy outlook --reflecting credit turmoil, the housing crisis and the softening economy -- will probably lead to more production cuts by car companies. But the good news for buyers is that they can expect better deals to draw them into the showroom.
 The broader economic woes prompted the marketing firm J. D. Power & Associates to cut its annual forecast to 14.95 million vehicles, from 15.7 million -- the lowest sales level since 1995.
 ''The auto market is entering into a true recessionary phase, which is something we have not seen in the last 10 years,'' said Bob Schnorbus, the firm's chief economist. 
 The industry has been selling at an annualized rate of 15.2 million vehicles through the first three months of the year, but appears headed for an even worse spring season.
 Moreover, analysts are now hedging predictions for a stronger second half of the year, despite the Federal Reserve's move on Tuesday to cut interest rates to stabilize the financial markets.
 With consumers short of cash and deep in debt, many prospective buyers are finding it difficult to secure financing for a new car.
 Automotive finance companies are fearful of repeating the mistakes of subprime lenders in the housing industry and are generally declining to make risky vehicle loans.
 ''We are faced with the dilemma of lowering our credit standards to put them in a car, or saying no,'' said Michael J. Jackson, chairman of AutoNation, the largest auto retailer in the United States. ''And we're telling them no.''
 Mr. Jackson said that another class of customer was ready and able to buy, but was holding out for higher incentives.
 ''They're not sure that the pricing has reached its bottom,'' he said. ''They think there may be another mother-of-all incentive programs on the horizon.''
 Ken Peress, a college administrator in Sault Ste. Marie, Mich., is in that camp.
 ''I'm looking for a fun car to buy, but I'm also looking for the best possible deal,'' Mr. Peress said. ''I want to see what the manufacturers are going to do with deals, negotiating and financing.''
 Analysts expect that automakers will soon open the spigot on cash rebates and other incentives to drive more traffic into the showrooms.
 The highest annual average for incentives was in 2004, when automakers put $2,603 worth of rebates on the hood. The average in January and February of this year was $2,469 for each car, said Jesse Toprak, executive director for industry analysis for the buying guide site Edmunds.com.
 ''We expect incentives to go up and go up soon,'' Mr. Toprak said. ''We might even reach record numbers.''
 So far this year, Detroit's Big Three automakers have chosen to cut production levels to reduce inventories rather than begin an incentive war.
 ''Because of the new U.A.W. contract, the manufacturers have much more flexibility to adjust production at the plant level,'' said Mr. Schnorbus of J. D. Power.
 Robert L. Nardelli, the chairman of Chrysler, said his company had already committed to extensive production cuts this year.
 ''We didn't build in a second-half recovery,'' Mr. Nardelli said in a speech Wednesday at the New York International Auto Show.
 But he added that higher gas prices and the worsening economy were ''hard to anticipate'' and the market could be worse than Chrysler projected.
 ''If we were wrong and not conservative enough, we'll be quick to adjust,'' he said.
 Alan Mulally, chief executive of the Ford Motor Company, told an investors conference Wednesday that Ford's production plan for 2008 was based on industry sales of 15.7 million new vehicles.
 He said that first-quarter sales came in ''at the low end'' of what the company expected. Despite weakness in the market, Mr. Mulally played down any need for Ford to accelerate its overhaul efforts to offset lower sales.
 ''We have the cash, we have the liquidity,'' he said. ''We just have to stay on our plan.''
 Chrysler, Ford and General Motors are all in the midst of major reorganizations that include further cuts in their blue-collar work forces. Both Ford and G.M. have made lucrative buyout offers to every unionized employee in the United States.
 G.M. is still holding to its industry forecast of 15.7 million vehicles for the year. But Ray Young, its chief financial officer, said Wednesday that G.M. was managing its operations ''quarter by quarter'' because of the uncertainty.
 Speaking to investors in New York, Mr. Young said softer-than-expected sales had prompted G.M. to delay some capital expenditures unrelated to new products. ''We have triggered actions right now to conserve liquidity,'' he said.
 However, he said that G.M. would not overreact to the weak market by escalating incentives or dumping vehicle inventory into rental fleets.
 The automaker is benefiting somewhat from a three-week-old strike at American Axle and Manufacturing that has forced G.M. to furlough plants that make its full-size pickups and S.U.V.'s -- two lines that have seen drastic sales drops because of higher gas prices.
 Still, at least one industry analyst said G.M. needed to cut costs further during the downturn.
 ''The current sales slump offers, in our view, an opportunity to kick-start the organization into more aggressive action,'' said Brian Johnson of Lehman Brothers, which is forecasting annual auto sales this year of 15 million to 15.5 million vehicles.
 The forecast by J. D. Power & Associates said the spring might be the ugliest season for the industry, with the annual sales rate dropping to about 14.8 million units.
 Aside from broader economic concerns, April and May are traditionally when gas prices undergo a seasonal increase.
 The national average for unleaded gas hit $3.28 a gallon this week, a 26 percent increase from a year earlier, according to a regular survey done for the motorist group AAA.
 One oil industry analyst said prices might rise further. 
 ''Prices will probably hit a high of somewhere between $3.50 and $3.75 a gallon in April and May,'' said Tom Kloza, chief oil analyst at the Oil Price Information Service in Wall, N.J.
 With all the other economic pressures on consumers, higher gas prices can only make a bad auto market worse.
 ''Everybody thought the first quarter was going to be the worst quarter of the year,'' Mr. Schnorbus said. ''Well, it doesn't look that way anymore.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: March 21, 2008

 CORRECTION:
A chart in Business Day on Thursday with an article about projected automobile sales for 2008 mislabeled the data. United States sales are forecast to be in a range of 14.9 million to 15.7 million vehicles, not $14.9 million to $15.7 million.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A carmaker's display was being set up on Wednesday at the New York International Auto Show. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN LANE/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (pg. C4) GRAPH: A GLOOMY OUTLOOK: This year, the American auto industry expects its lowest sales in a decade. (Source: WardsAuto) (pg. C4) Graph showing a decline in auto sales. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SALES (91%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); SALES REBATES (89%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (89%); NEW CAR DEALERS (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RECESSION (77%); CONSUMER LENDING (76%); SUBPRIME LENDING (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); RETAILERS (72%); INTEREST RATES (67%)

COMPANY: AUTONATION INC (58%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (57%)

TICKER: AN (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS441110 NEW CAR DEALERS (58%); SIC5511 MOTOR VEHICLE DEALERS (NEW AND USED) (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%)

PERSON: MIKE JACKSON (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); SAULT STE MARIE, MI, USA (68%); SAULT STE MARIE, ON, CANADA (68%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (68%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (68%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2008



485 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 365 words

HEADLINE: Federal Investigations Yield Indictments in Mt. Vernon

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT

 BODY:
Federal investigations into the Mount Vernon, N.Y., city government culminated in two sets of mail fraud and conspiracy indictments on Wednesday. One case alleged fraud of more than $1.5 million by the former planning commissioner, and the other accused trash haulers of overcharging the city $1.25 million. 
 Growing public concern about the city's management contributed to the removal last fall of the longtime mayor Ernest D. Davis. He was defeated by Clinton I. Young Jr. in the Democratic primary and general election. Mr. Davis was not mentioned in the indictments.
 The former commissioner, Constance G. Post, 58, was accused of funneling more than $1.5 million in no-bid contracts and an improper loan to a developer, Wayne Charles, 55, of New York City, who was indicted as a co-defendant.
 The indictments, announced by Michael J. Garcia, the United States attorney for the Southern District of New York, charged that Ms. Post had concealed ''a close personal and financial relationship'' with Mr. Charles, who at one point paid her $30,000. 
 Ms. Post served from 1998 to 2005 as Mount Vernon's commissioner of planning and community development and executive director of planning and urban renewal. She left office shortly before a 2006 federal audit concluded that her department had overbilled the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development $1.7 million, but that was not a subject of the indictment.
 Federal prosecutors said that Ms. Post used federal funds in giving contracts to companies benefiting Mr. Charles. In 1999, one of his companies, the Charles Group, used some of the money to buy a residential and commercial property at 3-5 East Third Street in Mount Vernon for $220,000, the court papers said.
 Then Ms. Post arranged a $500,000 city-sponsored loan to renovate the property, but the indictment said she kept the loan off the city's books and did not enforce repayment. 
 In the trash-hauling case, the prosecutors said that two people affiliated with A & D Carting had overcharged Mount Vernon more than $1.25 million from 2002 to 2006. The indictment charged the company's former owner, Alberto Tranquillo III, and a former manager, Michael Pizzolongo.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDICTMENTS (95%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); CONSPIRACY (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (79%); BUSINESS TORTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (77%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (74%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (74%); ELECTIONS (74%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (74%); LAWYERS (74%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (70%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING & URBAN DEVELOPMENT (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2008



486 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 987 words

HEADLINE: Mission Still Not Accomplished

 BODY:
It has been five years since the United States invaded Iraq and the world watched in horror as what seemed like a swift victory by modern soldiers and 21st-century weapons became a nightmare of spiraling violence, sectarian warfare, insurgency, roadside bombings and ghastly executions. Iraq's economy was destroyed, and America's reputation was shredded in the torture rooms of Abu Ghraib, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and the Central Intelligence Agency's secret prisons.
 These were hard and very costly lessons for a country that had emerged from the cold war as the world's sole remaining superpower. Shockingly, President Bush seems to have learned none of them. 
 In a speech on Wednesday, the start of the war's sixth year, Mr. Bush was stuck in the Neverland of his ''Mission Accomplished'' speech. In his mind's eye, the invasion was a ''remarkable display of military effectiveness'' that will be studied for generations. The war has placed the nation on the brink of a great ''strategic victory'' in Iraq and against terrorists the world over. 
 Even now, Mr. Bush talks of Iraqi troops who ''took off their uniforms and faded into the countryside to fight the emergence of a free Iraq'' -- when everyone knows that the American pro-consul, L. Paul Bremer III, overrode Mr. Bush's national security team and, with the president's blessing, made the catastrophically bad decision to disband the Iraqi Army and police force.
 Mr. Bush wants Americans to believe that Iraq was on the verge of ''full-blown sectarian warfare'' when he boldly ordered an escalation of forces around Baghdad last year. In fact, sectarian warfare was raging for months while Mr. Bush refused to listen to the generals, who wanted a new military approach, or to the vast majority of Americans, who just wanted him to end the war.
 All evidence to the contrary, Mr. Bush is still trying to make it seem as if Al Qaeda in Iraq was connected to the Al Qaeda that attacked America on Sept. 11, 2001. He tried to justify an unjustifiable war by ticking off benefits of deposing Saddam Hussein, but he somehow managed to forget the nonexistent weapons of mass destruction.
 Vice President Dick Cheney was equally deep in denial on Monday when he declared at a news conference in Baghdad that it has all been ''well worth the effort.''
 Tell that to the families of nearly 4,000 Americans who have been killed -- far too many of them because Mr. Bush and his arrogantly incompetent secretary of defense, Donald Rumsfeld, failed to plan for an insurgency that many others saw coming. Thousands more Americans have been wounded and deprived of adequate post-conflict care while Iraqis have died by the tens of thousands. More than five million have been driven from their homes.
 Add in a cost to the United States that some say could exceed $3 trillion, the new political opening created for Iran, the incalculable damage to America's reputation and the havoc wreaked on Iraqi society. Few lament Saddam Hussein's passing, but the war has left Iraq a broken country, made the United States more vulnerable, not safer, and stretched the American military to a point that compromises its ability to fight elsewhere.
 The increase in American forces last year initially produced a steep decline in insurgent attacks. But the conflict has drifted into a stalemate with the levels of violence remaining constant, and unacceptably high, from November 2007 through early 2008, according to a Government Accountability Office report. As Mr. Cheney visited Iraq, a bombing killed 43 people.
 One of the cruelest ironies is that Iraqis have not taken advantage of the American troop surge, which was intended to create space for them to resolve their political differences. After much foot-dragging, they passed a 2008 budget and a law granting amnesty to thousands of Sunnis and others in Iraqi jails. But a law on sharing oil wealth is stalled and one aimed at allowing former Baathist Party members back into government may actually drive many out. Another bill, mandating provincial elections by October, was passed by Parliament, then vetoed by the Presidency Council of Iraq's top leaders. Only after pressure from Mr. Cheney was it suddenly revived.
 The plight of Iraqis uprooted by violence is further proof of how broken the country is. Some 2.7 million Iraqis are displaced internally and another 2.4 million have fled as refugees, mostly to Syria and Jordan. That's nearly 20 percent of Iraq's prewar population -- the kind of inconvenient truth the Bush administration would rather ignore.
 Although thousands of refugees returned to Iraq last year, most ended up leaving again because they did not feel secure. American, Iraqi and international aid to Iraqi refugees is insufficient, and many refugees, their savings depleted and barred from most jobs, are despairing, aid workers say. No one knows when -- or if -- they can ever return. Syria and Jordan generously allowed Iraqis in, but the huge numbers could destabilize both countries and fuel anti-America resentment. 
 The United States agreed to admit a paltry 12,000 Iraqi refugees in fiscal year 2008; so far, only 2,000 have been processed. 
 Brighter spots -- Iraq's economy is projected to grow 7 percent this year -- are offset by problems: millions of Iraqis still don't have clean water and medical care, thousands are jobless and the Iraqi Army, while improving, cannot defend the country on its own.
 Mr. Bush and Mr. Cheney refuse to let these facts interfere with their benighted notion of keeping troops in Iraq indefinitely and insisting that Iraq -- not Afghanistan and Pakistan where Al Qaeda and the Taliban have gained ground -- must remain America's top priority. 
 It was clear long ago that Mr. Bush had no plan for victory, only a plan for handing this mess to his successor. Americans need to choose a president with the vision to end this war as cleanly as possible. 

CORRECTION-DATE: March 21, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An editorial on Thursday about the war in Iraq gave the wrong day for President Bush's speech on the occasion of the war's fifth anniversary. Mr. Bush spoke on Wednesday, not Tuesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); TERRORISM (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ARMIES (78%); COLD WAR (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); AL-QAEDA (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); PRISONS (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (60%); POLICE FORCES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (57%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (94%); CUBA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2008



487 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; OUR TOWNS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: Bear's News Is Bad News On the 6:13

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

DATELINE: CHAPPAQUA, N.Y. 

 BODY:
 At Cafe La Track, where commuters get their coffee, bagel and newspaper at the Chappaqua train station, there is a sign on the wall with Buddhism's Four Noble Truths.
 They are: There is suffering in the world: mental and physical. Suffering is a result of attachment to our desires. By eliminating attachment you can eliminate suffering. The method for eliminating suffering is called the Eightfold Path, and its key practice is meditation.
 But rather than the Four Noble Truths or the Eightfold Path, the numbers that seem most relevant to the predawn regulars on the 6:13 to Manhattan tend to be more variable ones: the Dow, the Fed funds rate, the CRB commodities index, the euro and the yen and the rest. 
 And the preferred method of eliminating suffering seems to be not meditation but for the Federal Reserve to reduce interest rates by three-quarters of a percentage point.
 Not that all the suffering has been eliminated. The pilgrims from Chappaqua trudged in from the cold drizzle Wednesday morning and gathered in drowsy silence like crows on the covered overpass above the tracks until 6:11, when someone said, ''It's time to get our heads bashed in.'' Thus inspired, they descended to the platform, piled onto the largely empty cars, and then, either asleep, reading a newspaper, or with heads bowed as if in prayer over BlackBerrys, journeyed in silence on the 32.4 miles to Grand Central.
 Bad news is not necessarily bad news on the 6:13, or for the even hardier pilgrims on the 5:01, the 5:25 and the 5:46. Layoffs at Ford or G.M. can mean a company is finally getting tough in cutting costs. A forced merger of two struggling steel companies can mean one more efficient company. Analysts register their approval. Share prices rise. The men of the 6:13 (and almost all are men) are happy.
 But the bad news of the past week, particularly the obliteration of the market value of Bear Stearns and the possibility that most of its 14,000 employees could lose their jobs, is bad news very close to home. Especially for the contingent of Bear folks in town, who have seen a good part of their net worth vaporize.
 ''Everyone has their own range of emotions -- anger, embarrassment, sadness, confusion,'' said one Bear employee who lives in Chappaqua. ''It's almost Enron-like, without the fraud and malfeasance. Individuals can get laid off for many different reasons. But to see an entire firm disappear in the blink of an eye, it's difficult to fathom.''
 After the conversation ended, he called back five minutes later, saying that, on reflection, it would be a very bad idea for him to be quoted by name, no matter how innocuous his comment.
 ''I'd be a dead man,'' he said.
 Death might not be in the offing, but in a town where the most conspicuous form of employment tends to be on Wall Street or in law firms, the fear was not limited to people at Bear Stearns.
 ''Anyone, on any level, who doesn't think, 'This could happen to me,' is on drugs,'' said Edward L. Scharf, managing director of the Portfolio Strategy Group, an investment advisory firm. ''If anyone had predicted in July that Bear Stearns employees would likely become employees of JPMorgan Chase, they would have been laughed out of the room.''
 The Bear Stearns employee said he'd been struck by how many messages of support he had received. ''If you changed a few words, they read like condolence calls,'' he said. ''It was as if someone in my family had died.''
 But the reaction wasn't all that simple. At Donna Hair Designs in Chappaqua, the financial meltdown barely registered on the yakometer when compared with the embarrassment of riches from the political world, especially the ever-evolving saga of the Three Tenors, former Gov. James E. McGreevey of New Jersey, former Gov. Eliot Spitzer of New York and the current governor, David A. Paterson.
 And in a town with a bit of Type A overload of its own, it was not lost on many that no firm was seen as more certifiably Type AAA-rated than Bear Stearns, the gold standard of the overcaffeinated Wall Street way. 
 So along with ''There but for the Grace of God Go I,'' there were also some elements of ''If Anyone Was Going to Drive the Bus Off the Cliff It Was Bear.''
 Schadenfreude works best when the object isn't too close -- maybe the guy riding around town in the top-of-the-line BMW with the license reading ''Hedged'' instead of the guy whose son is on your kid's soccer team. Still, anyone looking for lessons on the trip home in the afternoon could pick from many.
 Just because you have it today doesn't mean you have it tomorrow. Those who live by the big trade can die by it. There are worse tragedies than those of the ultra-big shots whose billion-dollar stake is down to $20 million. 
 Maybe there's something to be said for the Four Noble Truths and the Eightfold Path. In the end, there are things that cannot be solved by the Federal Reserve's reducing interest rates by three-quarters of a percentage point.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDITATION (90%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); RELIGION (78%); STOCK INDEXES (74%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (74%); MISCONDUCT (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (68%); PRICE INCREASES (50%)

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS INC (58%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2008



488 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; FIVE YEARS IN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3685 words

HEADLINE: In Uneasy City, Tough Test of Rebuilt Iraqi Army

BYLINE: By SOLOMON MOORE; Michael Kamber contributed reporting.

DATELINE: MOSUL, Iraq 

 BODY:
After the Iraqi Army increased patrols in this northern city earlier this year, Col. Haji al-Zibari found himself chasing two insurgents in a weapons-laden truck. 
 The driver and his passenger veered off the road, jumped out, fired a few shots and disappeared into the city. 
 So Colonel Zibari, then the second in command of the Second Brigade of the Second Iraqi Army Division, drove their truck to a traffic circle in the middle of a known insurgent haven on the crowded west end of the city and doused it with gasoline. 
 Then he set a gas-soaked rag on fire, tossed it on the ground and fired a burst from his AK-47, blasting the flaming cloth into the truck. He let the whole thing burn. 
 ''This is what we do to insurgents' property!'' he shouted to the rooftops. 
 When American military officials talk about ''Iraqis in the lead,'' Colonel Zibari is an example of what they mean: Iraqis operating their own checkpoints, doing their own patrols, using their own intelligence. American officials acknowledge that Iraqi methods often deviate from standard military doctrine but say that even rough-hewn tactics are more acceptable than the prospect of an indefinite, if more professional, occupying force. 
 The Bush administration says that an Iraqi Army capable of fighting on its own is a crucial prerequisite for the eventual withdrawal of American troops. But since its disbandment in 2003 by Coalition Provisional Authority Order No. 2, the Iraqi Army has struggled to regain its footing. For years, Iraqi troops have been hampered by poor training, corruption, equipment shortages and a determined insurgency that has killed twice as many Iraqi soldiers and police officers as American troops.
 Now, five years into the war, American commanders say that the reborn force is coming into its own. And Mosul, an ethnically mixed city that has been under stepped-up assault by insurgents and where Iraqi Army units far outnumber their American counterparts, offers a possible glimpse into the future. But the Iraqi Army's performance in Mosul so far suggests that while the Iraqi forces are taking on more responsibility and have made strides, there are still troubling gaps. 
 American commanders said that Iraqi forces in Mosul had conducted basic operations, including patrols, ''cordon and searches'' and raids with minimal assistance. Unlike many previous Iraqi Army units, Mosul's battalions have relatively few desertions. The troops are also known by their American counterparts to be exceptionally good at using informants to glean intelligence. 
 But continuing logistical problems and equipment shortages crippled many units even as the insurgency regrouped from former strongholds in Baghdad and Diyala, Anbar and Salahuddin Provinces to Nineveh Province. Poor communication between Iraqi Army units and the Defense Ministry remains a problem, as does uneven leadership in the field. American advisers complained that some commanders in Mosul appeared to be unwilling to lead their men into battle.
 As the American military redeployed units last year to support a troop increase in Baghdad and Diyala Province, Mosul was left with a stripped-down ''economy of force'' operation. Only 750 Americans were left in Mosul and about 2,000 in all of Nineveh, a province the size of Maryland on the Syrian border.
 Sapped of much of their combat power, American commanders relied on Iraqi security forces in Nineveh, especially the Second and Third Iraqi Army Divisions, two heavily Kurdish units believed to be among Iraq's best. But the Iraqi Army was also shorthanded, having sent two battalions to Baghdad. The two divisions currently have about 20,000 soldiers; about 8,700 from one division are in Mosul proper. 
 Faced with a barrage of insurgent attacks last year, the small number of Americans could not adequately support their understaffed Iraqi counterparts. In many of Mosul's worst districts, Iraqi soldiers and police officers ceded ground to insurgents, American commanders said. As violence declined elsewhere in Iraq, attacks spiked in Nineveh. 
 By February there were about 180 attacks in one week, according to military statistics, a record high and almost double the rate 18 months earlier.
 Many of the obstacles the Iraqi forces faced in Mosul would have tested an even more able force. 
 American military officials say that insurgents in Mosul, especially on the western bank of the Tigris River, are among the most active and best organized. 
 High unemployment helps drive the insurgency in Nineveh, along with ethnic and nationalist tensions. While Kurds control the provincial government, Sunni Arabs make up about 60 percent of the population. Some insurgents appeal to Sunnis' fears of Kurdish domination while other groups simply pay jobless youths to plant roadside bombs. 
 The tensions between Kurds and Sunni Arabs, as well as Nineveh's unusually diverse population of Christians, Yazidis and various tribes, precluded attempts to deploy a large number of citizen guard groups, known as Concerned Local Citizens, or the Sunni Awakening, that have helped tamp down violence elsewhere in Iraq.
 And the insurgency has chosen to make a stand in Mosul. ''There's been movement of guys from Diyala coming up the Haditha River Valley up through the Hamran Mountains into Baiji, Sharqat and into Mosul,'' said Capt. Patrick Ryan, an intelligence officer for the First Battalion, Eighth Infantry, which arrived in Mosul in January. ''There's pressure on Diyala, and there's been reporting that they want more fighters in Mosul right now.''
 So entrenched were insurgents in the hardscrabble west Mosul neighborhood of Zanjeli that they regularly hanged bodies from a bridge to intimidate residents.
 Another sign of the sophistication of the insurgency in Mosul was a January ambush that killed five American soldiers. A video of the attack was on the Internet in 21 minutes.
 ''There are those who say the Iraqi Army can control Iraq without the Americans,'' said Col. Ali Omar Ali, an Iraqi battalion commander in east Mosul. ''But they are liars. Without the Americans it would be impossible for us to control Iraq.''
 More American Help
 In November, the military tacitly acknowledged the inability of the Iraqi Army to contain the insurgency without additional American help when it sent the larger and more heavily equipped Third Armored Cavalry Regiment of Fort Carson, Colo., to Mosul to replace the shorthanded Fourth Brigade Combat Team, First Cavalry Division.
 Based at Forward Operating Base Marez in Mosul, the new regiment has about 3,000 soldiers, nearly 300 tanks and Bradley personnel carriers and scores of new high-axle mine resistant ambush protected vehicles, or MRAPs. In addition, the First Battalion of the Eighth Infantry is being used to reinforce American and Iraqi troops in east Mosul. 
 The unit has about 2,000 soldiers in Mosul now, about twice the number the Fourth Brigade Combat Team had. That is still far fewer than the full division posted there in 2003. But the recent infusion of troops has allowed the unit to increase patrols and sweeps.
 ''We went into areas that basically had been without a coalition or Iraqi Army presence probably in about 15 or 16 months if not longer than that,'' said Col. Michael A. Bills, commander of the Third Armored Cavalry Regiment.
 Iraqi Army officers say they are willing, but unprepared and unequipped to fight the insurgency. Iraqi commanders complained about fuel shortages, cheap Chinese weapons that jam after a few shots and too few combat boots.
 ''We do have some battalions down to between 8 to 10 operational vehicles,'' said Lt. Col. Jeff Meeker, a Military Transition Team adviser for the Second Brigade of the Second Iraqi Army Division in west Mosul. ''That's a significant decrease in their combat power.''
 Despite its problems in Mosul, however, the Iraqi Army has made progress over all. 
 In 2004, insurgents overran Mosul and destroyed the security forces, but the current number of all Iraqi security forces in Nineveh exceeds 40,000. And some Iraqi Army units did perform basic operations last year like operating checkpoints and carrying out occasional cordon and search missions with minimal help from embedded, squad-size American advisory teams. 
 Beyond training their Iraqi counterparts in their specific functions, American advisers often play an integral role in coordinating operations between various Iraqi units to prevent friendly fire accidents or the replication of duties. Advisers also monitor Iraqi units for human rights abuses, corruption and other serious departures from military doctrine.
 And the advisers are often significant force multipliers for Iraqi Army units because they are able to coordinate with other American and Iraqi units, run interference with the Defense Ministry and request air support.
 The American Army is also training thousands more Iraqi troops. Lt. Gen. James M. Dubik, commander of the American security training and equipping mission in Iraq, said new training regimens focused less on ''marching and saluting'' and more on ''combat skills and shooting.'' He also credits a new system that trains Iraqi soldiers within their units to foster greater troop cohesion. The Iraqi Army hired 45,000 soldiers between June and December 2007, increasing the total force to 170,000 troops.
 The Iraqi Army is also planning to add several division-level logistics centers. In early 2007, only about 30 to 40 percent of all battalions had appropriate numbers of officers; now about 70 percent have their full set of leaders, General Dubik said.
 A recent Pentagon review reported that 102 out of a total of 169 Iraqi battalions were ''capable of planning, executing, and sustaining counterinsurgency operations with or without Iraqi or coalition support,'' up from only 24 battalions in 2005. Still, American military officials say that even ''independent operations'' by the Iraqi Army usually include some measure of American assistance, even if only air support, logistical help or an embedded squad of military advisers.
 The military has also sold or given thousands of Humvees, American firearms and other equipment to the Iraqis.
 But much of the Iraqi Army's recently acquired equipment still sits at weapons depots. And officers in Mosul said they lacked the training or support to maintain vehicles that had been delivered. 
 ''Every week we lose a Humvee because it needs something,'' said Maj. Mohammad Akram, an Iraqi officer in east Mosul. ''We don't have enough body armor. We don't have enough vehicles.''
 He held up his rifle. ''I got this from one of the bad guys.''
 Major Akram then ticked off other things the Iraqis regularly needed from the Americans: ''Ammunition. Rifles. Medicine. Communication.'' 
 ''If something goes bad, we need air support,'' he said, recalling how insurgents recently pinned down his men during a two-hour battle. One Iraqi soldier was killed before American helicopters rescued the others.
 ''If air support hadn't come, it would not have been good,'' he said. 
 And for every man of action like Colonel Zibari, there are Iraqi security forces like those Capt. David Sandoval ordered into action last month.
 In February, Captain Sandoval's platoon, part of the First Battalion, Eighth Infantry, shot and wounded an insurgent as he tried to bury a roadside bomb in the Somer district in southeast Mosul. The man fled, and Captain Sandoval radioed nearby Iraqi Army and Iraqi Police units and ordered them to search houses in the area.
 An American platoon commander's voice crackled over the radio: ''The I.A.'s say it's the I.P.'s job, and the I.P.'s say it's the I.A.'s job. They won't go.''
 ''This happens all the time,'' Captain Sandoval said, exasperated. ''They won't go in there unless we're there with them.''
 ''The I.A. is getting mutilated out here,'' said Sgt. James Luce as the Americans prepared to go on a joint mission with the Iraqis. ''Al Qaeda is better equipped and better trained than they are. Without us out here, they don't stand a chance.''
 Securing Neighborhoods
 In Mosul, the American troops are working to establish fortified checkpoints and combat outposts in some of the city's toughest neighborhoods.
 The idea, modeled on previous successful efforts in Tal Afar and Baghdad, is to use the checkpoints to disrupt insurgents' mobility and the use of car bombs. The outposts will form the spine of a security infrastructure in Mosul that Colonel Bills said he hoped would retake territory from the insurgents and compensate for the Iraqi Army's lack of mobility. 
 Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki also sent Lt. Gen. Riyadh Jalal Tawfiq, the former commander of the Ninth Iraqi Army Division in Baghdad, to establish the Nineveh Operational Command, so Iraqis could take control of the sometimes fractious Iraqi troops, policemen and border forces in the province.
 In an effort to galvanize the Iraqi Army and build its ability, Colonel Bills said, most operations are now conducted jointly with ''Iraqi Army, Iraqi Police and the coalition working together shoulder-to-shoulder.''
 ''We are basically doing the outer cordon, and Iraqis are doing the inner cordon,'' he said. ''That way there is an Iraqi face on it, and the Iraqi people see that.''
 American troops have already built about a dozen checkpoints on the west side of the city and have plans to build several more. Once the checkpoints and outposts are completed and Iraqi security forces have a more secure foothold throughout the city, American troops intend once again to cede them more military responsibility. 
 Initially, however, American troops are doing most of the heavy lifting. Lt. Col. Christopher Johnson, the commander of the First Battalion, Eighth Infantry, decided to build Combat Outpost Rock near the site of a Jan. 28 ambush by insurgents. In mid-February, as army engineers moved a crane and other equipment toward the site, insurgents staged three more ambushes, including a roadside bomb attack that disabled the tracked crane-mover. 
 A few days later, Iraqi Army units discovered a Red Crescent ambulance truck filled with 5,000 pounds of homemade explosives, made from ammonium nitrate fertilizer, similar to the bomb Timothy McVeigh used to bring down the Oklahoma City federal building in 1995. It was parked at a house only 500 yards away from the new outpost.
 Two sweat-soaked American soldiers drove the truck six miles into the desert so that it could be detonated safely. ''It still closed doors and rattled windows back in town,'' said Captain Ryan, the battalion's intelligence officer. 
 American commanders, eager to give Iraqis credit for the mission to construct combat outposts throughout the city, frequently meet with Iraqi soldiers to encourage their participation.
 One such briefing took place in February at Al Kindi Base, the Second Iraqi Army Division's ramshackle headquarters. American officers saw the session as both a way for the Iraqi Army to put its mark on the combat outpost construction plan and to advise Iraqi commanders on their deliberation process.
 Before the meeting, Colonel Johnson and several other American officers spoke with the Iraqi division commander, Brig. Gen. Mutaa al-Khazraji, about the role his men would play. The Americans sounded more enthusiastic than General Khazraji.
 Sitting behind a desk in his office, the general complained that he was short of fuel, uniforms and working vehicles. His men had enough weapons, he said, but they were a hodgepodge of AK-47s from various former Soviet republics and China. General Khazraji said that Iraqis were starting to take more responsibility for their own logistical issues, but often with critical delays.
 Colonel Johnson sympathized with the general, saying: ''It's the same thing for us. If I have a Humvee destroyed, sometimes it takes a long time for the Humvee to get replaced and run through the system in Kuwait.''
 ''Excuse me, Colonel,'' the general shot back. ''But don't forget. You have enough vehicles and also when you ask for spare parts you get new spare parts. But sometimes we receive old spare parts, especially for our vehicles made in 2000 or earlier. Many times they don't fit, so we still cannot repair them.''
 Col. David Brown, General Khazraji's main American adviser, also tried to highlight the positive: ''Your system is a little bit more immature, sir. But I think the I.A. is doing a lot better than some give them credit for. Iraqi battalions are fighting at a tactical level, and they have been for a year.''
 ''We established new battalions,'' interrupted General Khazraji. ''But they didn't get any support. We didn't get anything from MoD yet,'' a reference to the Ministry of Defense.
 The general said that 56 of his units' vehicles had been destroyed, and a third of the remaining 178 were broken. 
 About two dozen senior military officers crammed into the planning session. Only a few were American advisers. A projector displayed a PowerPoint map depicting bomb-studded thoroughfares cutting through a residential grid. Iraqi explosive ordinance teams would clear those roads. Marks for future checkpoints dotted intersections in southeast Mosul. Those would be built by Americans.
 Another slide depicted the helmet-shaped district of Somer divided into three sections. The solution was directly imported from Baghdad, where the American military compartmentalized feuding sectarian enclaves with miles of concrete barricades.
 A Broader Discussion
 Then the discussion swerved off course. Far from the crisp bullet-pointed agendas common in American military briefings, the Iraqis, many of them dressed in mismatched camouflage uniforms, spoke over one another with little regard for rank. A din of debates in English and Arabic filled the room.
 Colonel Brown, a slight, man with gray hair and a professorial demeanor, tried to direct the conversation in a Socratic fashion.
 ''What is it that we're trying to do?'' he asked the Iraqi command staff. ''What is the end product that you want in this neighborhood?''
 General Khazraji suggested that they encircle Somer with a concrete wall. 
 ''Where do you get 12 kilometers worth of barrier material?'' asked Colonel Brown, now more incredulous than Socratic.
 ''It's not that difficult,'' the general replied. ''The United States has good money.''
 But Colonel Johnson said that the $3 million needed for so much concrete was beyond his battalion's means. The Americans suggested the general should approach Mosul's mayor for barrier construction funds. But by then the idea seemed to have lost its allure for General Khazraji. 
 ''This is the best plan to control the terrorists,'' he said. ''But if we do this plan and divide the city, Mosul is not like Baghdad. People are going to get mad and we might have riots.''
 Colonel Brown closed out the meeting by posing another dialectical question for the commanders to chew on until their next briefing. ''How do we win this fight in Mosul, or do you continue doing the same thing for the next 10 years?''
 General Khazraji half-shrugged, closed his eyes and pressed his hand to his forehead.
 Colonel Johnson walked out of the room looking weary. ''It's not exactly how we plan,'' he said, a wan smile playing on his face. ''But at least they are planning.''
 A Joint Operation
 The next night, Colonel Johnson sent American troops to southeast Mosul to help secure an intersection while engineers constructed a checkpoint in the Somer district, in same area. They were to be joined by Iraqi Army troops led by a battalion commander, Col. Ahmed Khouri.
 Maj. Chad Arcand, an adviser to Colonel Khouri, said the battalion was a ''two'' on the four-point readiness scale the American military uses to gauge its training efforts. That means that the battalion is capable of company- and battalion-level operations.
 But Major Arcand acknowledged the Iraqis had carried out few operations independently.
 ''They've done one while we've been here,'' he said. ''And we're trying to get them to do intelligence-driven operations, like when you raid a target. We did a night operation with about 12 vehicles and 80 personnel, but we came up dry.'' 
 Major Arcand was also trying to encourage Colonel Khouri to do joint operations with Iraqi police officers. But the colonel said the predominantly Sunni Arab policemen had ties to insurgents.
 ''We have trust in our own Iraqi Army,'' he said. ''All my men are from Erbil. But the Iraqi Police we cannot trust 100 percent. They always leak our plans.''
 By the time the joint convoy rumbled into the Somer district, the city's curfew had emptied the blast-pocked streets. American troops set up a perimeter with their armored vehicles and waited as the Iraqis and their American advisers conducted a series of brief house searches.
 An American helicopter crew spotted a man loitering outside his home and radioed his location to the Iraqi units. More than 30 soldiers swarmed the man and peppered him with questions.
 ''What are you doing? Who are you?'' Colonel Khouri demanded. The man looked at once terrified and bewildered. ''I am checking the generator,'' he told them repeatedly. He lived in a nearby house, and the soldiers eventually released him.
 ''That is a prime example of what they add to the fight,'' said Capt. Robert Mahoney, the American company commander, looking upon the Iraqis with pride.
 In the distance, a bomb exploded with a dull concussive thump. A police convoy had been hit, wounding an officer.
 After about an hour, Colonel Khouri decided to turn in for the night, leaving his men and Captain Mahoney's company behind to finish the mission.
 The colonel's adviser, Major Arcand, was obliged to follow, but he said he was a little surprised that the commander was leaving the mission so early. The rest of the soldiers would be on guard well past dawn.
 ''But this is progress,'' the major said. ''We've been on 45 or 46 missions, and this is the first one he's agreed to go out on.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Brig. Gen. Mutaa al-Khazraji, center, an Iraqi Army commander in Mosul, discussed a joint security operation with his American military advisers last month. General Khazraji complained about a shortage of fuel, uniforms and working vehicles for his troops. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL KAMBER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A1)
JOINT OPERATION: Iraqi and American soldiers waited for their orders before taking part in a mission to secure a Mosul neighborhood last month
AMERICAN MIGHT: An American armored vehicle in Mosul. The Iraqi Army still relies on American firepower
 PARTNERS IN ARMS: An American soldier, right, part of a military training team, patrolled a street in Mosul last month with an Iraqi soldier. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL KAMBER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (94%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (72%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2008



489 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1484 words

HEADLINE: A Break for Freddie and Fannie

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
With the blessing of the Bush administration, the regulator of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the nation's two largest mortgage finance companies, eased a major restriction on the companies on Wednesday in an effort to unfreeze credit markets and stabilize housing prices. 
 By reducing the extra cushion of capital the two companies have been required to hold since 2004, the regulator, the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, is enabling the companies to invest $200 billion more in home loans. In essence, the companies are being allowed to take billions of dollars that had been used as a reserve against possible further losses and invest that money now in the housing market.
 ''Additional capital will enable the companies to help more homeowners and will strengthen the underlying fundamentals of the mortgage market,'' said Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr.
 Officials hope that by unshackling Fannie and Freddie they can begin to reduce the cost of borrowing for prospective home buyers or refinancing for people who already own homes, help unlock the credit markets and possibly reduce some of the downward pressure on home prices. 
 But critics said that if the housing market continued to decline, the move could put the two companies on a less sure footing and ultimately require a huge taxpayer bailout. 
 At the end of 2007, Fannie Mae had $45 billion in capital and Freddie Mac had $37 billion, for a total of $82 billion between them. But that cushion supports more than $1.4 trillion of combined debt and debt guarantees.
 ''I think it's very dangerous and it's a sign that people are very frightened,'' said Thomas H. Stanton, an expert on the two companies who teaches a course on credit risk at Johns Hopkins University. ''At a time in which finance companies are holding questionable assets and facing losses, regulators typically require more capital, not less.'' 
 Created by Congress, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac do not lend to home buyers but instead purchase mortgages from banks and other lending institutions and then either hold the loans in investment portfolios or resell them to investors as mortgage-backed securities. Fannie, the larger and older of the two, was founded during the Depression to help stabilize the economy and offer greater opportunities for Americans to buy homes. 
 The decision on Wednesday is the latest in a series of moves that make it easier for the two companies to maneuver in the mortgage markets.
 This year, Congress lifted to nearly $730,000 from $417,000 the cap on the value of mortgages -- the so-called conforming loan limit -- that the companies can purchase. The higher limits, which expire at year-end, could breathe new life into high-priced markets like California and the East Coast by making it less costly to finance expensive homes. 
 Officials predicted that Wednesday's moves, combined with the easing of some restrictions last month to let the companies help finance a greater variety of mortgages, would allow the companies to buy or guarantee about $2 trillion in mortgages this year.
 In recent months, interest rates on mortgages have risen, despite the glut of homes for sale and repeated interest rate cuts by the Federal Reserve. In large part, banks have been unwilling to lend for mortgages that they cannot unload on Wall Street, which in normal times would have packaged them into mortgage-backed bonds. The hope among officials is that the lower capital requirements will stimulate Fannie and Freddie to purchase more loans, in turn helping the housing markets and easing the credit crisis.
 Government officials and executives from Fannie and Freddie said the announcement demonstrated that the two companies had been adequately overhauled after accounting scandals. The share prices of the two companies rose sharply on the news, with Fannie closing up $2.49, to $30.71, and Freddie closing up $3.88, to $29.90.
 The companies have been required to hold 30 percent more capital than the minimum required before 2004, when accounting deficiencies were discovered at Freddie. The higher capital reserve, in effect, capped their ability to purchase mortgages at a time when Wall Street firms were also cutting back. 
 As part of a deal with regulators, the two companies will now be able to reduce that amount by a third, to 20 percent. For Fannie Mae, that means holding $3.2 billion less capital, while for Freddie Mac it is $2.6 billion less. 
 In exchange, the companies have committed to raise ''significant capital'' in the future, though that pledge is vague, and executives said they were only just beginning to figure out a plan. Regulators are also planning to lift soon the requirements of a settlement made with the government to resolve enforcement proceedings against the companies.
 Since late last year, the companies have struggled to raise new capital as the housing crisis has worsened. Three weeks ago, Freddie Mac reported a record quarterly loss of $2.5 billion and Fannie Mae reported a $3.56 billion quarterly loss. In response to those losses, the companies said they had raised $13 billion through the sale of preferred stock.
 Officials had been urging the companies to raise more capital to protect them against further losses. But the companies have been resistant, in large part because they do not want to dilute the value of shares now held by investors.
 The announcement by the companies' regulator represented a stunning and some say risky change of course for the administration and the regulators. It also reduces the likelihood that Congress will adopt tough new oversight rules for the companies. The administration's plan, considered too onerous by the companies, ran into stiff resistance last year and had already stalled even before regulators began to loosen the rules. 
 As recently as last fall, senior administration officials had been urging Congress to adopt tighter regulations that would limit the companies' flexibility to hold mortgages. The concern by some officials has been the implicit guarantee of government backing in case either company defaults on its debts, which are huge. 
 Critics and rival institutions have long complained that the implicit guarantee socializes the risk, while the nature of the companies as publicly traded entities privatizes much of the gains.
 The Bush administration has repeatedly said there is no such implicit guarantee, but investors continue to believe -- as evidenced by their willingness to lend to Fannie and Freddie at lower rates of interest than commercial banks can get -- that the government would engineer a taxpayer bailout in case of a default.
 At a news conference, James B. Lockhart, the director of the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, or Ofheo, praised the companies for fixing their problems and rejected the notion that the moves to reduce capital would make the companies more vulnerable.
 ''The actions we're taking today make the idea of a bailout nonsense in my mind,'' Mr. Lockhart said. ''The companies are safe and sound, and they will continue to be safe and sound.''
 But some analysts disagreed, saying they were concerned that in the name of short-term fixes the government could be creating longer-term problems.
 ''If the markets continue to decline, Fannie and Freddie will be two of the bodies on the beach,'' said Karen Shaw Petrou, managing partner of Federal Financial Analytics, a consulting company. ''The argument is settled that the less capital the companies hold, the more risk they take.''
 Last year, federal regulators were blocking efforts by Fannie and Freddie to expand their portfolios of mortgage holdings. And in a letter last September to Congress, Ben. S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, said that relaxing portfolio restrictions could prove ''ill advised.''
 Officials said the Wednesday announcement was precipitated in part by the events of last week. In response to the credit crisis, the Federal Reserve announced that it would lend up to $200 billion to institutions and would accept Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac debt and other mortgage-backed securities as collateral. The stock of the two companies, which had been declining significantly, jumped in response.
 A day after that announcement, Richard F. Syron, the chairman and chief executive of Freddie, announced that it would not increase its capital because such a move could harm shareholders. 
 Top executives of the two companies hailed Wednesday's decision.
 ''Everybody should be happy about what's going on today,'' Mr. Syron said. ''It shows the best of the regulatory system.''
 Daniel H. Mudd, the chief executive of Fannie Mae, said the decision ''provides stability in a market which needs additional help.''
 ''Ultimately we hope it means buyers get lower mortgages and that people facing adjustable rates can refinance at affordable levels,'' Mr. Mudd said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (89%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); BAILOUTS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (95%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (93%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (95%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2008



490 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 528 words

HEADLINE: In Blow to Serbia, 3 Neighbors Say They'll Recognize Kosovo

BYLINE: By REUTERS

DATELINE: BELGRADE, Serbia 

 BODY:
Croatia, Hungary and Bulgaria announced Wednesday that they would recognize Kosovo, a blow to Serbia's efforts to overturn Kosovo's month-old declaration of independence.
 In a joint statement issued in their capitals, the three countries in the region said the decision was based on ''thorough consideration.'' They also underlined the importance of protecting the Serbian minority in Kosovo, where more than 90 percent of the residents are ethnic Albanians. 
 ''The government has made a decision to recognize Kosovo,'' said the Croatian prime minister, Ivo Sanader. ''I do understand this is a difficult one for Serbia to swallow. That's one of the reasons we have waited until now. But I don't expect a worsening of political and economic relations because there is no alternative to good neighborly relations.''
 The Croatia Mission in Belgrade, near the United States Embassy, which was attacked and burned by Serbian protesters last month, was closed for the day behind new steel shutters.
 Some Bulgarian families who were worried about security left Serbia, diplomatic officials said. 
 A Hungarian diplomatic official said there was concern in Budapest about potential attacks on the ethnic Hungarian minority -- about 300,000 people -- in the northern province of Vojvodina.
 But, he said, ''independent Kosovo is a reality, and recognition cannot be avoided.''
 Serbia's pro-Western foreign minister, Vuk Jeremic, acknowledged the neighbors' decision ''with sadness.''
 ''Countries that make this decision cannot have good ties with Serbia,'' he said in Greece, a traditional ally that has not recognized Kosovo.
 More than 30 countries have now recognized Kosovo. Canada announced its recognition on Tuesday, reiterating the Western case that forcing its two million Albanians to rejoin Serbia after nine years under United Nations rule was not a viable option. 
 In Washington, President Bush authorized the sale of weapons and other defense materiel to the government of Kosovo, a step that will almost certainly inflame Serbian and Russian officials who oppose Kosovo's independence. In a formal notice to the secretary of state required under the Foreign Assistance Act, Mr. Bush said the sales, along with defense training and military exchanges, would ''strengthen the security of the United States and promote world peace.''
 Serbia's pro-Western president, Boris Tadic, said this week that ties with Croatia would suffer further. Serbs and Croats fought a war from 1991 to 1995 over the breakup of Yugoslavia.
 ''We want to have the best possible relations with this country,'' Mr. Tadic said. ''But recognition of Kosovo is certainly not an act of good will between neighbors.''
 In the Kosovo Serbian stronghold of Mitrovica, United Nations police officers returned to the base they were forced to abandon Monday in the worst riots yet over Kosovo's independence.
 NATO says the violence was orchestrated by one faction in the Serbian government. The Belgrade daily Blic on Wednesday cited officials as saying that Slobodan Samardzic, who is the minister for Kosovo and among those who advocate a tough stance, had advocated keeping tensions high.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (62%); RIOTS (60%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); BUDAPEST, HUNGARY (79%) SERBIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); CROATIA (95%); HUNGARY (94%); KOSOVO (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ALBANIA (92%); BULGARIA (90%); CANADA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2008



491 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: Notes From the Field: War and Peace

BYLINE: By JAMES HILL

 BODY:
The Road to Baghdad
 March 25, 2003: Suddenly a huge sandstorm has blown up and we can barely see a few feet. The convoy just stops, swallowed in a yellow haze. The men all put on their goggles, scarves, and sheltered as best they could. In one truck a marine was resolutely eating a pack of Skittles in the teeth of the storm.
 The sands drift by as we sit in the car doing nothing. The straps hum and flap, making sounds like an indigenous instrument. The car rocks constantly, such is the strength of the wind. We wait, which I have now realized is a military specialty. The weather feels like a much more potent enemy than the Iraqi Army and we feel swallowed by it. 
 March 26: The sandstorm was still blowing this morning, but a shadow of its former self. We hooked up with another convoy. Our camp for the night had been the site of an ambush by Iraqi forces on a Marine convoy just ahead of us, and two dead soldiers lay on the side of the road, one facedown in the mud, the other staring at the sky as convoy after convoy of military vehicles passed. I counted at least 15 bodies, and there were many prisoners, most badly dressed and without shoes. An amber fog still hung over them as they huddled in a barbed-wire pen. 
 JAMES HILL 
 Breaking, and Broken
 It was June 2004. I was in Iraq, the place I had asked to go to and cover the reconstruction of a nation, and in the morning I gathered my notebooks, pulled on the high-end leather boots I'd bought at Harry's Shoes in Manhattan, and went out into the heat.
 We started chasing the story, which I had imagined, as I bought those boots, would be a story of great engineers and heroic workers, something like the building of the Brooklyn Bridge in a war-torn country: the Roeblings on the Tigris.
 Instead we found an infrastructure so decrepit, smashed and oversubscribed after decades of war and neglect that nothing the American engineers did, with billions of dollars at their disposal, seemed to work. Oil pipelines burst after they were repaired; ancient power stations with control rooms out of ''Das Boot'' shorted out and went dark no matter how many times flabbergasted American engineers tinkered with the turbines.
 Instead of John Roebling, we found Thomas Stahl, regional representative for southern Iraq for the United States Agency for International Development. 
 ''If you think of Iraq as a used car,'' he said, quoting an epigram he said was making the rounds among development officials, ''Saddam sold it just in time.''
 Iraq as a used car. That was not the story line I had prepared. And if the infrastructure did not break down often enough on its own, insurgents, smugglers and local militias started sabotaging it for reasons that would take us years to understand. 
 JAMES GLANZ
 From Another Time
 Not long ago, in Beirut, I met an Iraqi, a broken-looking old man with warm brown eyes. 
 ''You were in Iraq?'' he said, his face lighting up. ''When?''
 ''I got there in 2003,'' I said. 
 Instantly, his eyes dimmed. I have seen the same look on the faces of many other Iraqi exiles. Their Iraq was a different place: not peaceful, exactly, but a world away from the shattered place I spent time in. 
 Their Iraq was Basra before the first gulf war, when it was full of cafes and canals, still known as ''the dark land'' because of its thick canopy of date palms. It was Baghdad when people still strolled down Abu Nawas Street on Friday nights and sat out watching the sunset drinking beer and eating mazgouf. 
 I came to feel an intense nostalgia, while I was there, for the Iraq I never saw. I became friends with a number of older Iraqis, who told me long wonderful stories about what Baghdad was like in their youth. Their living rooms were full of art and antiques; they drank Scotch, discussed novels, listened to friends recite poetry and play the oud. Sect meant nothing to them; the spoke proudly about how their parents had scorned religion. 
 After the attack on the Shiite shrine in Samarra, even the most resolute Iraqis I knew, the ones who had held out hope through all the worse crises, began to talk about getting out. The scattered revenge attacks of years past had given way to wholesale slaughter on a purely sectarian basis. My tour was coming to an end anyway, but after Samarra I lost the energizing sense that Iraq's fate was still up for grabs. The whole place seemed lost. 
 Of course, I knew from my Iraqi friends that everyone dates the death of Iraq in a different way. In Amman, I had met aristocratic old Iraqis for whom Iraq was dead after 1958, and others for whom it died in 1963, when the first Baathist coup resulted in murder on a scale never seen before (at least in the country's modern history). I hope I live to see the day when some of those people go back and give Iraq another try. 
 ROBERT F. WORTH 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: March 25, 2003. More reminiscences at nytimes.com/world.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES HILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (77%); ARMIES (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); POWER PLANTS (75%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (75%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (74%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (72%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2008



492 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 572 words

HEADLINE: A Day After a Big Rally, a Big Pullback

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
In a sign of continuing unease in the financial markets, commodity prices plummeted and the Dow Jones industrials slid back nearly 300 points on Wednesday, a day after an interest rate cut fueled the best stock session in five years.
 The sell-off erased most of the Dow's 420-point jump on Tuesday and sent the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, the broadest measure of the American stock market, down 2.4 percent. Investors scurried to the safety of government bonds, pushing down Treasury yields. 
 The benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 1 11/32, to 101 14/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction, fell to 3.33 percent, from 3.49 percent.
 ''I'm not quite sure people are all that ready to stick with their convictions,'' said Bart Melek, a commodity strategist at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto. ''We're not quite sure what other skeletons exist in the financial system, where the problems may be, who is at risk. And until that type of risk is out of there, I think we will see a lot of volatility.''
 On Tuesday, investors cheered the Federal Reserve's move to lower interest rates, but many remained unsure whether the central bank's actions would effectively ease the credit crisis that has gripped the market for months. ''They don't have a solution,'' Jeff Tyler, a portfolio manager at American Century Investments, said about the Fed. ''The only thing that will fix this is time.''
 The Dow closed down 293 points at 12,099.66 after a morning rally gave way to a steep afternoon stumble. The Nasdaq composite index lost 2.6 percent, to 2,209.96. Volatility at the S.& P. 500, which closed at 1,298.42, reached a 70-year high, according to Howard Silverblatt, an analyst at Standard & Poor's.
 The biggest declines on Wednesday came in the commodity markets, where prices of precious metals, crude oil and food staples all fell back. 
 Many investors had expected the Fed to cut rates a full percentage point on Tuesday, which would have sent down the value of the dollar. As a hedge against inflation, they plowed their funds into commodities, which are priced in dollars and are likely to go up as the dollar falls. 
 But the Fed surprised investors with a three-quarter-point cut, a slightly less aggressive move. Instead of dropping, the dollar climbed against the euro -- the European currency dropped to $1.5613 on Wednesday -- and investors scrambled to get out of their bets on commodity prices. 
 As a result, gold prices plunged 4 percent, to $944.20 a troy ounce. Silver and wheat both dropped 8 percent. Crude oil settled at $104.48 a barrel, down 5 percent.
 Concerns about financial institutions also weighed down the stock and bond markets. Merrill Lynch said it was suing a bond guarantor in a dispute over billions of dollars in collateralized debt obligations, and some credit spreads widened, a sign that investors are less confident about being paid on their loans.
 The unease overshadowed some positive developments on Wednesday. Morgan Stanley reported better-than-expected first-quarter earnings, as Lehman Brothers and Goldman Sachs did on Tuesday. Shares of Morgan Stanley rose 1.4 percent on Wednesday to $43.45 a share, though Goldman and Lehman shares declined.
 Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the big government-backed lenders, gained after federal regulators said they would lower capital reserve requirements. Shares of Fannie gained 9 percent and Freddie finished up 15 percent.

GRAPHIC: GRAPH: THE DOW MINUTE-BY-MINUTE: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. Graph showing the Dow industrial average. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); METALS MARKETS (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); SILVER MARKETS (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); WHEAT MARKETS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); BONDS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); EURO (70%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (70%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN CENTURY INVESTMENTS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2008



493 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 672 words

HEADLINE: New Orleans Grows; Florida Cools

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
New Orleans is slowly beginning to rebound from the severe population losses inflicted by Hurricane Katrina, according to new census data, but growth in a number of previous hot spots slowed in the 12-month period that ended July 1, 2007. Broward County in Florida, which includes Fort Lauderdale, lost population for the first time.
 ''We don't have as many families moving in, employment has leveled off and started to decline, and housing costs are out of line with reality,'' said Bill Leonard, senior planner with Broward's planning services division. 
 Other Florida counties were similarly affected. Palm Beach recorded zero growth since 2006, and Miami-Dade registered the lowest growth rate in years. 
 ''Previous hot spots, in Florida, the Mountain West and exurbs, cooled off dramatically,'' said William H. Frey, a demographer with the Brookings Institution. ''At the same time, areas that supplied them with migrants -- coastal California, cities in the Northeast and Midwest and inner suburbs -- held on to a larger number of them.''
 He added that because of the weakness in the economy, young families and retirees who might otherwise have relocated ''are hanging tight in more stable parts of the country waiting to see what comes next.''
 That could explain greater gains or reduced losses, compared with 2005-6, in places like the counties of San Diego, Los Angeles, Orange, San Francisco and Santa Clara in California and in inner suburbs and urban core counties like Middlesex, N.J.; Cook, Ill.; Fairfax, Va.; Hennepin, Minn.; and Philadelphia. 
 Except for Kendall, near Chicago, the nation's 10 fastest-growing counties and parishes were in the West and South. More than a third of the 100 fastest growing were in Georgia or Texas. 
 The top 10 list was led by St. Bernard and Orleans Parishes in Louisiana, which grew by 43 percent (almost 6,000 people) and 14 percent (nearly 29,000), respectively. St. Bernard Parish's population last July was estimated at nearly 20,000, compared with 65,000 in mid-2005 before Hurricane Katrina struck. Orleans Parish's was 239,000, compared with 454,000 in 2005. (A spokesman for Mayor C. Ray Nagin of New Orleans said that demographers working for the city had estimated the population of Orleans Parish at closer to 300,000.) 
 Maricopa County in Arizona, which includes Phoenix, swelled by 102,000 since 2006, making it the biggest gainer numerically. But Maricopa and Harris County, Tex., which includes Houston, gained far fewer people moving from elsewhere in the country than they had the year before.
 Since 2000, nearly twice as many counties in the United States sustained population declines as in the 1990s. Mark Mather, deputy director of domestic programs for the Population Reference Bureau, a nonpartisan research group, said that 85 percent of them were nonmetropolitan counties, ''mostly areas that are highly dependent on manufacturing, farming or mining.''
 Since 1950, the populations of more than 100 rural counties in the Midwest and Texas have shrunk by half or more. ''If current trends continue, these counties would be empty by 2050,'' Mr. Mather said. ''The weak economy since 2000 may be pushing people back to metropolitan areas to find jobs with decent wages.'' 
 In the New York City area, growth slowed, with the biggest numerical and proportional losses in Nassau County and the biggest gains in Staten Island and Manhattan (which grew by more than 8,000, accounting for more than half the state's gains). New York City officials routinely challenge the census data, arguing that it undercounts minorities and immigrants.
 In many counties that otherwise would not have grown or would have suffered greater losses, an influx of foreigners and immigrant births compensated for the departure of native-born residents or for a relatively low rate of natural increase in births over deaths. ''This is especially true,'' Mr. Mather said, ''for the core counties of big cities such as Chicago, Dallas, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami and New York.'' 

GRAPHIC: MAP: Fastest-Growing Counties: Population change from July 2006 to July 2007, for counties with the 10 largest increases. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POPULATION DECLINE (90%); HURRICANES (89%); HURRICANE KATRINA (89%); CITIES (88%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); CENSUS (78%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); CITY LIFE (67%)

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (51%) FLORIDA, USA (96%); LOUISIANA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (70%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2008



494 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 151 words

HEADLINE: International Sales Help Lift Nike's Profit

BYLINE: By REUTERS

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
Nike, the world's largest maker of athletic footwear and apparel, said on Wednesday that its third-quarter net profit rose, helped by strong international sales of shoes and clothing that were buoyed by a weak dollar. 
 Net profit increased to $463.8 million, or 92 cents a share, from $350.8 million, or 68 cents a share, a year earlier. Total sales jumped 16 percent, to $4.5 billion.
 The company's growth in emerging markets for its Nike footwear has been rapid as it prepares for the Beijing Olympics, and demand is robust for its smaller non-Nike brands. Even though Nike has said that sports items are relatively immune to economic downturns, it has been controlling inventory in a challenging United States marketplace as athletic shoe retailers struggle.
 Nike's shares rose 16 cents, to $61.83, on Wednesday before its earnings were reported, and rose several dollars a share in after-hours trading. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOTWEAR (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ATHLETIC FOOTWEAR MFG (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (88%); MARKET SIZE (88%); APPAREL MFG (88%); US DOLLAR (87%); OLYMPICS (86%); SHOE STORES (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); RETAILERS (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (67%)

COMPANY: NIKE INC (98%)

TICKER: NKE (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316210 FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3149 FOOTWEAR, EXCEPT RUBBER, NEC (98%); SIC3021 RUBBER & PLASTICS FOOTWEAR (98%); SIC2339 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' OUTERWEAR, NEC (98%); SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (98%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (53%) UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (53%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2008



495 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 481 words

HEADLINE: French Court Says Ban on Gene-Altered Corn Seed Will Remain, Pending Study

BYLINE: By JAMES KANTER

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
Opponents of gene-altered crops won a victory in France on Wednesday when the top court upheld, at least for the time being, a ban on a corn variety produced by the American seed company Monsanto. 
 Growers had argued that the economic harm they faced was serious enough for the month-old ban to be lifted immediately, before the start of the spring planting season. 
 Proponents also said that allowing plantings of the gene-altered seed, called MON810, could benefit consumers at a time of rising food prices. 
 But the Conseil d'Etat upheld the ban until it could rule on its scientific underpinning. Hearings are expected to be held in coming months.
 In his ruling, Judge Jean-Marie Delarue pointed out that a report issued in January by a committee of French specialists had called for more studies on the product's safety. 
 The decision was a victory for environmentalists and for farmers opposed to gene-modification technology. They had warned that the corn, which confers resistance to pests, could pollute other crops and pose a threat to the environment and human health. 
 Other farmers, backed by the biotechnology industry, argue the products could help lower costs and reduce use of pesticides. 
 ''We are disappointed,'' said Stephanie Piecourt, a spokeswoman for Monsanto in France, adding that corn farmers ''will not be able to benefit from the economic, agricultural and environmental advantages that this product offers.'' 
 The French agriculture ministry imposed the ban on Feb. 7, saying it should remain in place until a review of the product -- required every 10 years -- was completed by European authorities. 
 Efforts to overturn the ban were led by the General Association of Maize Growers in France and several biotechnology companies, including Monsanto and Pioneer, a unit of the chemical company DuPont. 
 Cedric Poeydomenge, a spokesman for the maize growers' association, said farmers had hoped to plant 100,000 hectares (247,105 acres) using the pest-resistant corn. 
 He said farmers would plant nonmodified corn this year, but would face 10 million euros in insecticide costs and potential losses from pests. 
 Battles over gene-altered crops have been fought across Europe for more than a decade, but there now are signs that some governments and policy makers are prepared to ease longstanding opposition.
 Nathalie Moll of Europabio, an industry association in Brussels, said she expected MON810 to be cultivated this year in at least seven European Union countries, including Spain and Germany. MON810, under the brand name YieldGard, has been used in the United States for more than a decade.
 But some governments, including those in Austria and France, are extremely wary of softening their stance on genetic modification because of continuing distrust among those citizens who consider gene-altered products to be ''Frankenstein'' foods.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FARMERS & RANCHERS (91%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (90%); CORN FARMING (90%); CHEMICALS (89%); CHEMICALS MFG (89%); AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (78%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (78%); INSECTICIDES (78%); PESTICIDES (78%); CROP & LIVESTOCK ALLOCATIONS (78%); AGRICULTURE & ENVIRONMENT (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); FOOD PRICES (75%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); JUDGES (73%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (72%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (72%); PRODUCT SAFETY (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (68%)

COMPANY: MONSANTO CO (85%)

TICKER: MON (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (85%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (85%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (78%) FRANCE (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); BELGIUM (79%); AUSTRIA (79%); SPAIN (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (68%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2008



496 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: Afghanistan's New Deal

BYLINE: By ZALMAY KHALILZAD. 
Zalmay Khalilzad is the United States permanent representative to the United Nations.

 BODY:
BAN KI-MOON, secretary general of the United Nations, has appointed a seasoned Norwegian diplomat, Kai Eide, as his special representative to Afghanistan. Mr. Eide's success will depend not only on his skills, but also on the friends of Afghanistan at the United Nations providing him with the proper mission, mandate and resources.
 The most important task for the new special representative is to form a trusting, collaborative relationship with President Hamid Karzai, enabling them to agree on Afghanistan's key challenges and on how aid money and military assistance can best be used. Today in New York, the Security Council is scheduled to extend the mandate of the United Nations' Assistance Mission in Afghanistan for another year -- the perfect chance to provide a clear set of priorities. 
 This resolution rightly gives Mr. Eide the powers to directly coordinate all of the support provided by international donors. As things stand, more than 30 national embassies and bilateral development agencies, several United Nations agencies, four development banks and international financial institutions, and about 2,000 nongovernmental organizations and contractors are involved in rebuilding in Afghanistan. 
 However, because of a lack of coordination among these donors, reconstruction resources often fail to arrive in a timely way after areas have been cleared of the enemy. Hundreds of projects are undertaken by allies and nongovernmental groups without coordination with the Afghan government, leading to cases of ''ghost'' schools or health clinics that are built but sit idle because they cannot be staffed or equipped. 
 Ministries are often hamstrung by having to comply with the varying procurement and accounting rules of dozens of foreign agencies, many of which are not consistent with Afghan law. This puts the international community at cross purposes with our goal of helping Afghanistan build coherent national systems for education, health and other services. 
 There is only one way to end the confusion: the United Nations must take on the primary coordination role, and donors must show a willingness to be coordinated. The new resolution allows this to happen in a number of ways.
 First, Mr. Eide will need to oversee the coordination of civilian assistance with military efforts of the two military organizations operating in Afghanistan, NATO and the International Security Assistance Force. While it's promising that those two organizations are meeting in Bucharest, Romania, next month to discuss better integrating their efforts, success against the insurgency will require efforts to ensure that military actions to secure areas from the enemy are coordinated with civilian efforts to establish good governance and economic development. 
 Second, Mr. Eide must coordinate the efforts of the international community to support the Afghanistan Compact, a five-year plan agreed upon in 2006 by the government of Afghanistan, the United Nations and the international community that requires Afghan leaders to take steps in reform and institution-building in exchange for commitments of sustained support. The United Nations must have a stronger role in overseeing the increasing capacity of Afghan ministries and their anti-corruption efforts. 
 Third, the new United Nations special representative should help the leaders and people of key donor countries understand achievements and challenges. This is the only way that the friends of Afghanistan can fully appreciate the return on their investments.
 Last, Mr. Eide will have a mandate to engage Afghanistan's neighbors to help stabilize the country. In the aftermath of 9/11, regional powers came together to support the so-called Bonn agreement, which enabled Afghans to freely choose their own government. Reclaiming the spirit of Bonn must be a priority.
 The United States is fully behind the United Nations in the mission. Afghanistan is important not only because it was the origin of the attacks of 9/11 but also because it is the keystone of the geopolitical stability of Central and South Asia. Moreover, success in Afghanistan will be a major step in helping to create security, stability and progress in the broader Middle East, which is the defining challenge of our time.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (75%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (75%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%)

PERSON: BAN KI-MOON (74%); HAMAD KARZAI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); ROMANIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2008



497 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE ENERGY CHALLENGE COAL POWER; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1232 words

HEADLINE: States' Battles Over Energy Grow Fiercer With U.S. in a Policy Gridlock

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

 BODY:
Utility executives in Kansas were shocked last fall when a state environmental official rejected two coal-fired power plants because of the millions of tons of carbon-dioxide emissions they could produce. In a state where coal generates 73 percent of the electricity, the pro-coal forces were unable to work their will.
 That ineffectiveness will be underscored as early as Friday if Gov. Kathleen Sebelius, as expected, vetoes an effort by the Kansas State Legislature to ensure the plants are approved. A handful of lawmakers seeking a new energy policy are blocking the attempt to override. 
 The struggle over those plants is an example of a growing trend in climate-change politics. In the absence of clear federal mandates for emissions from smokestack industries, states that have been proving grounds for new environmental approaches to energy are becoming battlegrounds as well. 
 ''There are certainly battles happening all over the nation,'' said Steve Clemmer, the Clean Energy Program research director at the Union of Concerned Scientists. In Kansas and Washington State, the battles are over individual plants. Other fights, as in California, are over how to structure carbon controls -- essentially, who will have to pay, and how much. Some, as in Minnesota, are over how much renewable energy must be created and what forms are appropriate.
 And that list does not take into account major battles between the states and the federal government, exemplified by the Environmental Protection Agency's refusal to let California control greenhouse-gas emissions from automobiles.
 What to do about the greenhouse-gas emissions from fossil fuels -- particularly the coal that fuels the lion's share of electricity in 25 states -- is a question Washington has largely dodged. But politics, like nature, abhors a vacuum. The national gridlock over climate-change policy has led to an ever-increasing number of state initiatives.
 Currently 18 states seek to cap carbon dioxide emissions for industry and 25 support mandates for renewable energy; renewable-mandate legislative battles are under way in Ohio and Michigan. There are three multistate compacts intended to limit emissions and allow trading of carbon allowances; governors of 10 Midwestern states, including Ms. Sebelius, joined such a pact last fall. 
 The trend has not been slowed by the Bush administration's approval of new gas-mileage standards for new trucks and cars, or its nearly simultaneous refusal to give California and 17 other states the waiver needed to control emissions from cars.
 For example, Washington State last year passed a law limiting the amount of greenhouse-gas emissions that any new power plant could produce. After the law was passed, regulators blocked a power plant that would be partly coal-fired, saying it would emit an illegal amount of carbon dioxide.
 But in a state reliant on emission-free hydropower, that is a less controversial decision than the rejection of new coal plants in Kansas. 
 The more a state depends upon coal, the more likely resistance will be fierce. About half the states get more than half their electric power from coal. 
 In states like California that are well on the way to establishing a carbon-constrained regime, the battles are over how to structure carbon controls, how to distribute permits allowing limited emissions and how to ensure that companies with tight controls are given credit for acting before new rules are adopted. But when the public utilities commission's first rough draft was unveiled, the largest coal-consuming utility in the state, the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, lashed out at state regulators, saying their proposals would unfairly favor some utilities over others. 
 The Los Angeles facility is not alone. The industry, generally united five years ago against controls on carbon emissions, now presents a broad spectrum of opinions, with low-coal utilities like Pacific Gas & Electric in Northern California favoring the certainty that carbon controls will bring, and embracing mandates for renewable energy. Meanwhile, coal-dependent utilities like the Southern Company in Georgia firmly resist both ideas.
 All the utilities cite fairness as their objective, but they define it differently. The same is true in discussions about climate-controls in the political arena. In Kansas, the arguments over fairness and economic harm took on a particular fierceness after two plants proposed by the Sunflower Electric Corporation were rejected by Rod Bremby, the secretary of health and environment, in October. A pro-coal lobbying group, Kansans for Affordable Energy, was soon formed. Its report, filed with the Kansas Ethics Commission and obtained by DeSmogBlog.com, shows $120,000 of its $140,400 assets came from Peabody Coal, which could supply the new plants from its mines in Wyoming. Another $25,000 came from Sunflower itself.
 The new group placed newspaper advertisements with pictures of the smiling faces of Presidents Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran, Vladimir V. Putin of Russia and Hugo Chavez of Venezuela -- suggesting that if the coal plants were killed, those natural-gas exporting countries would benefit. The advertisement made no mention of the fact that none of these countries actually export natural gas to the United States.
 Then the Republican-controlled Legislature moved to save the project by stripping state officials of any power to base power-plant decisions on potential greenhouse-gas emissions. 
 Eighty-five percent of the power would be sold out of state, mostly to Colorado. The fact that most of the electricity is not needed now by Kansans is a central argument made by the anticoal forces. Steve Miller, a spokesman for Sunflower, argues that Kansas's economy depends on exports of commodities like grain, and that the new electricity would be another valuable export. 
 Both chambers of the Legislature passed bills to strip Mr. Bremby of the power to make a decision on the plants based on greenhouse-gas considerations. But the majority in the House was not veto-proof. At the end, the pro-coal forces tried to win over dissenters by sweetening the measure with an amendment requiring that renewable sources, like wind, make up 10 percent of electrical generation by 2012, 15 percent by 2016, and 20 percent by 2020. 
 The dissenters did not budge. Utility lobbyists like Scott Segal of the Electric Reliability Coordinating Council see these state-by-state battles as examples of why a single national policy is preferable. Congress is considering several bills setting mandatory controls on carbon dioxide emissions; the Bush administration remains committed to voluntary actions. 
 ''There is a growing recognition among national politicians and many in the states that it will not do to have a state-by-state approach to global climate change,'' Mr. Segal said, adding, ''the notion that any one state or group of states could make a material contribution to solving the problem is farcical.'' 
 Joshua Svaty, a representative from central Kansas, disagrees. He said in an interview that the pro-coal forces in the state ''started with the mindset of how can we maintain business as usual?'' But he added, ''The national mood -- not just of politicians but of people -- is that we're tired of business as usual and we want to move forward with a new energy policy.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A coal-fired power plant in Kansas, owned by Sunflower Electric. A state environmental official rejected two Sunflower plants.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLIE RIEDEL/ASSOCIATED PRESS) MAPS: The Energy Problem: With a national stalemate over climate-change policy, many states are creating their own initiatives to address greenhouse gas emissions. Currently, about half of the states get most of their electric power from coal. Eighteen states are seeking caps on carbon dioxide emissions.(Sources: Energy Information Administration
 Environment America) Maps show various regions in US for various energy problems. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); TRENDS (89%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (79%); GOVERNORS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); VETO (76%); APPROVALS (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); MOTOR VEHICLES (64%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); UNION OF CONCERNED SCIENTISTS (55%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (54%)

PERSON: KATHLEEN SEBELIUS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2008



498 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1232 words

HEADLINE: Marking 5 Years, Bush Insists U.S. Must Win In Iraq

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS; Jeff Zeleny contributed reporting from Fayetteville, N.C., and Patrick D. Healy from Huntington, W.Va.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Bush used the fifth anniversary of the start of the war in Iraq on Wednesday to make the case for persevering in a conflict that could have many more anniversaries. Democrats accused him of lacking a strategy to win and withdraw.
 Mr. Bush, speaking before members of the armed forces and defense officials at the Pentagon, said in his frankest acknowledgment yet that the costs of the war, in lives and money, had been higher and longer lasting than he had anticipated. 
 But he remained unwavering in his insistence that the invasion of Iraq, which began in March 2003, had made the world better and the United States safer.
 ''Five years into this battle, there is an understandable debate over whether the war was worth fighting, whether the fight is worth winning, and whether we can win it,'' he said. ''The answers are clear to me. Removing Saddam Hussein from power was the right decision, and this is a fight that America can and must win.'' 
 The anniversary starkly illustrated the divide between Mr. Bush and Democrats, who control Congress -- and between the Republican presidential candidate, Senator John McCain of Arizona, and the two senators seeking the Democratic nomination, Barack Obama and Hillary Rodham Clinton.
 At a community college in Fayetteville, a military town in North Carolina, Mr. Obama noted that the war in Iraq had now lasted longer than the Civil War, World War I and World War II, though it has been fought on a scale far below those conflicts. 
 ''Where are we for all of this sacrifice?'' he said. ''We are less safe and less able to shape events abroad. We are divided at home, and our alliances around the world have been strained.''
 Mrs. Clinton, appearing at an American Legion post in Huntington, W.Va., argued for a cautious withdrawal of troops that would begin within 60 days of her taking office. ''Every one of you who has served knows with drawing troops can be as dangerous as inserting them,'' she said. 
 By contrast, Mr. McCain, who visited Iraq this week, issued a statement saying that the United States and its allies in Iraq stood ''on the precipice of winning a major victory against radical Islamic extremism.''
 The anniversary, as it has in the past, galvanized the war's critics and, to a lesser degree, its supporters. Mr. Bush gave his speech as sporadic, relatively small but raucous protests erupted in Washington and in other cities, leading to dozens of arrests. 
 ''How much longer?'' read a banner along the president's route to the Pentagon across the Potomac. 
 Iraq has receded somewhat as an issue in the campaign. And the scale and fury of antiwar protests appeared to have diminished from just a year ago, before Mr. Bush ordered ''a surge'' of still more American troops to Iraq that has resulted in a decline in overall violence there.
 Still, the war stirs intense emotions on both sides. The House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, said the war had damaged the country's reputation, strained its military and now threatened its economy.
 ''With the war in Iraq entering its sixth year,'' she said in a statement, ''Americans are rightly concerned about how much longer our nation must continue to sacrifice our security for the sake of an Iraqi government that is unwilling or unable to secure its own future.''
 Mr. Obama criticized his rivals for their initial votes for the war. ''Here is the stark reality,'' he said. ''There is a security gap in this country -- a gap between the rhetoric of those who claim to be tough on national security, and the reality of growing insecurity caused by their decisions.''
 He also seized on a gaffe Mr. McCain made Tuesday in Amman, Jordan, when he confused the main sects of Islam and the support for each from Al Qaeda, a Sunni dominated group, and Iran, a majority Shiite nation. Mr. McCain corrected his statement after Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, who is traveling with him in the region, whispered in his ear.
 ''Maybe that is why he completely fails to understand that the war in Iraq has done more to embolden America's enemies than any strategic choice that we have made in decades,'' Mr. Obama said. 
 He said that as commander in chief he would begin withdrawing a brigade or two each month starting immediately. His plan, he said, would reduce the American force to only the number required to secure the American Embassy and maintain a counterterrorist force. 
 Even that, he acknowledged, would take until 2010.
 The number of troops in Iraq is at the center of the administration's attention. The top American commander there, Gen. David H. Petraeus, is scheduled to appear before Congress in April to present his recommendations on what to do after a withdrawal of the 30,000 troops ordered to Iraq by Mr. Bush last year. 
 Those troops brought the total to a peak of more than 160,000; by summer, roughly 140,000 are expected to remain. Military and administration officials have indicated that there should be a pause in any further reductions to see if security in Baghdad and other cities deteriorates. 
 One administration official said Wednesday that the outstanding question was how long a pause would last.
 Mr. Bush said he had made no decision but indicated that he would be reluctant to hasten withdrawals. ''Any further drawdown will be based on conditions on the ground and the recommendations of our commanders,'' he said, ''and they must not jeopardize the hard-fought gains our troops and civilians have made over the past year.''
 Mr. Bush announced the war's start from the Oval Office on the night of March 19, 2003, declaring that the United States would ''not live at the mercy of an outlaw regime that threatens the peace with weapons of mass murder.'' (It later became clear that those weapons did not exist.)
 His remarks each March 19 since have paralleled the ups and downs of the war.
 In 2004, he appeared in the East Room of the White House with dozens of foreign diplomats and cast the war as ''the inescapable calling of our generation.'' By 2006, with the insurgency worsening along with ethnic and sectarian violence, he spoke for two minutes on the South Lawn and spent most of that time talking of soldiers' sacrifices. ''It's a time to reflect,'' he said. 
 Mr. Bush's speech will be his last address as president on the anniversary, and he reflected at length on the overthrow of Saddam Hussein, the rise of the insurgency, the lurch toward civil war, and the decision to send more troops. The latter he declared a success, saying that it led the way to the decision by many Sunni Arabs to switch allegiances and join American forces against extremists that American officials say are foreign led. He called that the ''the first large-scale Arab uprising against Osama bin Laden.''
 ''The challenge in the period ahead is to consolidate the gains we have made and seal the extremists' defeat,'' he added.
 Vice President Dick Cheney, who declared in June 2005 that the insurgency was in ''its last throes,'' also acknowledged that the war had ''lasted longer than I would have anticipated,'' but he, too, defended the effort and brushed aside antiwar sentiment. 
 When told in an interview with ABC News that two-thirds of Americans said the war was not worth fighting, Mr. Cheney replied, ''So?'' When pressed, he added, ''I think you cannot be blown off course by the fluctuations in the public opinion polls.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Bush greeted members of the armed forces at the Pentagon on Wednesday after he asserted that the United States ''can and must win'' the war in Iraq. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/GETTY IMAGES) (pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANNIVERSARIES (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); IRAQ WAR (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); WORLD WAR II (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); WORLD WAR I (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (72%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (65%); RELIGION (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (74%); BARACK OBAMA (59%); JOHN MCCAIN (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2008



499 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Central Bank Is Without Governor, a Blow to a Nation's Prestige

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
The top post at Japan's central bank now sits empty after a political standoff in Parliament blocked selection of a successor to the departing governor, whose five-year term ended Wednesday. 
 World economic leaders face the uncomfortable prospect of having no one to call the shots at the Bank of Japan, the central bank of the world's second-largest economy. It seems likely the bank will remain leaderless for at least a few days as Prime Minister Yasuo Fukuda scrambles to find a candidate acceptable to the largest opposition party.
 A last-minute effort to fill the post failed Wednesday when the opposition-controlled upper house of Parliament rejected the second government nominee for the post in a week. The rebuff was widely seen here as a damaging political setback to the already unpopular Mr. Fukuda, who is increasingly blamed for the bank's leadership vacuum. 
 Economists and former bank officials call it a humiliating situation for a country that has been trying for years to assume an international political role commensurate with a nearly $5 trillion economy.
 ''It's a national disgrace,'' said Mikio Wakatsuki, a former executive director at the bank who is now chairman of AXA Life Insurance of Japan. ''Japan is at risk of becoming the missing link in multinational efforts.''
 Mr. Wakatsuki and others see in particular a blow to confidence in Japan's ability to manage its economy at a time of global financial turmoil. The deputy governor will most likely step in to run day-to-day affairs at the bank, but the prominent vacancy will only raise further worries about Japan's direction as its growth slows and its economic policy appears increasingly adrift.
 ''It is doubtful whether the Bank of Japan can work well for long without the top post being filled,'' the departing governor, Toshihiko Fukui, warned in a farewell news conference on Wednesday.
 World economic leaders may also feel the loss, some economists and former bank officials said. Lack of a chief means there will be no one at the central bank to confer regularly with overseas counterparts like the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke. Former central bankers say such informal discussions are important in working out joint actions or considering the wisdom of market intervention. 
 What is more, Japan has a lot to offer to other central banks in the current crisis, former central bankers here say. The country is the only major economy to have recently weathered a housing market debacle and resulting banking crisis on a scale similar to that in the United States. Indeed, former Japanese central bank officials are eager to point out the parallels between their nation's financial collapse in the early 90s and what is happening now in the American economy.
 ''We have faced a problem of the same magnitude before,'' said Takashi Anzai, a former Bank of Japan official who is now president of Seven Bank in Tokyo. ''We bring rich experience to the table.''
 The Japanese, though, face their own problems of political gridlock and finger-pointing. 
 The main opposition Democratic Party of Japan has warned for weeks that it will not approve nominees who come from the finance ministry, saying they would undermine the central bank's independence. Despite those warnings, both candidates for governor offered in the last week by Mr. Fukuda held top posts at the ministry.
 Each side has blamed the other for the impasse. But public opinion seems to be turning increasingly against Mr. Fukuda, especially after the second nominee turned out to be Koji Tanami, a former vice finance minister who now heads the Japan Bank for International Cooperation. Even many members of Mr. Fukuda's party, the Liberal Democrats, expressed dismay at his seemingly stubborn insistence on nominating former ministry officials.
 Political analysts said the choice reinforced a public perception that the prime minister was under the thumb of powerful ministry bureaucrats, as has often been the case here. They said this would only strengthen the opposition Democrats, who have gained popularity by vowing to change politics as usual in Japan.
 Political analysts speculated that Mr. Fukuda either grossly underestimated the depth of the Democratic Party's objections, or simply could not come up with a more appealing candidate in time. Either way, they said, he has the most to lose from a prolonged stalemate, which could force him to resign by eroding support in his own Liberal Democratic Party. 
 ''The L.D.P. ends up looking arrogant,'' said Norihiko Narita, a political science professor and president of Surugadai University near Tokyo. ''Mr. Fukuda is insisting on having his way.''
 Some warn that the rebuffs in Parliament have made it more difficult to find a suitable bank governor -- few qualified candidates may now be willing to face the public scrutiny and the possibility of a humiliating rejection.
 ''No one likes being the third-best choice,'' Mr. Wakatsuki said. ''The list of possible candidates is getting shorter and shorter.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Prime Minister Yasuo Fukuda, after the defeat Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KAZUHIRO NOGI/ AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
 Toshihiko Fukui, departing as Bank of Japan governor, told a farewell news conference that he doubted the bank could function well for long without a new chief. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YURIKO NAKAO/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); EXECUTIVES (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (68%); LIFE INSURANCE (51%)

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (58%); AXA (55%)

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (58%); CS (PAR) (55%); AXJ (ASX) (55%); AXA (BIT) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (55%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (55%)

PERSON: YASUO FUKUDA (88%); BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (79%) JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2008



500 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 869 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONALA3-15
 Five Years In, Bush Urges U.S. to Persevere in Iraq
 President Bush used the fifth anniversary of the start of the war in Iraq to argue for persevering in a conflict that could have many more anniversaries. Democrats accused him of lacking a strategy to win and withdraw.A1
 American commanders say that while Iraq's army is coming into its own in places like Mosul, where Iraqi troops far outnumber their American counterparts, the Iraqi force still suffers from equipment shortages and logistical problems.A1 
 A member of Iraq's three-member Presidency Council, whose objections had blocked a law calling for provincial elections, withdrew his objections, raising hopes for long-sought political progress. A12
 Tibet Crisis Shows Policy Flaw
 After decades of efforts by China to strengthen its control over Tibet through gigantic infrastructure projects and the resettlement of Han Chinese, the country's ethnic majority, the outbreak of protests and a fierce crackdown by Chinese security forces have laid bare a harsh reality of policy failure.A1
 Despite violent protests in Tibet, China remains steadfast in its plan to take the Olympic torch to Tibet and to Mount Everest, Olympic organizers said.A10
 British Tabloid Is 'Sorry'
 A chain of British tabloids apologized for accusing the parents of 4-year-old Madeleine McCann of murdering the child after she disappeared during a family vacation in Portugal last May.A3 
 Heparin's Mystery Ingredient
 Federal drug regulators, in announcing that the mystery contaminant in heparin was an unapproved ingredient altered to mimic the real thing, moved closer to concluding that Americans may be the latest victims of lethal Chinese drug counterfeiting.A8
 NATIONALA16-23 
 Advisers Map Out A Comeback for Clinton
 Without a new vote in Florida and Michigan, it will be that much more difficult for Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton to narrow Senator Barack Obama's lead among pledged delegates. Victories in upcoming contests where she is strong or competitive could give her a new wave of momentum in her favor. A1 
 The National Archives and the William J. Clinton Presidential Library released Mrs. Clinton's public schedules for her eight years as first lady. The documents were released in response to a Freedom of Information Act request and a lawsuit. A20 
 Court Overturns Ruling
 The Supreme Court, ruling that a Louisiana prosecutor had used improper tactics to pick an all-white jury for a black defendant's murder trial, overturned the conviction of the man who has been on death row for 12 years. A16 
 Fatal Flooding in Midwest
 At least 10 people died and hundreds were evacuated as steady rains delivered more than a foot of water across large areas of the Midwest. A19 
 States Tackle Energy Issues
 In the absence of clear federal mandates for emissions from smokestack industries, states like Kansas have been proving grounds for new environmental approaches to energy are becoming battlegrounds as well. A18 
 EDUCATION
 Closer Look at Dropout Rates
 Many states use an inflated graduation rate for federal reporting requirements under the No Child Left Behind law and a different one at home. As a result, federal figures obscure a dropout epidemic that only about 70 percent of students who start ninth grade graduate four years later. A1 
 NEW YORK/REGION B1-7
 Leaders' Flaws Provide A Reason to Reflect
 One governor broke the law, the other cheated on his wife. One offered a half-hearted apology, the other answered every question that was asked. But as New Yorkers tried to make sense of it all, some found themselves questioning their own sense of right and wrong and how much information is too much.B1 
 Police Force to Shrink
 Facing budget woes and a recruiting crisis, the New York Police Department is poised to shrink to its smallest size in about 15 years under plans by the Bloomberg administration.B1 
 BUSINESS DAYC1-12 
 Flight to Commodities
 The commodity market has become attractive to investors as hard assets like oil and gold offer safety against inflation, and double-digit profits. But this market, despite its glitter, offers risks of its own. A1 
 The New Boss
 James Dimon, head of JPMorgan Chase, made an appearance at Bear Stearns, hoping to win over executives who have vowed to fight his offer for the beleaguered investment bank. He left many of them as angry and resentful as he found them. C1 
 Auto Industry's Gloom
 Auto industry forecasters have slashed their projections for new vehicle sales to less than 15.5 million, projecting the worst year in a decade. C1
 Borrowers' Plight
 Borrowers in all income brackets are becoming ensnared in the home mortgage crisis. Refinancing requires equity -- and many homeowners do not have equity because their homes are worth less than they owe. C1 
 Today in BusinessC2 
 OBITUARIESA24
 Philip Jones Griffiths
 A crusading photojournalist whose pictures of civilian casualties and suffering were among the defining images of the war in Vietnam, he was 72.A24
 EDITORIALA22-23
 Editorials: Mission still not accomplished; countering the drug salesmen; Verlyn Klinkenborg on the turning point of spring.
 Column: Nicholas D. Kristof.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (90%); MURDER (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); LITIGATION (84%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); ARMIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ARMED FORCES (76%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (75%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (74%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (74%); OLYMPIC TORCH PROTESTS (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (72%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (70%); ANTICOAGULANTS (69%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (66%); OLYMPICS (66%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); JURY TRIALS (64%); COUNTERFEIT DRUGS (64%); COUNTERFEITING (63%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (61%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (60%); LIBRARIES (60%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (60%); INFRASTRUCTURE (55%); MOUNTAINS (51%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (88%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHWEST CHINA (94%); MIDWEST USA (92%); XIZANG, CHINA (90%); KANSAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); HIMALAYAS (56%); MOUNT EVEREST (55%) IRAQ (95%); CHINA (94%); TIBET (94%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2008



501 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 424 words

HEADLINE: Thousands Protest Budget Cuts Aimed at City Schools

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA

 BODY:
Thousands of parents, students, teachers and administrators rallied in front of City Hall in late afternoon rain Wednesday, denouncing budget cuts to the Education Department and demanding that the state and the city fulfill pledges they made last year to drastically increase spending for the public schools. 
 ''This is all parents talk about,'' said Alicia Cortes, the parent coordinator at Intermediate School 302 in Cypress Hills, Brooklyn. ''We have been getting better for a while, and we thought there was a way to progress, and then all of the sudden there's these cuts. You can't cut off people's legs and then expect them to succeed.''
 Ms. Cortes said she was extremely frustrated that her school had to scale back after-school programs this year when it lost more than $107,000.
 In January, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and Gov. Eliot Spitzer said a dramatic downturn in the economy was forcing them to reduce the amount of money they had planned to spend on schools after a longstanding education financing lawsuit was settled last year. Schools were forced to cut 1.75 percent from their current budgets in January, and more dramatic cuts are expected for next year. 
 The protest came the day before Schools Chancellor Joel I. Klein was expected to testify about the budget cuts before the City Council's Education Committee. City officials arranged a background briefing with reporters before the protest began, emphasizing that Mayor Bloomberg considered money for public schools a priority and had increased education spending by 72 percent since 2002. 
 But the figure did little to satisfy the protesters, who repeatedly chanted, ''Keep the promises!'' in English and Spanish during the two-hour rally. 
 ''I'd be the first to acknowledge that we are spending more money,'' said Ernest A. Logan, the president of the city's principals' union. ''But you have to remember that we have been suffering and waiting for a long time. We cannot wait anymore.'' 
 Many people in the crowd lining Broadway arrived on buses provided by the teachers' union and several community groups, which spent weeks organizing what they had hoped would be a large protest. When rain began in the morning, organizers tempered their expectations and seemed happily surprised that so many people did come. 
 Richard Burgess, whose two children attend elementary and middle schools in Washington Heights, said he was fearful of losing after-school programs and teaching assistants. ''The only thing this is going to do is hurt our children,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Protesters filled City Hall Park Wednesday to rally against school cuts. The chancellor is to testify before the Council on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTIAN HANSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); BUDGET CUTS (92%); CITIES (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); MAYORS (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); PARAEDUCATORS (78%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (78%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); TEACHER UNIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (78%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); LITIGATION (67%); LABOR UNIONS (61%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (53%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (52%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (52%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2008



502 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: Obama Works to Shift Campaign Back to Domestic Issues

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

DATELINE: CHARLOTTE, N.C. 

 BODY:
Senator Barack Obama on Wednesday tried to steer his campaign from a focus on race that had threatened to envelop his candidacy and back to the economy, war and a host of other concerns. 
 One day after delivering a major address about the racial divide, Mr. Obama barely mentioned the topic on his first campaign visit to North Carolina. From a foreign policy address in Fayetteville to a public forum here, Mr. Obama made just a passing reference to race, after a voter broached the subject.
 It remained far from certain, though, whether Mr. Obama had diminished the risk from the incendiary words of his longtime spiritual adviser and former pastor, the Rev. Jeremiah A. Wright Jr. 
 ''There are people who are going to try to use it against him at this point, to say that it is a race issue now,'' said Leigh Guth, who saw Mr. Obama speak in a gymnasium here. ''But I don't think it is. I don't think it ever has been.''
 In interviews, North Carolina voters and party officials across the country said they hoped that race would not stay at the forefront of the nominating contest with Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton. But they also said they were wary that the issue remained potent. 
 Mr. Obama's campaign carefully tracked the commentary and monitored talk radio after the speech in Philadelphia to see how it was going over around the country. One measure of its effectiveness, aides said, would be whether Mr. Obama has to address the subject again before the Pennsylvania primary on April 22.
 Copies of the speech, ''A More Perfect Union,'' were in high demand. But it did not provide detailed answers about his relationship with Mr. Wright.
 ''For some, nagging questions remain,'' Mr. Obama said Tuesday. ''Did I know him to be an occasionally fierce critic of American domestic and foreign policy? Of course. Did I ever hear him make remarks that could be considered controversial while I sat in the church? Yes.''
 Mr. Obama did not specify what those controversial remarks were. On Wednesday, he did not hold a question-and-answer session with reporters traveling with him. He conducted a handful of interviews with North Carolina reporters, behind closed doors.
 Asked about the remarks referred to in the speech, a spokesman for the campaign, Robert Gibbs, replied, ''Senator Obama explained clearly in his speech that some of Reverend Wright's language in describing, for example, what he viewed as discrimination and how he expanded on that in terms that were sharp and jarring.'' 
 Although the images of the minister's sermons appeared less frequently on cable television, Mrs. Clinton's supporters continued to press questions on blogs and in interviews about the tapes that depict the minister castigating the United States as a racist and murderous nation.
 By design, advisers said, Mr. Obama had no immediate plans to revisit the themes of the speech, which bluntly confronted divisions between black and white and urged both races to understand each other's anger, resentment and division. 
 Party officials in states with coming primaries said Wednesday that race was not what most Democratic voters wanted to discuss.
 ''People in our state are worried about their jobs and their health care and their mortgage,'' said Dan Parker, the Indiana Democratic chairman, who is preparing for the most competitive primary since 1968. ''Race? We don't really want to talk about that.''
 Mrs. Clinton is scheduled to campaign on Thursday in Indiana, after a visit last weekend from Mr. Obama. For his part, Mr. Obama plans to spend the day in West Virginia, where Nick Casey, the state Democratic chairman, said, ''I'm not really sure there is a race issue.''
 In North Carolina, the audiences at Mr. Obama's two public appearances on Wednesday were made up of black and white supporters. When a voter asked the senator what he could do as president to curb crime in black communities, Mr. Obama said, ''I touched on this a little bit yesterday in the speech.''
 At the mere mention of the speech, the 1,700 people rose to give an ovation.
 Throughout the day, that was Mr. Obama's lone public reference to his speech, which aides had characterized as a critical test of his candidacy. Advisers said they hoped to return the focus to domestic issues that voters list as their chief concern.
 ''He wants the same goals as white people,'' said Reva G. McNair, president of the North Carolina Senior Democrats, a retirees' group, who saw Mr. Obama deliver a speech on national security on Wednesday. ''We all want the same thing. But sometimes we look at color, and that stops us.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Barack Obama greeted crowds on Wednesday at Fayetteville Technical Community College in Fayetteville, N.C.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX BRANDON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); RACE & RACISM (77%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JEREMIAH A WRIGHT JR (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FAYETTEVILLE, NC, USA (90%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (70%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2008



503 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 321 words

HEADLINE: Visa Has a $45 Billion Debut on Wall St.

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
Catapulted by the biggest initial public offering in American history, Visa shares soared 28 percent in their stock market debut on Wednesday as investors bet an accelerating shift to electronic payments will enrich the company. 
 After being priced above expectations at $44 a share in an initial public offering that raised nearly $18 billion, Visa shares finished at $56.50 on the New York Stock Exchange Wednesday. The run-up gives the San Francisco-based company, the world's largest processor of credit and debit cards, a market value of about $45 billion.
 ''This is an exciting and historic day for Visa,'' said the company's chairman, Joseph W. Saunders, who received a $10.2 million bonus last year for laying the I.P.O. groundwork.
 Visa generated $5.2 billion in annual revenue last year as it handled more than more than 44 billion transactions totaling more than $3.2 trillion. The volume puts Visa far ahead of its main rival, MasterCard, whose own shares have risen more than fivefold since their May 2006 initial price of $39; MasterCard closed on Wednesday at $208.39.
 Visa is well insulated from the credit problems that have scarred many of the lenders that issue the cards bearing its brand.
 Unlike those lenders, Visa carries no consumer debt on its books. It depends on transaction fees, which have been steadily rising for years, including during the past two United States recessions in 1991 and 2001.
 Visa expects annual earnings growth of at least 20 percent for at least the next two years. The company got off to a fast start in its fiscal first quarter ending in December with profit of $424 million, up 70 percent from the previous year.
 Visa has earmarked more than $10 billion of the proceeds to buy back shares from the banks that helped build up its network over the last 50 years. The biggest chunk, about $1.25 billion, will be paid to its largest customer and shareholder, JPMorgan Chase.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Visa's chairman, Joseph W. Saunders, right, on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange Wednesday morning. He called it ''an exciting and historic day for Visa.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD DREW/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (92%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER (89%); STOCK OFFERINGS (89%); HISTORY (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (73%); PERSONAL DEBT (72%); CONSUMER LENDING (70%); DEBIT CARDS (70%)

COMPANY: VISA INC (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (81%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%)

TICKER: V (NYSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (81%); JPM (LSE) (81%); 8634 (TSE) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (81%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (81%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (81%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (81%)

PERSON: JOSEPH W SAUNDERS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2008



504 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 465 words

 BODY:
BOOMING COMMODITIES Hoping for better gains and a safe hedge against inflation, investors are flocking to the surging commodities market, despite some dangerous risks and its vulnerability to fraud. 
 BATTLEFIELD STRATEGY James Dimon, the chairman and chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, attempted to win over executives at Bear Stearns who had vowed to fight his takeover offer. [C1.] 
 A GLOOMY OUTLOOK Industry forecasters offered bleak predictions for the American auto industry, which could mean better deals for car buyers. [C1.]
 ROMANCING THE BEAN In its effort to reconnect with its customers, Starbucks announced plans to restore an authentic coffee house experience. [C1.]
 RISING PAYMENTS Affluent consumers with annual incomes of $100,000 or more are becoming ensnared in the mortgage crisis as their adjustable rate mortgages reset at higher rates. [C1.]
 MORE MONEY TO INVEST The regulator of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac reduced the capital cushion the mortgage finance companies were required to hold. [C1.]
 LESS IS MORE The Flip, a tiny camcorder, is the purest essence of video capture without the unnecessary features. State of the Art: David Pogue. [C1.]
 A $45 BILLION DEBUT After being priced at $44 a share in an initial public offering, shares of Visa soared 28 percent in their first day of trading. [C2.]
 E*TRADE EXECUTIVE QUITS R. Jarrett Lilien is stepping down as president and chief operating officer of the E*Trade Financial Corporation. [C2.]
 FIGHTING FOR SENIORITY Raising doubts about the prospect of an airline merger, the pilots' union at Delta Air Lines rejected arbitration with their counterparts at Northwest Airlines. [C3.]
 WEB PRIVACY Support is growing for legislation that would limit information that Google, Yahoo, Microsoft and AOL collect about people. Advertising. [C3.]
 LEADERSHIP VOID Because of a political standoff, the top post at the Bank of Japan was left empty after the term of the departing governor ended. [C3.]
 PEST-RESISTANT CORN In a victory for environmentalists, a French court upheld a ban on the use of gene-altered seed produced by the American seed company Monsanto. Farmers had argued that the products could help lower costs and reduce use of pesticides. [C4.]
 HOLLYWOOD TRIAL Witnesses in the wiretapping trial of the private eye Anthony Pellicano testified that the defendant had threatened them. [C4.]
 UNEASY MARKET A day after a sweeping rally in the stock market, commodities plunged and stocks swooned. [C6.]
 THE RUMOR MILL CHURNS Banking authorities in Britain moved to calm investors' fears and squelch rumors that had sent financial stocks plummeting. [C6.]
 NO MERGER IN FRANCE After weeks of speculation, BNP Paribas said that it would not attempt a takeover of a banking rival, Societe Generale. [C6.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CORN MARKETS (89%); TAKEOVERS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); AIRLINES (89%); MERGERS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); TESTIMONY (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); INTEREST RATES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); AFFLUENT MARKET (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (69%); AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (67%); WITNESSES (66%); RESIGNATIONS (65%); INTERNET PRIVACY (64%); WIRETAPPING (64%); PESTICIDES (50%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (83%); E TRADE FINANCIAL CORP (82%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (83%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (58%); SOCIETE GENERALE SA (58%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (57%); BNP PARIBAS SA (56%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (54%); BANK OF JAPAN (53%); GOOGLE INC (53%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%); MONSANTO CO (52%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%); ETFC (NASDAQ) (82%); GLE (PAR) (58%); GLE (BIT) (58%); BNP (PAR) (56%); BNP (BIT) (56%); DAL (NYSE) (54%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (53%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (53%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%); MON (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (83%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (83%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (83%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (82%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (82%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (57%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (53%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%); NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (52%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (52%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (52%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2008



505 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1105 words

HEADLINE: Starbucks Plans Return To Its Roots

BYLINE: By BRAD STONE

DATELINE: SEATTLE 

 BODY:
Howard D. Schultz, the chief executive of Starbucks, announced sweeping changes on Wednesday for the company as it seeks to reconnect with customers who have left for competitors or pared back their coffee budget in hard economic times. 
 The initiatives are intended to restore an authentic coffeehouse experience to the stores and, in turn, re-energize an ailing stock that has lost half its value in the last 15 months.
 In front of 6,000 investors, employees and analysts at the annual shareholder meeting on Wednesday, Mr. Schultz introduced an improved automated espresso machine that grinds coffee for each drink and has a lower height that will allow customers to see baristas making their beverage. He said the company would roll out the Swiss-made Mastrena machines to three-fourths of Starbucks stores by 2010. 
 Mr. Schultz also announced the acquisition of the Coffee Equipment Company, the four-year-old Seattle-based maker of the Clover coffee machine, which brews a more expensive, higher-quality coffee one cup at a time. The price was not disclosed. Starbucks will roll out Clover systems in select markets. 
 Mr. Schultz described a host of other plans: a pungent new coffee blend, a partnership with Conservation International to certify environmentally responsible whole-bean espresso products,and a rewards program for users of the Starbucks customer card. 
 Beginning in mid-April, users of the customer card will be able to customize their drinks -- with soy milk or vanilla, for example -- at no cost. 
 The announcements are intended to help Starbucks hang on to customers in the face of intensifying competition for brewed coffee from Dunkin' Donuts and McDonald's, which is widely introducing espresso beverages this year. 
 ''This was more of a position statement. They are going back to their core,'' said Sharon Zackfia, a securities analyst with William Blair & Company. ''They are saying, 'We are not going to change who we are, we are going to defend turf aggressively.' ''
 Mr. Schultz obliquely referred to the powerful new rivals in an afternoon question-and-answer session with reporters. ''A lot of people are making unique claims about coffee and what they do,'' he said. ''What's interesting to me is that they are not coffee roasters.''
 But Mr. Schultz tried largely to keep the focus on the company's internal challenges and future moves. ''This is the first time the U.S. business is under pressure; it's a character test,'' he said. ''But it's not about the economy. We don't want to use that as an excuse. And it's not about the competition. Don't believe the media hype. There's no coffee war going on. This is about us. 
 ''We somehow evolved from a culture of entrepreneurship, creativity and innovation to a culture of, in a way, mediocrity and bureaucracy,'' Mr. Schultz said.
 His remarks combined self-criticism with musings on the turbulent economy, which he noted was reducing traffic to Starbucks stores. The company faces a hurdle that may be impossible to overcome in the short term: Will penny-pinching Americans, in the grip of an economic downturn, still pay $4.10 for their daily dose of white chocolate mocha-flavored coffee?
 Mr. Schultz said several times that the economy looked grim for the rest of the year, particularly in regions of the country hit hard by the subprime mortgage crisis.
 Starbucks has also suffered from rising wholesale prices for coffee and dairy products. In the face of those pressures, Mr. Schultz returned as chief executive 11 weeks ago after serving eight years as chairman. He quickly announced 600 layoffs and the closing of 100 of the least profitable Starbucks stores in the United States. He also said Starbucks would stop selling a line of breakfast sandwiches that were served warm, creating an aroma that overwhelmed that of the coffee in stores.
 At the heart of the new announcements is a desire to revisit the company's early devotion to high-quality coffee. The new coffee blend, called Pike Place Roast, is a reference to the location of the first Starbucks store. Starbucks will introduce the blend in stores next month. Baristas will be directed to brew smaller batches of coffee and refresh the coffee in urns every 30 minutes. Today, coffee can sit in Starbucks's urns for as long as two hours.
 Mr. Schultz called the new blend ''a coffee so fresh that those people who drink it with milk and sugar will want to drink it black because of the sweetness.''
 Also on Wednesday, Starbucks introduced a new online community, mystarbucksidea.com, where Mr. Schultz and other managers will contribute to a corporate blog. Customers will also be encouraged to visit the site to make suggestions and interact with employees. The site opens on Thursday.
 Looking further ahead, Mr. Schultz said that the company planned to introduce health- and wellness-related food and drinks and energy beverages later in the year.
 Wednesday's meeting represents what Mr. Schultz hopes will be a striking turnaround in the speed and spirit of innovation at Starbucks. In the first half of the decade, the company thrived on product introductions like the Frappuccino, a frozen coffee drink. The last innovation widely thought to be successful was the Cinnamon Dolce Latte -- in early 2006.
 Mr. Schultz partly has his own relentless ambition to blame for the woes at Starbucks. In the last two years, citing ever-larger expansion goals, the company doubled its number of stores to more than 15,000 in 44 countries -- many in comically close proximity to one another and to competing coffee shops.
 Analysts say new stores cannibalized traffic from existing stores and thinned the ranks of well-trained Starbucks managers and employees. The company then tried to create efficiencies among stores, adding technology like massive automated espresso machines, which have little of the romance or aroma of the old hand-operated machines.
 In the second half of last year, Starbucks's same-store sales -- a significant number watched by Wall Street -- declined for the first time.
 Shareholders and employees began lining up for Wednesday's event as early as 6 a.m. As a barbershop quartet sang and employees dressed in Starbucks's green aprons handed out free coffee, many shareholders expressed excitement over Mr. Schultz's return.
 ''I'm glad Howard is back at the helm. Starbucks is his heart,'' said Jan Melin, a retiree and shareholder from Seattle who was there with her husband, Bill. ''I have every confidence he will turn the company around so this stock can take our family on our 50th wedding anniversary trip next year.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Howard D. Schultz, Starbucks's chief executive, at the shareholders' meeting in Seattle on Wednesday, held a shot of expresso from a Mastrena machine to be in most stores by 2010. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARCUS R. DONNER/REUTERS) (pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COFFEE & TEA STORES (90%); COFFEE (89%); FAST FOOD (78%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (77%); BAKED GOODS (74%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); COFFEE & TEA MFG (68%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (66%)

COMPANY: STARBUCKS CORP (94%); DUNKIN' BRANDS GROUP INC (66%); WILLIAM BLAIR & CO LLC (64%)

TICKER: SBUX (NASDAQ) (94%); DNKN (NASDAQ) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (94%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (94%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (64%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (64%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (64%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (64%)

PERSON: HOWARD SCHULTZ (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%) WASHINGTON, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2008



506 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1220 words

HEADLINE: Storming the Campuses

BYLINE: By BRAD STONE

 BODY:
This winter, the armies of Yale invaded Massachusetts and conquered Harvard. Cornell's troops turned Dartmouth's militia into a vassal force. Columbia allied itself with Yale and occupied Long Island, before getting routed by the Princeton-Cornell alliance.
 The historic rivalries of the Ivy League have reached the Internet. 
 Eleven thousand Ivy League students and alumni have played out these scenarios as part of an online computer game called GoCrossCampus, or GXC. The game, a riff on classic territorial-conquest board games like Risk, may be the next Internet phenomenon to emerge from the computers of college students. 
 GXC more closely resembles an intramural or interscholastic sport than the typical online video game, where individuals or small groups are pitted against each other. GXC teams, made up of hundreds and sometimes thousands of players, play on behalf of real-world dorms or schools -- even presidential candidates -- by jostling for hegemony on maps of their campus or locale and conducting their campaigns as much in the real world as online. 
 ''This kind of game is a product of how people live and interact today, with the offline aspect as part of the draw,'' said Jonathan Rochelle, a New York product manager at Google who discovered the game as an adviser to the Yale Entrepreneurial Institute. He views it as similar to software like Google Calendar and Google Docs -- tools that enhance real-world collaboration. 
 ''Rather than isolating us in an online world, it enhances our interactions in the real world,'' Mr. Rochelle said.
 The game, founded by four Yale undergraduate students and one Columbia undergrad last September, has spread to 24 universities and high schools. The students have formed a company based in New Haven that is now spreading the word to corporations about what they see as a 21st-century Internet version of the camaraderie-building corporate retreat. Next month, Google will bring GoCrossCampus to its New York office, pitting sales departments against engineering groups over a map of the company's Manhattan campus.
 Two early-stage venture capital firms, WGI Fund and Easton Capital, have provided an undisclosed amount of seed money, and the students hope to raise more capital next year, when three of the five founders graduate and will commit themselves to building the game full time.
 No one is claiming this is the next Facebook, the social networking phenomenon that began on the Harvard campus. But GoCrossCampus represents the new kind of online games that unite the participants of real-world communities in a common online cause. 
 The rules of GXC are relatively simple. Every player is allocated a number of armies each day and must coordinate attacks, troop movements and defensive maneuvers with teammates. Players can move their armies once each day, and the game software calculates the result of clashes with an algorithm that gives a slight edge to defenders.
 Some of the most significant moves occur offline, as players gather in the real world to elect commanders, recruit other players and discuss strategy and ways of spying on opponents as they formulate battle plans. 
 For example, at a recent battle between the residential colleges at Rice University, one team gathered in the cafeteria during a particularly dire point in the game. Once assembled, said Jim Deyerle, a junior at Rice who coordinated strategy for his team and now works on the game, ''one of the commanders delivered Morpheus's speech,'' referring to the stirring oration from the second ''Matrix'' movie. ''Then we brought out our laptops to sign more people up,'' he said.
 Recruiting is as important in the virtual world as it is in the real world. A large army of devoted players can sweep over an opponent's territory with ease. 
 In February, at St. Paul's, a boarding school in New Hampshire, more than 200 students battled across a map that included the school's dormitories, dining halls, hockey rink and chapel.
 ''Some people took it very seriously, sitting in the common room all afternoon signing people up and making accounts to spy on other teams,'' said Emi Alexander, a sophomore. Ms. Alexander, who says she is not a video game fan, introduced GXC to her school after watching her mother, a Yale alumna, reconnect with her old college friends during the Ivy League championship.
 The company's four Yale founders, who met at the student-run Yale Entrepreneur Society, have a clunky phrase to describe their game's quirky genre: multiplayer locally social gaming. It is a reference to the online connections that are created between players who typically also know one another in the real world. The founders stress the notion that players need to spend only a few minutes each day, checking in with their commanders and allocating their armies. 
 ''We try to harness the feelings of various competitive groups in order to create really intense and enthusiastic groups of online gamers, essentially out of people who have often never played an online game before in their lives,'' said Brad Hargreaves, the chief executive of GoCrossCampus, who is also a senior at Yale and an economics and biology major.
 Mr. Hargreaves and his co-founders -- Sean Mehra, Jeffrey Reitman, Matthew O. Brimer and Isaac Silverman, the sole non-Yalie -- started the company last year and have spent much of their time refining it, and dashing off to classes after sleepless nights of coding. The Yale Entrepreneurial Institute, a two-year-old university organization originally set up to commercialize faculty inventions, is providing the founders with an office across the street from campus.
 James Boyle, the institute's director, describes GoCrossCampus as one of his organization's most promising spawns. ''If there is any aspect of social networking that has not been as fully exploited up until now, GXC has found it,'' he said.
 The founders say they are considering a move to Silicon Valley. To make money, they hope to sell sponsorships of games and charge for corporate versions, like the one coming to Google.
 The company will inevitably face challenges. If the game continues to show signs of promise, deep-pocketed video game companies might start massing on GXC's borders with their own versions. 
 The founders say their advantage is relationships with student governments, who help in soliciting cooperation from university administrators. ''It would be really easy for someone to go out and build something like this,'' said Mr. Brimer, who is also the company's chief marketing officer. ''But it's very hard to get people to adopt it without having those relationships in place.''
 If anything, GoCrossCampus is demonstrating that the game's appeal ranges beyond universities. One of the most popular offshoot games on the site now is called GoCrossPoliticalBash08. It pits 2,000 supporters of presidential candidates against one another over a map of the United States.
 Could such a game augur the outcome of the next presidential election? Probably not. The armies of John McCain and Barack Obama have already been routed, and Hillary Clinton's forces are trapped in New England.
 Jockeying for control of the rest of the country are the armies of Representative Ron Paul of Texas and the comedian Stephen Colbert.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At top, a marketing meeting of the student-run company behind GoCrossCampus, in New Haven, Conn. Above, an online map for the game played at Washington University in St. Louis. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GEORGE RUHE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.C1)
 Four of GoCrossCampus's founders, from left: Jeffrey Reitman, Sean Mehra, Matthew O. Brimer and Brad Hargreaves. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GEORGE RUHE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); TOYS & GAMES (90%); COMPUTER GAMES (89%); ONLINE COMPUTER GAMES (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); SOCIAL MEDIA (77%); INTERNET VIDEO (77%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); BOARD GAMES (76%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (76%); VENTURE CAPITAL (75%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); STUDENT HOUSING (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (68%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (66%); ENGINEERING (66%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (65%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (85%); FACEBOOK INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (91%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (84%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (58%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (85%); FB (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (73%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (59%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (78%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2008



507 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: Climate Change? Been There, Done That

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES

 BODY:
THE GREAT WARMING 
 Climate Change and the Rise and Fall of Civilizations 
 By Brian Fagan 
 Illustrated. Bloomsbury Press. 282 pages. $26.95. 
 If you don't think climate change produces winners as well as losers, consider this: In the 12th and 13th centuries England exported wine to France. Vineyards also flourished in improbable regions like southern Norway and eastern Prussia. A centuries-long spell of mild, predictable weather blessed Western Europe with abundant crops, healthy populations and budget surpluses sufficient to finance projects like Chartres Cathedral. 
 This is the credit side of a global balance sheet carefully itemized by Brian Fagan in ''The Great Warming,'' his fascinating account of shifting climatic conditions and their consequences from about A.D. 800 to 1300, often referred to as the Medieval Warm Period. The debit side is appalling: widespread drought, catastrophic rainfall, toppled dynasties, ruined civilizations. Abandoned Maya temples in the Yucatan and the desolation of Angkor Wat, supreme achievement of the Khmer empire, bear witness to climatic change against which royal power and priestly magic proved impotent. 
 Mr. Fagan, an anthropologist who has written on climate change in ''The Long Summer'' and ''The Little Ice Age,'' proceeds methodically, working his way across the globe and reading the evidence provided by tree rings, deep-sea cores, coral samples, computer weather models and satellite photos. The picture that emerges remains blurry -- scientists still understand little about such weather-changers as El Nino and La Nina -- but it has sharpened considerably over the past 40 years, enough for Mr. Fagan to present a coherent account of profound changes in human societies from the American Southwest to the Huang He River basin in China.
 Longer summers and milder winters in Europe, especially stable from 1100 to 1300, allowed Norse explorers to range as far as Greenland and Labrador. At the same time a population boom in the rest of Europe led to radical deforestation, as trees were cleared to create farmland. By the end of the Medieval Warm Period half the forests that covered four-fifths of Western and Central Europe in A.D. 500 had disappeared. 
 Across vast swaths of the globe, however, severe, persistent droughts lasted not just for years but for generations. The Sierras of modern-day California experienced the severest droughts of the past 4,000 to 7,000 years. Acorn trees died, and along with them peoples largely dependent on acorns for food. Although data remain sketchy, it seems probable that extended droughts dried up pastureland on the Central Asian steppe, propelling the armies of Genghis Khan westward.
 In the southern Yucatan arid conditions proved too much for the elaborate reservoirs, called ''water mountains,'' that the Maya used to irrigate their fields. Mr. Fagan permits himself an ominous aside: ''The analogies to modern-day California, with its aqueducts for water-hungry Los Angeles, or to cities such as Tucson, Ariz., with its shrinking aquifers and falling water table, are irresistible.'' 
 Mr. Fagan is as interested in human adaptation as he is in weather. While California's acorn eaters suffered, peoples in the Southwestern deserts expanded their diet to include new edible plants. In the Sahara caravan organizers simply adjusted their routes according to changing rainfall patterns. 
 ''The camel and its load-carrying saddle proved an effective weapon against heat and drought even in the worst years, when extreme aridity affected cattle people living far south of the desert,'' Mr. Fagan writes. 
 Northern China got the worst of both worlds during the Medieval Warm Period: violent climatic swings that resulted in lengthy dry spells or torrential rainfall. Meanwhile, in the South Pacific, faltering trade winds allowed Polynesian voyagers to head east, eventually reaching Rapa Nui (Easter Island) around 1200. 
 Mr. Fagan has a somewhat rigid, formulaic way of presenting his material. Well aware that the general reader can handle only limited amounts of ice-core data, he tries to generate period atmosphere by including present-tense ''you are there'' episodes. ''The hushed crowd in the plaza gazes upward to the temple at the summit of the pyramid,'' one section begins. A little drama certainly helps, but he overworks this device. The book is overpopulated with sweating plowmen and fishermen peering into the mist. 
 The causes of the Medieval Warm Period remain unclear, and there is debate over what the actual temperatures were. Mr. Fagan draws one unambiguous conclusion from the evidence, however, in a final chapter on the present-day implications of the great warming of a thousand years ago. Drought is the great enemy, ''the silent and insidious killer associated with global warming,'' he writes.
 Population density has placed enormous pressure on increasingly scarce water resources. As a result modern droughts, brought on by El Nino events, have taken an enormous toll in lives and wreaked measureless economic devastation. Prepare for worse. 
 ''Judging from the arid cycles of a thousand years ago, the droughts of a warmer future will become more prolonged and harsher,'' Mr. Fagan writes. ''Even without greenhouse gases, the effects of prolonged droughts would be far more catastrophic today than they were even a century ago.'' 
 For a spark of hope Mr. Fagan offers the example of Chimor, a kingdom in coastal Peru tormented by El Nino flooding and severe droughts throughout the Medieval Warm Period. The Chimu people thrived nonetheless by diversifying their food supply and protecting their scarce water resources. In a historically arid region with uncertain food supplies, they successfully tapped their centuries of experience with irrigation, soil conservation and water management. Look no further for a global-warming role model. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY LESLEY NEWHART) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (91%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); DROUGHT (89%); WEATHER (89%); DEFORESTATION (78%); EL NINO & LA NINA (78%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (78%); BUDGETS (75%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (74%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (73%); NATURAL DISASTERS (68%); MOUNTAINS (67%); POPULATION GROWTH (58%); RIVERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SOUTHWEST, USA (79%) EUROPE (93%); WESTERN EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (92%); NORWAY (91%); ENGLAND (88%); CHINA (79%); GREENLAND (79%); ASIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%)

TITLE: Great Warming, The (Book)>; Great Warming, The (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2008



508 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: Washington's Grand Experiment to Rehouse the Poor

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
When District of Columbia officials tore down the decrepit housing project in southeast Washington where Samantha Jackson lived with her teenage son, they promised that they would build a more attractive, mixed-income community and that former tenants like herself could come back. 
 ''I was very happy,'' recalled Ms. Jackson, 42, a school custodian. ''The area was rough and scary.'' 
 Ms. Jackson, who has been staying with a friend since the demolition in 2004, is now in line to buy, with subsidies, a new apartment in a town house in the same neighborhood, and she can hardly wait. ''It looks like Hollywood to me,'' Ms. Jackson said of the onetime slum where glossy buildings and the Washington Nationals stadium are also rising.
 Bucking national trends and citing what they call ''a moral goal,'' District of Columbia officials have pledged to preserve and even expand low-income housing, replacing dangerous projects with new communities that keep both poor and ''work force'' residents -- firefighters, teachers and laborers -- in the mix. 
 The redevelopment of the Arthur Capper and Carrollsburg projects, where Ms. Jackson lived, is the first in the country to promise replacement of all low-income units within the same neighborhood, said Michael Kelly, director of the city Housing Authority. 
 ''Mr. Kelly is undertaking a great experiment to see if he can turn around distressed neighborhoods and keep the original residents there to benefit,'' said Sue Popkin, a housing expert at the Urban Institute. ''It's a gamble. We don't know how to take a terrible neighborhood and make it nice while keeping the same people there.''
 The federal government no longer pays to build housing projects, which in Washington, Chicago and other cities became symbols of concentrated poverty. 
 Since the early 1990s, it has given money under a program called Hope VI to tear down distressed projects, to be replaced by mixed communities built with private partners. In a pattern that critics disparage as ''demolish and disperse,'' some former tenants return but most scatter with rental vouchers, destroying community ties. District officials say they have learned from past mistakes. 
 The issues are in contention at the federal level now: the Bush administration proposes to eliminate Hope VI, while the House of Representatives has passed a bill that would extend it and require that all razed public housing be replaced.
 The Washington venture will preserve housing, but social ties have been undermined by the stretched-out construction schedule; some former tenants will wait as long as eight years to return, in the meantime using vouchers or staying in other public housing. 
 Martha Queen, 72, who is raising her 17-year-old great-grandson, has been lonely and depressed since she moved to a public unit in a different neighborhood, away from her friends. 
 ''All the things you're familiar with, they're gone,'' she said of her former home. ''It's all rubble now.''
 ''I just sit upstairs and look out the window,'' she added. 
 She has been offered a new two-bedroom at Capper-Carrollsburg, but it is smaller than the place she had before and she has resisted, fearing she would have to get rid of half of her furniture. 
 The Housing Authority, which controls 8,000 units, has received federal grants to tear down six projects and create mixed communities. The city says it will use bonds and private investors to redevelop more sites, but critics ask if that is financially feasible.
 The current site had 707 low-income units. In the expanded community, as many low-income rentals will blend in with more than 800 homes rented or sold to working-class and more affluent people, as well as an office building, new stores and parks. 
 In the meantime, former tenants are offered social aid, from credit repair and job advice to drug treatment. 
 Ms. Jackson, who expects to buy her home in 2010, had an unpaid medical bill that tarnished her credit rating. The support program put her in touch with a legal aid center that persuaded an insurance company to pay. 
 Poor people will pay 30 percent of their incomes in rent. Other units are for sale, with subsidies, to the working poor, including families making as little as $25,000, while others will sell at market rates. 
 Many residents were suspicious. A group organized to press for a stronger role in shaping the Capper-Carrollsburg project, and fought, for example, to keep a youth center open before the final demolition. 
 A committee of residents, officials and neighbors decided that any returnees with a serious criminal conviction within three years of the move-in date, and anyone with seriously bad credit, would be excluded. They will keep their current vouchers or public units, officials promise. 
 One-for-one replacement of units will be more difficult in cities lacking high land prices, which enabled Washington to issue bonds tied to future tax revenues. Still, the drive to save public housing reflects a growing sense among urban experts of the limits of rental vouchers. Vouchers help families move out of crime-infested projects but in cities with tight housing, landlords may not accept them, driving tenants to new slums on the urban fringes. 
 ''Vouchers sometimes have the unintended consequence of just shifting burdens around,'' said Robert J. Sampson, chairman of the sociology department at Harvard. 
 Vouchers also depend on annual appropriations; for the coming year, the funds proposed by President Bush would reduce vouchers and aid to low-income housing, according to Barbara Sard, housing director at the Center on Budget and Policy Alternatives in Washington. 
 Dwayne Todd, 20, grew up in the Capper-Carrollsburg projects. ''I was mad when I found out they were tearing down our home,'' said Mr. Todd, who has a girlfriend and two babies. ''All my friends are scattered.'' But the case worker helped him get a job as a security officer, and he looks forward to returning to his own place. 
 ''I want to move back there, I have so many childhood memories,'' he said. ''Some people didn't really want them to change the neighborhood this way, but for me it's a pretty decent thing. I don't want my kids to grow up in a project.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: March 24, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Friday about the District of Columbia's plans to replace public housing projects with new mixed communities misstated the name of an organization in Washington that said President Bush's budget proposals would reduce money for low-income housing. It is the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, not the Center on Budget and Policy Alternatives.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Michael Kelly, director of the Housing Authority in Washington, is replacing a housing project with a development of mixed-income units. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); SLUM DWELLINGS (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (75%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); TRENDS (73%); GRANDCHILDREN (73%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); BASEBALL (69%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2008



509 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; National Desk; OBITUARIES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1020 words

PERSON: Frank Ayd 

HEADLINE: Frank Ayd, 87; Advanced Thorazine Use

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
Dr. Frank J. Ayd Jr., a psychiatrist who by studying his patients' responses to early antipsychotic and antidepressant drugs helped give birth to and nurture the field of psychopharmacology, died Monday in Baltimore. He was 87.
 The cause was complications of coronary artery disease, his daughter Loretta M. Simpson said.
 Dr. Ayd's clinical results were usually influential and sometimes stunning. In May 1955, he reported at the annual meeting of the American Psychiatric Association on his use of two antipsychotic drugs, chlorpromazine, best known by the trade name Thorazine, and reserpine. Dr. Ayd, who received the first permit from the Food and Drug Administration to use Thorazine to treat schizophrenia, found that many of the 300 patients he treated with the drugs no longer needed hospitalization in a specialized setting and could be treated in a general hospital or nursing home. He said 80 percent were usefully employed. 
 The New York Times reported that his finding had ''profound economic implications,'' because it offered a way to cut the $1 billion the nation was then spending on mental illness. It said many patients could receive immediate treatment and avoid long-term hospitalization.
 Dr. Ayd never doubted he was treating brain diseases. He tested his patients' psychological, neurological and behavioral responses to new drugs, then quantified the results. This placed him at odds with the more impressionistic traditions of psychiatry, and more in tune with the biological approach favored by many European researchers.
 ''He was one of the founding fathers of psychopharmacology in this country,'' Dr. Robert L. Findling, director of child and adolescent psychiatry at Case Western Reserve University, said in an interview Thursday. ''He was there at its inception as a scientific area of focused research.''
 Dr. Ayd worked at a time when there was considerably less government and academic regulation, and when clinicians were able to experiment more freely with emerging drugs to find good uses for them. Dr. Philip G. Janicak, a professor of psychiatry at Rush University in Chicago, said in an interview that ''empirical trial and error'' on real patients led to many discoveries by Dr. Ayd and his contemporaries.
 Dr. Ayd contributed to more than 50 books and wrote over 400 articles. His ''Ayd's Lexicon of Psychiatry, Neurology and the Neurosciences'' is a standard reference.
 He helped start the Collegium Internationale Neuro-Psychopharmacology and the American College of Neuropsychopharmacology. In 1966, he established his own journal, the International Drug Therapy Newsletter. It changed its name last year to Psychopharm Review. 
 Four years after his initial study, Dr. Ayd reported on a six-year study of 4,000 patients that indicated stronger new drugs in higher doses were even more effective.
 It emerged that the powerful antipsychotic drugs often had powerful side effects. In an interview on Thursday, Dr. J. Raymond DePaulo, chairman of the psychiatry department at the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, emphasized that Dr. Ayd was as aggressive in investigating the side effects of psychiatric drugs as he was in gauging their potential.
 ''He understood that all drugs on some level are poisons,'' Dr. DePaulo said. ''This wasn't theoretical for him. This was about treating the patient with something that would help them.''
 Dr. Ayd also expressed concern about the many previously hospitalized mentally ill people being released without adequate support systems because of effective drugs. Dr. Janicak said Dr. Ayd tried to find ways to ''give a voice'' to the often inarticulate mentally ill.
 As drugs emerged to treat depression, Dr. Ayd subjected them to equally strict analysis. Dr. DePaulo said Dr. Ayd tested on his patients one of the first tricyclic antidepressants, an early and important class of drugs for severe depression. 
 Frank Joseph Ayd Jr. was born in Baltimore on Oct. 14, 1920, the son of a pediatrician and the grandson of a pharmacist. He graduated from Loyola College in Baltimore and the University of Maryland School of Medicine. His residency in pediatrics was interrupted when the Navy called him to active duty at a veterans' hospital.
 A biography prepared by the alumni association of his medical school said Dr. Ayd treated a wide array of veterans. Some were violent, some heard voices, some could not distinguish hot from cold. Once a patient stuffed his clothes full of newspaper and set himself on fire.
 ''He was talking to the voice, not complaining of any pain,'' Dr. Ayd is quoted as saying in the biography. ''He had burns on at least 20 percent of his body. It fascinated me that he had no real sense of pain.''
 Dr. Ayd immersed himself in psychiatry and began giving Thorazine to patients with delusions in 1952. The drug saved some from what then seemed to be unavoidable lobotomies.
 Dr. Ayd went on to become chief of psychiatry at Franklin Square Hospital in Baltimore from 1955 until 1962, then left to lecture in Europe. From 1962 to 1965, he lectured at the Pontifical Gregorian University in Rome. He later worked at the Taylor Manor Hospital in Ellicott City, Md., and retired in 2003.
 In addition to his daughter Loretta, of Hunt Valley, Md., Dr. Ayd is survived by his wife of 64 years, the former Rita Anne Corasaniti; his sons Frank III, of Parkville, Md., Joseph, of Towson, Md., Thomas, of Showell, Md., Vincent, of Cedarcroft, Md., and John, of Timonium, Md.; his other daughters, Margaret Reid of Towson, Va., Simpson of Umbria, Italy, Teresa Knott of Towson, Martha Teitelbaum of Troutdale, Va., Christina Lears of Catonsville, Md., and Rita O'Brennan of Timonium; his sisters, Jane Morales of York, Pa., and Regina Brockmeyer of Parkville; his brother, Robert, of Parkville; 32 grandchildren; and 38 great-grandchildren.
 In an interview with Psychiatric Times in 2005, Dr. Ayd predicted many better drugs would be developed, but said the challenge was for doctors to learn to use them properly.
 ''Otherwise, it would be like giving a driver's license to someone who can't drive,'' he said.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 25, 2008

 CORRECTION:
Because of editing errors, an obituary on Friday about Dr. Frank J. Ayd Jr., a psychiatrist who did early testing of antipsychotic and antidepressant drugs, omitted the given name of one of his surviving daughters. She is Virginia Simpson of Umbria, Italy. It also misidentified the state of residence of another daughter. Margaret Reid lives in Towson, Md., not in Virginia.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dr. Frank J. Ayd Jr. in 2002. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FLITE THREE STUDIOS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (91%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (90%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (90%); PSYCHIATRY (90%); PHARMACOLOGY (90%); MENTAL ILLNESS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); NEUROSCIENCE (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (79%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (78%); SCHIZOPHRENIA (78%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (78%); PSYCHOLOGY (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS ASSOCIATIONS (77%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (77%); NURSING HOMES (73%); BRAIN (73%); HEART DISEASE (72%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN PSYCHIATRIC ASSOCIATION (57%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

CATEGORY: Medicine and Health

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2008



510 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Escapes; RITUALS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: Checking In, Glamour-Free

BYLINE: By DAVE ITZKOFF

 BODY:
THERE was a time, on my frequent trips to the West Coast, when I used to stay at chic West Hollywood hotels, in rooms furnished with designer bottled waters, vinyl beanbag chairs and all manner of pay-per-view television entertainments. Each morning I proudly strode past fitness rooms, spas and barbershops I never visited, and each night I went to bed contentedly knowing that the hotel bar was packed with the sorts of people who would never give me the time of day.
 Now, though, with the slumping economy, such sumptuous amenities are as much a relic of the past as the Brown Derby restaurant. Now when I travel to the West Coast, my center of gravity is shifted miles to the east, away from Sunset Boulevard to a far less alluring side of Los Angeles. I can usually be found at one of several low-cost motels in the city's Koreatown and Thai Town neighborhoods, where the 101 meets Western Avenue and where glamorous expectation meets economic reality. 
 For the $80 or $90 a night it costs me to stay at the Ramada there, or at an establishment with a deceptively sleek name like the Hollywood City Inn, I can expect a bed, a bathroom and a free Wi-Fi connection. Still, it's not totally fair to say the rooms are without frills: I also usually get a microwave or a refrigerator, a credit card-style room key with the phone number of the local Domino's Pizza on the back, and a creaky door jamb that is somehow capable of magnifying the gentlest passing breeze into a bone-chilling gale. 
 And, quite frankly, I love it.
 Clearly, such spartan arrangements are not everyone's vision of paradise. These are not places to take a loved one on a romantic getaway or to bring the whole family on a road trip to Knott's Berry Farm, any more than Tad's Broiled Steaks is the ideal restaurant to wine and dine a crucial business client. Many of these trips start out as business, part of my work as a writer, but when I'm in need of some distance from my often-disjointed state of mind, these minimal surroundings are an oddly perfect destination. 
 The most appealing feature that these accommodations offer me is a vacation away from my head, from the clamor and bustle of life in a nonstop metropolis (like the one that exists immediately beyond this neighborhood). My privacy can be total if I so choose: from the moment I check in, I know I'll never have to see another hotel guest or employee again, unless the housekeeping staff disregards my ''Do Not Disturb'' sign, or I want to wake myself up at 8 a.m. for the store-bought doughnut billed as a complimentary continental breakfast. 
 When I need to get away for food or ibuprofen, the surrounding streets are much more walkable than most of Los Angeles: a CVS and a Walgreens are both a few blocks away, as are Carl's Jr. and Jack in the Box, the underappreciated Art Garfunkel and Ringo Starr of American fast-food franchises. By simply plugging in my iPod headphones I can make all the surrounding pedestrians disappear -- a far cry from the morning commutes in Manhattan that I can't complete without colliding violently with at least three fellow travelers.
 And when circumstances require that I travel farther away (to visit friends or Amoeba Music, or, you know, work on the articles that I was sent out to report), I need only walk the few steps from my door to my car, without having to contend with a parking valet who's spent the last 15 minutes trying to chat up that model lounging in her poolside cabana. (In fact, I can usually see my car directly from my bedroom window, which, given the environs, is probably a good thing.)
 BUT why should I want to leave my room any more than is absolutely necessary, when I know that for the three or four wakeful hours a day I will most likely spend confined there, I will become a human marvel of productivity? (Assuming I can resist the temptation to check in on my favorite blogs every five minutes or flip on HBO to see what Nick Nolte movie is currently being shown.) 
 I'm still not sure why the physical space of these motels should have this effect on me. It might be that the solitude and the austerity remind me of my old college dorm rooms.
 Or perhaps simply being in Los Angeles -- even the section of town where Korean restaurants and Thai buffets are mixed in among Spanish groceries, and public buses and coin-operated Laundromats are easier to find than Bentleys and BlackBerrys -- is enough to remind me that I am in a city that has always held a special place in its gilded heart for the solitary man with the great idea and the ability to execute it. 
 At this very moment, goes my rationale, there are any number of fellow writers, tucked away in bungalows, bedrooms and basements throughout this town, pounding out their magnum opuses on the human condition and giant robots that transform themselves into semi-trucks and fighter planes. With enough time and sufficient mental focus, I tell myself, I could be William Faulkner, without the sad, self-destructive decline into alcoholism; I could be Barton Fink, without being surrounded by wallpaper that peels itself off the walls and hallways that burst into flames. 
 I'm hardly the first writer for whom a radical change in scenery has been immensely helpful to his work, or, at least, his output. Some authors decamp to elite writers' colonies to bathe in each other's artistic brilliance and undermine their colleagues' confidence. And there was that one guy who had to spend two years in the woods of Massachusetts, in a house he built himself, to arrive at his insights into where he lived and what he lived for. (I wonder whatever became of him.) 
 Others can find the inspiration they seek in more affordable or egalitarian spaces, at the corner coffee shop or a nearby library. For me, I suppose, I need an option that's the mathematical average of these two: as far from home as a domestic airline will carry me, attained with as little as my wallet will allow me to spend.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); RESTAURANTS (89%); HOTEL AMENITIES (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); FAST FOOD (74%); FREE INTERNET ACCESS (73%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (57%); PAY PER VIEW (57%)

COMPANY: KNOTT'S BERRY FARM FOODS INC (64%); DOMINO'S PIZZA INC (54%)

TICKER: DPZ (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (64%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (64%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (54%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) WEST USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2008



511 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ART REVIEW 'BIRTH OF THE COOL'; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: Store in a Cool, Fertile Place: 1950s California

BYLINE: By KEN JOHNSON

DATELINE: ANDOVER, Mass. 

 BODY:
The cool was born in New York. It was in Manhattan that Miles Davis and the nine-piece group he convened in the late 1940s forged a tightly understated alternative to the hot expressionism of bebop and recorded the hugely influential tracks later collected in the album ''Birth of the Cool.'' But it was in California in the 1950s that cool jazz and cool art in general took root and flourished. 
 The story is well told in ''Birth of the Cool: California Art, Design and Culture at Midcentury,'' an exhibition here at the Addison Gallery of American Art. Organized by Elizabeth Armstrong, chief curator at the Orange County Museum of Art in Newport Beach, Calif., where it originated, the show examines cool style of the '50s in several disciplines, including painting, furniture design, architecture, film and photography. 
 The multidisciplinary approach could be confusing, but it all hangs together in ways both entertaining and thought provoking. What emerges is not just a style but a spirit and an ethos that are in many ways diametrically opposite those of East Coast Abstract Expressionism. Angst-free, not monumental, anti-grandiose: California cool is laid back yet cleanly articulated, impersonal yet intimate, strict yet hedonistic, and seriously playful.
 Unlike many avant-garde artists of the New York school, the painters most centrally identified with the cool style in California don't seem to have been trying to revolutionize their medium. An early label for the work of the four best-known practitioners -- Karl Benjamin, Frederick Hammersley, Lorser Feitelson and John McLaughlin -- was ''abstract classicism,'' which overstates their conservatism but highlights the formal equilibrium they sought. 
 Mr. Benjamin, the most appealing, worked in a lively, late Cubist style, creating compositions of flat, sharp-edged, richly colored, overlapping and interlocking shapes that are easy to imagine decorating the covers of paperback books or serving as backgrounds for movie credits. Today they look almost shockingly fresh, and so do the only slightly less vivid geometric paintings of Mr. Hammersley and Mr. Feitelson. 
 Mr. McLaughlin's grid-based paintings exude a greater formal austerity. They are composed of smooth, flat rectangles of black, white, off-white and gray with blocks of color strategically inserted here and there. Inspired by Asian art and Zen Buddhism, they have a monastic air about them, but they are suave and materially sensuous too.
 While paintings make the biggest visual impact in the show, the architectural photographs of Julius Shulman convey an expanded sense of the world of California cool. The exhibition presents some of Mr. Shulman's sleek, luminous pictures of the Case Study houses, a series of midcentury works by Richard Neutra, Eero Saarinen and other architects that were meant to show the adaptability of Modernist principles to residential housing. 
 In Mr. Shulman's glamorous pictures, which, unusually for architectural photography, included live models, there is a dreamy vision of the good life: a combination, one imagines, of cocktails, sex and jazz on the hi-fi. California cool looks like the product of an optimism and confidence born of post-World War II economic prosperity and seemingly unlimited room for growth. 
 There is a certain innocence about some aspects of California cool. The extraordinarily inventive Charles and Ray Eames went about their business of designing snazzy, unpretentious, eminently functional chairs, tables and other domestic furnishings without any of the utopian urgency to which early Modernist architects and designers were prone. In the show their short films of spinning toy tops and kaleidoscopically morphing chair fragments accompanied by jazz music appear animated by the childlike wonder they brought to every medium they explored. 
 A selection of Eames chairs is presented on tall shelves, calling to mind Design Within Reach, where their designs can still be purchased. This prompts thoughts about the relationship of cool design to consumerism. As Ms. Armstrong notes in her essay in the excellent catalog, one extension of the cool is the sybaritic materialism promulgated in Playboy magazine, which would come to seem increasingly uncool in succeeding decades. 
 Perhaps the richest manifestation of the cool was the West Coast jazz played by Gerry Mulligan (who worked with Davis on ''Birth of the Cool''), Dave Brubeck, Stan Getz, Chet Baker and others. A section of the exhibition is devoted to the noirish photographs of these and other musicians by William Claxton, whose work adorned the covers of many record albums. A gripping catalog essay on Mr. Claxton's photographs by the critic Dave Hickey taps deep into the soul of the cool. 
 The cool could not survive the 1960s, when all the repressed energies and conflicts of American society burst to the surface. But in its own time it was more than just a passing style. The cool did not try to change the world; rather, it was an end in itself. 
 It was a way of being that turned its back on the anxious striving and the inauthentic routines of corporate, middle-class life. To be cool was its own reward, a state of grace. It's hard to imagine the stars lining up for a rebirth of the cool, but if there is a heaven, I bet it's a pretty cool place. 
 ''Birth of the Cool: California Art, Design and Culture at Midcentury'' is at the Addison Gallery of American Art, 180 Main Street, Andover, Mass., (978) 749-4015, addisongallery.org, through April 13. 

CORRECTION-DATE: March 31, 2008

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on March 21 with an art review of ''Birth of the Cool: California Art, Design and Culture at Midcentury,'' at the Addison Gallery of American Art in Andover, Mass., misidentified the person shown sitting in a 1950s chair designed by Charles and Ray Eames, a selection of whose chairs are in the exhibition. He is a model, not Charles Eames. (Mr. Eames died in 1978.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, Julius Shulman's photograph of a Case Study House designed by Pierre Koenig. Left, Charles Eames in a 1950s Eames chair. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PIERRE KOENIG ARCHIVE/GETTY RESEARCH INSTITUTE
 EAMES OFFICE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); PAINTING (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); PHOTOGRAPHY (76%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (76%); FILM (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); CONSERVATISM (70%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (60%); RELIGION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2008



512 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 571 words

HEADLINE: Repression in Tibet: The World Must Speak Up

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''China Terrorizes Tibet'' (editorial, March 18): 
 Why isn't the International Olympic Committee making clear that building stadiums and cleaning up the air -- not maltreating people -- are the way to prepare for the Olympics? 
 The Games in China have become a pretext for the arrest and detention of democracy advocates; the intimidation of human rights lawyers; the shunting away from the capital of petitioners from the rural areas; the cracking down on Falun Gong followers; the forcible return of North Korean refugees; and now the terrorizing of Tibet. 
 While it is true that the Olympics also offer an opportunity to those who would embarrass China, its politicization of an international sports event should be deemed unacceptable. 
 No government should be allowed to make repression of its population part of its preparations for the Olympics. 
 Roberta Cohen Washington, March 18, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Tibetans in India Enraged by Details of Crackdown'' (news article, March 18):
 The physical and cultural violence that the Chinese government has directed toward the Tibetan people for the past half century is threatening to undermine the nonviolent and compassionate traditions that have been such a vital part of Tibetan Buddhism, and also a rare gift to a world that is so lacking in its practice of these qualities. 
 But as China retains its unyielding attitude and raises the level of persecution, it pushes some of the young people of Tibet toward a more radical position that could eventually include greater violence. The Dalai Lama's nonviolent ''middle way'' offered hope for a workable solution, but that hope seems to be fading. 
 It is hard to imagine a light at the end of the tunnel for the Tibetan people without a much stronger response from the rest of the world. 
 Tibet can seem like a remote place, but freedom from fear, and freedom to practice one's religion, are fundamental human rights that know no borders or geographical distances. 
 John N. Corbin Pleasantville, N.Y., March 18, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Tibetans Clash With Chinese Police in Second City'' (news article, March 16):
 According to the president of the International Olympic Committee, Jacques Rogge, boycotting the Olympics would be ''penalizing innocent athletes.'' Really? What about innocent Tibetans?
 I've lived in Lhasa, Tibet, and mainland China, and I know what life is like under a brutally repressive regime. 
 I remember a teenager who spent three years in a Lhasa prison because, in an angry impulse, he posted a letter denouncing the Communist Party. And a teacher who was arrested for telling his pupils traditional Tibetan stories. I remember constant fear and anxiety.
 Politicians claim that economic development is pushing China toward greater freedom and justice. As far as I know, Tibetans have not benefited from China's economic boom; the Chinese justice system serves the powerful and rich; corruption is rampant, and whoever speaks up is silenced.
 Yes, some middle-class Chinese now have the illusion of freedom because they wear Nike sneakers and chat on China's strictly censored Internet.
 The Beijing Olympics aren't an international celebration of brotherhood and athletics; they are the Communist Party thumbing its nose at anyone who cares about human rights. 
 If we don't speak up, we are cowards and accomplices. 
 Judith Hertog Hanover, N.H., March 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SPORTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); ARRESTS (76%); CULTS & SECTS (75%); RELIGION (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); REFUGEES (71%); JAIL SENTENCING (71%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (70%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (70%); POLICE FORCES (60%); BOYCOTTS (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); PETITIONS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (84%)

PERSON: DALAI LAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHWEST CHINA (96%); XIZANG, CHINA (94%) CHINA (99%); TIBET (98%); INDIA (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2008



513 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 351 words

HEADLINE: Moody's Weighs Changes to Its Municipal Ratings

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
Responding to criticism that ratings firms underrate municipal debt relative to corporate bonds, one such agency, Moody's Investor Service, said on Thursday that it was considering changes to its ratings system. 
 Under the proposal, cities and states could request a corporate-scale rating for their tax-exempt bonds in addition to a standard municipal rating. Moody's is seeking comments on the change, which it says could go into effect in May.
 The move comes a couple of weeks after California and 10 other states called on the country's three biggest ratings firms to use the same scale to evaluate municipal and corporate debt, ending a difference that has persisted for decades. Municipalities say the difference in ratings costs taxpayers because they have to buy insurance on bonds that are not rated triple-A, the highest grade assigned by the firms.
 From 1970 to 2006, lower-rated, single-A municipal bonds defaulted 17 times less frequently than triple-A corporate debt, according to Moody's.
 A spokesman for the treasurer of California said the move was a ''welcome first step'' but the state and its allies would press for a unified rating scale for all bonds. That view was echoed by critics of the ratings firms like Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, and the attorney general of Connecticut, Richard Blumenthal.
 Also on Thursday, Fitch Ratings said a newly appointed executive would focus on the ''possible harmonization'' of corporate and municipal ratings. Standard & Poor's, the third rating firm, said it already employed ''the same scale across all sectors'' of debt. S.& P. has asserted that the differences in default rates between municipal and corporate bonds are within an acceptable range.
 Moody's said it had not decided whether it would charge municipalities extra for corporate-scale ratings. Since 2003, the firm has offered corporate ratings to taxable debt issued by municipalities for an additional fee. The firm said it would also publish a simplified conversion chart that would allow investors to compare municipal and corporate ratings more easily.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORPORATE BONDS (91%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); BONDS (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); TAX LAW (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (65%); APPOINTMENTS (52%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%)

COMPANY: MOODY'S CORP (92%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (54%)

TICKER: MCO (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (92%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%)

PERSON: RICHARD BLUMENTHAL (50%); CHARLES SCHUMER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2008



514 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1410 words

HEADLINE: Slow Economy Likely to Stall Atlantic Yards

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
The slowing economy, weighed down by a widening credit crisis, is likely to delay the signature office tower and three residential buildings at the heart of the $4 billion Atlantic Yards project in Brooklyn, the developer said.
 ''It may hold up the office building,'' the developer, Bruce C. Ratner, said in a recent interview. ''And the bond market may slow the pace of the residential buildings.''
 Mr. Ratner, chief executive of Forest City Ratner, did not specify the kinds of delays possible, but suggested that construction could be put off for years. His comments are his first public indication that the darkening economy has slowed the ambitious project, spanning 22 acres at the intersection of Flatbush and Atlantic Avenues.
 The developer did say he was confident about starting construction on a $950 million basketball arena for the Nets by the end of the year. The arena was to be surrounded by the office tower, known as Miss Brooklyn, and three residential buildings in the first phase of the project. 
 But Mr. Ratner has yet to secure an anchor tenant for the Miss Brooklyn building, and now plans to phase in the residential buildings slowly.
 Economic downturns have a history of delaying, and sometimes killing, large construction projects in New York. 
 The Riverwalk project, a plan to build five residential towers on a 30-acre platform over the East River, surfaced in 1980 but collapsed a decade later after the economy slowed. A developer for the redevelopment of Times Square was selected in 1984, but work did not begin for 12 years -- with a different developer -- largely because of a recession, as well as 47 lawsuits.
 New York is not alone in seeing projects falter or even collapse in recent months. Ian Bruce Eichner's $3.9 billion Cosmopolitan Resort Casino, a condo-hotel complex in Las Vegas, is facing foreclosure after he failed to finalize a deal for financing. 
 The once high-flying developer Cameron Kuhn has defaulted on loans related to projects in Orlando and Jacksonville, Fla. And in Los Angeles, a number of residential projects have been delayed or abandoned. 
 Mr. Ratner's remarks were a far cry from the optimistic days of December 2006, when the state approved Atlantic Yards and Forest City indicated that it would build the first phase of the project within four years and complete the entire venture in a decade. 
 In another indication of the problems facing the project, Forest City recently sent a letter signed by the project's celebrity architect, Frank Gehry, to chief executives of many of the city's biggest corporations, inviting them to become a tenant in the ''centerpiece of the project,'' Miss Brooklyn. It was originally scheduled to be completed in July 2009.
 Brokers said that developers usually home in on companies actively looking for new headquarters, rather than cast such a wide net. Forest City's approach was more akin to cold-calling to solicit interest, a possible sign, they said, that the developer was struggling to find tenants.
 Mr. Ratner insisted that the Brooklyn office market remained healthy, but he conceded that ''until we get a tenant, we won't start Miss Brooklyn.''
 ''It's not going to happen in a nanosecond,'' Mr. Ratner said during an interview across Atlantic Avenue from the railyard where he plans to build the arena. ''I hope it's not going to be drawn out. I'd hope that the first residential building will be done within six months of the opening of the arena, and a second one a year after that.''
 Atlantic Yards has been the target of protests and lawsuits since Mr. Ratner proposed it more than four years ago. Some local residents say the project is oversized and will overwhelm the neighborhood, flooding it with new residents and heavy traffic. They also oppose the government's use of eminent domain to condemn property on behalf of a private developer.
 The courts have ruled in Mr. Ratner's favor 18 times, but two cases are on appeal, or are expected to be shortly. Mr. Ratner said his project had been held up for nearly two years by lawsuits brought by one group, Develop Don't Destroy Brooklyn, and its supporters.
 Given the current environment, some critics worry that Mr. Ratner will negotiate for deeper subsidies, reduce the amount of low- and moderate-income housing included or eventually sell off portions of the site to other developers who could use their own, less expensive designs. 
 ''We need leadership in the city and the state to face the music,'' said Daniel Goldstein, the sole resident remaining in a building on the Atlantic Yards site and a leader of Develop Don't Destroy Brooklyn. ''The project needs to be reconfigured, rethought and renegotiated. The promise was affordable housing. It's clearly been put on the back burner, while the arena has been moved to the front burner.''
 Atlantic Yards began with Mr. Ratner's purchase of the Nets in 2004 and the idea of moving the team, which currently plays in New Jersey and loses about $30 million a year, to the railroad yard. It was near the spot that the Brooklyn Dodgers once considered for a new stadium before the team fled to Los Angeles after the 1957 season. 
 The project swelled into 8 million square feet of apartments, office space, stores in 16 towers, an arena and eight acres of open space, stretching from Flatbush to Vanderbilt Avenues.
 At least 30 percent of the roughly 6,000 apartments are to be for low- and moderate-income families and individuals.
 The arena sits at the west end of the site, embraced by Miss Brooklyn and three residential buildings with about 1,000 apartments, as well as a separate building at what is known as Site 5, which is also being delayed. In the second phase, a residential complex with 5,000 units in 11 towers would be built on 13.6 acres between Sixth and Vanderbilt Avenues in Prospect Heights. 
 The undertaking will require Forest City to spend more than $550 million in the early stages to buy land and build new sewers, water mains and a railyard for the Long Island Rail Road. The city and the state agreed to provide $300 million in subsidies, and tens of millions in tax breaks.
 Mr. Ratner faces the same stiff challenges that are suddenly hobbling other developers after a 10-year boom: an economy teetering at the edge of recession, a credit market that has all but closed for large-scale real estate projects and a lack of tax-exempt financing for housing.
 ''Financing is very difficult to come by, and it's becoming even more difficult,'' said the developer Douglas Durst, who is completing the Bank of America tower on 42nd Street in Manhattan. ''Nobody knows how bad this is going to be. As for commercial projects, now doesn't seem to be the time to start one.'' 
 Adding to the uncertainty surrounding Atlantic Yards is the ascension of a new governor. Gov. David A. Paterson, who took office on Monday, called for a statewide moratorium in 2005 on the use of eminent domain, which is needed to clear the site of about 20 property owners. Mr. Paterson was a state senator when he made the proposal; his office said it is reviewing the matter.
 The Internal Revenue Service has also issued a proposal to tighten the regulations on the use of tax-exempt bonds for stadiums and arenas, which could swell the cost of the arena beyond the current $950 million estimate. And there is increasing competition by developers for the limited number of tax-exempt bonds for residential development that include affordable housing.
 Mr. Ratner, whose company was a development partner in the new Midtown headquarters of The New York Times Company, said he remained optimistic and committed to building the affordable housing. He has been working with Avi Schick, chief executive of the Empire State Development Corporation, to complete all the documents for the project this summer, so that the state can start and finish condemnation by the end of the year.
 Some work has started: Buildings on the site have been demolished, and construction is under way on a temporary railyard for the Long Island Rail Road. The city and the state have already provided $58 million of the $300 million in public funds for the project.
 Mr. Ratner has had plenty of experience with long-term projects. The 4-million-square-foot MetroTech office complex nearby, for instance, took nearly two decades to complete. 
 ''This is a good project,'' he said of Atlantic Yards. ''Good things sometimes take a long time.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Some residents oppose the Atlantic Yards project over concerns that it will flood the area with new residents and heavy traffic. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHARTS: ATLANTIC YARDS: A LONGER ROAD AHEAD: Construction of the Atlantic Yards project was supposed to occur in two phases, with the first phase completed by 2010 and the second phase by 2016. Now, plans for towers surrounding a sports arena have stalled, and developers plan to complete the arena in time for the 2010 N.B.A. season. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC DECLINE (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (73%); BONDS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); CASINOS (70%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (68%); FORECLOSURE (67%); HOTELS & MOTELS (67%); BASKETBALL (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY NETS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2008



515 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1307 words

HEADLINE: Buffalo Finds a Silver Lining In a Nation Full of Debtors

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

DATELINE: BUFFALO 

 BODY:
In an unremarkable strip mall in the south end of this city, workers were installing 144 new desks last month at Capital Management Services. About 50 feet away, a dozen fresh hires were taking a two-week training course. 
 The company is rushing to double the staff, to 400, by next year and fill the additional 10,000 square feet of space in the building, which still smells of new carpet. The need for workers is so acute that the company leases billboards that say, ''Call Today. Start Monday.''
 Buffalo, New York's second-largest city, has long been plagued by plant closings, an exodus of residents and urban decay. But it has become one of the nation's leading hubs for debt collectors, a shaky transformation powered by the same forces crippling most cities: the nation's mortgage crisis and slumping economy, which have pushed consumers further into debt. As a result, an increasing number of banks, credit card companies and other lenders are turning to the dozens of collection agencies that have proliferated here. 
 ''With everything that's happening now, people are living off their credit cards,'' said Joel Castle, one of the pioneers in the industry and a consultant to Northstar Companies, which employs about 400 workers in nearby Cheektowaga. ''So this business is going to explode. We're anticipating a bubble.''
 Profiting from the troubles stinging other, often wealthier, parts of the country is a peculiar twist for Buffalo, one of the nation's poorest cities. Yet the flood of new business, and the optimism that flows with it is helping to reenergize the city's economy, even if it is built on an industry with a negative stigma.
 For decades, the city has watched helplessly as one manufacturer after another has closed up shop. Late last year, for example, American Axle & Manufacturing, a car parts supplier that operates three plants in the region, ended production at its Buffalo facility and eliminated 650 jobs.
 But the 108 collection agencies in Erie and Niagara Counties have helped fill the void, with call centers and back-office operations for financial service companies leading the way. Executives say the ample supply of inexpensive office space and well-trained workers eager for a decent paycheck have helped increase profits and beat out rival companies in Atlanta, Houston, Minneapolis and other cities to win lenders' business.
 ''Within the industry, everyone knows about Buffalo,'' said Aaron Siegel, chief executive of Franklin Credit Solutions, an investment firm here that buys debt from lenders and farms it out to collection agencies to pursue. 
 Demand for collectors is so strong, Mr. Siegel said, that good ones ''can walk out the door and get another job that afternoon.''
 Executives and industry analysts also say that workers in western New York have a strong work ethic and an even-handed temperament that makes them well suited to making hundreds of calls a day to debtors reluctant to pay their bills. And some collectors have gone through hard times themselves, which helps them connect with the people they are trying to squeeze money from.
 ''The economy is not fantastic, so we can sympathize with people who say the plant just got shut down, or they've had to get another job that pays less,'' said Kate Long, 30, who has doubled her salary since she joined Northstar 18 months ago from another call center, where she had worked for five years.
 Not surprisingly, Buffalo's rising prominence in the industry stems partly from layoffs here. In 1997, GE Capital bought Great Lakes Collection Bureau, then one of the nation's largest collectors. Many experienced managers were laid off, but went on to start their own agencies in the area.
 More than 5,200 collectors work in western New York, according to State Department of Labor officials, who caution that the figure may be conservative because employers sometimes mischaracterize collectors as call center operators. By 2014, the number of collectors is expected to rise 22.3 percent, state labor officials said, representing one of the fastest-growing job sectors in western New York.
 Growth may be even stronger if the economic downturn accelerates, as many industry executives predict. For now, Northstar, Capital Management Services and other collectors here already are adding hundreds of jobs as they brace for an onslaught of new debtors. The first quarter of the year is also a peak collecting period because many Americans use their income tax rebates to pay their debts.
 ''Mix in the work ethic with the weather in Buffalo, and it's a good combination'' for recruiting new workers, said Larry Costa, the executive vice president of business development at Capital Management, which employs 1,200 people in the city and also has offices in Houston.
 As an added benefit, Mr. Costa and other executives said, people in Buffalo tend to be loyal, so turnover is only 20 percent after the first 90 days, compared with 50 percent or more at agencies in other parts of the country.
 On average, experienced collectors in western New York earn $32,000 a year; homes in the region can cost less than $100,000.
 The downside, executives say, is that the best collectors -- some of whom get performance bonuses that boost their salaries to $150,000 a year -- will quit with little notice if they get a better offer.
 Still, many collectors prefer to remain with companies like Northstar that provide generous benefits including stock options. Banners with pictures of longtime collectors hang from the ceiling at Northstar's office that once housed the United Auto Workers union.
 Mike Nowak, the company's top collector in 2007, is celebrated on one of the banners. Tired of working in restaurants, he joined Northstar 19 years ago on the advice of a friend. Although he knew little about the business, his tenacity and no-nonsense approach clicked.
 ''I come straight out and ask them to pay because I've got thousands of calls I can make,'' said Mr. Nowak, whose cubicle was draped with trinkets commemorating his success: an oversize championship belt and several gold chains given to those who collect more than $25,000 in a month. ''To me, it's all the same,'' he continued. ''People who want to pay and fix their credit will pay. But those who don't, you, me and the pope can't get them to pay.''
 Like collectors everywhere, Mr. Nowak walks a thin line between persuading debtors to pay and harassing them. Often, they are accused of crossing that line by consumers who claim that collectors call after hours, hound them for debts they already paid or erroneously threaten legal action.
 Last year, Capital Management and National Action Financial Services in nearby Williamsville resigned as members of the Better Business Bureau of Western New York before its board could vote on whether to expel the companies, which had received an unusually high number of complaints.
 In December, National Action Financial Services paid $85,000 in penalties and costs to settle an investigation by the state attorney general, Andrew M. Cuomo, into the use of ''abusive, false and misleading tactics'' to collect debts. The company, which admitted no wrongdoing, was the subject of 90 complaints to Mr. Cuomo's office over the past three years.
 Industry executives admit that some collectors push debtors too hard because they stand to earn hefty bonuses. But collection agencies in Buffalo receive no more complaints than their counterparts in Houston or Minneapolis, according to Better Business Bureau records. And the number of complaints may reflect the rising amount of debt that agencies in Buffalo are being asked to collect.
 ''The supply of delinquent debt is growing exponentially,'' said Mr. Siegel of Franklin Credit Solutions. ''It's the tip of the iceberg and it's going to create a lot of jobs.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Debt collectors working the phones at the Northstar Companies near Buffalo, one of 108 collection agencies that have proliferated in western New York. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG BENZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B1)
 Mike Nowak, one of Northstar's top debt collectors, was awarded a replica title belt for his work. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG BENZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT COLLECTIONS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); COLLECTION AGENCIES (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); CLOSINGS (76%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (74%); PLANT CLOSINGS (74%); CREDIT CARDS (74%); PERSONAL DEBT (74%); CALL CENTERS (70%); CREDIT CRISIS (69%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (67%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (64%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (62%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (61%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN AXLE & MANUFACTURING HOLDINGS INC (54%)

TICKER: AXL (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336350 MOTOR VEHICLE TRANSMISSION & POWER TRAIN PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BUFFALO, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2008



516 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 2621 words

HEADLINE: Art

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
ART
 'RMB CITY' Cao Fei, a young artist based in Beijing, has become something of a celebrity in the online game Second Life. (Her avatar, China Tracy, is featured in the book ''Second Life: The Official Guide.'') For her latest show she has created a virtual city within the game.
 The Lombard-Freid Projects gallery has been made over as a real-world sales office for ''RMB City,'' above, with a white plastic and aluminum model of the metropolis, a reflection pool showing shifting digital projections and computers that allow visitors to navigate the city. With its skyscrapers, cranes and spiraling ramps, ''RMB City'' resembles the retro-futuristic metropolis of the Jetsons crossed with a modern-day Beijing. A smokestack belches flames, a statue of Chairman Mao salutes visitors, and a giant panda balloon floats overhead.
 Ms. Fei, 30, has explored the blurring of reality and the virtual world before, most memorably in her 2005 video ''COSPlayers.'' The piece explored a Japanese subculture whose members dress as their favorite characters from anime and manga. 
 Also on view at the gallery is Ms. Fei's ''i.Mirror,'' which was given its premiere last summer at the Venice Biennial. It is a haunting, three-part video animation based on her experiences in Second Life over the course of six months. Her avatar finds friendship and even a kind of love, but it becomes increasingly disenchanted with the rampant consumerism in the game's parallel universe.
 The videos remain Ms. Fei's most compelling work, but ''RMB City'' blurs the distinction between the fantasy architecture of Second Life and the fast development of modern Chinese cities. (Through April 5, Lombard-Freid Projects, 531 West 26th Street, Chelsea, 212-967-8040, lombard-freid.com.) KAREN ROSENBERG 
 Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art. 
 Museums
 GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'CAI GUO-QIANG: I WANT TO BELIEVE,' through May 28. This museumwide survey of a leading Chinese artist indicates considerable command of cross-cultural references and extreme appropriation, including a gang of sculptors remaking a classic Social Realist ensemble of life-size figures while you watch. Gunpowder is a favored material, violence a frequent motif. A stop-action installation of seemingly exploding cars hangs in the atrium space. Scores of arrows make pincushions of snarling tigers (stuffed), and there are carved-wood religious sculptures and an entire fishing boat. Videos documenting pyrotechnical land-art pieces go boom. The show has far more than its share of hollow spectacle. The scorched, mural-size gunpowder drawings that combine elements of performance art, Abstract Expressionism and traditional Chinese and Japanese painting are the most believable. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Roberta Smith)
 HISPANIC SOCIETY OF AMERICA: 'FRANCIS AL$(YUML$)S FABIOLA,' through April 6. The first of three collaborations between the Dia Foundation for the Arts and the Hispanic Society of America is an astutely site-specific display of 300 Fabiola paintings collected by the artist Francis Als, who is based in Mexico. Made by devout amateurs worldwide, all are based on a lost original from 1885 and show Fabiola, the fourth-century saint, in profile, wearing a vibrant red veil. Mr. Als's 300 examples pepper dark-wood-paneled galleries with smoldering color and are consistent with the collaborative, subversive and open-ended nature of his art. North Building Galleries on Audubon Terrace, Broadway between 155th and 156th Streets, Washington Heights, (212) 926-2234, diaart.org. (Smith)
 THE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'POUSSIN AND NATURE: ARCADIAN VISIONS,' through May 11. If a painter can be judged by the love he inspires, Nicholas Poussin (1594-1665) was one of art history's great valentines. Corot, Delacroix, Constable and Cezanne all adored him. So did Picasso and Matisse. You can see why in this show of his post-Classical, pre-Romantic landscapes and drawings. Every age has a different style for ''serious'' in art; Poussin's was different from our own, but enthralling and moving in its moral gravity and poise. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Holland Cotter) 
 MORGAN LIBRARY & MUSEUM: 'MICHELANGELO, VASARI AND THEIR CONTEMPORARIES: DRAWINGS FROM THE UFFIZI,' through April 20. Michelangelo, with a couple of spectacular drawings, is the marquee name here, but many of the 16th-century Florentine artists he influenced fill the space, beginning with the extreme polymath Giorgio Vasari. A handful of drawings by Pontormo and Rosso Fiorentino will knock your socks off, as will work by a few less familiar artists, all working to make the Medici rulers of Florence look good. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008590-0310, morganlibrary.org. (Cotter)
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'JAN DE COCK: DENKMAL 11, MUSEUM OF MODERN ART, 11 WEST 53 STREET, NEW YORK, 2008,' through April 14. The word denkmal translates from German as monument or memorial. In Dutch it is a mold for thought. Both definitions fit the work of Jan De Cock, a 31-year-old Belgian artist who appropriates and arranges photographs in what might be viewed as an open-ended yet ultimately conservative encyclopedia. Overflowing with references to modern art, experimental film, photography and architecture, the project pulls most of the museum into its orbit. It incorporates elements of De Stijl, Russian Constructivism and Kurt Schwitters's collage/studio Merzbau, among other things. It is also the starting point of a yearlong project called ''American Odyssey,'' for which Mr. De Cock will travel to various and document cultural landmarks around the country. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Karen Rosenberg)
 P.S. 1 CONTEMPORARY ART CENTER: 'WACK! ART AND THE FEMINIST REVOLUTION,' through May 12. This big, messy, fascinating scrapbook of a show focuses on the years between the mid-1960s and the early '80s, when feminism had its most intense impact on contemporary art. Presenting works by 120 women, it is uneven in quality, but the overall effect is exciting. It takes you back to a heady time when women were throwing out old, patriarchal laws and reinventing art in all kinds of idiosyncratic and sometimes dangerously extreme terms. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084, ps1.org. 
 (Ken Johnson)WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART : 'WHITNEY BIENNIAL 2008,' through June 1. This year's light-touch show takes lowered expectations -- lessness, ephemerality and failure, to use the words of its young curators, Henriette Huldisch and Shamim M. Momin -- as its theme, and makes at least an appearance of trying to circumvent an object-obsessed market. With 81 artists, this is the smallest Biennial in a while, and feels that way, even as it fills three floors and more of the museum, and continues at the Park Avenue Armory (at 67th Street), with a program of installation and performance art. If the overall mix feels uncharismatic, there are good artists on hand, most with work commissioned by the museum for the occasion. In an anti-triumphalist show, uncertainty, political and existential, rules. (212) 570-3676, whitney.org. (Cotter)
 Galleries: Uptown
 'WINE, WORSHIP AND SACRIFICE: THE GOLDEN GRAVES OF ANCIENT VANI' In small but elegant new galleries, a study center founded in 2006 under the auspices of New York University presents its inaugural exhibition. This show offers more than 100 objects unearthed from ancient graves in Vani, a cosmopolitan city established in Colchis -- modern-day Georgia -- in the eighth century B.C. It includes beautiful, intricate gold jewelry discovered in grave sites of the rich and powerful; the life-size bronze torso of a youth made in classic Hellenistic style; and two strikingly exotic bronze lamps with functional parts in the form of elephant heads. Institute for the Study of the Ancient World, 15 East 84th Street, (212) 992-7810, nyu.edu/isaw, through June 1. (Johnson)
 Galleries: Chelsea
 DIANA COOPER: 'OVERDRIVE' Over the years this artist's obsessive doodling has reached three-dimensions by various routes. Here, all red, it covers the stepped interior of an imposing sculpture resembling a ziggurat turned on its side. The doodling generates relief-like drawings in paper, vinyl and pins. But it also goes beyond that in ''Orange Alert UK,'' a room-size installation where regimented stripes suggest exploded walls. This apocalyptic romper room achieves a better balance between making and thinking, and process and meaning. Postmasters, 459 West 19th Street, (212) 727-3323, postmastersart.com, through March 29. (Smith)
 MANFRED PERNICE: 'DIARY' The abject formalism that is rife in the 2008 Whitney Biennial and unanimous in the multilayered ''Unmonumental'' at the New Museum of Contemporary Art owes much to this German artist. His fourth gallery solo in New York continues his elevation of the nondescript and his sly deprecation of the conventions of display. The pedestal-like pieces, made mostly from chipboard and mounted on fit-together platforms, suggest a low-tech model for a city. Dated like diary entries, the pieces are based on a specific spatial or design experience, which they also provide. Anton Kern Gallery, 532 West 20th Street, (212) 367-9663, antonkerngallery.com, through March 29. (Smith)
 MARK SCHUBERT: '55 GALLON' The trickle-down effect of Lynda Benglis's early foam pour pieces and installations -- which she cast in heavy metals several years later -- is felt in this show of painterly, improvisational, no-nonsense sculpture. On the floor two aggregates of large foam spheres in shades of black, gray and white suggest scoops of melting ice cream consuming plastic lawn furniture and other junk. Meanwhile, in ''Rapture,'' foam and paint fasten scores of misshapen beer cans directly to the wall, creating a crazy quasi-painting that puns on Lyrical Abstraction (remember that?) and has a startling dermatological aspect, like stubble. Monya Rowe Gallery, 526 West 26th Street, (212) 255-5065, monyarowegallery.com, through April 5. (Smith)
 ANDY WARHOL: 'DRAWINGS' Significant exhibitions devoted to the lesser-known corners of Warhol's remarkable career do not abate. These drawings from the 1950s are only tangentially related to his thriving commercial-art career. They show him experimenting with handmade repetition (achieved through blotting) and marbleized backgrounds; exploring uses for his growing photography archive (with Darger-like results); and veering between romantic and erotic love. The drive to innovate is clear. Paul Kasmin Gallery, 293 10th Avenue, at 27th Street, (212) 563-4474, paulkasmingallery.com, through March 29. (Smith)
 Galleries: Other
 BRUCE NAUMAN: 'DRAWINGS FOR INSTALLATIONS' Ask almost anyone for a short list of the most influential contemporary artists, and Bruce Nauman's name will be there. This survey of drawings related to his architecturally scaled installations ranging from 1968 to the present suggests why. Some of the drawings are preliminary sketches for later completed projects. Others are second-thought variations made after a piece was done. Still others -- a series of studies for underground installations -- are hard-core conceptual projects realized only on paper. Sperone Westwater, 415 West 13th Street, West Village, (212) 999-7337, speronewestwater.com, through March 29. (Cotter)
 Last Chance
 AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM: 'GILDED LIONS AND JEWELED HORSES: THE SYNAGOGUE TO THE CAROUSEL' Skills and motifs used in sacred art resurface in a surprisingly secular place: the carousel. In this exhibition, models of elaborate wooden synagogues and photographs of Jewish cemeteries with intricately carved gravestones in Eastern Europe are alongside paper cuts. The lineage from synagogue to carousel is made explicit in a display that juxtaposes carved Torah arks with carousel horses fashioned in the baroque Coney Island Style. The show reveals a great immigrant story in which skills learned in the shtetls of Europe made their way to the New World and, for a brief moment, flourished. 45 West 53rd Street, (212) 265-1040, folkartmuseum.org; closes on Sunday. (Martha Schwendener)
 EDGAR BRYAN In this almost ostentatiously low-key solo show, this Los Angeles artist takes aim at painting as bravura; New York debuts as aggressive declarations; and oil paint as female flesh. Unusually sparing with (acrylic) paint, he depicts uneasy female nudes and ceramic vases of a generic 1950s sort. Matisse, Corot and Poussin come to mind, as do comic books and the desire to be seen as the anti-Currin or the un-Balthus. The colors, general economy and lack of glamour are quite engaging. Zach Feuer Gallery, 530 West 24th Street, Chelsea, (212) 989-7700, zachfeuer.com; closes on Saturday. (Smith)
 MICHEL GONDRY: 'BE KIND REWIND' Acting on a populist, anti-corporate impulse, the director of the movie ''Be Kind Rewind'' has invited amateurs to make their own movies using a miniature version of a Hollywood back lot constructed in a gallery's industrial, garage-size space. Visitors not making films can wander among the sets and watch short, intermittently amusing but woefully unskillful films that aspiring filmmakers have made thus far. Deitch Projects, 18 Wooster Street, near Grand Street, SoHo, (212) 343-7300, deitch.com; closes on Saturday. (Johnson)
 QUEENS MUSEUM OF ART: 'NEW YORK STATES OF MIND' Organized for the House of World Cultures in Berlin, where it appeared last fall, this show is too narrow, uneven and ideologically tendentious to represent truly the spirit of New York art. Nevertheless, it is an interesting, provocative exhibition, featuring high-profile artists like David Hammons, Terence Koh, Josephine Meckseper, Patty Chang and about two dozen others. If you want to have a lively argument about the real nature of New York art, it's a good place to start. Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, (718) 592-9700, www.queensmuseum.org; closes on Sunday. (Johnson)
 BARBARA T. SMITH: '1965-1972' Including paintings, photographs, drawings and ''The Field,'' an installation piece consisting of 16 blades of grass over nine feet tall, this is the first New York gallery show of a California installation and performance artist now in her mid-70s. It provides a core sample of a fertile, fast-moving period in an innovative, little-known career whose through line is perception, the body and a sense of play. Maccarone, 630 Greenwich Street, at Morton Street, West Village, (212) 431-4977, maccarone.net; closes on Friday. (Smith)
 MEG WEBSTER An exhibition whose varied materials progress from white to black in their color and from a polar bear to a melted M4 assault rifle in subjects, appears to offer a meditation on the environment. It also pushes Minimalism in opposite and uncharacteristic directions, toward poetry and worldly awareness. Paula Cooper Gallery, 465 West 23rd Street, Chelsea, (212) 255-1105, paulacoopergallery.com; closes on Saturday. (Smith)
 STEVE WHEELER: 'IN CONTEXT' This lively exhibition sheds more light on Steve Wheeler (1912-99), who worked small, geometric and suggestive in a style sometimes called Indian Space Painting, when the Abstract Expressionists were working big, gestural and abstract. Works by Roberto Matta, Alfonso Ossorio, Stuart Davis, Will Barnet and Richard Pousette-Dart alternate with Wheeler's paintings and drawings, creating a complex network of affinities that make him seem more singular than ever, if also too tightly wound. David Findlay Jr. Fine Art, 41 East 57th Street, (212) 486-7660, davidfindlayjr.com; closes on Saturday. (Smith)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANIMATION (90%); ONLINE COMPUTER GAMES (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); CELEBRITIES (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); SCULPTURE (89%); FILM (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (79%); PAINTING (79%); VIRTUAL REALITY (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2008



517 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Escapes; SKI GUIDE; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1860 words

HEADLINE: Vail Ski Resort

BYLINE: By BILL PENNINGTON

 BODY:
P.O. Box 7, Vail, Colo.; (970) 476-5601; www.vail.snow.com
 Calling Vail a ski resort is like calling Paris a city in France. Vail is not only the biggest and the most popular snow sports destination in the United States, it is an American institution, a beacon at the cultural nexus of sport, winter family travel and high society. Not bad for a former sheep pasture.
 Vail came to be in 1962, when the trails and a faux European village sprouted just beyond the Vail Pass in the Colorado Rockies west of Denver. In the 40-plus years since, Vail has set the standard for variety of terrain, luxury accommodations and real estate and off-mountain activities. 
 In that time, Vail has also evolved into a four-letter word spoken irreverently by some in the ski and snowboard industry. Mocking Vail is a sport within the winter sports community, and surely Vail is not all things to all people. It is very expensive, it does not have as many steep pitches as some other large resorts, and its villages are not authentic. But just as surely a lot of the Vail-bashing stems from another four-letter word: envy. 
 The fact is that Vail was founded by two genuine ski pioneers, Pete Seibert and Earl Eaton, who in 1957 climbed a nameless mountain and discovered the future of American snow sports. Or, as Seibert said to Eaton at the top of what became Vail Mountain: ''My God, we've climbed all the way to heaven.''
 What earns Vail its enduring credibility is the front face of the mountain, which by itself is bigger than many other Colorado resorts, and what sets Vail apart is the other side of that mountain where one glimpses what Seibert saw in 1957 -- the famed back bowls, a largely treeless panorama that stretches across the horizon. The villages beneath Vail have gone through some major transformations recently. There have not only been renovations in Vail Village, the original hub from 1962, but the Lionshead section has also been remade into Vail Square, another European-style pedestrian village of shops, restaurants, residences and hotels. High-speed lifts link everything, but they can't always disperse the crowds drawn by Vail's renown. 
 The on-mountain eating spots get crowded at peak times, and the most popular trail sections can also bring long lift lines, especially late in the day when everyone is trying to head back home from Vail's far-flung reaches.
 But those are problem issues at many resorts. Vail delivers vast, matchless terrain and a celebrated base of operations with every conceivable comfort and amenity. It is a 5,289-acre winter playground. If you can't have fun skiing or riding at Vail, then you probably couldn't find a good restaurant or museum in Paris.
 STATS Summit Peak elevation of 11,570 feet with a base elevation of 8,120 feet Vertical Drop 3,450 feet Terrain 53 percent expert; 29 percent intermediate; 18 percent beginner Trails There are 193 conventional trails plus 3 terrain parks, 1 superpipe and 2 half pipes. Vail has a total skiable area of 5,289 acres with 1,627 acres on the front side, 3,017 acres in the back bowls and 645 acres in Blue Sky Basin. Lifts 32: 1 gondola; 16 high-speed quads; 1 fixed-grip quad; 2 triple chairs; 3 double chairs; 3 surface lifts; 6 magic carpets Prices Adult full-day lift ticket $92 Rentals Ski and snowboard rentals are $28 to $55 with numerous rental shops to choose from. To find the one closest to your hotel, check out all the options at www.RentSkis.com Average Season Dates Mid-November through Mid-April.
 BEST MORNING RUN Riva Ridge -- get it while it's at its best. One of Vail's signature runs, this is a long, twisting descent that is frequently groomed top to bottom. It is not suited to beginners but will be an enjoyable test for intermediates to advanced intermediates. Another good choice, especially if you're based in Lionshead, is the Simba trail , which has great views across the Vail Valley and is rarely crowded.
 BEST AFTERNOON RUN There is a variety of routes depending on ability level and which base area you're trying to end up at. The double-black-diamond Highline trail , often bumped up, is a great way to conclude the day if you can handle it. It will lead to Ruder's Route and the Golden Peak base area . Try to avoid mid-Vail on your way home. A lot of people will use the last energy in their legs to take final runs in the Game Creek Bowl, perhaps on a trail like Dealer's Choice , and then download the Eagle Bahn Gondola to return to Lionshead.
 INSIDER'S TIP If you don't mind an early journey, start the day by going straight to Blue Sky Basin, then work your way back toward the west. You can work in the opposite direction of most of the crowds. Also, in the Sun Up Bowl , near the trails of Yonder and Over Yonder, there are almost always stashes of untracked snow in the trees.
 FAMILY INFORMATION Children 2 months to 6 years are welcomed into Vail's Small World Nursery with separate playrooms for infants, toddlers and preschoolers. Full day is $105 (walk-in fee, $120). If space is available, morning and afternoon care is offered -- 12:30 to 4:30 p.m. for $76, or 2 to 4:30 p.m. for $47. Space is limited so it's best to reserve before you go. 
 Information: vail.snow.com/winter/ss.kids.nursery.asp or (970) 754-3285.
 There is a variety of group lesson options available for children: For brand new skiers ages 3 to 6, a half-day group lesson is $85, while a full-day ski lesson with lunch is $130 (3- and 4-year olds get free lift tickets). Skiers ages 5 and 6 can sign up for a full-day group ski or snowboard lesson, including lift and lunch for $150, or a full-day semiprivate snowboard lesson including lift and lunch for $180. A full-day group ski or snowboard lesson for children ages 7 to 12 including lift and lunch is $150, or just lesson and lunch for $130. Teenagers' full-day group ski and ride lessons with lift ticket are $153; $125 for the lesson only. Vail also offers five-day Kids Alpine Camps for intermediate-and-above skiers that run Monday through Friday during selected weeks of the ski season for $975, which includes five days of lessons, lift tickets, lunches and video analysis, or $835 for lesson and lunch only.
 Information: vail.snow.com/winter/ss.kids.groups.asp.
 Private lessons can be an attractive option that offers up to five members of your family or friends a personalized lesson, tailored to your group's skill level and style. A full day of private instruction including quick access to the slopes, access to the latest equipment at the demo center and video analysis is $665, while a half day runs $465.
 Information: vail.snow.com/winter/ss.adult.privates.asp. 
 For reservations call the Vail Snowsports School at (800) 475-4543 or (970) 754-4300, or visit www.vail.com.
 DINING
 BreakfastCucina Rustica (inside the Lodge at Vail, 174 East Gore Creek Drive, 970-476-5011, lodgeatvail.rockresorts.com/info/din.cucina.asp). The warm, comfortable atmosphere of Cucina Rustica combines all the best elements of a conventional American breakfast buffet with a traditional Italian breakfast. Besides the hot and cold buffets, traditional omelet station and wide assortment of fresh fruits, berries, vegetables and baked goods, offerings also include smoked trout and salmon, local cheeses and a daily egg special. The breakfast buffet is $30 a person.
 On-Mountain DiningWildwood Smokehouse Restaurant (at the top of the Wildwood Express lift; 970-754-4572). Want great barbecue at 11,000 feet? This is no pretend barbecue; the Wildwood smells like a smokehouse should. One popular item is the chicken and wild rice soup, but give consideration to the pulled pork sandwich and some of the other smoked meats and chilies. Entrees are $8 to $12. 
 High-End, In-Town Dining Larkspur (458 Vail Valley Drive; 970-479-8050; www.larkspurvail.com). In a town with many fine-dining options, the Larkspur is a refined choice that never disappoints. The menu changes weekly, but here are a few favorites from the winter of 2007-8: a peekytoe crab cake appetizer with a lobster mousseline and tarragon oil ($18.50), followed by a Liberty duck breast and confit of leg with young turnips, nicoise olives and citron gastrique ($36.50). You can't go wrong at the Larkspur and you can get lost in the wine list. Entrees are $27.50 to $130, for a five-course chef tasting menu complete with wines.
 Low-End, In-Town Dining Bart and Yeti's (551 East Lionshead Circle; 970-476-2754 www.bartandyetis.com). In Lionshead, Bart and Yeti's is a bar and restaurant where the favorite menu item is Mr. Bill's nachos, made with homemade pineapple salsa ($8.95). There are extraordinary burgers ($9.95), sandwiches and even a weighty grilled cheese and bacon sandwich ($8.95) from what the restaurant calls ''home-style American cuisine.'' It's a homey place without pretense, and a trip to Bart and Yeti's is a most economical choice for Vail. Prices are $5.95 to $21.95. 
 NIGHT LIFE
 Apres-Ski Los Amigos (400 Bridge Street; 970-476-5847). In Vail Village, a lot of people flock to the deck at Los Amigos, which is at the bottom of the slopes looking back up the mountain. With margarita or beer in hand, check out the form of those finishing the day.
 Garfinkel's (536 East Lionshead Circle; 970-476-3789; garfsvail.com). If you are in Lionshead, the routine is much the same at Garfinkel's as at Los Amigos, although at Garfinkel's, you can spin the famed shot wheel, which chooses the kind of shot you'll be downing with all your new best friends.
 Apres Apres-Ski The Red Lion (304 Bridge Street; 970-476-7676; www.theredlion.com). The crowds don't really diminish at Los Amigos and Garfinkel's, they replenish. But a most notable night life choice is the Red Lion, which is an iconic Vail bar that goes back to the village's earliest days. Everyone who ever visits Vail is told to stop by at the Red Lion, and just about everyone does at least once.
 LODGING 
 Frugal The Holiday Inn Apex Vail (2211 North Frontage Road; 866-317-2739 or 970-476-2739; www.apexvail.com), though not in a high-traffic location, has affordable rates (for Vail), and there is a free bus to Vail's other areas. Rooms are $199 to $389; condos $399 to $599.
 The Vail Racquet Club (4695 Vail Racquet Club Drive; 970-476-4840; www.vailracquetclub.com) rents reasonably priced condos and town houses with winter season rates $235 for a one-bedroom condo to $760 for a three-bedroom condo during holiday weeks.
 Not So Frugal The Lodge at Vail (174 East Gore Creek Drive; 877-528-7625; lodgeatvail.rockresorts.com/info/htl.asp), centrally located in Vail Village and adjacent to the lifts, is both regal and cozy, with superb service and nice touches like cookies at bedtime. Pull up beneath the sparkling lights adorning the trees that overlook the entryway to the lodge and a sense of relaxation will envelop you even before you step inside. It only gets better the longer you stay. Winter season rates are $450 a night for lodge rooms to $3,800 a night for a three-bedroom town house during the holidays (holiday rates may include breakfast). Deluxe rooms start at $600. 
 Share your review of Vail Ski Resort. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SKIING (91%); RESORTS (90%); MOUNTAINS (90%); SKIING FACILITIES (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); BASEBALL (77%); REAL ESTATE (75%); SNOWBOARDING (73%); RESTAURANTS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: COLORADO ROCKIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%) COLORADO, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2008



518 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1520 words

HEADLINE: Slump Moves From Wall St. To Main St.

BYLINE: By PETER S. GOODMAN

 BODY:
In Seattle, sales at a long-established hardware store, Pacific Supply, are suddenly dipping. In Oklahoma City, couples planning their weddings are demonstrating uncustomary thrift, forgoing Dungeness crab and special linens. And in many cities, the registers at department stores like Nordstrom on the higher end and J. C. Penney in the middle are ringing less often. 
 With Wall Street caught in a credit crisis that has captured headlines, the forces assailing the economy are now spreading beyond areas hit hardest by the boom-turned-bust in real estate like California, Florida and Nevada. Now, the downturn is seeping into new parts of the country, to communities that seemed insulated only months ago.
 The broadening of the slowdown, the plunge in home prices and near-paralysis in the financial system are fueling worries that what most economists now see as an inevitable recession could end up being especially painful. 
 Indeed, some economists fear it will last longer and inflict more bite on workers and businesses than the last two recessions, which gripped the economy in 2001 and for eight months straddling 1990 and 1991. This time, these experts say, a recession in which economic activity falls over a sustained period and joblessness rises across the board could even persist into next year.
 ''It's not hard to construct very dark scenarios, primarily because the financial system is in disarray, and it's not clear how to get it all back together again,'' said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody'sEconomy.com.
 To be sure, there are many places where talk of recession still seems as out of place as a diner trying to score a table at a trendy Los Angeles restaurant without reservations on a Saturday night. First-class cabins of airplanes are jammed. So are spas, cigar bars and children's clothing boutiques selling upscale dresses.
 Unemployment, meanwhile, still remains at a relatively low 4.8 percent.
 But even after the Federal Reserve's extraordinary efforts to prevent the collapse of Bear Stearns from spreading to other financial institutions, the danger still lurks that banks will grow even tighter with their funds and will starve the economy of capital.
 ''If lenders and debtors don't trust each other, that causes a power outage,'' said Michael T. Darda, chief economist at MKM Partners. ''And that's where we are now.'' Until recently, Mr. Darda was among those still holding to the notion that the economy could generate enough jobs to keep the economy rolling. But the private sector has shed jobs for three consecutive months. Mr. Darda is now worried.
 ''We'll be lucky to make it out of this without something that looks like a recession,'' he said.
 On Thursday, FedEx , whose global courier business tends to rise and fall with swings in the economy, reported that its earnings actually dropped in the United States and warned that in future months it expected to fall well short of its customary double-digit annualized profit gains.
 ''We just aren't going to be able to do that,'' Alan Graf, FedEx's chief financial officer, said in a call with Wall Street analysts. ''The crystal ball for everybody is very cloudy here.'' 
 For now, there are still pockets of prosperity across the country. Farmers are enjoying record crop prices as the adoption of ethanol makes corn a way to fill gas tanks, and as rising incomes in China, India and elsewhere spell growing demand for meat. The weak dollar is helping exporters and retailers that cater to foreign tourists.
 Eastern Mountain Sports, the outdoor clothing dealer, says sales increased by one-third this month compared with the year before at its store in SoHo. ''A lot of that is Europeans coming over,'' said Will Manzer, the company's president. 
 With oil selling at approximately $100 a barrel, the Taste of Texas Steakhouse in Houston -- a popular spot for events held by BP, Shell and Exxon Mobil -- is reveling in days of plenty. 
 Even those areas suffering the downturn can bank on considerable help on the way, economists say, as the impact of lowered interest rates kicks in later this year, encouraging businesses to expand and hire. Tax rebate checks to be mailed out by the government this spring may lubricate spending as well. 
 Despite fears that the odds for a particularly severe recession have now increased, Mr. Zandi still subscribes to the consensus that the economy will shrink only modestly during the first half of 2008, then resume expanding as more money washes through the system. That would limit the damage to the type of relatively modest recession that hit the economy earlier this decade. 
 For the country as a whole, recent data shows that the economy is deteriorating at an accelerating rate. From September to January, average home prices fell 6 percent compared with a year earlier. Consumer confidence has been plummeting. The private sector shed 26,000 jobs in January and 101,000 in February, while those out of work have stayed jobless longer, according to the Labor Department.
 Now, the broader discomfort is filtering into cities and towns that only recently seemed beyond reach.
 Seattle's real estate market has slowed, but prices have held relatively steady. Even so, sales at the Pacific Supply Company, a hardware store in the Capitol Hill neighborhood, have fallen by 5 to 10 percent in the last few months.
 ''There's a general sense of caution,'' Michael Go, the store's general manager, said.
 Ritz Sisters sells gift items like soaps and chocolates to shops and catalogs throughout the Pacific Northwest. In recent months, orders have fallen by one-fifth, said Tim Creveling, a co-owner of the business.
 ''People are just hunkering down,'' he said.
 In Oklahoma City, Aunt Pittypat's Catering has lost one-fifth of its business in the last two months, as $25,000 weddings are scaled down to smaller affairs.
 ''People are just being a lot more conservative,'' said Maggie Howell, a co-owner. ''They want crab and seafood, but they're settling for cheese displays.''
 In Cleveland, Lincoln Electric, which makes welding gear, has also experienced a slowdown. ''Our growth is relatively anemic in North America,'' said Vincent Petrella, its chief financial officer.
 The slowdown has proved severe enough to poke a hole in the idea that sales abroad can carry the economy even if they dip at home. 
 In North Carolina, Power Curbers, which makes equipment that turns concrete into curbs, has been sending more gear abroad. But domestic sales plummeted by one-fourth during the first two months of the year, Dyke Messinger, the company's president, said. In mid-February, Power Curbers laid off 6 of the 80 workers at its factory near Charlotte.
 Many economists forecast that overall consumer spending will slip 1 percent for the first three months of the year. 
 ''That's a wow,'' said Robert Barbera, chief economist for the trading and research firm ITG. ''Outright declines for real consumer purchases are unusual.''
 What is shaping up as the second recession of the 2000s is the product of declines in home values, which play a far bigger role in most Americans' personal finances than the stock market. Households have borrowed against the increased value of their property to buy cars, send their children to college and add home theater systems.
 ''This is the bedrock asset for the lion's share of the population of the United States,'' Mr. Barbera said. ''It's not like dot-com stocks, where I bought Webvan for 1,000 times the imaginary earnings, and now it's worth nothing but I go and have a beer. You're talking about the value of people's houses.'' 
 Aseconomists try to assess the likely contours of the unfolding downturn, many see parallels in the recession of 1990 and 1991.
 Then, as now, the dollar was weak, oil prices were high and trouble started with a sharp slide in housing prices, followed by major losses for mortgage lenders. The resulting savings and loan crisis spurred a buyout that cost taxpayers $240 billion in inflation-adjusted terms, and it brought a severe tightness of credit.
 That recession lasted eight months, slightly less than the average for downturns going back to 1946, according to the National Bureau of Economic Research. This one, though, could drag on longer, some economists say, because the underlying forces are more difficult to attack, even though Washington has been much more active, much earlier in lowering interest rates, sending out tax rebates and taking other measures to arrest an economic decline. 
 Back in the late 1980s, lending was concentrated in fewer hands. Once the government calculated the size of the problem in the saving and loan industry and assented to the bailout, confidence was restored and the wheels of finance turned anew. 
 This time, the size of the bad debts remains a mystery, with estimates reaching $400 billion. Markets fret that the next Bear Stearns could pop up anywhere.
 The first signs of what became the mortgage crisis emerged back in August.
 ''Yet we're still fighting it,'' Mr. Darda said. ''We're still dealing with this paralysis.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sales at the Pacific Supply Company, a hardware store in Seattle, have fallen 5 to 10 percent recently. ''There's a general sense of caution,'' Michael Go, the store's general manager, said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN P. CASEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A20) CHARTS: SIGNS OF THE TIMES: Several measures indicate that the United States economy is faltering and may already have slipped into a recession. (Sources: Bureau of Labor Statistics
University of Michigan
Census Bureau
National Association of Realtors
Bloomberg
 Moody's Economy.com) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); GENERAL CLOTHING STORES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HARDWARE STORES (78%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); CHILDREN'S CLOTHING STORES (73%); JOB CREATION (72%); POWER FAILURES (65%); LAYOFFS (62%); CHILDREN'S CLOTHING (62%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (62%); PACKAGE SHIPPING (60%); HOME PRICES (54%)

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (93%); OKLAHOMA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2008



519 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: Rescue Plans That Alarm Shareholders

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments in his blog at norris.blogs.nytimes.com

DATELINE: SANTA FE, N.M. 

 BODY:
 Managements often put the best possible light on the companies they run, and shareholders are inclined to accept that view, or even think things can be better. If you are not optimistic about a company, why would you want to own the stock?
 But what happens when dire reality sets in, and managers conclude that desperate measures are needed -- ones that will permanently damage the shareholders but that provide hope for survival of the enterprise, albeit with a largely different set of owners? 
 Among the old owners, who may have been reassured only days or weeks earlier that the situation was not as bad as it looked, the normal reaction is disbelief, followed by outrage and a refusal to believe that things are really that bad.
 And then you can get the spectacle that we saw twice this week involving two hobbled financial companies, each brought down by the mortgage mess. Shares of both Bear Stearns and Thornburg Mortgage trade for prices that are twice or more the value accepted by directors in negotiating deals. 
 Whoever is buying the shares -- and I'll get to that issue in a moment -- is providing the shareholders one last chance to realize more for their shares than management thinks they are worth.
 The situation at Bear Stearns is easier to understand. There, management agreed to sell the company to JPMorgan Chase for $2 a share in Morgan stock. Shares of Bear, which were above $80 only three weeks ago, fell to as low as $2.84, but then went as high as $8.50 in the days after the announcement. The value of the Morgan shares being offered never got above $2.54. 
 There may have been two sources of buyers: angry shareholders hoping to find or force a better deal, and worried bondholders who want to assure the Morgan deal will go through. With Morgan owning Bear, Bear's bonds will be assured of payment. Without it, bankruptcy seems likely.
 Could shareholders do better in bankruptcy, recovering more than $2 a share after assets were sold off and debts repaid? Would the threat of such a bankruptcy filing, with the damage it could cause to other financial institutions owed money by Bear, force Morgan and its backers at the Federal Reserve to improve the deal? That is high-stakes gambling.
 Thornburg Mortgage, based here, is the nation's second-largest independent mortgage lender, behind Countrywide Financial, which is being bailed out through a planned takeover by Bank of America. Thornburg's survival is evidently not so crucial to the economic system that the Fed is willing to help out, so it was on its own in dealing with the banks that had lent money to it.
 The banks had their loans secured by mortgage-backed securities owned by Thornburg, whose market values have fallen. That produced margin calls -- send cash or we will sell the collateral -- that Thornburg could not meet. Bankruptcy seemed likely if nothing were done.
 The deal negotiated by Thornburg got the banks to promise there would be no more margin calls for a year, by which time, it is hoped, the securities would have regained value. The cost to Thornburg of getting that concession was to give warrants to the banks to buy a lot of stock at a penny a share, and to promise to raise at least $1 billion in cash within days. That cash would provide a margin of safety for the banks even if the mortgage securities market continues to decline.
 To borrow that money, Thornburg is offering convertible bonds paying 12 percent annual interest. Add in some extra warrants, and buyers of the bonds will be able to get stock for less than 72 cents a share. If they convert, they will own 86 percent of the company, while the bankers will have an additional 3 percent -- for which they will pay 1 cent a share. Existing shareholders will have an 11 percent stake.
 If, that is, the bonds sell. On Thursday night, the bond offering was delayed until Monday, a sign that the underwriters may be having trouble rounding up buyers. 
 Logically, the shares should trade for 50 cents or less if these are the terms Thornburg must pay to borrow, but the price has stayed well above that level. So why did the shares not collapse? 
 Perhaps shareholders hope to vote the deal down, but that would remove only the conversion privilege from the bonds. Bondholders would still get warrants, and their interest rate would go up to 25 percent. It is hard to explain rationally, but perhaps some buyers heard the company had a plan to stay afloat, and ignored the details.
 Thornburg officials would not talk to me, but it is not easy to understand how they expect to make this deal work for very long. Thornburg's longtime strategy was to borrow at low rates to finance mortgage securities paying higher rates. Now it will pay 12 percent to help support securities paying a much lower rate of interest. 
 That is the catch of leverage. If Thornburg could borrow at a low rate, it might well survive long enough for it to find out if the mortgage securities are worth more than their current market price. But if it must pay high rates, it may not last long enough to be proved right. If a company's credit is weak, it must pay more. But paying more makes it weaker still, and justifies an even higher interest rate. 
 That is a story that may be repeated many times this year as highly leveraged companies deal with the combination of recession and unfriendly credit markets. If shareholders of Bear and Thornburg find it hard to accept the new reality even when it is crystal clear, it seems reasonable to suspect that there are shareholders in other companies with outlooks that will turn out to be far too sanguine.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: WHAT IS BEAR STEARNS WORTH? (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHAREHOLDERS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TAKEOVERS (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); BAILOUTS (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING (73%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (73%); BONDS (72%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (60%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (83%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (56%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (LSE) (83%); 8634 (TSE) (83%); BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA FE, NM, USA (65%) NEW MEXICO, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2008



520 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 593 words

HEADLINE: State Known As Anti-Tax Hears Calls For Reform

BYLINE: By KATIE ZEZIMA

DATELINE: DURHAM, N.H. 

 BODY:
For decades, it has virtually been a requirement that elected state officials in New Hampshire take ''The Pledge,'' a promise not to institute a broad-based income or sales tax.
 But now there is a growing movement to reject that pledge and overhaul the state's tax system.
 A nonbinding measure calling for tax reform appeared on the town meeting agenda of 96 communities in the last two years, and it has passed in about 70 percent of them, including at least 67 in the last week. 
 Supporters of the measure say the goal is to ease the tax burden on homeowners. Opponents say it is a backdoor effort to pass an income or sales tax in a state that neither wants nor needs them. 
 ''New Hampshire is overreliant on property tax,'' said Paul Henle, executive director of the Granite State Fair Tax Coalition, which placed the item on the town agendas. Opponents point out that the group focused on towns with extremely high tax rates. 
 Mr. Henle, however, says new taxes are not the goal. 
 ''We need a rebalancing of our revenue priorities,'' Mr. Henle said. ''We do understand that if less money comes from the property tax, it has to come from somewhere else. It could be an existing revenue source, a new revenue source. It could conceivably be a new tax, it could be gambling. We don't know.''
 New Hampshire is a study in tax contrasts -- the lack of broad-based income or sales taxes gives it the lowest overall tax burden in the nation, but the property tax burden is the country's third highest. The only other state without a state income tax or a statewide sales tax is Alaska, said Gerald Prante, a senior economist at the Tax Foundation, a nonpartisan tax research group.
 ''New Hampshire is an oddball in the Northeast,'' he added. ''They're just a low-tax state in general, and in New England, it's an anomaly.'' 
 The property tax here is allocated toward local government and schools, as well as a state education fund. The state taxes various things, including meals and rooms, business profits and personal dividends. That revenue goes into the state budget. 
 The call to reform the property tax system is heard loudly in Durham, which has one of the highest property tax rates in the state. The rate is high, in part, because the town is home to the main campus of the University of New Hampshire, which does not pay property tax, said Lorrie Pitt, the town tax collector. 
 The resolution passed overwhelmingly here, with 70 percent of residents voting for it, Ms. Pitt said. Even so, she said, many are still leery of adding new state taxes. 
 ''With property tax,'' she said, ''at least you can claim it and use it as a deduction.'' 
 Opponents of the measure say it is a way to stealthily push for new taxes. 
 ''The people behind the anti-pledge resolution are a group of people in favor of a broad-based tax in New Hampshire, specifically an income tax,'' said Fergus Cullen, chairman of the state's Republican Party. ''What they have put together is a dishonest and misleading resolution, which misrepresents what they really want.''
 Gov. John Lynch, a Democrat who has taken the pledge, is opposed to the resolution and would veto any new taxes, a spokesman said. 
 Rob Dix, the tax assessor here and a resident of nearby Barrington, said he thought the current system was working just fine. 
 ''New Hampshire has the lowest net taxes of any state in the nation,'' Mr. Dix said. ''If that's the case, the property tax seems to be working pretty well. 
 ''As a resident of New Hampshire, not an assessor, I appreciate lower taxes.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); SALES TAX (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX LAW (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAX REFORM (77%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); INCOME TAX (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); EDUCATION FUNDING (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (96%); NORTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2008



521 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Congressman From Buffalo Region Says He'll Retire at the End of the Year

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ; David Staba contributed reporting from Williamsville, N.Y.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Representative Thomas M. Reynolds, a five-term Republican legislator from the Buffalo area and perhaps the most influential New Yorker in the House until his party lost control of the chamber, said on Thursday that he would step down at the end of the year.
 The decision by Mr. Reynolds, 57, who was nearly defeated in 2006 and was bracing for another tough re-election fight this year, further complicates the Republican Party's efforts to try to regain control of the House in November. 
 In addition, Mr. Reynolds, a former chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee, has come under intense criticism from Democrats because the treasurer of the committee under his chairmanship is being investigated in connection with the embezzlement of several hundred thousand dollars.
 In making the announcement of his departure plan on Thursday in Williamsville, a suburb of Buffalo, Mr. Reynolds acknowledged that his decision had been strongly influenced by the difficult electoral climate that his party is facing this fall. A savvy politician who measures his words carefully, Mr. Reynolds said that it was ''time to face reality.'' 
 Mr. Reynolds, at one time considered a possible speaker of the House, is the 29th Republican member of the House to announce retirement plans since the party lost power in the 2006 election. The retirements underscore the low morale among Republicans heading into a presidential election and saddled with an unpopular war and a troubled economy.
 While Democrats were quick to note that Mr. Reynolds's retirement offered them a good opportunity to pick up another House seat, Republicans pointed out that their party enjoyed a significant advantage among registered voters in the 26th Congressional District, a vast seven-county expanse of western New York that stretches from Rochester to Buffalo.
 As chairman of the national congressional committee, Mr. Reynolds helped the party raise millions of dollars, and he spent $5.2 million of it on his own re-election battle in 2006. He narrowly survived a well-financed challenge from a Democrat, Jack Davis, a factory owner who bankrolled his campaign with $2 million of his own money.
 This year Mr. Reynolds would have faced another daunting and expensive re-election fight -- against Mr. Davis or two other Democratic challengers -- and this time it was unlikely that he would have nearly as much campaign money. 
 In addition to opposition from a well-financed Democratic challenger in Mr. Davis in 2006, Mr. Reynolds faced questions in the final weeks of the campaign about remaining silent when he learned about inappropriate e-mail exchanges between Representative Mark Foley, a Florida Republican, and a young congressional page.
 This year, Democrats had been hoping to tarnish him with another scandal: an investigation by the Federal Bureau of Investigation into accusations of embezzlement against Christopher J. Ward, the treasurer of the National Republican Congressional Committee whom Mr. Reynolds promoted while he was committee chairman.
 On Thursday, Mr. Reynolds insisted that the investigation had played no role in his decision to retire. He also defended the job he did on the committee, and said that appropriate actions were taken when inconsistencies in the committee's finances were discovered.
 ''When we recognized it, we reported it to not only the bank that approved all the financial statements and the lines of credit, but also to the F.B.I., so they could do an investigation,'' he said.
 But a senior Republican strategist said that Mr. Reynolds did not relish the prospect of having to deal with the issue in the current climate. 
 ''Fairly or not, this story was tied to Reynolds,'' the strategist said. ''He had to go through something like this last election cycle. He felt, 'Why go through this again?' ''
 Rumors that Mr. Reynolds might retire had been swirling for weeks, and associates said that with the Democrats expected to gain an even greater advantage, he was not looking forward to the prospect of being a member of the minority party.
 At his news conference, Mr. Reynolds made passing reference to the rash of Republican retirements, saying: ''They probably think that being in the minority is probably not as happy a time as being in the majority.''
 Still, his decision caught Republicans off guard and sent them scrambling to find a candidate to replace him. 
 Local party officials offered a list of names that included George D. Maziarz, the favorite, a longtime state senator whose district dovetails with that of Mr. Reynolds and who has been close to the congressman, and Jim Hayes, a state assemblyman whose district is centered in Amherst, Buffalo's largest suburb.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Thomas M. Reynolds announcing that he will step down, which means complication for New York's Republicans. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG BENZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (71%); PERSONAL FINANCE (65%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (60%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL REPUBLICAN CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEE (57%)

PERSON: THOMAS M REYNOLDS (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BUFFALO, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2008



522 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 685 words

HEADLINE: In Reversal, Oil and Gold Fall Sharply

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM; Clifford Krauss, Jad Mouawad and Carter Dougherty contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Oil, gold and other major commodities fell sharply on Thursday, capping their steepest weekly drop in a half-century, as investors fled what many had believed to be the last safe haven in turbulent markets.
 Oil tumbled 6.9 percent in two days of trading, and most other commodities fell by 7 percent or more in that period -- including a precipitous 15 percent drop for wheat. 
 This week's declines brought an abrupt end to months of big price increases that had attracted speculative cash. ''It was the last thing that bankers could hang their hats on,'' said Fadel Gheit, an analyst at Oppenheimer & Company. ''Everything else had melted before their eyes.'' 
 For the four-day week ending Thursday, an index created by the Commodity Research Bureau in Chicago fell 8.3 percent, the sharpest one-week decline since the index began in 1956. (Markets are closed for Good Friday.)
 Seeking to make sense of the sharp declines, some analysts on Thursday saw a bubble bursting.
 ''Commodities prices got way out of hand because people felt that when you couldn't buy stocks because of the soft dollar and the economy, the place to be was in these hard commodities,'' said Michael Rose, a trader at Angus Jackson in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. ''Every speculator in the world bought gold and crude oil and the grains and coffee and sugar and cocoa. Prices became insane.'' 
 If the declines continue, they could be good news for consumers. Lower prices for commodities like oil and wheat can translate into lower inflation for many products, including gasoline and groceries. Such a development would ease the job of the Federal Reserve, which is battling lower economic growth with steps that risk adding to inflation.
 Indeed, one such step earlier in the week may have started the commodity sell-off. Almost all commodities are priced in dollars on global markets. When the dollar falls, commodity prices tend to rise, and vice versa.
 On Tuesday, the Federal Reserve cut interest rates by three-quarters of a percentage point. That was less than markets had expected, sending the dollar higher. Within hours, commodity prices -- which had been volatile for weeks -- began to drop. Investors who had seen commodities as a hedge against the dollar scrambled to get out of their bets. 
 ''The precious metals markets and all commodity markets had built in a higher cut,'' said James Steel, a commodities analyst at HSBC.
 Gold, which had recently crossed the $1,000-an-ounce mark after a huge run-up, settled on Thursday at $920 in New York trading. Oil intermittently straddled the $100 mark before settling down 2.5 percent, at $101.84 a barrel. That is still an unusually high price, but it is down 7.6 percent since the beginning of the week.
 ''These are all significant declines,'' Mr. Steel said. 
 Some analysts saw them as more than just a reaction to a higher dollar. In their view, investors are growing increasingly worried that a recession will cause a worldwide drop-off in demand for raw materials.
 ''This is absolutely indicative that the economy is extremely weak, and perhaps in a recession,'' said Adam Robinson, an energy analyst at Lehman Brothers. Since the start of the year, demand for oil in the United States has fallen 2.4 percent, or 510,000 barrels a day, compared with the same period last year. 
 In the last four weeks, that drop has accelerated, according to figures compiled by Lehman Brothers. Some reports also indicate a softening of demand for precious metals. ''We had a battery of data showing a real erosion in jewelry demand in India and China,'' Mr. Steel said.
 But other analysts said growth in China, India and developing economies would likely keep prices elevated for energy, metals and food. In a report, analysts at Barclays Capital predicted that gold would rebound ''towards and beyond $1,000 an ounce.''
 In fact, even with the recent declines, several analysts noted that commodity prices remained at historic levels.
 ''We see headlines: 'Oil collapses to $102,' '' said Paul Horsnell, a commodities analyst at Barclays in London. ''Is that really a collapse?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Traders at work in the crude oil futures pit at the New York Mercantile Exchange on Thursday. In the last two days, oil slid 6.9 percent, and most other commodities fell by 7 percent or more. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIN LEE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (pg.C2) CHART: PRICE OF GOLD 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: METALS MARKETS (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INFLATION (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); SUGAR MARKETS (89%); ENERGY MARKETS (89%); WHEAT MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); COCOA MARKETS (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (63%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: OPPENHEIMER & CO INC (70%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (54%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2008



523 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1100 words

HEADLINE: Seeking Profits (and Respect) in Ownership

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
REMEMBER the riddle that was all the rage in elementary school, ''What has four wheels and flies?'' (Answer: A garbage truck.) Here is a contemporary version, from Madison Avenue: What has 24 wheels and flies?
 Answer: A 12-member cycling team, which is emblematic of the ambitious efforts by agencies to diversify beyond making ads.
 Barkley, an agency in Kansas City, Mo., is spending about $50,000 to sponsor the team, in the category for riders ages 15 to 23, with Hincapie Sportswear, a company in Greenville, S.C., that specializes in apparel for cycling, biking and outdoor recreation. The team members wear jerseys bearings the logos of Barkley and Hincapie, along with the logos of other sponsors like Giant bicycles.
 The goal of the agency's stake in the Hincapie Barkley development team, as it is called, is to gain nitty-gritty experience in sports marketing as well as marketing to consumers who are young -- or young at heart. 
 ''It's a great way, a unique way, to get information we can use for existing clients or new clients,'' said Brian Brooker, chief executive and chief creative officer at Barkley, which until 2006 was known as Barkley Evergreen & Partners.
 ''If we're in a pitch for any account in the active lifestyle field, it's instant credibility,'' he added.
 Barkley is taking part in a trend that is meant to reshape the way agencies earn profits, experience and, to some degree, respect. The intent is to look beyond traditional services like creating advertisements, buying commercial time or planning media schedules.
 In some instances, agencies are going into business with clients by taking ownership stakes in companies or sharing revenue from the sales of products that the agencies advertise.
 For example, Sugartown Creative earns a percentage of the revenue generated by the Il Palagio range of premium-price organic foods. The agency was hired in 2005 by Trudie Styler and her husband, the musician Sting, to work on the account.
 And Crispin Porter & Bogusky, part of MDC Partners, said last week that it would be given a ''significant'' equity stake in AmericaFree.tv, a company that offers 20 online channels of video clips, in exchange for handling tasks like branding, marketing and redesigning the company's Web site (americafree.tv).
 ''We're looking for opportunities that would enhance our knowledge of what's going on in the media business,'' said Chuck Porter, co-chairman at Crispin Porter and chief strategist at MDC, ''and these people we feel we can partner with.''
 Another rationale for the agreement is that ''it's basically sweat equity,'' Mr. Porter said. ''They don't have the revenue to pay for the kind of marketing services they would like to get, so instead of them paying us a fee, we're taking a piece.''
 Mother, the innovative British agency, announced on Tuesday the introduction of Mother Comics, a line of quarterly graphic novels to appear inside issues of Time Out London magazine, a Mother client. Plans call for the novels to be collected by the end of the year in a stand-alone publication that will be distributed by the Time Out Group.
 ''This is our calling card,'' said Mark Waites, joint creative director and a founding partner at Mother, ''flexing our creative muscles.''
 ''Maybe some young marketing hotshot will look at an issue and say, 'Wow,' '' he added, and hire the agency.
 Some agencies are making forays into peddling products on their own rather than through joint ventures with clients. A shop called Brooklyn Brothers hopes to bring out a brand of organic chocolates under the Fat Pig name. Anomaly created a company, Lucky Media, that sells ads on the backs of lottery tickets, which it sold to the Michigan State Lottery. The partners at Ground Zero bought a vodka brand, Pinky, from a client and are distributing it through a company, Liquidity, based in the agency's Los Angeles office.
 The most prodigious producer of products may be Gyro Worldwide, a Philadelphia agency that created a retail brand, Sailor Jerry, after the nickname of Norman Collins, a World War II tattoo artist. Sailor Jerry clothing is sold in stores and online (sailorjerry.com). Gyro even licensed the Sailor Jerry brand to a client, William Grant & Sons, for Sailor Jerry Spiced Navy Rum.
 As enticing as entrepreneurial ventures outside the realm of advertising may seem, they can involve pitfalls, just like the traditional aspects of the business. In 2004, when Crispin Porter & Bogusky was hired by Method, a maker of cleaning products, Method gave the agency an equity stake. That proved problematic two years later, when Method left Crispin Porter for TBWA/Chiat/Day, part of the TBWA Worldwide division of the Omnicom Group.
 ''It didn't work out the way we envisioned,'' Mr. Porter said. Crispin Porter retained its equity in Method, meaning that the agency is in the odd position of hoping a major competitor succeeds with an account it could not keep.
 And as Barkley cheers on its cycling team, employees there must hope that the sport does not gather more dark clouds than it has already with doping and cheating scandals centered on well-known athletes like Floyd Landis.
 ''We're aware of the challenges,'' said I. V. Whitman, the vice president and director for account planning at Barkley, who was instrumental in connecting his agency with Hincapie Sportswear. ''We're standing for the future of cycling, through the 15- to 23-year-olds.''
 ''There are about 43 million people in America who ride bikes,'' he added. ''We're on their side, not on the side of the handful of people involved in performance-enhancing drugs.''
 The contracts that Barkley has with the members of the Hincapie Barkley team include ''a code of conduct and ethical behavior,'' Mr. Whitman said.
 Rich Hincapie, president at Hincapie Sportswear, said he welcomed the interest and investment from an ad agency not only because it represented ''new funds coming into the sport,'' but also because ''we're trying to change the image'' of cycling.
 ''What they will do with the Web, with public relations, can take the sport to a higher level,'' he added. 
 As bad for an image as winning through cheating can be, playing by the rules and losing is no romp around the velodrome either. When Mr. Brooker of Barkley was asked what would happen if the team finished last in all its races, he offered a positive spin.
 ''We'd still get a lot of great information from the athletes, from the people who attend the events,'' he said.
 ''And I think you learn as much when you lose as when you win,'' he added. ''Sometimes, more.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mother, the British agency, is creating a line of graphic novels that it will distribute in Time Out London magazine, a client. The Hincapie Barkley cycling team. The Barkley agency is betting that its sponsorship will give it new credibility with clients. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPONSORSHIP (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); CYCLING (77%); SPORTS SPONSORSHIP (77%); SPORTS MARKETING (77%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (76%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (64%); FOOD INDUSTRY (64%); ORGANIC FOODS (50%)

COMPANY: BARKLEY INC (92%); CRISPIN PORTER & BOGUSKY (63%); MDC PARTNERS INC (52%)

TICKER: MDZ.A (TSX) (52%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (92%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (92%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (63%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (52%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (72%); LONDON, ENGLAND (59%); GREENVILLE, SC, USA (57%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (72%); SOUTH CAROLINA, SC, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (59%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2008



524 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: Socialized Compensation

 BODY:
How can one feel sorry for James Cayne? The potential losses of the chairman and former chief executive of Bear Stearns must rank up there with the biggest in modern history. The value of his stake in Bear Stearns collapsed from about $1 billion a year ago to as little as $14 million at the price JPMorgan Chase offered for the teetering bank on Sunday. 
 Still, Mr. Cayne was paid some $40 million in cash between 2004 and 2006, the last year on record, as well as stocks and options. In the past few years, he has sold shares worth millions more. There should be financial accountability for the man who led Bear Stearns as it gorged on dubious subprime securities to boost its profits and share price, helping to set up one of the biggest financial collapses since the savings-and-loan crisis in the 1980s. Some might argue that he should have lost it all. 
 But that's not how it works. The ongoing bailout of the financial system by the Federal Reserve underscores the extent to which financial barons socialize the costs of private bets gone bad. Not a week goes by that the Fed doesn't inaugurate a new way to provide liquidity -- meaning money -- to the financial system. Bear Stearns isn't enormous. It doesn't take deposits from the public. Yet the Fed believed that letting it implode could unleash a domino effect among other banks, and the Fed provided a $30 billion guarantee for JPMorgan to snap it up. 
 Compared to the cold shoulder given to struggling homeowners, the cash and attention lavished by the government on the nation's financial titans provides telling insight into the priorities of the Bush administration. It's not simply a matter of fairness, though. The Fed is probably right to be doing all it can think of to avoid worse damage than the economy is already suffering. But if the objective is to encourage prudent banking and keep Wall Street's wizards from periodically driving financial markets over the cliff, it is imperative to devise a remuneration system for bankers that puts more of their skin in the game.
 Financiers, of course, dispute that they are being insufficiently penalized. ''I received no bonus for 2007, no severance pay, no golden parachute,'' E. Stanley O'Neal, the former chief executive of Merrill Lynch, told a House committee recently. That doesn't seem like much of a blow to Mr. O'Neal, who was removed earlier this year following gargantuan subprime-related losses. 
 Indeed, the pain that is being inflicted on financial-industry executives as a result of their own actions and decisions is not proving much of an encouragement. Rather, the knuckle-rapping seems only to encourage bankers to make up for any losses they may suffer by finding another way to navigate their companies, the financial system and the economy into the next maelstrom -- from Internet stocks to what the industry calls zero-down, negative amortization, no-doc, adjustable-rate mortgages.
 (Translation: derivatives based on incomprehensible mortgages with unpredictable interest rates given to people who have no reasonable chance of understanding them, let alone paying them back. )
 Bankers operate under a system that provides stellar rewards when the investment strategies do well yet puts a floor on their losses when they go bad. They might have to forgo a bonus if investments turn sour. They might even be fired. Their equity might become worthless -- or not, if the Fed feels it must step in. But as a rule, they won't have to return the money they made in the good days when they were making all the crazy bets that eventually took their banks down.
 The costs of such a lopsided system of incentives are by now clear. Better regulation of mortgage markets would help avoid repeating current excesses. But more fundamental correctives are needed to curb financiers' appetite for walking a tightrope. Some economists have suggested making their remuneration contingent on the performance of their investments over several years -- releasing their compensation gradually.
 That's an idea worth studying. Certainly, trying to put specific limits on bankers' salaries is a nonstarter. But until bankers face a real risk of losing their shirts, they will continue blithely ratcheting up the risks to collect the rewards while letting the rest of us carry the bag when their punts go bad. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); HISTORY (77%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); BANK FAILURES (77%); SAVINGS & LOANS (76%); BAILOUTS (75%); SUBPRIME LENDING (74%); SEVERANCE PAY (65%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (90%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%)

PERSON: JIMMY CAYNE (88%); JAMES E CAYNE (88%); STAN O'NEAL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2008



525 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NYC; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: Taxes Cut And Promises Unkept

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN. 
E-mail: haberman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Taxpayers may find some solace in one aspect of the sex scandals enveloping the two governors that New York has had in the past week. At a time of economic duress, David A. Paterson seems more prepared to work with a tight budget than Eliot Spitzer was.
 Mr. Paterson, the new governor, showed his frugal side in choosing a hotel for some of the extramarital trysts that he confessed to the other day. He picked a branch of the Days Inn chain on the Upper West Side. The Waldorf-Astoria it ain't. 
 A reservations clerk there said that a double room could be had at this time of year for as little as $199.95 a night. By comparison, if one accepts the accusations against him, Mr. Spitzer chose the Mayflower Hotel in Washington, where a double room goes in this season for $409. (Ancillary fees, like those that Mr. Spitzer is said to have paid for a night of companionship, were not included, of course.)
 So with the sudden collapse of the former governor's political career, taxpayers may be cheered to have a new man in charge who knows how to rein in costs.
 If only New Yorkers could feel sanguine about another collapse these days: that of Bear Stearns, the investment bank that JPMorgan Chase plans to buy at a bargain-basement price. Thousands of jobs may disappear. 
 Now is a good time to ask if New York taxpayers will be left holding the bag -- a rather expensive bag, worth tens of millions of dollars.
 Over the years, Bear Stearns turned to City Hall repeatedly for handouts, usually with threats to move its operation out of New York.
 In 1991, it wrung $37 million in tax breaks and other incentives from the Dinkins administration. The Giuliani City Hall gave the company a $75 million benefits package in 1997. For its part, Bear Stearns promised to keep a minimum of 5,700 employees in New York City for 50 years and to create at least 13,300 new jobs over that same period.
 ''Corporate retention'' is the term of art for this kind of arrangement. One corporation after another has been able to pry all sorts of tax breaks from successive administrations terrified about losing jobs to New Jersey and Connecticut.
 Critics prefer to call the deal-making ''corporate welfare.'' Some companies got the goodies without even having to threaten to move. Through this routine, hundreds of millions of dollars in tax revenue have been lost to the municipal treasury.
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, a self-made billionaire, holds no love for the process. Not that he is against giving big business a big hand. He has offered other forms of rich subsidies to well-heeled types like the Yankees and the Mets and developers with eyes on the Far West Side of Manhattan and the Atlantic Yards in Brooklyn.
 ''It's still a corporate giveaway, no matter how you dress it up,'' said Bettina Damiani, the director of Good Jobs New York, an advocacy group that takes a dim view of the handouts.
 Still, when it comes to corporate retention, Mr. Bloomberg has not opened the treasury vault as readily as his predecessors. The Giuliani administration agreed to 38 such deals in its first term, said Jonathan Bowles, the director of a nonpartisan research group in Manhattan called the Center for an Urban Future. The figure for the first four years of Mr. Bloomberg's watch was five, Mr. Bowles said.
 Indeed, when Bear Stearns rattled the cup yet again a few years ago, the Bloomberg City Hall told it in effect to take a hike.
 But now what?
 The existing Bear Stearns deal, like so many of its kind, includes a provision that would allow the city to ''recapture'' the value of the tax breaks that the company has enjoyed -- about $14 million thus far -- should it fail to keep its end of the bargain.
 As of mid-2007, Bear Stearns reported 9,284 jobs, including about 2,000 held by part-time employees and workers on contract. The number was well above the required threshold of 5,700.
 And if, as many expect, many, if not most, of those jobs disappear? ''It's too early to speculate about what exactly the job impacts are going to be,'' said Robert C . Lieber, the deputy mayor for economic development. But it is also safe to assume that some jobs will be lost, Mr. Lieber added. As for those thousands of new jobs that Bear Stearns had promised to create, he said, ''I doubt that there are going to be any.''
 ONE problem, other officials said, is that for past tax breaks to be ''recaptured,'' jobs have to leave New York. If they simply vanish through layoffs, taxpayers are out of luck.
 ''Layoffs don't trigger any recapture,'' one official said, although future benefits could be reduced or even ended.
 Mind you, Bear Stearns would not be the only company that failed to live up to its commitment.
 ''The larger question is, Are these wise investments for the city?'' Mr. Bowles said. He added: ''We always seem to get burned in these retention deals. Should we be giving away tax breaks to all these firms as they consolidate and merge?''
 Granted, this is not as sexy a matter as Mr. Paterson's extramarital pursuits. But it may ultimately be more compelling. His issue is Days Inn. The taxpayers' concern is day in and day out.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CITIES (86%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (79%); TAX INCENTIVES (79%); BUDGETS (79%); GOVERNORS (78%); SEX SCANDALS (78%); SCANDALS (78%); JOB CREATION (77%); MAYORS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); LAYOFFS (72%); HOTEL CHAINS (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); RELOCATIONS (68%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (55%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (88%); ELIOT SPITZER (78%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2008



526 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 285 words

HEADLINE: Aloha Airlines Files for Chapter 11 Bankruptcy Protection

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: HONOLULU 

 BODY:
Aloha Airlines has filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, a little more than two years after emerging from bankruptcy.
 Aloha Airgroup, the parent of Aloha Airlines, said it was unable to generate sufficient revenue because of what it called ''predatory pricing'' by Mesa Air Group's discount airline, Go. 
 Mesa Air Group, based in Phoenix, introduced Go to the inter-island market in 2006 to compete with Aloha and Hawaiian Airlines.
 ''It is a travesty and a tragedy that the illegal actions of a competitor and other factors completely beyond our control have forced us to take this action,'' Aloha's president and chief executive, David A. Banmiller, said in a statement on the airline's Web site.
 Aloha said on its Web site that it would continue to operate as normal and did not expect to cancel any flights.
 In January, Go reported an operating loss of $20 million in its first 16 months of operation. Meanwhile, Aloha and Hawaiian reported combined losses of nearly $65 million since Go began operating.
 Aloha emerged from previous bankruptcy protection in February 2006, 14 months after filing under Chapter 11.
 Hawaii's governor, Linda Lingle, said she was concerned about the future of Aloha's employees in the wake of the airline's bankruptcy filing.
 ''I am hopeful that this action will allow Aloha Airlines to successfully emerge from reorganization as they have done in the past,'' Governor Lingle said. ''The continued, uninterrupted service of the airline is in the best interest of the employees, Hawaii residents and visitors and our state's economy.''
 Founded in 1946, Aloha operates a fleet of 26 Boeing 737s to serve five Hawaiian airports and six destinations on the mainland.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (94%); AIRLINES (92%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (92%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); AIRPORTS (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); WEB SITES (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); COMPANY LOSSES (68%)

COMPANY: ALOHA AIRGROUP INC (90%); MESA AIR GROUP INC (58%); BOEING CO (53%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (53%); BAB (BRU) (53%); BA (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (90%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (53%)

PERSON: LINDA LINGLE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (88%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%) HAWAII, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2008



527 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 495 words

 BODY:
DARK SCENARIOS As the economy continues to show signs of a slowdown, many financial experts say a recession could dig deeper and last longer, even into next year. 
 HEADLINE NEWS Rupert Murdoch, the chairman of the News Corporation, and two other moguls are reportedly interested in buying the Long Island newspaper Newsday from the Tribune Company. [C1.] 
 A LAWYER'S DOWNFALL Another high-profile trial lawyer, Melvyn I. Weiss, agreed to plead guilty to federal charges. [C1.]
 ONLINE TEAM-BUILDING A group of Ivy League students have created an Internet game that they are promoting as a 21st-century version of the camaraderie-building corporate retreat. [C1.]
 STEEP FALL FOR COMMODITIES In an abrupt end to months of big price increases, oil, gold and other major commodities dropped, topping the sharpest one-week decline in decades. [C1.]
 CREDIT TROUBLES The CIT Group said it would try to sell some of its assets or businesses to raise cash and repay debt. [C3.]
 BIG WINNERS Telecom giants Verizon Wireless and AT&T took home the biggest prizes in the government auction of wireless spectrum while Google got the open access it desired. [C3.]
 OIL DISPUTE Russian police accused an employee of BP's joint venture in Russia of industrial espionage, saying he sold classified information to foreigners. [C3.]
 WIRETAPPING TRIAL In the first testimony by a major Hollywood player in the trial of Anthony Pellicano, Brad Grey, the chairman of Paramount Pictures, denied knowing of any illicit activity by the private detective. [C4.]
 STAYING NEUTRAL The Treasury Department said two sovereign wealth funds agreed to not let their investments in the United States be guided by political motives. [C5.]
 BORDERS MAY BE SOLD Facing a credit crisis, Borders, the nation's second-largest bookseller, said it was considering its options, including putting itself up for sale, and that it would suspend its quarterly dividend to help ease the financial squeeze. [C3.]
 CALL FOR OVERSIGHT In a speech to a business group, Representative Barney Frank renewed calls for tougher regulations for the financial sector. [C5.]
 CHANGE IN RATINGS Under pressure from several states, Moody's Investor Service said it would consider a change in the way it rates municipal debt. [C6.]
 BOLSTERING BANKS Hoping to restore order among nervous investors, the central banks in Europe infused the financial markets with liquidity, but the crisis showed no sign of easing. [C6.]
 'INTENTIONAL MISCONDUCT' Credit Suisse, the giant Swiss bank, said transgressions by a handful of traders were partly to blame for its expected first quarterly loss since 2003. [C6.]
 FLEXING CREATIVE MUSCLES A greater number of advertising agencies are looking to diversify beyond traditional services. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [C7.]
 PLANES GROUNDED After it learned that a maintenance contractor had improperly inspected seven Boeing 747s, United Airlines temporarily put the planes out of service. [C9.]

GRAPHIC: CHART: BORDERS GROUP: Price per share 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (87%); TESTIMONY (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (76%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (76%); GUILTY PLEAS (76%); AUCTIONS (74%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (73%); LAWYERS (73%); COMPANY LOSSES (72%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (72%); WIRELESS REGULATION (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); MISCONDUCT (68%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); ESPIONAGE (66%); INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE (65%); DIVIDENDS (62%); AIRLINES (60%); CENTRAL BANKS (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (60%); WIRETAPPING (50%); BOOKSTORES (50%)

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (84%); VERIZON WIRELESS INC (83%); GOOGLE INC (57%); CIT GROUP INC (56%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (53%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (51%); BOEING CO (50%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (84%); NWS (ASX) (84%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%); CIT (NYSE) (56%); CSGN (SWX) (51%); CS (NYSE) (51%); BOE (LSE) (50%); BAB (BRU) (50%); BA (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (84%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (83%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (56%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (56%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (50%)

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (72%); BARNEY FRANK (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (70%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2008



528 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ARCHITECTURE; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1232 words

HEADLINE: What Will Be Left of Gehry's Vision for Brooklyn?

BYLINE: By NICOLAI OUROUSSOFF

 BODY:
The growing possibility that much of the multibillion-dollar Atlantic Yards development in Brooklyn will be scrapped because of a lack of financing may be a bitter pill for its developer, Forest City Ratner. But it's also a painful setback for urban planning in New York.
 Designed by Frank Gehry, the project was a rare instance in which the architectural talent lined up for a New York project matched the financial muscle behind it. When it was unveiled in late 2003, it seemed to signal a genuine effort to raise the quality of large-scale development in a city still stinging from the planning failures at ground zero.
 So if the decision to proceed with an 18,000-seat basketball arena but to defer or eliminate the four surrounding towers is defensible from a business perspective, it also feels like a betrayal of the public trust.
 Mr. Gehry conceived of this bold ensemble of buildings as a self-contained composition -- an urban Gesamtkunstwerk -- not as a collection of independent structures. Postpone the towers and expose the stadium, and it becomes a piece of urban blight -- a black hole at a crucial crossroads of the city's physical history. If this is what we're ultimately left with, it will only confirm our darkest suspicions about the cynical calculations underlying New York real estate deals. 
 The project that the city approved in late 2006 would have included eight million square feet of residential and commercial development on an eight-acre site extending east from Flatbush and Atlantic Avenues, one of the borough's most congested intersections. For many who opposed it early on, it was yet another instance of powerful economic interests trampling on the rights of a deeply rooted middle-class community -- one that had already been reshaped by waves of transplanted Manhattanites. Mr. Gehry's involvement was simply a bit of window dressing intended to give the project an aura of enlightenment.
 I sympathized with these arguments to some degree. New York has had a terrible track record with large-scale planning in recent years. Look at Battery Park City. The MetroTech Center. Donald Trump's Riverside South. All are blots on the urban environment, as blandly homogenous in their own way as the Modernist superblocks they were intended to improve on.
 But it's important to remember that this is also the city that spawned Rockefeller Center, a 22-acre development at the core of Manhattan that became a glorious emblem of the 20th-century metropolis. For some of us Atlantic Yards presented a creative opportunity for the 21st century.
 If large-scale development is unavoidable, why not enlist serious talents like Mr. Gehry to come up with an alternative to the bottom-line proposals that have been the accepted norm for decades? Finally a big developer had turned to a legitimate architectural hero for help, rather than the usual corporate hacks.
 As it turned out, Mr. Gehry's design revealed both the promise and the limits of that collaboration. The main residential blocks to the east of the arena lacked the architect's signature ebullience. A series of mismatched towers along two sides of a central courtyard encompassing several blocks, they followed most of the usual planning rules: adhere to the street grid, pack in a good deal of retail along the street, add a dose of public space.
 But if that part of the development bordered on soporific, his design for the arena block was a tour de force. Most urban sports arenas are big, windowless boxes that suck the life out of their surroundings; Mr. Gehry's great invention was to conceal this one behind a dense array of residential and commercial towers. The most glamorous of these, Miss Brooklyn, clad in cascading sheets of glass, anchored the arena to Flatbush Avenue. Three smaller residential towers, their playful forms like unevenly stacked children's blocks, framed the arena on the east and south. 
 This imaginative fusion of inside and out, with the intensity of the sports arena paralleling the bustle of the street, spelled promise. Visitors arriving by subway would spill out into a multitiered glass atrium; directly above, the voluptuous curves of Miss Brooklyn would be a counterpoint to the nearby Williamsburgh Savings Bank tower -- a classic stone phallus. 
 Between the bases of the towers, views would open up from the street onto the concourses that envelop the arena. During a Nets game, pedestrians strolling along Flatbush Avenue would be able to catch glimpses of anguished fans inside; when the arena was empty, its dark, gaping void could have the haunting effect of the ruins of a Roman coliseum. A cold, characterless intersection might thereby be transformed into Brooklyn's vibrant answer to Times Square, minus the saccharine Disney decor.
 The first sign that something was amiss arose when Forest City began to reduce the percentage of affordable housing units in the design and add condominiums, decisions that altered the project's character. Then the developer quietly asked Mr. Gehry to redesign Miss Brooklyn to cut costs. The delirious exterior was replaced by a less graceful design, with floors piled loosely on top of one another, their forms twisting as they rose. The atrium was reduced to an empty glass hall with a set of bleachers overlooking the street. 
 Meanwhile, Mr. Gehry invested more energy into designing a 20-story tower for a site across Flatbush that he hoped would balance his composition by creating a visual bond between the sides of the avenue. 
 Still, the core of his concept, the charged relationship between the enclosed arena and the street, remained intact. 
 Without the towers the arena is likely to become an enormous eyesore. Even if Mr. Gehry adorns it with a seductive new wrapper, its looming presence will have a deadening impact on a lively area. The magical peekaboo effect of peering between the bases of the towers into the arena will be lost. The atrium, once a vital public space, will be reduced to a barren strip of pavement.
 No development at all would be preferable to building the design that is now on the table. What's maddening is how few options opponents seem to have. 
 We could wage a public campaign to stop it. We could pray that Forest City Ratner comes up with more money. But given that the city approved the plan, we cannot prevent the developer from building the arena. Nor is there any way of preventing Forest City from selling off pieces of the property to other investors, who could then come up with any design they liked, as long as they abided by zoning and density guidelines.
 Mr. Gehry, on the other hand, could walk away. 
 In the old days, when he was still a budding talent with an uncertain future, he walked off jobs when a client began pushing things in the wrong direction. This was not simply an act of vanity; it showed that the quality of his work mattered more to him than a paycheck.
 Years later, he has been backed into a familiar corner. There's much more money at stake here, and I expect that he is torn between a sense of loyalty to his client and a desire to make good architecture. 
 But by pulling out he would be expressing a simple truth: At this point the Atlantic Yards development has nothing to do with the project that New Yorkers were promised. Nor does it rise to the standards Mr. Gehry has set for himself during a remarkable career.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Part of the Atlantic Yards project in Brooklyn, as originally envisioned by Frank Gehry. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GEHRY PARTNERS) (pg. E30)
 Frank Gehry's design for Forest City Ratner's proposed Atlantic Yards development in Brooklyn. Much of the project may now be delayed. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GEHRY PARTNERS) (pg. E25) MAP Map showing the arena site for the project. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); CITIES (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (74%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (74%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); BASKETBALL (54%)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2008



529 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 793 words

HEADLINE: Partying Like It's 1929

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
If Ben Bernanke manages to save the financial system from collapse, he will -- rightly -- be praised for his heroic efforts.
 But what we should be asking is: How did we get here? 
 Why does the financial system need salvation? 
 Why do mild-mannered economists have to become superheroes? 
 The answer, at a fundamental level, is that we're paying the price for willful amnesia. We chose to forget what happened in the 1930s -- and having refused to learn from history, we're repeating it.
 Contrary to popular belief, the stock market crash of 1929 wasn't the defining moment of the Great Depression. What turned an ordinary recession into a civilization-threatening slump was the wave of bank runs that swept across America in 1930 and 1931. 
 This banking crisis of the 1930s showed that unregulated, unsupervised financial markets can all too easily suffer catastrophic failure.
 As the decades passed, however, that lesson was forgotten -- and now we're relearning it, the hard way.
 To grasp the problem, you need to understand what banks do.
 Banks exist because they help reconcile the conflicting desires of savers and borrowers. Savers want freedom -- access to their money on short notice. Borrowers want commitment: they don't want to risk facing sudden demands for repayment.
 Normally, banks satisfy both desires: depositors have access to their funds whenever they want, yet most of the money placed in a bank's care is used to make long-term loans. The reason this works is that withdrawals are usually more or less matched by new deposits, so that a bank only needs a modest cash reserve to make good on its promises. 
 But sometimes -- often based on nothing more than a rumor -- banks face runs, in which many people try to withdraw their money at the same time. And a bank that faces a run by depositors, lacking the cash to meet their demands, may go bust even if the rumor was false. 
 Worse yet, bank runs can be contagious. If depositors at one bank lose their money, depositors at other banks are likely to get nervous, too, setting off a chain reaction. And there can be wider economic effects: as the surviving banks try to raise cash by calling in loans, there can be a vicious circle in which bank runs cause a credit crunch, which leads to more business failures, which leads to more financial troubles at banks, and so on. 
 That, in brief, is what happened in 1930-1931, making the Great Depression the disaster it was. So Congress tried to make sure it would never happen again by creating a system of regulations and guarantees that provided a safety net for the financial system.
 And we all lived happily for a while -- but not for ever after.
 Wall Street chafed at regulations that limited risk, but also limited potential profits. And little by little it wriggled free -- partly by persuading politicians to relax the rules, but mainly by creating a ''shadow banking system'' that relied on complex financial arrangements to bypass regulations designed to ensure that banking was safe.
 For example, in the old system, savers had federally insured deposits in tightly regulated savings banks, and banks used that money to make home loans. Over time, however, this was partly replaced by a system in which savers put their money in funds that bought asset-backed commercial paper from special investment vehicles that bought collateralized debt obligations created from securitized mortgages -- with nary a regulator in sight.
 As the years went by, the shadow banking system took over more and more of the banking business, because the unregulated players in this system seemed to offer better deals than conventional banks. Meanwhile, those who worried about the fact that this brave new world of finance lacked a safety net were dismissed as hopelessly old-fashioned. 
 In fact, however, we were partying like it was 1929 -- and now it's 1930.
 The financial crisis currently under way is basically an updated version of the wave of bank runs that swept the nation three generations ago. People aren't pulling cash out of banks to put it in their mattresses -- but they're doing the modern equivalent, pulling their money out of the shadow banking system and putting it into Treasury bills. And the result, now as then, is a vicious circle of financial contraction.
 Mr. Bernanke and his colleagues at the Fed are doing all they can to end that vicious circle. We can only hope that they succeed. Otherwise, the next few years will be very unpleasant -- not another Great Depression, hopefully, but surely the worst slump we've seen in decades.
 Even if Mr. Bernanke pulls it off, however, this is no way to run an economy. It's time to relearn the lessons of the 1930s, and get the financial system back under control. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GREAT DEPRESSION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); RECESSION (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (74%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (74%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2008



530 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: 2 Foreign Funds Agree To Shun 'Political' Deals

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Bush administration won a commitment Thursday from two prominent foreign government investment funds to disavow ''geopolitical goals'' in their investments in the United States and elsewhere, a step the administration hoped would set an example for other funds.
 The commitment came from the so-called sovereign wealth funds controlled by the governments of Singapore and Abu Dhabi, which is part of the United Arab Emirates. Both funds have stepped up their American investments in the last year and played a major role in purchasing stakes in Citigroup. 
 Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. praised the two funds for embracing a set of principles that not only disavowed political motives in investing but also made commitments to maximum disclosure of investment activities and to strong internal controls, including management of risk in investments.
 ''Singapore and U.A.E. have long-established, well-respected funds and are showing real leadership by joining with us today,'' Mr. Paulson said in a statement.
 Mr. Paulson reiterated the administration's position that the United States welcomed foreign investments, but his comment came at a time of rising concern in the administration about political opposition to such activities, especially after several government funds bought stakes in major American companies this year.
 At the same time, representatives of the funds have hired lobbyists and public relations firms and have gone out of their way to proclaim their intention to invest in the United States based on commercial principles and not out of political motivations.
 The United States has enlisted the International Monetary Fund, which has 185 country members, and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, a voluntary group of wealthy countries, to develop a code of ''best practices'' to guide cross-border investments by government funds.
 The International Monetary Fund's board is to meet in Washington on Friday to push its study forward with a goal of adopting best practices in the fall.
 One goal of these two group efforts is to make both funds and the countries that receive investments more comfortable with each other's motives. ''It's a process of mutual self-reassurance,'' said an official involved in the process, speaking anonymously to describe the motives of the players candidly.
 The drive by the United States and Europe to draw up the code of best practices, including a renunciation of political motives, has stirred resentment among some of the investing funds, particularly in China and some in the Persian Gulf.
 At the World Economic Forum, representatives of some of the funds in the Persian Gulf said such a code was unnecessary and an intrusion, since they said the investment funds had never done anything to arouse suspicions. Some Chinese officials have also been quoted as saying the best practices idea was unnecessary.
 Bush administration officials say that they are pleased with the level of cooperation from foreign governments, however.
 ''The general impression I have is that there is an openness to discussing this,'' said Clay Lowery, an assistant Treasury secretary for international affairs, referring to a best practices code. ''Some funds think this is a really good idea. Some are saying, 'Let's do a little bit of wait-and-see.' ''
 A leading Senate proponent of more openness by sovereign wealth funds, Senator Charles E. Schumer, the New York Democrat, praised Mr. Paulson on Thursday for agreeing to a set of principles but called on the principles to be adopted by others.
 ''Now it is up to other sovereign wealth funds to follow this lead,'' Mr. Schumer said. ''I hope the administration, the I.M.F. and other governments will encourage them to do so.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. praised the Singapore and Abu Dhabi funds for their commitments. Foreign funds have acquired big stakes in major American companies this year. (STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); BEST PRACTICES (89%); POLITICS (88%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (86%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); SOVEREIGN WEALTH FUNDS (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ABU DHABI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (93%) INDIAN OCEAN (65%) UNITED STATES (97%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (95%); CHINA (92%); EUROPE (79%); GULF STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2008



531 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; PUBLIC LIVES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: Working Toward a Future to Rival the Apollo's Glittering Past

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ

 BODY:
ANY list of New York City landmarks -- the Statue of Liberty, the Empire State Building, the Brooklyn Bridge, Central Park -- would include, near the top, the Apollo Theater. But unlike those icons, the Apollo has escaped ruin by the skin of its teeth, thanks in large part to Jonelle Procope, the chief executive of the foundation that runs the theater. Tens of millions have been spent restoring parts of the theater in the past five years, but there is still much work to do. 
 In January, Ms. Procope and Richard D. Parsons, the chairman of the Apollo Theater Foundation and chairman of Time Warner, announced a $96 million plan to complete the renovation and expand the Apollo. 
 So far, about $51.5 million has been raised, and public appeals are planned for the rest. If all goes well, the theater will close for nine months in 2010 for the construction work.
 ''This is strategic,'' she said. ''We're looking at: What is this theater going to be in 2011 when it reopens? We want it to be one of the premier performance venues uptown. It's not about just the building, it's about a preservation of a cultural legacy.''
 The renovation will add 4,000 square feet of space by moving offices to other buildings. With fewer than 1,500 seats, the Apollo could never compete with bigger houses with 6,000 to 8,000 seats. But the new plans will allow the theater to run more educational and community programs. In the 1990s, it seemed that the Apollo, where, in 1962, James Brown performed one of the most thrilling concerts of all time, might vanish from sullen recriminations and physical rot. 
 The building needed millions of dollars in repairs, including the replacement of miles of electrical wiring. And a lawsuit filed by the state attorney general over finances at the Apollo, which is state-owned, threw its oversight into turmoil. 
 Some of the most prominent names in Harlem and black America -- Representative Charles B. Rangel; Percy E. Sutton, the former Manhattan borough president; the actor Ossie Davis; Mr. Parsons -- struggled and clashed over the Apollo. 
 With the theater's future uncertain, Mr. Parsons turned to Ms. Procope, who was a member of the board, and asked her to run the precarious institution. Ms. Procope, a corporate lawyer, didn't seem to want the job.
 When Mr. Parsons offered her the Apollo presidency over breakfast in March 2003, she told him that she would need to think about it, for a week. ''I remember going home and being totally freaked out,'' Ms. Procope, 57, said. ''I remember sitting in board meetings and thinking, Wow, I'm glad I'm not running this.'' 
 Ms. Procope consulted with her husband, Frederick O. Terrell, the head of a private equity firm in Manhattan, and her half-brother, John L. Procope, a former publisher of The Amsterdam News who died in 2005. And she consulted with Paula Ramsey, director of development at the Museum of the African Diaspora in San Francisco.
 One thing that worried Ms. Procope was fund-raising -- the art of coaxing money from donors. ''People think it's some mystical, magical charm,'' said Ms. Ramsey, ''but it's really based on relationships and Jonelle is good at that.''
 When Ms. Procope accepted the job in April 2003, attention focused on her resume: an undergraduate degree from Howard University; a law degree from St. John's; experience at a big law firm, Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom; work at major companies like Viacom and Bristol-Myers Squibb and at creative ones like Blackground Records.
 But what especially prepared her for the Apollo, Ms. Procope said, were less prominent jobs that she took between lawyering and maternity leaves (she has two sons, 17 and 20).
 She once worked at Equitable Real Estate Group, where she was an aide to the chairman and helped raise money for the Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine, in Morningside Heights. ''I liked the project,'' she said. ''I liked having to reach out to people, make the case, make the pitch.''
 Gently strong-arming donors in Manhattan was a long way from Philadelphia, where Ms. Procope grew up. Her mother, Corinne, was a homemaker originally from New Orleans. Her father, John L. Procope Sr., originally from St. Kitts, was a businessman and eventually the administrator of Mercy-Douglass Hospital, a racially segregated black hospital in Philadelphia.
 NEARLY every summer, Jonelle (pronounced ''John L.'') lived in Harlem with John Jr., her father's son from a previous marriage, who would become the newspaper publisher. As a young girl, Jonelle met everyone who was anyone in Harlem through her half-brother, including David N. Dinkins, later mayor of New York; Basil A. Paterson, father of the current governor, David A. Paterson; and Mr. Rangel (in college, she was an intern at his Congressional office). 
 Mr. Rangel was forced out as chairman of the foundation in 1999 after Eliot Spitzer, then the attorney general, agreed to drop a lawsuit charging that Mr. Rangel and the board failed to collect more than $4 million owed to the theater by a company controlled by Mr. Sutton. Mr. Rangel and Mr. Sutton denied any wrongdoing. Mr. Rangel was succeeded by Mr. Davis. 
 Ms. Procope still meets with Mr. Sutton, who bought the shuttered theater in the 1980s, reopened it and turned it over to the foundation in 1992. ''He made this possible,'' she said. ''I stand on his shoulders. I want him to feel proud.''
 But now, with the economy faltering by the day, donors are sure to be skittish. ''I know,'' Ms. Procope said quietly. ''But I can't stop. I can't decide that all this is not going to work. Next year, if we haven't made our goal, we'll deal with it. But I can't stop.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); HISTORIC SITES (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); LAWYERS (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (69%); LITIGATION (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (62%); TALKS & MEETINGS (61%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%)

PERSON: RICHARD D PARSONS (79%); CHARLES B RANGEL (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2008



532 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: Russia Arrests 2 Tied to BP Joint Venture, Accusing Them of Industrial Espionage

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
Russian security services have detained an employee of BP's Russian joint venture and are accusing that man and his brother of industrial espionage, according to a statement released Thursday. 
 The arrest of the brothers by the F.S.B., the main successor agency to the K.G.B., bodes ill for BP's work here and is likely to send chills through the ranks of Russian employees at Western companies, particularly those out of favor, as BP has been. 
 The brothers, Ilya and Aleksandr Saslavsky, both widely known in the foreign business community, were Russians who held American citizenship. Both graduated from Oxford University and were active in alumni organizations. 
 A day earlier, the agents raided the offices of BP and the joint venture company, TNK-BP, which BP owns together with three Russian investors. 
 It is the only major Russian oil company that is partly foreign-controlled, although Exxon Mobil is in a production-sharing agreement on Sakhalin Island. TNK-BP was formed in 2003 with the blessings of President Vladimir V. Putin and Prime Minister Tony Blair, who attended the signing ceremony. Since then, as oil prices have skyrocketed, Mr. Putin's government has tried to reverse such deals as unfavorable to Russia. 
 The venture, though, has been a great success for BP and accounts for about a quarter of the British company's total worldwide production. A dissolution of TNK-BP could be devastating to BP. 
 The joint venture was already under pressure to sell a large Siberian gas field to Gazprom. It has agreed to a deal but has not closed on it. 
 The Kremlin may also be maneuvering to buy out BP's partners in the company, analysts have suggested, though the partners say they are not selling. 
 A TNK-BP spokeswoman declined to comment Thursday on the arrests.
 Ilya Saslavsky worked at TNK-BP. His brother Aleksandr had worked ''as an energy consultant in New York and Moscow,'' according to a biography he sent by e-mail to alumni of British universities while running for president of the British Alumni Association last year. It did not specify his employer. 
 From 2000 until 2003, a man by that name worked at the Eurasia Group, a global risk assessment company, according to Alexsandra Lloyd, a spokeswoman. 
 In its statement, carried by Russian news agencies, the F.S.B. said that the brothers ''were illegally collecting classified commercial information for a number of foreign hydrocarbon companies which wished to have advantages over their Russian rivals.'' 
 It said the brothers were detained on March 12 while seeking classified information from a Russian source. Russian news media reported that the information was a secret addendum to a published government report on Russia's energy strategy through 2020. 
 In its search of the headquarters of TNK-BP and the representative office of BP in Moscow on Wednesday, the F.S.B. seized documents. Its statement Thursday said the seized items included ''material evidence of industrial espionage.''
 The service said it found ''copies of documents issued by Russian state and executive agencies, reports, analytical materials'' and ''business cards of representatives of foreign defense departments and the Central Intelligence Agency.'' 
 Alex Turkeltaub, a managing director at the Frontier Strategy Group, an American risk consulting company, said groups within the Russian government might be seeking to acquire valuable oil assets from foreign investors in a power struggle as Mr. Putin steps down as president this spring. 
 Mr. Putin has said he will remain as prime minister to Dmitri A. Medvedev, now a first deputy prime minister, who was elected president on March 2. 
 ''The worst interpretation is that the scramble for power and influence in the new cabinet is shaping up already,'' Mr. Turkeltaub said. Alternatively, he said, the dispute is more narrowly focused on the brothers' activities in the industry or with the alumni groups. 
 ''The least likely version is that they were actually engaged in economic espionage,'' Mr. Turkeltaub said. 
 A year ago, Royal Dutch Shell was accused of environmental shortcomings, accusations that some analysts said were partly trumped up. It was forced to sell half its oil development on Sakhalin Island to Gazprom as a result. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An investigator leaving the Moscow offices of TNK-BP on Wednesday. An employee and his brother were detained. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEXANDER ZEMLIANICHENKO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOINT VENTURES (93%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); ALUMNI (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (75%); ALUMNI ASSOCIATIONS (74%); RISK MANAGEMENT (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (68%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (68%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (61%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (61%)

COMPANY: BP PLC (85%); OAO GAZPROM (66%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (56%); TNK-BP LTD (56%); TNK-BP HOLDING OAO (92%)

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (85%); BP (LSE) (85%); OGZD (LSE) (66%); GAZP (RTS) (66%); XOM (NYSE) (56%); TNBP (RTS) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (85%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (92%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (85%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (66%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (66%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (66%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (66%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (66%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (92%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (74%); TONY BLAIR (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2008



533 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: Obama Links Effects of War Costs to Fragility in the Economy

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY and MICHAEL COOPER; Jeff Zeleny reported from Charleston, W. Va., and Michael Cooper from London. Patrick Healy contributed reporting from Terre Haute, Ind.

DATELINE: CHARLESTON, W.Va. 

 BODY:
Senator Barack Obama on Thursday blamed the fragile economy on ''careless and incompetent execution'' of the Iraq war, imploring voters in this swing state to consider the trickle-down economic consequences of the war as they choose a successor to President Bush.
 ''When you're spending over $50 to fill up your car because the price of oil is four times what it was before Iraq, you're paying a price for this war,'' Mr. Obama said to an audience at the University of Charleston. ''When Iraq is costing each household about $100 a month, you're paying a price for this war.'' 
 One day after Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton campaigned here, Mr. Obama arrived in West Virginia for his first trip before the primary on May 13. The state is also likely to be a general election battleground, and Mr. Obama delivered a critique of Senator John McCain, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee.
 ''No matter what the costs, no matter what the consequences, John McCain seems determined to carry out a third Bush term,'' Mr. Obama said. ''That's an outcome America can't afford. Because of the Bush-McCain policies, our debt has ballooned.''
 Although the contest for the Democratic presidential nomination is far from settled, Mr. Obama barely mentioned Mrs. Clinton as he sought to remind voters here that domestic priorities of education, health care and even the construction of new roads and bridges had been placed on a back burner because of the high costs of the Iraq war.
 Mrs. Clinton campaigned across central and southern Indiana on Thursday, drawing sizable crowds. In Terre Haute, elderly residents and schoolchildren lined the route of her motorcade. At a rally with several thousand people in Anderson, she briefly touched on her plans to withdraw American troops from Iraq and raised concerns about the high cost of the war.
 ''We spend $12 billion a month in Iraq, and that does affect the economy,'' Mrs. Clinton said. ''That's one of the reasons we've gone into more and more debt. We've got to begin not only to withdraw our troops, but bring that money back home. We need to put that money to work here in Indiana.''
 A year ago in the opening phase of his candidacy, Mr. Obama tried to appeal to voters because of his opposition to the war. As the economy emerged as voters' chief concern, Mr. Obama argued that the two were undeniably linked. 
 ''The more than $10 billion we're spending each month in Iraq is money we could be investing here at home,'' Mr. Obama said. ''Just think about what battles we could be fighting instead of fighting this misguided war.''
 Mr. McCain, who met European leaders on a Congressional fact-finding tour, responded with forceful criticism of Mr. Obama's plan to remove combat troops from Iraq. 
 ''Senator Obama would rather rehash the past than look forward with resolve to address fundamental challenges and opportunities we have today to secure our future,'' a spokeswoman for the campaign, Jill Hazelbaker, said. ''He has embraced an irresponsible policy of withdrawing our troops from Iraq without regard for the conditions on the ground, the advice of our military commanders or the consequences of failure.''
 In London, Mr. McCain's overseas mission briefly morphed into a fund-raising mission. For several days this week, as he met, and was photographed with, leaders in Iraq, Jordan, Israel and Britain, Mr. McCain pointed out that he was traveling as part of a Congressional delegation that taxpayers pay for, and not as a presidential contender. 
 But he left his Senate staff behind and held a fund-raiser at Spencer House, an 18th-century house built by ancestors of Princess Diana. Behind an imposing facade and out of a cold, damp rain, 100 donors lunched on duck salad and plates of fish on beds of greens and asked Mr. McCain questions about the Middle East, North Korea, global warming and a host of other issues. 
 His campaign said it would reimburse Congress for the political part of the trip.
 Mr. McCain and his wife, Cindy, did not make remarks when they emerged from the lunch, which drew American expatriates and tourists.
 Back in the United States, Mr. Obama's assessment of the American racial divide continued to reverberate two days after his speech on race. In an interview with a sports station in Philadelphia, WIP-AM, Mr. Obama tried to explain his point about not being able to disown his grandmother, whom he called ''a typical white person,'' any more than he could disown his minister for making controversial statements about the United States.
 ''If she sees somebody on the street that she doesn't know,'' Mr. Obama said, ''there's a reaction that's been bred into our experiences that don't go away and that sometimes come out in the wrong way. And that's just the nature of race in our society.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator John McCain with Senators Joseph I. Lieberman, left, and Lindsey Graham after meeting Prime Minister Gordon Brown at 10 Downing Street. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARL DE SOUZA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
 Senator Barack Obama speaking Thursday at the University of Charleston. He urged voters to consider the consequences that the Iraq war has on the economy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX BRANDON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (94%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); IRAQ WAR (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); CHILDREN (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (64%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); SENIOR CITIZENS (50%); AGING (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (68%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (59%); JOE LIEBERMAN (59%); GORDON BROWN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, WV, USA (90%); TERRE HAUTE, IN, USA (68%) INDIANA, USA (92%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (92%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2008



534 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONALA3-12
 Unrest in Tibet May Turn Tides in Taiwan's Election
 Violent unrest in Tibet has created shock waves in another volatile region on China's periphery, shaking up the presidential election in Taiwan and sapping support for the candidate Beijing hoped would win handily.A1
 Pope Rejects bin Laden Tape 
 The Vatican rejected an audiotaped accusation from Osama bin Laden that Pope Benedict XVI was leading a ''new Crusade'' against Muslims, but Italian security officials were concerned about the threats included in Mr. bin Laden's message. A3Belgium Forms Government
 Belgium finally got a new government after a nine-month political crisis that prompted speculation that the country might split. But many voters say that the new five-party coalition may be too weak to last.A8Division in Tibet's Opposition
 The Dalai Lama's refusal to confront China more forcefully as it has cracked down on the protests in Tibet has created tensions with younger and more aggressive Tibetan exiles who want to press Beijing for independence. A12No U.S. Visas for Belarus
 In response to pressure from Belarus to reduce its personnel, the United States Embassy in Minsk has temporarily stopped issuing visas to citizens there. Tensions between the countries have intensified in recent weeks.A8
 Russia Softens on Missile Plan
 After high-level talks between the United States and Russia, the Kremlin appears to be expressing less hostility toward the Bush administration's plan for a missile defense system in Poland and the Czech Republic.A3
 NATIONALA14-21
 State Known as Anti-Tax Hears Calls For Reform
 It has virtually been a requirement that elected state officials in New Hampshire take ''The Pledge,'' a promise not to institute a broad-based income or sales tax. But now there is a growing movement to reject that pledge and overhaul the state's tax system. A12 
 Obama Links Economy to War
 Senator Barack Obama blamed the fragile American economy on a ''careless and incompetent execution'' of the Iraq war, imploring voters in West Virginia, a perennial swing state, to consider the economic consequences of the war as they choose a successor to President Bush. A19 
 A Pledge for Housing the Poor
 District of Columbia officials have pledged to preserve and even expand low-income housing, replacing dangerous projects with new communities that keep both poor and ''work force'' residents in the mix. A14 
 SCIENCE/HEALTH
 More Parents Resist Vaccines
 A growing number of parents are skeptical of vaccines and take advantage of exemptions to laws requiring vaccinations for school-age children. Many epidemiologists, public health officials and physicians find the increasing exemption rate disturbing. A1 Humans Not the First to Walk
 A new analysis of a fossil thigh bone yielded strong evidence that as early as six million years ago, close to the beginning of the human lineage, an ancestral species had already developed the transforming ability for upright walking, scientists reported. A16 
 NEW YORK/REGION B1-8
 Spitzer Investigators Used Intrusive Tactics
 The Justice Department used intrusive tactics against Eliot Spitzer, then the governor of New York, examining his financial records, eavesdropping on his phone calls and tailing him during its criminal inquiry of the Emperor's Club prostitution ring. These tactics seem unusual for the Justice Department, which rarely investigates customers of prostitutes.A1
 Atlantic Yards Hurdles
 The slowing economy, weighed down by a widening credit crisis, is likely to delay the signature office tower and three residential buildings at the heart of the $4 billion Atlantic Yards project in Brooklyn, the developer said. A1 
 BUSINESS DAYC1-9 
 Ripples of a Crisis
 The forces assailing the American economy are spreading into new parts of the country, to communities that seemed insulated only months ago -- fueling worries of a recession that could end up being especially painful. A1 
 Top Lawyer Pleads Guilty
 Melvyn I. Weiss became the latest prominent trial lawyer to agree to plead guilty to federal criminal charges, acknowledging his role in a scheme to make hidden side payments to plaintiffs in class-action lawsuits filed by his firm. C1 
 Talks of Selling Newsday
 Three of New York's biggest media moguls are in discussions to buy Newsday, the Long Island newspaper, from the Tribune Company, people involved in the sale process said. C1 
 Today in BusinessC2
 EDITORIALA22-23
 Editorial: Socialized compensation; Turkey's democracy on trial; saving a national treasure.
 Columns: Paul Krugman and David Brooks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); RIOTS (78%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (77%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (77%); RELIGION (77%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); LABOR FORCE (71%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (70%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (70%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (70%); SALES TAX (68%); IRAQ WAR (68%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (66%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (65%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (65%); CHILDREN (63%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (62%); PUBLIC HOUSING (62%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (60%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (60%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (87%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); DALAI LAMA (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); POPE BENEDICT XVI (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (93%) SOUTHWEST CHINA (93%); XIZANG, CHINA (90%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (88%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) TIBET (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); TAIWAN (94%); BELARUS (93%); CHINA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); HOLY SEE (88%); POLAND (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); IRAQ (79%); BELGIUM (57%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2008



535 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 714 words

HEADLINE: Donner Party Democrats

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN. 
Timothy Egan, a contributing columnist for The Times, writes Outposts, a column at nytimes.com. He is filling in for Bob Herbert, who is off today.

DATELINE: When they set out, it all looked so bright 

 BODY:
-- away to the West, to the Denver convention, nothing but blue skies ahead. They had a continent to cross, a nation to convince, and they vowed to do it in a way that had never been done before. 
 They moved briskly across the plains of the Bush presidency. There was the scarecrow president who didn't know the price of fuel or the ways of war. Flapping in the wind, he pointed one way, while 70 percent of the country wanted to go the other. 
 On to the arid side of the prairie, they passed one sunbaked skeleton after another -- Larry Craig and his wide stance, Scooter Libby and his breach of trust, and a man from the Arabian Horse Association, Brownie. Each had the stench of yesterday on them.
 Along the way, they moved by Mitt the Muddler, who couldn't decide which way to go, and Rudy the Robo, muttering, ''9/11, 9/11, 9/11.'' Dining on squirrel was a guitar-plucking Huckabee, who at least knew how to keep folks entertained around the campfire. 
 These refugees from the other party had their nutty preacher, Pat Robertson, who blamed fellow Americans for the big attack. It was their fault, he said: the civil libertarians, the gays, the feminists brought this mass murder upon themselves. 
 Uphill now, through the high plains, and still the Dems held together. They would not be like that tragic Donner Party of 1846, feuding and scrapping. It would all be over before the snows were gone. 
 They shared their rations and steeled their will, convinced that one way or the other they would make history: a black man or a woman would lead them. They were Democrats doing the impossible: moving in one line, together. 
 Deep in the treeless expanse of the West, they came upon one of the stragglers from the other party: John McCain. Once, he had been a maverick. Now he looked old and worn and lost. His own party had left him for dead, he explained. Called him amnesty man. 
 He seemed harmless enough, saying he knew nothing about the economy, confused about who was fighting whom in a distant part of the world. They didn't give him a second thought. 
 And then, as the snow piled high deep into March, the Dems turned on each other. One of their leaders had been hanging around the camp of another preacher man, the Rev. Jeremiah Wright Jr. -- a nutball like Robertson, blaming America for bringing on the horrid attack. What is it with these men of God? Should have left them home. 
 The Dems grew raggedy, worn, desperate. Whereas the first Donner Party was bogged down in the snow of the high Sierra, these Dems could not get out of the Rockies. One faction wanted to declare it over, based on greater popular support. The other one wanted simply to stick around long enough, waiting for the rival to self-destruct. 
 Their former leader, Clinton the Elder, was kept on a leash -- nothing but cards at night. He said he'd seen far worse in his time. ''Will there be more animosity as this thing goes on? Yes.'' That didn't help. 
 Looking for leadership, they turned to a quiet man in the rear, a doctor from Vermont: Howard Dean. Do something, Doc! Scream! But he cowered, mumbling about do-overs and going back to Michigan or Florida. 
 At their lowest ebb, they looked back and again saw the straggler, McCain. He was stronger, walking with renewed vigor despite his age. 
 He was joined by a grizzled old cuss named Cheney. One strange hombre, Cheney had shot a man in the face. He'd forgotten that his country was a democracy. When he was told that two-thirds of the nation wanted to heed the founders' advice and avoid prolonged foreign conflicts, he spit on the ground, and said, ''So?''
 His party was united. What had been hatred for McCain was now hatred for the other party's preacher. They could direct all their historic resentments, their bound-up frustrations, against this preacher, the Rev. Wright. So long as they hissed and booed at his picture every night, they stayed together, saying the nastiest of things. 
 The original Donner Party made history for one reason: by eating their dead. Cannibalism -- it was all they could do to stay alive. 
 These modern Dems press on, tearing into each other, crawling to get to the summit, still five months away, in the mile-high city. They are now ravenous with hunger, and it is starting to show. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); REFUGEES (71%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (65%); HORSES (54%)

PERSON: LARRY CRAIG (56%); JOHN MCCAIN (56%); JEREMIAH A WRIGHT JR (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2008



536 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1302 words

HEADLINE: Debt-Gorged British Start to Worry That the Party Is Ending

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
At one point, Alexis Hall had more than 50 pairs of designer shoes and handbags. It never occurred to the 39-year-old media relations executive from Glasgow that her $:31,500 in debt ($63,000) would be a problem.
 ''It was so easy to get the loans and the credit that you almost think the goods are a gift from the shop,'' she said. ''You don't fully realize that it's real money you are spending until you actually sit down and consolidate your bills and then it's a shock.''
 As the United States economy weakens, many Americans are being overwhelmed by personal debt, but Britons are even more profligate. For most of the last decade, consumers here went on a debt-financed spending spree that made them the most indebted rich nation in the world, racking up a record $:1.4 trillion in debt ($2.8 trillion) -- more than the country's gross domestic product. 
 By comparison, personal debt in the United States is $13.8 trillion, including mortgage debt, slightly less than the country's $14 trillion G.D.P. 
 And while the Federal Reserve in Washington has cut interest rates, in an effort to loosen lenders' grip on credit, the Bank of England's interest rate increases last year are trickling through to mortgages at the very time home values are dropping and banks are becoming more reluctant to lend.
 Until now, debt has mostly been a good thing for Britain. In the hands of free-spending consumers, it fueled economic growth. The government borrowed heavily in recent years to invest in infrastructure, health and education, creating a virtuous cycle: government spending led to job creation, which led to greater consumer confidence and more spending, which, in turn, stimulated growth.
 Economists say Britain's relationship to debt is complex, but at its core is a phenomenon more akin to recent American history than European trends. As in the United States, a decade-long housing boom and strong economic growth bolstered consumer confidence, creating a perception of wealth almost unknown in countries like Germany and Italy.
 ''Culturally, maybe also because of the defeat in the war, Germans remain reluctant to borrow and banks are often state-owned, pushing less for profits from lending,'' said Alistair Milne, a professor at Cass Business School in London.
 Since many younger Britons have never lived through a period of slow growth, few now see the need to hold back on borrowing, not to mention saving. 
 ''The general mantra is spend now, think later,'' said Jason Butler, an adviser at Bloomsbury Financial Planning. ''It's easier to get a loan or a credit card these days than to get a savings product.''
 The average British adult has 2.8 credit or debit cards, more than any other country in Europe. A growing number are borrowing to pay for vacations, furniture, even plastic surgery. As a result, Britons are spending more than they earn, racking up a household debt-to-income ratio of 1.62 compared with 1.42 in the United States and 1.09 in Germany.
 To her parent's generation, Ms. Hall said, owing money beyond a mortgage was ''shameful,'' an admission of living beyond one's means. Debt was also more difficult to get. 
 That changed in the late 1990s when American lenders, including Citigroup and CapitalOne, pushed into the British market with a panoply of new lending products. Fierce competition among banks meant potential borrowers were suddenly bombarded with advertising and offers for low- or no-interest loans and credit cards.
 While Britain's financial regulators watched the explosion of retail lending from the sidelines, their counterparts in Germany and France were more restrictive. As a result, the British market became the largest and most sophisticated in Europe. 
 The growth was also fueled by soaring demand for debt on the back of rising real estate prices and relatively low interest rates in the late 1990s and early 2000s. Those who did not own a house rushed to join the homeowners watching their property triple in value.
 The trend on the Continent was the opposite. Home prices in most European countries barely moved, mainly because markets were more regulated, there was more housing stock and renting was more popular. 
 Liz Bingham, head of restructuring at Ernst & Young in London, blames the obsession with homeownership on Britain's ''island mentality'': land is seen as a finite good and a valuable asset.
 ''The housing boom automatically made people feel richer than they actually were and people went on to use the equity locked up in their property almost as a bank account they can dip into every time they want to buy a new car,'' Ms. Bingham said.
 As the perception of wealth grew, the social stigma around debt disappeared. Borrowing became such an accepted part of life that today one in five teenagers does not consider being in debt to be a bad thing, a survey by Nationwide Building Society showed. 
 Debt levels increased further as it became easier to get loans, and retailers, like computer chain PC World, offered both goods and the loans to buy them. Consumers happily accepted, thinking that as long as they were deemed creditworthy, they were not in danger of defaulting. 
 Andy Davie is a case in point. Even after he had racked up $:70,000 in personal debt trying to keep his fruit and vegetable business afloat, credit card issuers kept increasing his credit limits. 
 ''You tend to use credit to pay for credit and as far as the banks are concerned you are fine,'' said Mr. Davie, 41.
 He was finally forced to declare bankruptcy. Though still painful, the process made the prospect of defaulting slightly less daunting. 
 ''Rather than showing up at court you just fill in an online form and speak to someone on the phone,'' said Mark Sands, director of personal insolvency at KPMG in London. 
 The ease of the bankruptcy process, the availability of debt, the property boom and strong economic growth, lulled consumers into a ''false sense of security that is now coming to haunt us,'' said James Falla, a debt adviser at London-based Thomas Charles. 
 ''It's all good as long as the economy is doing well, but if that changes people will really get caught short,'' he added.
 And things are changing. Growth has already started to slow this year, and the government lowered its 2008 forecast to 1.75 percent to 2.25 percent, after 3.1 percent growth last year. 
 Home prices are falling, despite a dearth of housing and an influx of wealthy Middle Easteners and Russians, especially in London. Last year, housing foreclosures reached the highest level since 1999 and are expected to rise still further this year. 
 And more than one million homeowners have adjustable-rate mortgages that are expected to reset in the next 12 months -- to significantly higher rates. 
 The prospect of rising costs has already prompted some consumers to change their spending habits. The camera retailer Jessops and the fashion store French Connection are among retailers feeling the squeeze and reporting lower sales since the end of 2007.
 But changing spending habits will not be enough to solve the problem of rising debt levels, said Mr. Butler, the debt adviser. Consumers will also have to learn to save.
 According to a survey for the Office of National Statistics, less than half the population saves regularly, and more than 39 percent said they would rather enjoy a good standard of living today than save for retirement. Ms. Hall said she was among that 39 percent. She recently took out new loans, planning to repay her existing debt. But she ended up spending the money on more luxury goods instead. 
 This year, she published a book about her experiences. She said she did not expect the book's proceeds to repay her debts, but it may help the growing number of people in similar positions cope with theirs. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jason Butler of Bloomsbury Financial Planning says loans were too easy to take out. James Falla of Thomas Charles says consumers had a false sense of security. British consumers went on a debt-financed spending spree and some of the borrowers are finding it difficult to pay their bills. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LUKE WOLAGIEWICZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL DEBT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (88%); TRENDS (75%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (68%); MORTGAGE LOANS (66%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (65%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (64%); HOME PRICES (64%); JOB CREATION (63%); HISTORY (61%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (61%)

COMPANY: BANK OF ENGLAND (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (54%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); GERMANY (87%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2008



537 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1344 words

HEADLINE: Resist The Impulse To Panic

BYLINE: By ALINA TUGEND

 BODY:
A major investment bank has collapsed, and the Fed is cutting interest rates to stave off a recession that we may already be in. More and more people seem to be having trouble making their mortgage payments, and credit card delinquencies are up.
 Short of putting our heads in the sand and hoping it all passes, what should we do with our own finances?
 According to the experts, the best advice is to not panic. 
 Consumers who have managed to avoid the excesses of the last few years should sit fast, the experts say. 
 As for those who ran up credit card debt, exhausted their lines of credit or did not put away much in savings -- in other words, acted as millions of other Americans did -- they should use these unsettling times as an opportunity to review their finances. 
 But financial analysts warn that they should take time to consider their options. ''Don't do anything rash based on what you see in the news,'' advises Greg Daugherty, executive editor of Consumer Reports, put out by Consumers Union. ''You will inevitably do something wrong.''
 The first thing to do is take stock of your life. Determine how secure your job is, which, in these uncertain times, may not be easy.
 If your job is relatively safe, step back and look at your financial situation.
 It may seem overwhelming, but there are a few basic steps everyone can take to achieve some peace of mind. Since most banks are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, your accounts are insured up to $100,000. In addition, most individual retirement accounts and Keogh retirement accounts held by those institutions are insured up to $250,000.
 ''The F.D.I.C. is about as safe as it gets in this world,'' Mr. Daugherty said.
 Next, take a hard, realistic look at your debt. 
 It may be somewhat painful, but now is the time to ask some difficult questions. Greg McBride, a senior financial analyst with Bankrate.com, suggests starting with these: Are you having trouble keeping up with your debt payments? Are you relying on debt to keep up with your lifestyle?
 Consumers, Mr. McBride said, have been drawing on credit in recent years, but some ''are finding that the well has run dry.'' He suggested that you ''ask yourself whether you can honestly afford the lifestyle you're living.''
 A good indicator that things are going in the wrong direction, he said, is if your credit card balance has been rising in the last year but your savings balance has been falling.
 ''As interest rates are on the decline, it serves as a real tail wind to debt repayment,'' Mr. McBride said. ''More of each dollar goes to principal rather than to the interest. So each dollar goes further as interest rates fall.'' 
 Now, what about investments? First, experts say, consumers should confirm that their investments are covered by the Securities Investor Protection Corporation, an independent organization set up by Congress in 1970. 
 If a brokerage firm or other insured firm fails, the investor corporation covers $500,000 of a customer's assets, of which $100,000 can be claimed for cash. Keep in mind that money market funds are securities, not cash, said Stephen P. Harbeck, president and chief executive of the S.I.P.C.
 The good news is that membership is not voluntary; when a company registers with the Securities and Exchange Commission, it is required to be a member of the investor protection corporation.
 Be sure, however, that when you make out a check to your broker, it goes to a member of the S.I.P.C., Mr. Harbeck said. There are cases where corporate entities that are part of the same holding company are not members of the investor corporation.
 You should ask brokers whether their firms are members, or you can check out members on the investor corporation's Web site, www.sipc.org. If your investments are in a company not covered, then you are not covered.
 But Mr. Harbeck said the S.I.P.C. is a floor, not a ceiling; each investor also receives a prorated distribution of customer assets depending on how individual situations are resolved.
 Since 2004, the corporation has stepped in only seven times to cover consumer losses, Mr. Harbeck said. In all but one of those cases, consumers were fully reimbursed. 
 Brokers can buy additional insurance to cover higher amounts; ask your broker whether that is the case for your investments and request a copy of the agreement in writing.
 Although many consumers' first instinct may be to sell their stocks and move into bonds -- or perhaps cash under the mattress -- financial advisers generally agree that would be the wrong move.
 ''Don't abandon the stock market,'' said John C. Bogle, founder and former chief executive of the Vanguard Group.
 David B. Tysk, a private wealth adviser with Ameriprise Financial, said the recent financial upheaval might offer some opportunities.
 Too many people buy stocks when they are going up and sell when they are going down, he said.
 ''Small investors always make the worst timing decisions because emotion is involved,'' Mr. Tysk said. ''This is precisely the wrong time to move to safer options. The stock market has dropped dramatically and now is the time to invest -- don't close the stable door after the horse has left.''
 Everyone agrees that diversification is crucial, but that does not mean the same thing for everybody. Are you 24 and just starting to save for retirement? Forty years old and saving for your children's college education? Or a retiree on a fixed income?
 Mr. Bogle's rule of thumb is that the allocation of bonds in your portfolio should be about 10 percentage points less than your age. So if you are 60 years old, aim to have 50 percent in bonds.
 ''As you get older, you want more bonds; bonds produce income and time is less on your side to recoup losses,'' he said.
 He suggests half short-term bonds (one to two years) and half intermediate-term bonds (six to seven years). When interest rates go up, so will the income on the short-term bonds. 
 ''For taxable accounts, municipal bonds are extraordinarily attractive compared to Treasury bonds,'' Mr. Bogle added.
 For retirement accounts, like I.R.A.'s, ''inflation is a big, big worry,'' he said. ''Everybody should consider a significant holding of U.S. Treasury inflation bonds.''
 Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, known as TIPS, are securities whose principal is tied to the Consumer Price Index.
 With inflation, the principal increases, while with deflation, it decreases. When the security matures, the United States Treasury pays the original or adjusted principal, whichever is greater. 
 Many analysts also encourage investors to diversify within the stock market in terms of domestic and overseas companies -- Mr. Bogle suggests a split of 80 percent domestic and 20 percent foreign.
 ''We got fat, dumb and happy,'' Mr. Bogle said. ''We can't control the future returns of the stock market, but think of what we can control. Keep turnover to a minimum for tax efficiency and to reduce cost. Ask tough questions of an adviser.''
 Hard as it is to believe, there is an up side. Consumers will eventually see lower rates on their credit cards, Mr. McBride said, although -- not surprisingly -- card issuers tend to pass along rate increases faster than decreases.
 He said there is generally a three-month lag after the Fed lowers its federal funds rate. The average rate on a variable-rate credit card six months ago was 14 percent; he said it is now about 12.26 percent.
 In terms of home mortgages, the people who will benefit most are those who are resetting their adjustable-rate mortgages, Mr. McBride said, because rates on many of these home loans are tied to the one-year Treasury bill, which tends to move down as the Fed is cutting rates.
 But, Mr. McBride warns, those looking to buy a house should focus on fixed-rate mortgages. His advice sounds obvious, but many home buyers ignored it in recent years. 
 ''If they can't afford the payment on a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage, then they cannot afford a house,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING: Financial advisers say consumers should act thoughtfully. ''Small investors always make the worst timing decisions because emotion is involved,'' one adviser said. (pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT CARDS (89%); PERSONAL DEBT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RECESSION (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (78%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (76%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (76%); US KEOGH PLANS (63%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (82%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2008



538 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE COST OF LIVING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 686 words

HEADLINE: Let Finances Be a Chore, Not a Phobia

BYLINE: By M. P. DUNLEAVEY

 BODY:
THE No. 1 financial complaint I hear from women, delivered in tones that range from exhausted to ashamed to defiant, is this: ''I hate dealing with money, so my ---- (fill in the blank) takes care of everything.'' 
 That role is often filled by a spouse or partner, although fathers and accountants are also candidates when a woman hands over the reins to her money. 
 Is this division of labor so wrong? 
 I know a woman who hates dealing with the household finances so much that even discussing the bills can bring her near tears. Why should she put pressure on herself, she asked me, when her husband is actually interested in handling their 401(k)s? Maybe dealing with money should be just another chore, like cleaning the bathroom: whoever minds it least should tackle it.
 Many couples try to strike a balance when dividing household chores, financial and otherwise. But when women pass the buck, it leaves them far too vulnerable. 
 Judy Garrison, 63, a store manager in Andes, N.Y., remembers her late mother as ''a typical 1950s housewife'' who got an allowance from her husband, a C.P.A. She didn't have her own checking account.
 When Ms. Garrison's father retired, he chose a pension disbursement option with larger monthly payments that would end when he died -- although he could have chosen smaller payments that would have continued for his wife after his death. 
 ''My mother was livid when she found out,'' Ms. Garrison said. ''But my father was gambling that he would outlive my mother -- and luckily, in a way, things worked out, because he did.'' 
 While some research suggests a shift is occurring, and younger women are more inclined to control their own finances, the aversion of many women to money tasks is still surprisingly common -- and so is the risk they assume, says Tahira K. Hira, professor of consumer economics at Iowa State University at Ames. 
 In a study, ''Gender Differences in Investment Behavior,'' Professor Hira and her co-author Cazilia Loibl, assistant professor of consumer sciences at Ohio State University, studied more than 900 randomly selected households with incomes of $75,000 or higher. The study forms a chapter in ''The Handbook of Consumer Finance Research'' (2007, Springer).
 The authors found that while ''men were more engaged in their personal finances, generally speaking, women tend to do more of the day-to-day tasks,'' Professor Hira said. They tended to abdicate their financial roles when it came to planning for the future, saving and investing. ''The majority of women found investing to be stressful, difficult and time-consuming,'' she said.
 PROFESSOR HIRA believes a lack of confidence causes some women not to take a more commanding role. Traditionally men are expected to be competent financially, whether it's their bent or not. ''For women,'' she said, ''the expectation is often that somebody wonderful will be there to do it.'' 
 She points to a Catch-22: ''Many women have low confidence because they haven't done a lot of planning or investing. And because they find it difficult and stressful -- or they aren't expected to deal with it -- they don't get the experience that would boost their confidence.''
 She found that women who were more at ease with money matters took charge ''when some critical incident occurred,'' like a divorce, illness or job loss. ''They had to do it for a bigger good.''
 This made Professor Hira rethink what might inspire more women to take the financial reins. ''There's nothing different that I would tell a woman versus a man about the risk-return relationship, for example, but the social context is what helps women to stay engaged. A man will sit down at a computer and do research on his own. Women like social support, they like discussions and interaction.''
 Amanda Clayman, a therapist in New York who focuses on financial issues, says she doesn't hear women saying they don't want to handle their money, ''but rather, 'Why don't I want to deal with it? What's wrong with me?' '' 
 Her answer is in step with Professor Hira's: ''Maybe it's time for a new type of financial planning.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (85%); MEN (78%); WOMEN (78%); US 401K PLANS (74%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (74%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (68%); CONSUMER LENDING (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (76%); IOWA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2008



539 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 430 words

HEADLINE: Share Prices Advance in Asian Markets

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Asian stock prices mostly rose in light trading Friday, closing out a turbulent week. 
 Japan's main stock market index rose 1.8 percent, and South Korean shares extended their winning streak into a fourth session as the nation's main market indicator gained 1.4 percent. Prices edged up in Thailand and Malaysia, while stocks were mixed in China. 
 Trading was subdued; many financial markets, including those in the United States, were closed for Good Friday.
 It was a quiet end to a week that began with global markets plunging on news that JPMorgan Chase would buy the troubled investment bank Bear Stearns, which had been battered by the subprime mortgage crisis.
 Asian markets rebounded Wednesday after the Federal Reserve cut rates by a hefty three-quarters of a percentage point, setting off a huge rally on Wall Street.
 Wall Street posted a big advance Thursday that left stocks higher for the week. The Dow Jones industrial average rose about 260 points on the day, giving the blue chips a gain of more than 3 percent for the week. Broader indexes finished the week with gains of 2 to 3 percent.
 On Friday, Japanese shares were buoyed by gains in property developers and financial issues. The Nikkei 225 index climbed 222.13 points, or 1.81 percent, to close at 12,482.57.
 South Korean shares rose amid easing concerns about global inflation after commodities prices declined. The Korea composite stock price index, or Kospi, added 22.30 points, or 1.4 percent, to 1,645.69.
 Chinese stocks were mixed, with the benchmark Shanghai composite index edging 0.2 percent lower, to 3,796.58, as the market heavyweight PetroChina fell 4 percent, outweighing gains in steel makers.
 The smaller Shenzhen composite index rose 1.4 percent, to 1,173.14.
 ''The Shanghai index was up over 2 percent at one point yesterday afternoon after plunging more than 6 percent in midmorning, a sign that institutional investors were already beginning to bargain-hunt,'' said Yan Li, a Southwest Securities analyst.
 That suggests growing confidence that the market may be settling down after falling 38 percent since it hit a record high of 6,124.04 in mid-October, said a Great Wall Securities analyst, Dan Zhaoyang.
 In currencies, the dollar was trading at 99.60 yen at midafternoon in Asia, down from 100.00 yen late Thursday in New York. The euro rose to $1.5444, from $1.5433.
 Other markets that were closed Friday included Hong Kong, Australia, India, Indonesia, New Zealand, the Philippines and Singapore. Markets in Australia, Hong Kong and New Zealand will remain closed Monday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (75%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (54%); SUBPRIME LENDING (54%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (57%); PETROCHINA CO LTD (53%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); PTR (NYSE) (53%); K3OD (SGX) (53%); 0857 (HKSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (53%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (53%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%) EAST CHINA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (57%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); JAPAN (92%); MALAYSIA (92%); CHINA (92%); THAILAND (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (92%); NEW ZEALAND (92%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (84%); INDIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); PHILIPPINES (74%); SINGAPORE (74%); AUSTRALIA (64%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2008



540 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: Taiwan Wants to Focus on Building Its Own High-Tech Brands

BYLINE: By CINDY SUI

DATELINE: HSINCHU, Taiwan 

 BODY:
Mike Liang earns the equivalent of $37,500 a year, owns a four-bedroom apartment and can afford to send his two daughters to English tutorial schools. 
 Like other employees at the Hsinchu Science Park, Mr. Liang, a marketing manager for a semiconductor company, is the envy of many on this island, where average annual salaries stagnate at around $17,000 and high property prices keep many married couples living with their parents. 
 But what is on Mr. Liang's mind and that of many others in Taiwan's high-technology industry is how it can maintain success amid growing competition from neighbors, including China and South Korea, and global price declines in products like laptop computers. The slower growth rate in sales of some high-tech goods and the economic downturn in the United States are also worries. 
 Many industry workers and analysts say the greatest economic challenge for Taiwan and its 23 million people is overcoming its reliance on manufacturing for other brands and focusing on innovation and building its own brands. 
 ''We have to transform ourselves,'' Mr. Liang said during a lunch break. ''Otherwise, our costs will keep going up and companies will move to China and Vietnam.'' 
 High-tech products accounted for 70 percent of the island's 2007 exports. Taiwan is the world's largest supplier of notebook PCs, and liquid-crystal-display panels for flat-screen televisions, according to the government. 
 Two of the world's biggest contract microchip makers are based in Taiwan -- Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company and the United Microelectronics Corporation -- and their foundries, the world's two biggest, are based in the science park, one of three on the island. 
 The Hsinchu Science Park was opened in December 1980, Southern Taiwan Science Park in 1996 and the Central Taiwan Science Park in 2003. The Hsinchu Science Park is home to 440 companies and is where most of Taiwan's top high-tech manufacturers are based.
 But profit margins for many of the companies in the park have been narrowing. Some have moved production to China, while others are considering relocation to Vietnam for lower costs on labor and production. 
 ''Back in 1999 and 2000, these companies enjoyed quite healthy profit margins,'' said Ming-Kai Cheng, regional head of technology research for CLSA, a leading Asia research, brokerage and investment group. ''Now the number of companies in profit stage has dropped.'' 
 Revenue growth at Taiwan semiconductor companies, for example, has fallen to single digits from double digits. A main reason is what Mr. Cheng calls the ''me, too'' mentality, or too many Taiwan companies doing the same thing. 
 ''A lot of companies think if you're going to make something profitable, I'm going to make the same thing slightly less profitable,'' Mr. Cheng said. 
 About 50 percent of the companies in the Hsinchu Science Park carry out semiconductor manufacturing, design or related work, with revenue from the sector comprising 71 percent of the park's total revenue. 
 Taiwan companies are also largely focused on making products for global brands like Dell, Apple and Intel, instead of coming up with their own brands, and they focus on hardware manufacturing, where only a small percentage of the price the consumer pays for a product is earned. 
 As little as 5 percent of the consumer price for a product like a laptop can be earned by the Taiwan companies that assemble them, while a higher percentage -- about 20 percent -- is earned by contract manufacturers, also known as original equipment manufacturers, or O.E.M.'s -- which make chips or other parts for the brand holders, according to industry estimates. 
 With their own brands, the companies could earn as much as 30 percent of the consumer value of a product, analysts estimate.
 Transformations are nothing new for an island that has evolved from an agriculture- and textile-dominated society after World War II to a factory for light industrial and labor intensive products like sneakers in the 1960s and 1970s to an electronics production base in the 1990s and now to a high-tech center.
 Huang Der-Ray, director general of the Hsinchu Science Park Administration, said companies in the park had increased spending on research and development from 4 percent of total revenue in previous years to 7 percent in the last three years. 
 Companies have also begun to focus on innovation and building their own brands. Mediatek, a chip design company that initially focused on optical storage drivers' chips, has ventured into other areas, including designing chips for wireless communications and high-definition digital televisions. The company is one of the most profitable in the science park and is considered a pioneer in its designs.
 Several companies have focused on research into new technologies, including solar energy, Mr. Huang said. One, Gintech Energy, has been successful in designing solar panels, which it sells to power companies around the world. 
 More companies are also moving toward design instead of just manufacturing. A decade ago, only about 20 or 30 companies in the Hsinchu Science Park were chip design companies, with most being contract manufacturers. Now, there are 80 companies whose focus is design, Mr. Huang said.
 Analysts said a challenge that Taiwan companies faced in developing a global brand was overcoming the label-consciousness of consumers, who prefer internationally recognized brands rather than domestically designed products. Other than Acer and ASUS, which are Taiwan laptop brands, few of the island's high-tech products are known around the world, unlike the situation in South Korea. 
 Workers like Mr. Liang, while worried, say they think that Taiwan can again find a way to engineer am economic miracle. 
 ''I'm optimistic,'' he said, while adding that ''to compete, Taiwan has to invest a lot of money.
 ''Some of it has to come from the government. That's the only way to compete with the big companies overseas.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, a microchip maker, is based in one of the island's science parks. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SAM YEH/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONICS (89%); SEMICONDUCTORS (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); COMPANY PROFITS (88%); HOME PRICES (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (77%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (77%); ISLANDS & REEFS (77%); BRANDING (77%); MICROTECHNOLOGY (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); COMPUTER CHIPS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (69%); SECURITIES BROKERS (65%); MONITORS & DISPLAYS (64%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (64%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (57%); MARRIAGE (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%)

COMPANY: UNITED MICROELECTRONICS CORP (84%); TAIWAN SEMICONDUCTOR MANUFACTURING CO LTD (84%)

TICKER: UMC (NYSE) (84%); 2303 (TAIEX) (84%); TSM (NYSE) (84%); TSFA (FRA) (84%); 2330 (TAIEX) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIWAN (98%); CHINA (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2008



541 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 547 words

HEADLINE: Cyprus Leaders Agree to Restart Talks on Reunification

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE and SEBNEM ARSU

DATELINE: ISTANBUL 

 BODY:
Leaders of Greek and Turkish Cyprus agreed Friday to restart talks on uniting the island, the first serious effort in two years to erase the 1974 division. 
 Demetris Christofias, the newly elected president of the internationally recognized Greek Cypriot state, met Mehmet Ali Talat, the leader of the Turkish community, in Nicosia, the divided capital. 
 They agreed on a timeline for resuming talks and to open a pedestrian crossing on Ledra Street, a thoroughfare that traces the division of the capital and has symbolized the separation that began more than 30 years ago, when Turkey sent in troops to prevent a Greek-inspired military takeover. 
 But while the international community recognized Greek Cyprus, even admitting it into the European Union, Turkey alone recognized Turkish Cyprus, about a fifth of the island's population. A United Nations-backed plan to reunite the island failed in 2004, after Greek Cypriots rejected it in a referendum. 
 The United Nations representative in Nicosia, Michael Moller, was the host of Friday's meeting. He said the two sides had agreed to set up committees and working groups to prepare for talks that would begin in three months. A similar agreement in 2006 languished. 
 ''Today was a positive start,'' Ozdil Nami, an adviser to Mr. Talat, said in a telephone interview. But he cautioned, ''It's going to be a tough process, so we do not want to set high expectations now.''
 In remarks broadcast live on Turkish television, Mr. Christofias said: ''We shall try our utmost in order to come to an agreed solution for the interest of the Cypriot people -- both communities -- as soon as possible.'' 
 Mr. Talat welcomed the outcome. ''This is a new era for the solution to the Cyprus problem,'' he said. 
 Reuniting the island is important for Turkey, as the continued division -- and Turkey's refusal to open its seaports and airports to Greek Cypriots -- is the single biggest hurdle to its joining the European Union. 
 ''If the Cyprus conflict were resolved, it would add fresh momentum that the government needs in revitalizing Turkey's E.U. membership process,'' said Cengiz Aktar, an expert on the European Union at Bahcesehir University in Istanbul.
 The United States and Europe have pressed Greece and Turkey to resolve the decades-old territorial dispute, and the two Cypriot leaders seem more likely than their predecessors to reach a solution, analysts said.
 Greece wants a unified state, while Turkey has focused on a bi-national state within a federal government.
 Turkish Ultranationalists Held
 ANKARA, Turkey (Agence France-Presse) -- The Turkish police detained 12 people on Friday in an inquiry into a shadowy network of suspected ultranationalists, the Anatolia News Agency said.
 Taken into custody were Dogu Perincek, leader of the nationalist Turkish Workers' Party; Ilhan Selcuk, chief editorialist of a secular, antigovernment daily newspaper, Cumhuriyet; and Kemal Alemdaroglu, a former rector of Istanbul University.
 The police seized documents and software at a television station partly owned by Mr. Perincek's party, and also searched Mr. Selcuk's home, the news agency said.
 Anatolia reported that the arrests were linked to an investigation into an ultranationalist group known as Ergenekon. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Cyprus has been split along Greek and Turkish lines since 1974. As part of a plan to reunify the island, leaders agreed Friday to open a pedestrian crossing in Nicosia, the divided capital. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KATIA CHRISTODOULOU/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); INTERVIEWS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); ARMED FORCES (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); REFERENDUMS (53%)

COMPANY: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (92%); ANKARA, TURKEY (79%) CYPRUS (99%); TURKEY (95%); EUROPE (94%); GREECE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2008



542 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: M.T.A. Leaning Toward Tishman Speyer's Railyard Bid

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Tishman Speyer Properties, the company that controls Rockefeller Center, the Chrysler Building, Stuyvesant Town and many other properties, emerged Friday as the probable winner in the billion-dollar battle to develop 26 acres of vacant land overlooking the Hudson River, said two real estate executives who have been briefed on the negotiations.
 The owner of the property, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, plans to negotiate with Tishman Speyer throughout the weekend so that the authority can present a tentative deal at its March 26 board meeting. If the board approves the agreement, it will then begin a four-month negotiation over details of selling the rights to build a cluster of residential and commercial skyscrapers on a platform over a pair of railyards that sit on both sides of 11th Avenue between 30th and 33rd Streets. Tishman Speyer would also have to work out an agreement with the Long Island Rail Road, which operates trains in the yards. 
 One executive said that the situation was still fluid and that the authority had not ruled out a deal with the joint venture of the Durst Organization and Vornado Realty Trust, if it fails to come to terms with Tishman Speyer.
 Jeremy Soffin, a spokesman for the transit authority, said it was close but had not settled on a winning bidder. ''We are scheduled to bring it to the board next week,'' Mr. Soffin said Friday. ''I can't go into the specifics.''
 Tishman Speyer emerged from among five major developers vying for the railyard sites, all of whom entered the contest last year when the city was basking in a building boom in which record prices for land and buildings were set and broken on a regular basis. The landscape is significantly different today, with the economy teetering at the edge of recession and lenders all but closing their doors for large real estate deals because of the widening credit crisis.
 But this deal offered an increasingly rare commodity: a large swath of land in Manhattan. The transportation authority hoped to reap at least a billion dollars for its capital budget from selling the development rights.
 While the railyards present a novel opportunity, they are also a risky proposition. The developer will have to spend an estimated $1.5 billion to build platforms over active railyards before it can build the first tower in a roughly 12-million-square-foot development with 13 acres of green space and 10 buildings. In all likelihood, the developer will be unable to start construction until sometime next year. Many executives are hoping that by then the economy and the credit markets will have returned to normal. In the meantime, the developer will be required to put up more than $200 million.
 The shaky economic environment became evident in recent weeks. Last month, Brookfield Properties, one of the five bidders, declined to submit a revised offer and essentially dropped out of the bidding. The Extell Development Company fell out of the running earlier this week after making a $1.5 billion offer that included a number of elements that the authority found unacceptable, according to an executive familiar with the offer.
 The Related Companies had often portrayed itself as the front-runner until this week, when its partner, News Corporation, suddenly declined to offer an unequivocal commitment to build its headquarters at the railyards. Related, in turn, unsuccessfully offered to solely lease the rights for the railyard on the west side of 11th Avenue. But every bidder wanted the western yard, because it is planned for residential development, which is considered less risky than the office towers on the eastern yard.
 That left a joint venture of the Durst Organization and Vornado Realty Trust and Tishman Speyer, which recently lost its partner and anchor tenant, Morgan Stanley. Both companies spent this week in negotiations with the transit authority. But on Friday evening the authority focused on Tishman Speyer, although it did not formally break off talks with the Durst-Vornado group, according to the two real estate executives, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because they did not want to jeopardize the negotiations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (89%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); APPROVALS (71%); JOINT VENTURES (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (67%); CREDIT CRISIS (67%)

COMPANY: VORNADO REALTY TRUST (68%); BROOKFIELD OFFICE PROPERTIES INC (50%)

TICKER: VNO (NYSE) (68%); BPO (TSX) (50%); BPO (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (68%); NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (50%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (50%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2008



543 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ART REVIEW; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: Fleeting Pleasures of Life In Vibrant Woodcut Prints

BYLINE: By KEN JOHNSON

 BODY:
The cult of celebrity and the commercialization of art are not unique to the West. In 19th-century Japan kabuki actors and high-priced geishas were idolized by commoners, and the sale of colorful woodcut prints portraying them became a big, competitive business.
 In 1842, fearing an erosion of national moral fiber, the government reacted to the mania for kabuki and for ukiyo-e, the paintings and prints that depicted the fleeting pleasures of life in the entertainment sectors of major cities. Laws were created to limit the extravagance of kabuki theater and to prohibit yakusha-e (actor prints) and bijin-ga (pictures of beautiful women). It was as if the United States had clamped down on Hollywood movies, paparazzi and the tabloids. 
 Looking at Japanese prints today, you might not realize what a rough-and-tumble commercial world they came out of. Their formal elegance, poetic beauty and technical refinement suggest a more serene, creative environment. So ''Utagawa: Masters of the Japanese Print, 1770-1900,'' an exhibition of many splendid prints at the Brooklyn Museum, offers a useful and informative corrective. 
 Organized by Laura Mueller, a doctoral candidate in Japanese art history and a curatorial intern at the Chazen Museum of Art at the University of Wisconsin, Madison, the show presents 73 woodblock prints from the Van Vleck collection, a renowned repository of more than 4,000 Japanese prints owned by the Chazen. With 22 more prints from the Brooklyn Museum's collection, the exhibition tells the story of a group of artists that dominated the ukiyo-e print business for much of the 19th century. 
 It is not a masterpiece show, though there are some terrific works in it. Utagawa Toyokuni's ''Fireworks at Ryogoku Bridge'' (1825) is spectacular. On a two-and-a-half-foot square made by conjoining six prints, it depicts yachts loaded with languid geishas passing under a great wooden bridge, on which a crowd has gathered to observe fireworks bursting against the night sky. With its scores of lively people, precisely delineated details and blocky diagonals thrusting every which way, it is a marvel of formal compaction. 
 Also extraordinary is Toyohara Kunichika's dramatic wide-angle picture from 1894 of an actor dressed in a sumptuously patterned costume surrounded by vividly colored flames. With a fierce expression on his face, he poses with extended arms; holding a sword in one hand, he prepares to commit seppuku, or ritual suicide.
 The exhibition's sole example of the popular erotica called shunga warrants a close look too. Produced in 1851 by Utagawa Kunisada, ''An Illustrated Account of Coupled Genji'' consists of three lavishly printed volumes, with double-page spreads showing men and women in luxurious robes engaging in sexual intercourse with delightful urgency. 
 There are many more compelling works in the show, including land- and seascapes by Utagawa Hiroshige, one of the most famous of all ukiyo-e artists. But there are comparatively nondescript works, too. Prints from the 1770s by Utagawa Toyoharu are historically significant because he founded the Utagawa school and because of his innovative use of Western-style deep perspective. But his blandly illustrative works lack the bold, sensuous qualities of prints by his immediate followers Utagawa Toyohiro and Utagawa Toyokuni.
 Judging by the exhibition catalog, which has color reproductions of 213 prints, many quite beautiful, a larger and aesthetically superior exhibition could have been assembled from the Van Vleck collection. But Ms. Mueller's intent was something other than a ''greatest hits'' show. She wanted to tell the history of the Utagawa school and, in so doing, convey something of the complexity of the Japanese printmaking business in general. 
 So to get the most out of the show you need to read the exhibition labels, the text panels and, most important, the catalog's scholarly essays. You will discover, for example, why there were so many artists named Utagawa: it was the Japanese custom for successful apprentices to take the names of their revered masters. 
 You will also learn how Utagawa Toyoharu's first two students gravitated toward separate areas of specialization: Toyokuni into kabuki actor prints and Toyohiro into landscapes. Subsequent generations of artists further diversified -- into warrior prints, mythic parodies and other genres -- and they sometimes collaborated. Prints in the show, for example, show how Hiroshige and Kunisada combined transcendentally beautiful landscapes and gorgeously attired women. 
 The reading material provides insight into the complex relationships among artists, craftsmen who cut the wooden blocks, printmakers who pulled the prints, and patrons and publishers who provided financing. Through the artists' strategic efforts, the name Utagawa became a brand so powerful that today more than half of all surviving ukioy-e prints are from the Utagawa school. 
 Much of what makes this exhibition enriching may be missed by skipping the catalog. That's all right, because the show is rewarding enough visually. But those who do the reading may emerge with an idea worth thinking about in regard to art today: that an environment of impurity and complexity -- moral, economic and otherwise -- might be just what a flourishing artistic culture needs. 
 ''Utagawa: Masters of the Japanese Print, 1770-1900'' is on view through June 15 at the Brooklyn Museum, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park; (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Utagawa Toyokuni's ''Fireworks at Ryogoku Bridge'' (1825) is among the 18th- and 19th-century Japanese woodcut prints on display at the Brooklyn Museum. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHAZEN MUSEUM OF ART) (pg. B10)
 Utagawa Kuniyoshi's ''Dragon and Susanoo no Mikoto.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHAZEN MUSEUM OF ART) (pg. B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CELEBRITIES (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); CULTS & SECTS (89%); HISTORY (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); ART HISTORY (78%); FILM (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); PAINTING (78%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (74%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (92%) WISCONSIN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2008



544 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 624 words

HEADLINE: Russia Steps Up the Pressure on BP

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
BP's problems in Russia continued Friday.
 A Russian environmental agency announced that it would inspect a large oil field in Siberia, the Samotlor, which is controlled by BP's joint venture, TNK-BP. The announcement came a day after Russian security authorities arrested a TNK-BP employee on charges of industrial espionage. 
 Notice of the inspection appeared Friday morning on the Web site of the ministry of natural resources, the Rosprirodnadzor. 
 Already this week, Russian security forces raided the Arbat Street headquarters of TNK-BP, as well as the offices of BP, carting away documents and computer hard drives in what oil analysts say appears to be a campaign of mounting pressure on BP. 
 On Thursday, the F.S.B., the main successor agency to the Soviet-era K.G.B., announced the arrest of an employee who had dual Russian and American citizenship, and the employee's brother, on charges of spying for Western oil companies. 
 TNK-BP denied that the company had engaged in industrial espionage. 
 The joint venture is the third-largest oil company in Russia and is BP's main business here. Its fate is crucial to BP because it accounts for about a quarter of the company's total worldwide oil production. 
 BP is partner in the venture with three Russian billionaires.
 On Friday, the Russian foreign ministry issued a statement saying the spy charges were not related to a diplomatic dispute between Russia and Britain that has been simmering since the radiation poisoning of an F.S.B. defector in London in 2006. The ministry characterized the arrests as purely a law enforcement matter. 
 In another bad sign for BP in Russia, the Parliament on Friday passed in a preliminary reading a bill restricting foreign investment in assets deemed strategic for the country's economy or national security; most large oil fields fall into this category. 
 A spokeswoman for the ministry of natural resources characterized the inspection announced on Friday as routine and noted that it would cover other fields and other companies as well. 
 Still, in 2006, the same Russian environmental agency threatened Royal Dutch Shell with multibillion-dollar fines in a months-long campaign that led to Shell's selling a controlling stake of its Sakhalin Island oil and gas development to Gazprom.
 After Gazprom bought the stake, the agency dropped its environmental complaints and work continued.
 The same inspector in the Shell situation, Oleg L. Mitvol, the agency's deputy director, was appointed to lead the investigation at TNK-BP's Samotlor field, according to the statement. 
 As with other oil developments from Soviet days, the Samotlor field has been plagued by environmental troubles. 
 Part of the rationale for forming TNK-BP in 2003 was the environmental protection technology that BP promised to bring to the Samotlor field, which is among the worst environmental disasters in Siberia's oil region. 
 Oil leaks from hundreds of holes in corroded pipes. It has pooled in large slicks in the groundwater. And the field straddles the Ob River flood plain. 
 TNK-BP has been in a dispute with Gazprom over the terms of sale of another large Siberian petroleum resource: a natural gas field within pipeline range of the Chinese border in the Irkutsk region. 
 BP was seen as prescient for having invested in the remote field in the early 1990s in anticipation of a boom in Chinese energy demand that materialized a decade later. 
 In spite of the pressure on foreign investors, Russia's booming economy is luring companies here. Just this week, PepsiCo and its main bottler agreed to pay $1.4 billion for Russia's leading juice company, Lebedyansky, in Pepsi's biggest acquisition since the purchase of Quaker Oats in 2001. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Russian security forces raided the offices of TNK-BP, above, and BP on Wednesday, taking computers and documents. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEXANDER ZEMLIANICHENKO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (92%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); JOINT VENTURES (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ARRESTS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (65%); INVESTIGATIONS (64%); POISONINGS (64%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (57%)

COMPANY: TNK-BP LTD (90%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (83%); OAO GAZPROM (63%); SAN LEON ENERGY PLC (51%)

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (83%); RDSA (AMS) (83%); RDS.B (NYSE) (83%); RDS.A (NYSE) (83%); OGZD (LSE) (63%); GAZP (RTS) (63%); SLE (LSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (90%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (83%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (63%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (63%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (63%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (63%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (77%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2008



545 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 313 words

HEADLINE: Justice Dept. Is Gathering Data on Mortgage Industry

BYLINE: By REUTERS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Justice Department is gathering evidence to determine if it needs to create a special task force to investigate possible wrongdoing in the mortgage lending industry, Michael B. Mukasey, the attorney general, said Friday. 
 The F.B.I. is in the middle of a criminal investigation focusing on 17 firms that may have engaged in corporate fraud, an F.B.I. official confirmed this week.
 In an interview with reporters that covered a range of topics, Mr. Mukasey said the Justice Department was ''trying to see what prosecutions are being and can be brought and figuring out whether there is a larger criminal story to be told here.''
 Asked by reporters whether his agency was considering appointing a task force, similar to the one formed in late 2001 to investigate the collapse of the energy giant Enron, Mr. Mukasey said: ''No. In order to have a task force you need to identify the task. That is what we are doing now.''
 American mortgage foreclosures have been rapidly expanding in recent months, spreading from subprime lenders to the housing market over all. Federal law enforcement officials have been looking at industry fraud and lax documentation in loan applications, which allowed for loans based on false values or income.
 The crisis has shaken Wall Street and major financial institutions, including Bear Stearns, which collapsed and was sold to JPMorgan Chase last weekend.
 Before the subprime lending scandal began unfolding, the government was mostly prosecuting individuals for mortgage fraud, Justice Department officials said.
 Many people who bought their homes during the housing boom with little or no down payment and low introductory interest rates now face foreclosure because their loan rates have adjusted significantly higher.
 The government is investigating whether many of these adjustable-rate mortgages were sold under fraudulent pretenses. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW ENFORCEMENT (93%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); FORECLOSURE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (87%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); REAL ESTATE FRAUD (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (71%); HOME PRICES (71%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (56%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (95%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (91%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: MICHAEL MUKASEY (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2008



546 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 975 words

HEADLINE: He May Be a God, but He's No Politician

BYLINE: By PATRICK FRENCH. 
Patrick French is the author of ''Tibet, Tibet: A Personal History of a Lost Land.''

DATELINE: London 

 BODY:
 NEARLY a decade ago, while staying with a nomad family in the remote grasslands of northeastern Tibet, I asked Namdrub, a man who fought in the anti-Communist resistance in the 1950s, what he thought about the exiled Tibetans who campaigned for his freedom. ''It may make them feel good, but for us, it makes life worse,'' he replied. ''It makes the Chinese create more controls over us. Tibet is too important to the Communists for them even to discuss independence.''
 Protests have spread across the Tibetan plateau over the last two weeks, and at least 100 people have died. Anyone who finds it odd that Speaker Nancy Pelosi has rushed to Dharamsala, India, to stand by the Dalai Lama's side fails to realize that American politics provided an important spark for the demonstrations. Last October, when the Congressional Gold Medal was awarded to the Dalai Lama, monks in Tibet watched over the Internet and celebrated by setting off fireworks and throwing barley flour. They were quickly arrested. 
 It was for the release of these monks that demonstrators initially turned out this month. Their brave stand quickly metamorphosed into a protest by Lhasa residents who were angry that many economic advantages of the last 10 or 15 years had gone to Han Chinese and Hui Muslims. A young refugee whose family is still in Tibet told me this week of the medal, ''People believed that the American government was genuinely considering the Tibet issue as a priority.'' In fact, the award was a symbolic gesture, arranged mostly to make American lawmakers feel good. 
 A similar misunderstanding occurred in 1987 when the Dalai Lama was denounced by the Chinese state media for putting forward a peace proposal on Capitol Hill. To Tibetans brought up in the Communist system -- where a politician's physical proximity to the leadership on the evening news indicates to the public that he is in favor -- it appeared that the world's most powerful government was offering substantive political backing to the Dalai Lama. Protests began in Lhasa, and martial law was declared. The brutal suppression that followed was orchestrated by the party secretary in Tibet, Hu Jintao, who is now the Chinese president. His response to the current unrest is likely to be equally uncompromising.
 The Dalai Lama is a great and charismatic spiritual figure, but a poor and poorly advised political strategist. When he escaped into exile in India in 1959, he declared himself an admirer of Mahatma Gandhi's nonviolent resistance. But Gandhi took huge gambles, starting the Salt March and starving himself nearly to death -- a very different approach from the Dalai Lama's ''middle way,'' which concentrates on nonviolence rather than resistance. The Dalai Lama has never really tried to use direct action to leverage his authority.
 At the end of the 1980s, he joined forces with Hollywood and generated huge popular support for the Tibetan cause in America and Western Europe. This approach made some sense at the time. The Soviet Union was falling apart, and many people thought China might do the same. In practice, however, the campaign outraged the nationalist and xenophobic Chinese leadership. 
 It has been clear since the mid-1990s that the popular internationalization of the Tibet issue has had no positive effect on the Beijing government. The leadership is not amenable to ''moral pressure,'' over the Olympics or anything else, particularly by the nations that invaded Iraq.
 The Dalai Lama should have closed down the Hollywood strategy a decade ago and focused on back-channel diplomacy with Beijing. He should have publicly renounced the claim to a so-called Greater Tibet, which demands territory that was never under the control of the Lhasa government. Sending his envoys to talk about talks with the Chinese while simultaneously encouraging the global pro-Tibet lobby has achieved nothing. 
 When Beijing attacks the ''Dalai clique,'' it is referring to the various groups that make Chinese leaders lose face each time they visit a Western country. The International Campaign for Tibet, based in Washington, is now a more powerful and effective force on global opinion than the Dalai Lama's outfit in northern India. The European and American pro-Tibet organizations are the tail that wags the dog of the Tibetan government-in-exile.
 These groups hate criticism almost as much as the Chinese government does. Some use questionable information. For example, the Free Tibet Campaign in London (of which I am a former director) and other groups have long claimed that 1.2 million Tibetans have been killed by the Chinese since they invaded in 1950. However, after scouring the archives in Dharamsala while researching my book on Tibet, I found that there was no evidence to support that figure. The question that Nancy Pelosi and celebrity advocates like Richard Gere ought to answer is this: Have the actions of the Western pro-Tibet lobby over the last 20 years brought a single benefit to the Tibetans who live inside Tibet, and if not, why continue with a failed strategy?
 I first visited Tibet in 1986. The economic plight of ordinary people is slightly better now, but they have as little political freedom as they did two decades ago. Tibet lacks genuine autonomy, and ethnic Tibetans are excluded from positions of real power within the bureaucracy or the army. Tibet was effectively a sovereign nation at the time of the Communist invasion and was in full control of its own affairs. But the battle for Tibetan independence was lost 49 years ago when the Dalai Lama escaped into exile. His goal, and that of those who want to help the Tibetan people, should be to negotiate realistically with the Chinese state. The present protests, supported from overseas, will bring only more suffering. China is not a democracy, and it will not budge. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (74%); RELIGION (70%); STARVATION (69%); AWARDS & PRIZES (68%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (65%); PEACE PROCESS (51%)

PERSON: DALAI LAMA (89%); HU JINTAO (57%); NANCY PELOSI (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHWEST CHINA (97%); XIZANG, CHINA (91%) CHINA (97%); TIBET (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2008



547 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1324 words

HEADLINE: On an Island Paradise, Seeking Global Warming's Silver Lining

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN; Andrew Ross Sorkin reported from Necker Island and added updated information from New York.

DATELINE: NECKER ISLAND, British Virgin Islands 

 BODY:
Richard Branson was lounging under the starry midnight sky on this palm-dappled speck of an island recently when he popped a sobering question.
 ''So, do we really think the world is on fire?'' Mr. Branson, the British magnate and adventurer, asked several guests as a manservant scurried off to fetch him another glass of pinot grigio.
 What he wanted to know was whether his high-powered visitors, among them Larry Page of Google, Jimmy Wales of Wikipedia and Tony Blair, the former prime minister of Britain, thought global warming threatened the planet.
 Mr. Branson does -- and so did most of his guests. So on this recent weekend they assembled here, on his private hideaway in the waters between the islands of Tortola and Anegada, to figure out what to do about it and perhaps get richer in the process. 
 Some of them, like Mr. Page, jet-pooled in from Silicon Valley, where the financiers who bankrolled the Web boom of the 1990s are chasing the new New Thing: green power. In an era of $100-a-barrel oil, venture capitalists like Vinod Khosla, another invitee, are pouring hundreds of millions of dollars into young companies that cook up biofuels and harness the power of the sun.
 Mr. Blair, now a senior adviser to JPMorgan Chase, squeezed in a few idyllic hours here between assignments (he flew in late from California and left early for Jerusalem). Another attendee only sort-of showed up. The Medusa, the 198-foot yacht owned by Paul Allen, the co-founder of Microsoft, was moored off Necker Island all weekend, but Mr. Allen never made an appearance. 
 Mr. Branson hopes the Caribbean getaway weekend will be the first of many, an intimate, enviro-version of the annual media gathering in Sun Valley, Idaho, sponsored by Allen & Company. It was the brainchild of Richard Stromback, a former professional hockey player who has remade himself as a clean-technology entrepreneur. Mr. Stromback, who was host of the weekend and is the chief executive of Ecology Coatings, joked that a gathering like this might seem nefarious to some people.
 ''In James Bond movies, evil-doers meet in exotic settings to plot the destruction of the planet,'' Mr. Stromback said, puffing on a cigar before dinner. ''This is the opposite of that.''
 So far, however, the hopes and dreams of alternative energy have far outstripped reality. But for Mr. Stromback and many others here, a confluence of two powerful forces -- soaring oil prices and growing concern over global warming -- means the era of economically viable green power is finally at hand.
 Many executives and financiers, including some in attendance, have a lot of money riding on global warming. Mr. Branson, for example, has invested in a host of alternative energy enterprises, including recently flying the first biofuel-powered plane engine for Virgin Atlantic. He also put up $25 million in prize money to challenge scientists to find a way to extract greenhouse gases from the atmosphere.
 Mr. Khosla, the founding chief executive of Sun Microsystems and one of the most successful venture capitalists in Silicon Valley, has at least 33 investments in clean tech, including new fermentation technology to make fuel-grade ethanol.
 Much of the weekend was spent hashing over ideas in Mr. Branson's new open-air yoga pavilion in between massages, kite-surfing lessons and meals on beaches around the island, which Mr. Branson said he bought for $:180,000 in the late-1970's and now rents for as much as $250,000 a week to outside guests. (He's trying to make the island carbon-neutral and has erected a test windmill.) Talk ranged from the practicality of electric-powered cars to how much money would have to be invested in biofuels to reduce the price of crude to $35 a barrel, a prospect Mr. Khosla said he considered ''totally realistic.''
 But the big question that hung over the meeting was whether the world could ever work together to tackle climate change and emissions of greenhouse gases like carbon dioxide.
 ''We have an agreement that there should be an agreement,'' said Mr. Blair, dressed in a white polo shirt, blue cargo shorts and Nike sneakers. ''But there's no agreement on what that agreement should be.''
 Mr. Blair, who last week announced his Breaking the Climate Deadlock Initiative, predicted that the United States would soon adopt a so-called cap and trade system for carbon emissions, as the European Union has done, with mixed success. But, he contended, ''I'm a little skeptical that it will work unless it's part of a global deal.''
 As an alternative, Shai Agassi, the former president of SAP's product and technology group, suggested having companies buy carbon insurance. Insurance companies, after all, price all kinds of risks. ''They know how to put a price on it better than the bookies,'' said Mr. Agassi, whose start-up, Better P.L.C., is trying to support the use of fleets of electric vehicles in Israel and elsewhere. (Stanley Fink, the deputy chairman of the Man Group, the world's largest hedge fund, with $72 billion, suggested that insurance companies often misprice risk -- as in the subprime debacle.)
 Everyone, it seemed, had some project in the works. Elon Musk, the co-founder of Paypal, talked about his latest project: Tesla Motors, a Silicon Valley company that makes sexy electric sports cars retailing for $100,000. Mr. Page has ordered one.
 D. Hunt Ramsbottom, the chief executive of Rentech, talked about his plans to make biofuels for airplanes. William McDonough, the designer, showed renderings of recent planned projects: a building in Abu Dhabi with solar panels built into the windows and a distribution center with a grass roof. And Mr. Page, who was married on Necker Island a few months ago, talked about problems with permits that Google has faced in trying to use solar energy.
 With no naysayers on the island, the weekend, which was organized in part by the Climate Group, a nonprofit, was filled with hopeful talk about the ''war against carbon,'' as Mr. Branson put it. But there was also talk of money, which most of the attendees had plenty of. And to make any of these technologies successful, they all agreed the solutions had to be profitable without subsidies.
 ''It can't work any other way,'' Mr. Khosla said. 
 Mr. Page of Google complained that it is still too easy to make a profitable environmentally friendly product that does not go far enough. ''We need to give people permission to think really big,'' he said. He recounted how when an engineer told him he could produce electricity at 10 cents a kilowatt, he asked if it could be brought down to 3 cents.
 After a breakfast of scrambled eggs with salmon on the deck outside the main house Sunday morning, Mr. Branson spent most the day talking about his next big idea. He wants to create a coalition of the most respected people in business to help champion environmental ''best practices'' -- a resource for governments and multinational companies looking for help as they develop environmentally sound policies. 
 He is tentatively calling the group the War Room. He wants to model it after another group he formed last year, the Elders, with Desmond Tutu, Jimmy Carter and Nelson Mandela's wife, Graca Machel, to help solve the world's political and humanitarian problems. 
 Mr. Branson was canvassing for names to run it. Someone wondered: what about Warren Buffett?
 Of course, there was plenty of time for fun and games. After lunch one afternoon Mr. Branson suggested the entire group sail off to Mosquito, a nearby island he also owns, aboard a dozen catamarans. He said there was a party over there.
 One of Mr. Blair's security personnel trailed behind in a motorboat. Mr. Page, an avid kite surfer, struck out alone. 
 As the catamarans beached on Mosquito, music was blaring and women in bikinis were dancing. Mr. Branson deadpanned, ''Normally the girls would be naked, but the prime minister is here.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Richard Branson, at right
Jimmy Wales of Wikipedia (in yel-Continued on Page 7 low shirt)
and Tony Blair, the former British prime minister. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW ROSS SORKIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. C1)
 Lunch at Richard Branson's private island, where executives and other leaders recently came together to discuss entrepreneurship and ways to improve the environment. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW ROSS SORKIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBAL WARMING (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (75%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (72%); VENTURE CAPITAL (71%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (71%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (67%); OIL & GAS PRICES (66%); SPONSORSHIP (62%); EXECUTIVES (61%); BIOFUELS (51%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (67%); ALLEN & CO INC (64%); GOOGLE INC (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%); ECOLOGY COATINGS INC (52%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (67%); JPM (LSE) (67%); 8634 (TSE) (67%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (67%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (67%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (67%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (67%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (64%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2851 PAINTS, VARNISHES, LACQUERS, ENAMELS & ALLIED PRODUCTS (52%)

PERSON: RICHARD BRANSON (91%); TONY BLAIR (77%); JIMMY WALES (75%); LARRY PAGE (75%); PAUL ALLEN (67%); VINOD KHOSLA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (73%) UNITED KINGDOM (93%); WALES (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); VIRGIN ISLANDS, BRITISH (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2008



548 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: Pentagon Urges Delay in U.S. Troop Reductions in Iraq

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Senior military commanders have presented the Bush administration with proposals to put off any plans for further reductions of troops in Iraq at least until the end of summer. At the same time, the proposals would limit new deployments to 12 months, instead of 15 months now, military and administration officials said Friday.
 Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates met for a second day in closed sessions with the Pentagon's top officers to outline recommendations to be presented to President Bush on Wednesday. 
 Mr. Bush is to discuss the proposals with the senior commander in Iraq, Gen. David H. Petraeus, in a videoconference on Monday and is expected to make a decision about any additional withdrawals before he leaves on April 1 for a five-day trip to Ukraine, Romania and Croatia, the officials said.
 Last September, facing intense pressure from Democrats and even some Republicans in Congress, Mr. Bush announced that he would withdraw five combat brigades and two Marine battalions by July. Those reductions, not yet complete, would effectively return the number of troops in Iraq to roughly 140,000, a level slightly higher than before Mr. Bush ordered the buildup that became known as the ''surge.''
 Mr. Gates's spokesman, Geoff Morrell, said four more departing brigades, each with more than 3,000 troops, had yet to leave Iraq, making it difficult to assess the effect on security in Iraq of the reduction of troops ordered last fall. There are now 155,000 American troops in Iraq, down from a peak of 170,000 last fall.
 ''A pause of some duration is worthwhile to figure out the impact of the rapid withdrawal of the last four surge brigades,'' Mr. Morrell said. ''So losing those four brigades over the course of four months is going to require some assessment of the impact that has.'' He declined to discuss in detail the proposals that Mr. Gates heard in the meetings in recent days.
 General Petraeus and other officials have made it clear that they want more time to assess what happens after the withdrawals are completed, leaving 15 combat brigades in Iraq. In his public remarks on Wednesday, the fifth anniversary of the beginning of the war, Mr. Bush strongly suggested that he would not hasten the reductions.
 The debate over troop levels in Iraq has caused divisions among senior commanders. Adm. William J. Fallon, the leader of Central Command, which oversees operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, argued publicly for continued withdrawals in Iraq after only a brief pause. That put him at odds with General Petraeus. 
 Admiral Fallon resigned last week, effective the end of March, saying the perception of differences with Mr. Bush had become a distraction. His resignation prompted accusations that the White House had punished dissenting views about maintaining a large force in Iraq.
 A senior administration official said a consensus had formed among senior officers at the Pentagon and in Baghdad about putting off any further discussion of reductions. 
 One reason for that, the official said, is that it was possible that by July the Army could shorten tours in Iraq by 3 months to 12 months. The extension of tours, which began with the surge last April, has been unpopular among soldiers and officers, and ending them has been one of Mr. Gates's goals. The official spoke on condition of anonymity in order to discuss internal policy deliberations ahead of Mr. Bush's decision.
 The prospect of a pause in withdrawals, especially a lengthy one, could reignite antiwar feelings on Capitol Hill, which have diminished in intensity since September, when General Petraeus last testified before Congress. Democrats have lately shifted their focus to the costs of the war, which could resonate in a time of economic turmoil at home.
 Senator Jack Reed, Democrat of Rhode Island, said it would be a mistake not to continue ''a careful but deliberate'' reduction in troops. ''You've got to signal to the Army and the Marine Corps that this treadmill in and out of Iraq is going to stop,'' he said in a telephone interview.
 Senator Reed, a former Army infantry officer and a member of the Armed Services Committee, also said a long pause would ease pressure on Iraqi leaders to make greater strides toward improving security and governance. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); ANNIVERSARIES (60%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (78%); DAVID PETRAEUS (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); UKRAINE (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); CROATIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2008



549 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: Sports Lift Up Downtrodden Town

BYLINE: By SEAN D. HAMILL

DATELINE: JEANNETTE, Pa. 

 BODY:
Once known as glass city, when 70 percent of the world's glass was made here, this town is probably better known now as the home to Terrelle Pryor, the No. 1 college football prospect, who signed a letter of intent on Wednesday to attend Ohio State.
 Beyond that, though, this economically battered city of 10,000 is fairly unremarkable in southwestern Pennsylvania. Like many cities in the region, it has lost a third of its population, and Clay Avenue, its downtown, is a shadow of its former self. 
 ''It's just like any other normal industrial town built around one industry,'' Mayor Michael Cafasso said. ''When the glass plants closed, people left to find work elsewhere.''
 As a result, Pryor could be considered one athlete who transcended his community's circumstances. But Jeannette's social fabric and volunteer ethic never faded even when the jobs did. Many adults have put in time with the city's youth sports programs at some point, and sports have long filled residents with pride.
 That is particularly true this school year, as Pryor and the Jeannette Jayhawks won state titles in football and basketball.
 ''It's been an amazing run,'' said Gladys Cook, the mother of a Jeannette cheerleader. ''You don't want it to end.''
 In the 20 years since Pennsylvania began awarding state football titles in four classifications, only two schools had completed such a double. Nationwide this year, only six others -- from the much smaller states of Oklahoma, Oregon and Wisconsin -- won state football and basketball titles, according to the Web site Rivals.com.
 ''It says a lot about the fact that Jeannette has a lot of multisport athletes competing,'' said Brad Cashman, the executive director of the Pennsylvania Interscholastic Athletic Association. ''And that's becoming more and more rare. That's less obvious in larger schools, but these smaller schools really have to have those two- and even three-sport athletes in order to survive athletically.''
 And year in and year out, Jeannette does much better than survive. Few people in town can tell you the last time the football or the basketball team did not make the playoffs.
 The tradition of winning is so ingrained, and the teams' competitive fervor and quality so high, that the school, with about 360 students, voluntarily plays in the AA classification against schools three times its size.
 Although no one disputes that Pryor's presence is what pushed Jeannette over the top, the school's rare two-sport success owes just as much to a collection of athletes whose quality is typically seen only at schools much larger.
 The seven players on Jeannette's state championship basketball team were also starters on the football team: Pryor, Cameron Baradziej, Kenny Grant, Jordan Hall, Moziah Harris, Shaw Sunder and Dane Vaughn.
 Hall, a quick, stocky junior running back, is another legitimate Division I football prospect, with the rest getting serious looks from lower-division college teams in football or basketball, or both.
 ''We told these kids all year, 'If you handle this right, all the attention Terrelle was getting, it could be an opportunity for you, too,' '' Ray Rietz, the football coach, said.
 But by all accounts, these athletes were special from a young age.
 ''Oh, my, yes,'' recalled Russ Wiley, the president of the Jeannette Midget Athletic Association. ''When they all won the Midget championship about 10 years ago, we knew they were different.''
 The association, like its counterpart, the Knee High basketball program, has been teaching youngsters from 7 to 13 the finer points of football for more than 50 years.
 The program instills a work ethic in its players early on. ''We sit them down and explain right away that this is a contact sport,'' Wiley said.
 It also teaches the same football strategies as the high school team.
 If the Jayhawks use a single-wing formation, so do the Midgets. Recently, the high school adopted the spread offense, so the Midgets started teaching it too.
 And, like their high school counterparts, the Midgets play against teams that typically field three times as many players.
 Sports equipment is expensive -- the high school team does weight training in a coach's garage. But booster clubs help fill the gaps for youth and high school sports, buying new shoes, jerseys and balls, even paying league fees for needy players. The clubs are also saving to build a weight-training center.
 ''We've never lost a kid because of need,'' Wiley said.
 If sports are appealing to boys in a city as small as Jeannette, they can end up playing on the same team with the same teammates from age 7 through high school.
 ''Our kids have a tremendous bond with each other,'' said Jim Nesser, the high school basketball coach. ''They've grown up together, went to elementary school together, played Midget football and Knee High basketball together.''
 That is what happened to the current Jeannette players. A tight-knit group of juniors and seniors share a love of sports and their city. But they share something else, too.
 ''We don't like to lose,'' said Grant, a senior defensive back in football and a guard in basketball, drawing nods from his teammates. ''And we knew we'd be together all these years.''
 Harris, a junior wide receiver in football and a guard in basketball, agreed, saying, ''We were like, 'Hey, we're not going to lose when we get up here.' ''
 Grant added, ''And this year, we just wanted it more than all the other teams.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, Cameron Baradziej, Jason Marquis, Dane Vaughn, Terrelle Pryor, Kenny Grant and Nick Spino helped Jeannette High School win state football and basketball titles. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BOB FRITZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Jeannette, Pa. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); BASKETBALL TOURNAMENTS (89%); SPORTS (89%); BASKETBALL (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); MAYORS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); GLASS MFG (73%); YOUTH SPORTS (72%); ETHICS (71%); WEB SITES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2008



550 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; FARMERS' MARKETS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1041 words

HEADLINE: Yes, It's Local, Even in Winter

BYLINE: By JAN ELLEN SPIEGEL

DATELINE: FAIRFIELD 

 BODY:
 IT looked like a farmers' market -- scores of people meandering through more than a dozen booths of local products. It sounded like a farmers' market -- a lone guitarist's strumming punctuated by squealing kids. But on a recent rainy and chilly Saturday morning, all parties were warm and dry indoors.
 Tucked into a warehouse attached to the Fairfield Theater Company, the farmers' market here, along with similar ones in New London and Litchfield, is among the first weekly indoor winter markets in Connecticut. (New Haven's Wooster Square market, an outdoor monthly winter market, is in its second season.)
 ''I think it's wonderful,'' said Rebecca Howe, 51, an interior designer from Westport, who was up to three bags of food in the Fairfield market. ''They're a little low on the produce end, but people buy a lot more than produce at a farmers' market now.'' 
 That would be the hitch. This is the first year for all three markets, and they got started with little notice for the farmers, which means very little fresh produce. Even so, shoppers have crowded in.
 ''I've seen message boards on Chowhound -- 'Why isn't there any produce?' '' said Katherine Dyer, market master at Fairfield as well as for the two summer outdoor markets in Westport. ''Even if I had been able to tell them in July,'' she said of farmers, ''there wouldn't have been enough time.''
 The winter markets opened after an enormously successful summer and fall season for the more than 90 farmers' markets and farm stands across the state, in response to the growing interest and demand for locally grown produce and goods in Connecticut. But winter in New England presents its challenges for generating fresh produce. 
 To plan for a winter market, growers need to know by late winter the previous season in time to order seed and make other plans, like growing storage crops including winter squashes, potatoes and other root vegetables. For apple growers it means putting enough aside in controlled-atmosphere storage to last a number of months. And for those with greenhouses or plastic-covered structures, they would have to make the decision to grow crops all winter. 
 That is why this winter, the half-acre that Ed Gazy had under plastic at his 20-acre Gazy Brothers Farm in Oxford was idle. Ms. Dyer couldn't tell him Fairfield was a go until January. But he is already thinking in terms of lettuce, tomatoes, basil, garlic, spinach, arugula, beets and radishes for next year. ''It's a start to having a year-round income for a small farmer,'' Mr. Gazy said.
 Laura McKinney of Riverbank Farm in Roxbury agreed. ''There's less pressure to make all your money in the short growing period that there is,'' said Ms. McKinney, who managed to scrape together her surplus potatoes, parsnips, onions, garlic and a neighbor's apples for Fairfield, but was kicking herself about the carrots. ''We had so many, we were wholesaling,'' she said. ''If we'd known about the market, we would have kept them.''
 She is already planning for next winter -- more fall crops like celery root and cabbage, and using the farm's new commercial kitchen to process tomatoes.
 David Zemelsky of Star Light Gardens in Durham, who already grows greens all winter with about half his three acres under plastic, was one of only two growers at Fairfield with actual fresh green produce. He said that with high fuel prices, the market was more economical than delivering to restaurants. ''If I can go to one place, and do all my business in one place, it's much more effective.''
 For Paul Trubey of Beltane Farm in Lebanon, the ability to have his goat cheeses in all three winter markets allowed him to quit his ''day'' job as a social worker instead of going into debt, the way he usually does in winter. ''It's been a great thing that's made the business much more viable,'' he said. ''It helped my spouse be less nervous about me quitting my job.''
 Growing crops is not the only tricky component to winter markets. There is finding labor, which during summer is typically students and migrant workers. There is balancing fuel costs against potential income. Farmers like to regroup after the grueling summer season and take care of neglected equipment repairs, upgrades and just unwind. And there is finding a location that has all the necessary components -- space, parking, accessibility -- at the right price.
 ''It's got potential, it really does,'' said Rick Macsuga, the Connecticut Department of Agriculture marketing representative who coordinates farmers' markets. The trend toward more markets is here to stay, he said, citing more than 100 markets he expects in the state this summer.
 ''I've been surprised with the success,'' he said of the winter market. ''Farmers have been surprised.''
 Kay Carroll saw it coming. ''I think there's no question there's demand for a winter market,'' said Ms. Carroll, who is with the organization that runs the Litchfield Hills Farm-Fresh Market, which started last summer. 
 In August patrons began asking if the market would stay open, so she came up with what she calls a mini market -- limited products farmers drop off for customers to pick up on Fridays. ''We'd rather bite this off a little bit and see where it takes us,'' she said. 
 In New London, hundreds have turned out weekly since Feb. 6 to buy from more than two dozen vendors in space that is slated to become the Fiddleheads Food Co-op. ''This is working out better than most people expected,'' said Sheila Herbert, who is running the market. So much so that the market expanded to two days a week beginning in late March.
 New London and Litchfield will remain open into June, while Fairfield plans to run at least through April.
 ''This was just a godsend,'' said Wendy Pieper, 43, a Westport artist who admitted she missed the produce at Fairfield. ''It's kind of a bummer, but you know what? I'd rather buy the local version. I'd rather support these guys.'' 
 Ms. Dyer, the market master, said the important thing was to prove to farmers that a winter market was even possible. ''I'm hoping that customers are patient and realize that we're growing a new market and next year we'll have more stuff,'' she said. ''Just being able to do this is a big deal.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: COME AND GET IT: The Fairfield Farmers' Market is one of three indoor markets to open in the state this year. New Haven's Wooster Square is a year old. (pg.CT1)
 SHOPPERS: A scene at the Fairfield market. (pg.CT5) (PHOTOGRAPHS BY THOMAS MCDONALD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); APPLE ORCHARDS (73%); THEATER & DRAMA (71%); THEATER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW LONDON, CT, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (72%) CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); NORTHEAST USA (77%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2008



551 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 606 words

HEADLINE: Why Borrowers Still Like ARMs

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
MANY borrowers still seek adjustable-rate mortgages, but after the upheavals in the market in the last year, finding them isn't easy. 
 ''ARM market? What ARM market?'' said Jeffrey Guarino, the managing director of Gotham Capital Mortgage, a New York brokerage company. In the early part of March, Mr. Guarino said, ''it dried up.''
 Investors are still buying fixed-rate mortgages from lenders, Mr. Guarino said, but adjustable-rate loans have generated much less demand, thereby greatly reducing the number of lenders with ARMs to offer. 
 Thrift institutions, like Astoria Federal Savings and Ridgewood Savings, he said, have been an exception, since they frequently hold loans in their own portfolios and so do not have to worry about finding investors to buy them.
 Monte N. Redman, president of Astoria Federal, said that the company was offering ARMs with interest fixed at 5 3/8 percent for five years. (After that, rates will be reset each year.) 
 ''Our appetite for these has not diminished at all,'' Mr. Redman said. 
 And since rates on ARMs have dropped in the last nine months, anywhere from one-half of one percentage point to three-quarters of a percentage point, ''we've also not seen a decrease in the appetite among consumers,'' he said.
 ARMs for prime borrowers usually feature interest rates that are fixed for five to 10 years before adjusting to the prevailing rates.
 The ARM's reputation was first tarnished largely because of high delinquency rates among borrowers with poor credit who took out such mortgages during the recent real estate boom. Now a growing number of borrowers with good credit have also failed to keep pace with their ARMs. 
 According to a report earlier this month by the Mortgage Bankers Association, 1.06 percent of prime borrowers with ARMs entered the foreclosure process in recent months, compared with 0.41 percent in late 2006. In New York State, 2.3 percent of its 218,000 prime ARMs were in foreclosure in the fourth quarter of 2007, compared with 1.05 percent a year earlier. 
 Mr. Redman said his company, which lends to borrowers across the nation, had avoided such increases mostly by limiting loans to borrowers who demonstrate an ability to repay. Equity requirements are strict: 25 percent down payments for loans under $500,000 and 30 percent for those of $500,000 or more. 
 Ellen Bitton, chief executive of the Park Avenue Mortgage Group, based in Manhattan, said that most of her affluent borrowers are choosing ''interest only'' ARMs. With these loans, borrowers make no principal payments for a fixed number of years; after that, their interest rates are adjusted as they pay both interest and principal.
 ''Many of these borrowers feel like they won't be in their properties longer than, say, 10 years, and they're still hooked on the low payments,'' Ms. Bitton said. 
 With interest-only loans frequently being offered at around 5 percent, Ms. Bitton added, the difference in monthly payments can be significant: about $500 a month on a $1 million mortgage. 
 Regardless of the risks and reputation, American borrowers have continued to seek out ARMs, just like their counterparts in other parts of the world, said Jay Brinkmann, the vice president for research and economics at the mortgage bankers' group. 
 He cited England as an example. A few years ago, lenders there explored ways to sell borrowers on the merits of long-term fixed-rate mortgages because so much investment money was flowing to banks in the United States.
 ''They concluded nothing much could be done,'' Mr. Brinkmann said. ''Borrowers just wanted the lowest payments they could find.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: PERFORMANCE OF 30-YEAR FIXED RATE MORTGAES VERSUS 15-YEAR RATE FIXED RATE MORTGAGES, 1-YEAR TREASURY SECURITY INDEX AND 1-YEAR ADJUSTABLE IN THE NEW YORK REGION (Source: HSH Associates) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE LOANS (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FORECLOSURE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); SECURITIES BROKERS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2008



552 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; T: Travel Magazine; Pg. 60

LENGTH: 2043 words

HEADLINE: German Expressionism

BYLINE: By Adam Fisher

 BODY:
What New York was in the 80s, Berlin is now,'' says Nadja Vancauwenberghe, the French editor in chief of Berlin's English-language magazine, the Exberliner. ''That's the cliche.'' She shakes her head and smiles. ''The reality,'' Maurice Frank, the Exberliner's publisher, chimes in, ''is that rents here are a third of what they are in Paris or London.'' 
 The two of them are trying to explain why Berlin has emerged as the creative capital of Europe, if not the world. ''It's cool, its cheap, it's international,'' Vancauwenberghe says, ticking off the contributing factors. 
 ''But it's kind of a feedback loop at this point,'' says Frank. In other words, the people who are immigrating now are not drawn by 
 Berlin per se but rather by the Berlin of the cliche -- and they're finding it in the city's vast expat population.
 Berlin, the biggest city in continental Europe by far, has actually been losing its German population for years, but for the last five -- 
 the five years that the Exberliner has been publishing -- that loss has been more than made up for by an influx of expats. What's more, they're settling down: buying funky apartments, starting creative businesses, having precocious children. ''We're a little overrun,'' Vancauwenberghe concludes, looking out her window. For a long time, the neighborhood outside, Prenzlauer Berg, boasted a thriving international squat scene. Today the main strip is choked with baby strollers and stylish boutiques. 
 The expats who are gentrifying Prenzlauer Berg are creative types, the kind of people who don't necessarily want a standard career. This is perhaps a good thing, since the unemployment rate in Berlin is currently around 20 percent. There may not be many opportunities for regular employment, but there are plenty of good gigs. For musicians, Berlin is an ideal staging ground; its central location makes touring Europe easy and more profitable. For visual artists, it's all about the city's cultural wealth. Berlin's divided legacy means that there are twice the number of museums and art-supporting institutions than usual. Plus there is a long tradition of social tolerance here. 
 Where else would the mayor, who is openly gay, roll out an official welcome to a gathering of sadomasochist conventioneers, praising their party weekend as ''pure joie de vivre''? As Mayor Klaus Wowereit likes to say about his city: ''We are poor, but sexy.''
 According to the last census count, in 2006, there were about 13,100 Americans living here, and, invariably, they cite Berlin's bohemianism as the draw. ''I interview Americans all the time, and they'll tell you they moved here to get away from George Bush,'' says a skeptical Vancauwenberghe. ''But if you dig a little deeper, 8 times out of 10 they've come on behalf of a German boyfriend or girlfriend. Usually the relationship doesn't last, but they stay anyway, because they've fallen in love with the city.'' 
 That's certainly the profile of Marc Siegel. who was studying film at U.C.L.A. when he fell in love with a German actress named Susanne Sachsse in 1999 -- which was a surprise, since prior to that Siegel had mostly been dating men. After moving to Berlin to finish his dissertation, Siegel fell into the local theater scene, and with friends, including Daniel Hendrickson, his former boyfriend, founded a performance-art collective called Cheap. The troupe became known for its queer sensibility and eventually attracted the attention and funding of the German national children's theater, which wanted Cheap to produce a piece for kids. It used the opportunity to lure Vaginal Davis, a drag performer from Los Angeles, whom they cast as the guest star of the children's production, to Berlin. (''I had to get away from Miss Amerikkka,'' says Davis. ''Her cities are turning into malls!'') The troupe, jokes Siegel, ''has slowly become a welfare project for Americans going through withdrawal.'' 
 Toby Dammit and Jessie Evans are professional musicians from the United States who found each other in Berlin. The 41-year-old Dammit is a musician's musician, who played for many years with Iggy Pop. He moved here from New York in 2006, wanting to step off the treadmill: ''I was making money, but it doesn't matter how hard you work in New York, you end up throwing it out the window,'' says Dammit, who counts two of the most famous expats in Berlin, Rufus Wainwright and Peaches, as friends. Evans, a veteran of various ''slutty all-girl punk bands,'' moved from San Francisco in 2004 in order to reinvent herself as a chanteuse. The best thing about the place, according to the aspiring singer, is that ''you don't have to be famous to get respect as an artist.'' 
 Jean Griffin Borho, who arrived here two years ago, is not an artist but rather a patron and collector who grew up in Manhattan and ended up marrying a German man who ran a hedge fund in the city. They divorced, and Borho decided to pick up the pieces in Germany. She came to build a new life as an art consultant catering to American collectors curious about the Berlin scene, but she was also glad to say auf wiedersehen to her hometown. ''In New York, being divorced is a stigma,'' Borho claims. ''Here, no one cares.'' 
 The artist Dean Sameshima, a native of Los Angeles, came for the opening of his first Berlin show at Peres Projects last March and never really left. ''In L.A., my studio was my bedroom, but here I can afford studio space,'' he says. ''And a studio assistant.'' According to Robert Goff of Goff + Rosenthal, one of the first New York galleries to open a Berlin branch, ''the low rents have made Berlin the art-production capital of Europe. At least half of the young artists I meet in New York are seriously thinking about moving to Berlin to work.'' 
 The common thread is that everyone feels they're leading lives they could never have back home. ''Cheap in the States?'' Siegel wonders. ''There, we never even would have thought that we were the kind of people who could pull this off.'' Dammit's voice cracks with awe when he talks about the production facilities he now has at his disposal, and Evans is just happy to have been able to quit her day job. ''In San Francisco,'' she says, ''I was working at a junkyard.'' Borho, too, feels freer: ''One of the things I really love is techno music,'' says the 37-year-old. ''In New York, I'd always be one of the oldest people at a club. But here you see people in their 70s.'' 
 Berlin is undoubtedly fun. The loose liquor laws don't require bars to close until the last patron has quaffed his last drink, and some club parties can go for the entire weekend. If there is any problem with Berlin, it may be that it's too free, too wild. ''Rent is cheap, studio space is cheap, but for every artist, there's also a spot on a guest list,'' says Alex Konuk, the half-American, half-German owner of 8MM, a dive bar with an intellectual air. ''So the test here is being able to live up to the creative standards you've set for yourself.'' 
 Or not. The real charm of the city's night life lies in its goofier manifestations. Dr. Pong is a bar bunkered in a concrete Prenzlauer Berg pile, the main room lit by a single fluorescent tube, as if Dan Flavin had placed it here himself. Its light shines on a lone Ping-Pong table in the center of the room. To the beat of dance music, with a paddle in one hand and a beer in the other, patrons run around the table while attempting to keep a rally going. It's the drinking version of rundlauf, a traditional German schoolyard game. The bar's owner, Oliver Miller, is an American expat. Miller came to Berlin after graduating from Princeton's architecture school, looking to avoid the fate of his classmates, who were joining big firms in New York. ''I'm not interested in climbing the career ladder, since you'll never ever get to the top,'' he explains. ''I'm interested in taking that ladder and putting it on its side.'' In practice, that means running Dr. Pong and its fraternal twin, Kim, two popular bars that Miller sees as nothing less than conceptual architecture: ''I like the fact that the bars look like they're still under construction. If the building is still in process, getting built, that implies that process can go on inside.'' 
 The whole of Berlin's bohemia -- expat and German, arty and punk -- resonates with the same kind of attitude. Things are invariably provisional, experimental, cerebral. But what could be a Teutonic bore is leavened with a comic exuberance that is irony-free. There is no better place to enjoy this than at Monster Ronson's Ichiban Karaoke Bar in the still-raw neighborhood of Friedrichshain. Monster himself -- a k a Ron Rineck, a 32-year-old American expat decked out in a Mohawk, suit and tie -- greets you at the door and ushers your party to one of the many soundproof karaoke booths. Rineck has been in Berlin almost since the beginning. His story is one of the weirdest, but it's also emblematic of how much Berlin has changed, and how much it has stayed the same.
 Monster hails from Salt Lake City and, while visiting Berlin on the invitation of a German pen pal that he barely knew, decided to move here in 1999. He remembers those pioneer days fondly. ''I lived on my savings, $7,000, for two years,'' he says. ''And I lived like a king.'' Then, with his last remaining dollars, he bought a used karaoke machine and moved with it into his station wagon. ''Within six months,'' he recalls, ''I was getting paying gigs in squat houses all over Europe.'' The bar was a natural evolution. His biggest challenge these days is trying to live inside the law. Especially vexing is Berlin's new indoor smoking ban that went into effect on the 
 first of the year. ''If the rules get any stricter, I'm going to have to leave this city,'' he says, frowning. Suddenly he brightens: ''I hear Kiev is nice.'' 
 HOT SHOTS FOR CURATED WORK FROM BERLIN-BASED EXPAT ARTISTS, GO TO NYTIMES.COM/TMAGAZINE.
 Essentials Berlin
 LAY OF THE LAND To soak up the city's creative expat scene, start by strolling the streets of Mitte (German for ''center''), the historic middle of Berlin and home to ''museum island'' as well as the main gallery district. Then be sure to check out Prenzlauer Berg to its north and Kreuzberg to the south -- the adjoining neighborhoods where expat artists and musicians actually live, work and play.
 HOTELS There are plenty of attractive, well-priced hotels in Mitte to choose from, including the funky Arcotel Velvet (arcotel.cc; doubles from about $159); the Arte Luise Kunsthotel, with artist-decorated rooms (luise-berlin.com; doubles from $199); the Art'otel Berlin Mitte, with artwork by Georg Baselitz (artotel.de; doubles from $193); and the cool, sleek Lux 11 (lux-eleven.com; doubles from $243). In Kreuzberg, for the real boho deal you can bunk up with artists at the supercheap Die Fabrik, where rooms share baths (diefabrik.com; doubles from $86), or there's the simple but comfortable Hotel Riehmers Hofgarten (hotel-riehmers-hofgarten.de; doubles from $160).
 BARS AND CAFES Barcomi's Deli An American-style cafe that lures the art-world elite, especially for Sunday brunch. Sophienstrasse 21; 011-49-30-2859-8363; entrees $8 to $24. Dr. Pong The thinking man's postapocalyptic table-tennis bar. Eberswalder Strasse 21; no phone. 8MM A tiny bar with its own tiny music label. Schonhauser Allee 177b; 011-49-30-4050-0624. Kim Battered. Minimal. Concrete. A bar that questions what it means to be a bar. Brunnenstrasse 10; no phone. Monster Ronson's Cavernous karaoke emporium with private booths, one equipped with a stripper pole. Warschauerstrasse 34; 011-49-17-2380-9250. White Trash Fast Food Tattoo parlor, bar, restaurant and music hall packed into one giant pub-a-plex. Schonhauser Allee 6/7 and 8; 011-49-30-5034-8668.
 GALLERIES Goff + Rosenthal An impressive roster of up-and-coming international artists. Brunnenstrasse 3; 011-49-30-4373-5083. 
 Peres Projects An outpost of the Los Angeles gallery, featuring talents like Terence Koh and Assume Vivid Astro Focus. Schlesische Strasse 26; 011-49-30-6162-6962. Susanne Vielmetter Berlin Projects Showcases work by established as well as emerging artists. Holzmarktstrasse 15/18; 011-49-30-2478-1150. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Room to show: The painter Dean Sameshima moved from California to Berlin for a cheaper studio space. Berlin stories: Left: the Americans Toby Dammit and Jessie Evans jam in their apartment. Below: Alex Konuk at his club 8MM. Match point: At the bar Dr. Pong, the favorite drinking game is a lively round of table tennis. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GREGOR HOHENBERG) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); CITY LIFE (87%); PUBLISHING (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); IMMIGRATION (69%); CENSUS (69%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (66%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (65%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (62%); VISUAL ARTS (60%); VISUAL ARTISTS (60%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (97%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) GERMANY (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (90%); FRANCE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2008



553 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; CALENDAR; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 2338 words

 BODY:
COMEDY
 TEANECK Mexicali Blues Cafe ''Comedy Night,'' featuring JP Justice, Todd Lynn and Terry Hodges. March 30 at 8 p.m. $10 plus a two-drink minimum. Mexicali Blues Cafe, 1409 Queen Anne Road. (201) 833-0011; www.mexicalibluescafe.com.
 FOR CHILDREN
 CAPE MAY Emlen Physick Estate ''Cape May Family Treasure Hunt,'' self-guided tours; continuing. $5. Emlen Physick Estate, 1048 Washington Street. (800) 275-4278; www.capemaymac.org. 
 EAST BRUNSWICK East Brunswick Public Library ''Penguin Pointers.'' Learn about and meet a penguin from Jenkinson's Aquarium. March 29 at 7 p.m. Free. East Brunswick Public Library, 2 Jean Walling Civic Center. (732) 390-6950; www.ebpl.org. 
 MARLTON Borders ''Silly Farm Animals,'' story time featuring books about animals like ''Stuck in the Mud,'' ''Big Chickens Fly the Coop,'' and ''Birthday for Cow.'' Tuesday at 10 a.m. Free. Borders, 515 Route 73 South. (856) 985-5080. 
 TRENTON The New Jersey State Museum ''Family Arts Festival,'' a one-day art-making extravaganza for the family. March 30, 1 to 5 p.m. Free. The New Jersey State Museum, 225 West State Street. (609) 292-6464; www.state.nj.us/state/museum. 
 WEST ORANGE Fellowship Hall of Saint Cloud Presbyterian Church ''Big Beat, Little Beat: Explorations of Rhythm,'' an interactive children's music program with the David Braham Quartet, featuring Bob DeVos, guitarist, followed by guided dance and movement with Elisa Heinsohn. March 30 at 2:30 p.m. Admission is free with two cans of food. Fellowship Hall of St. Cloud Presbyterian Church, 20 Old Indian Road. (973) 324-9100. 
 MUSIC AND DANCE
 ALLENDALE Allendale Community for Mature Living Alexis Lerner, violinist, will perform works by Bach, Beriot and Kreisler, with piano accompaniment. April 6 at 2 p.m. Free. Allendale Community for Mature Living, 85 Harreton Road. (201) 796-7788. 
 CLOSTER Closter Public Library Howard Tavin Trio, jazz concert dedicated to the late musician Bill Evans. March 30, 3 to 4 p.m. Free. Closter Public Library, 280 High Street. (201) 768-4197; closter.bccls.org/. 
 EAST RUTHERFORD Izod Center Mary J. Blige and Jay-Z's ''Heart of the City'' tour. Friday at 7:30 p.m. $59.75 to $175.75. Izod Center, 50 Route 120. (201) 507-8900; www.meadowlands.com. 
 GLEN RIDGE Glen Ridge Congregational Church ''Psalms in Music,'' the Glen Ridge Choral Society and Orchestra perform three psalm settings by Bach, Mozart and Mendelssohn. April 6 at 3 p.m. $8 to $18. Glen Ridge Congregational Church, 195 Ridgewood Avenue. (973) 743-5596. 
 MADISON Madison High School ''A Classical Celebration of Spring and Romance,'' presented by the Livingston Symphony Orchestra. March 29 at 7:30 p.m. Madison High School, 170 Ridgedale Avenue. (973) 593-3117. 
 MONTCLAIR Alexander Kasser Theater, Montclair State University ''Italian Music Under the Star of David,'' featuring the Ensemble Salomone Rossi and other guest musicians in celebration of Italian Jewish music. April 3 at 7:30 p.m. Free. Alexander Kasser Theater, Montclair State University, College Avenue and Red Hawk Road. (973) 655-5112; www.montclair.edu/kasser. 
 MONTCLAIR Trumpets Jazz Club and Restaurant ''A Tribute to Sarah 'Sassy' Vaughan,'' featuring Carrie Jackson and the Jazzin' All-Star Quartet. Friday at 8:30, 10 and 11:30 p.m. $15. Trumpets Jazz Club and Restaurant, 6 Depot Square. (973) 744-2600; www.trumpetsjazz.com. 
 MOORESTOWN Perkins Center for the Arts The Burning Bush, Jewish folk music. April 6 at 4 p.m. $8 to $12. Perkins Center for the Arts, 395 Kings Highway. (856) 235-6488; www.perkinscenter.org. 
 NEW BRUNSWICK First Reformed Church of New Brunswick Spring recital, featuring Alessandra Tiraterra, pianist. Wednesday at 12:15 p.m. Free. First Reformed Church of New Brunswick, 9 Bayard Street. (732) 545-1005. 
 SOUTH ORANGE Baird Center ''Jazz at the Baird,'' featuring Susan Pereira and Sabor Brasil. March 29 at 8 p.m. $12 to $17. Baird Center, 5 Mead Street. (973) 378-7754; www.southorange.org/TheBairdArts. 
 TEANECK Mexicali Blues Cafe Mahavishnu Project, rock. Friday at 8 p.m. $20 and $25. Bernie Worrell, with Post Junction and the Roadside Graves, funk. March 29 at 9 p.m. $15 and $20. Bill Evans Soulgrass, with Sam Bush, jazz. April 1 at 9 p.m. $25 and $30. Mexicali Blues Cafe, 1409 Queen Anne Road. (201) 833-0011; www.mexicalibluescafe.com. 
 WAYNE Wayne Public Library The Carol Hamersma Jazz Trio, classical jazz. Wednesday at noon. Free. Wayne Public Library, 461 Valley Road. (973) 694-4272; www.waynepubliclibrary.org. 
 OUTDOORS
 CAPE MAY Mid-Atlantic Center for the Arts ''Mansions by the Sea Trolley Tour,'' featuring beachfront developments that were built in the 1870s and modern homes. March 23 at 1:15 p.m. $4.50 and $9. Mid-Atlantic Center for the Arts, 1048 Washington Street. (609) 884-5404; www.capemaymac.org. 
 SPOKEN WORD
 HIGHLAND PARK Highland Park Public Library Poetry night, featuring Kathleen Graber. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. Free. Highland Park Public Library, 31 North Fifth Avenue. (732) 572-2750; www.hpplnj.org/. 
 PATERSON Passaic County Community College Distinguished Poets Series, readings by Aeronwy Thomas and Peter Thabit Jones, followed by an open reading and reception. April 5 at 1 p.m. $10. Passaic County Community College, 1 College Boulevard. (973) 684-6555. 
 TENAFLY JCC on the Palisades ''Great Zionist Thinkers,'' a lecture by Rabbi Reuven Kimelman. Wednesday through April 9. Free. J.C.C. on the Palisades, 411 East Clinton Avenue. (212) 420-8080. 
 THEATER
 ATLANTIC HIGHLANDS First Avenue Playhouse ''The Gin Game,'' by D.L. Coburn. Through March 29. $15 and $20. First Avenue Playhouse, 123 First Avenue. (732) 291-7552; www.firstavenueplayhouse.com. 
 CRANFORD Union County College ''Fully Committed,'' comedy by Becky Mode. Thursday through April 13. $10 to $22. Union County College, 1033 Springfield Avenue. (908) 659-5189. 
 LONG BRANCH New Jersey Repertory Company ''Engaging Shaw,'' a romantic comedy by John Morogiello with excerpts from George Bernard Shaw. Through April 13. $30 to $40. New Jersey Repertory Company, 179 Broadway. (732) 229-3166; www.njrep.org. 
 MAPLEWOOD Burgdorff Cultural Center ''The Housekeeper,'' a comedy by James Prideaux, presented by the What Exit? Theater Company. Through April 13. $15 to $25. Burgdorff Cultural Center, 10 Durand Road. (973) 761-8453. 
 MARGATE Margate Community Church ''The Dining Room,'' comedy by A.R. Gurney. April 4 through April 13. $12 and $15. Margate Community Church, 8900 Ventnor Boulevard. (609) 432-9202. 
 MILLBURNPaper Mill Playhouse ''Steel Magnolias,'' drama by Robert Harling. Through April 6. $29.25 to $88.25. Paper Mill Playhouse, 3 Brookside Drive. (973) 376-4343; www.papermill.org. 
 MONTCLAIR Alexander Kasser Theater, Montclair State University ''Pay Up,'' an interactive performance based on the experiments of Keith Chen, a Yale economist. Thursday through March 30. $15. ''SubUrbia,'' drama by Eric Bogosian. April 3 through April 13. $15. Alexander Kasser Theater, Montclair State University, College Avenue and Red Hawk Road. (973) 655-5112; www.montclair.edu/kasser. 
 MORRIS TOWNSHIP Bickford Theater ''Rounding Third,'' comedy by Richard Dresser. Thursday through April 20. $15 to $30. Bickford Theater, 6 Normandy Heights Road. (973) 971-3706; www.morrismuseum.org. 
 NEW BRUNSWICKGeorge Street Playhouse ''The Scene,'' comedy by Theresa Rebeck. Through March 23. $28 to $62. George Street Playhouse, 9 Livingston Avenue. (732) 246-7717; www.georgestplayhouse.org. 
 NEW BRUNSWICK Mason Gross Performing Arts Center, Douglass Campus, Rutgers University ''Puree,'' comedy by Demetra Kareman, presented by the Rutgers Theater Company. Friday through April 5. $15 to $25. Mason Gross Performing Arts Center, Douglass Campus, Rutgers University, 85 George Street. (732) 932-7511; www.mgsa.rutgers.edu. 
 NEWARKNew Jersey Performing Arts Center ''My Fair Lady,'' musical by Alan Jay Lerner and Frederick Loewe. Through March 23. $23 to $69. New Jersey Performing Arts Center, 1 Center Street. (888) 466-5722; www.njpac.org.
 TRENTON Mill Hill Playhouse ''A Sense of Wonder,'' a solo performance about the pioneer environmentalist Rachel Carson, written and performed by Kaiulani Lee. Through Friday. $10 to $20. ''Blood Cherries,'' written and performed by Dawn Akemi Saito. March 29 at 8 p.m. $10 to $20. ''Tales from the Beatbox,'' hip-hop vocal percussion and monologue, performed by Yuri Lane. March 30 at 3 p.m. $10 to $20. Mill Hill Playhouse, Front and Montgomery Streets. (609) 392-0766. 
 WEST WINDSOR Kelsey Theater, West Windsor Campus, Mercer County Community College ''Singin' in the Rain,'' musical adapted from the classic Gene Kelly film. Friday through April 6. $10 to $16. Kelsey Theater, West Windsor Campus, Mercer County Community College, 1200 Old Trenton Road. (609) 570-3333; www.kelseyatmccc.org. 
 MUSEUMS AND GALLERIES
 CAMDEN Camden County Historical Society ''Lullaby for Dreamland: The Dreamland Cafe in Lawnside,'' historic photographs of jazz clubs and other night life in Lawnside, the first incorporated African-American town north of the Mason-Dixon line. Through April 10. Free. Hours: Sundays noon to 5 p.m.; Wednesdays, Thursdays and Fridays 12:30 to 4:30 p.m. Camden County Historical Society, 1900 Park Boulevard. (856) 964-3333; www.cchsnj.com. 
 CAPE MAY Mid-Atlantic Center for the Arts ''Proudly We Serve: Our African-American Military Experience, From the Civil War Forward,'' exhibition that highlights the contributions of African-Americans in photographs and artifacts. Through April 13. $1 and $2; free with a tour: $5 and $10. Mid-Atlantic Center for the Arts, 1048 Washington Street. (609) 884-5404; www.capemaymac.org. 
 CLINTON Hunterdon Museum of Art ''Cuba! Artists Experience Their Country,'' exhibition showing the social, cultural and political aspects of Cuban life. Through March 30. Free. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Hunterdon Museum of Art, 7 Lower Center Street. (908) 735-8415; www.hunterdonartmuseum.org. 
 CRANFORD Union County College ''Amelia's World: Animal Affinity,'' photographs by Robin Schwartz. Through April 17. Free. Union County College, 1033 Springfield Avenue. (908) 659-5189. 
 JERSEY CITY Liberty Science Center ''Race: Are We So Different?'' Exhibition bringing together the experience of living with race, its history as an idea and the role of science in that history. Through April 27. $11.50 and $15.75. Liberty Science Center, Liberty State Park, 222 Jersey City Boulevard. (201) 200-1000; www.lsc.org. 
 JERSEY CITY New Jersey City University, Visual Arts Gallery ''Mother Cuts: Experiments in Film and Video,'' exhibition of audio-visual works by four artists. Through April 11. Free. ''Sustaining Vision: A Tribute to Arlene Raven,'' multimedia exhibition by eight women. Through April 16. Free. New Jersey City University, Visual Arts Gallery, 100 Culver Avenue. (201) 200-3246. 
 LINCROFT Monmouth Museum ''Beyond Visions of Planetary Landscapes,'' solar system images by the artist Michael Benson. Through May 4. ''New Jersey Emerging Artists Series: Handmade Paper,'' works by Marie Sturken. Friday through April 20. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Monmouth Museum, Brookdale Community College, Newman Springs Road. (732) 747-2266; www.monmouthmuseum.org. 
 MANALAPAN Monmouth County Library ''An American in China,'' photographs by Arthur Krasinsky. Through March 31. Free. Monmouth County Library, 125 Symmes Drive. (732) 431-7242. 
 MORRIS TOWNSHIPMorris Museum ''Stepping Out in Style: Outerwear of the Last 150 Years.'' Through May 4. $6 to $8; free on Thursdays, from 5 to 8 p.m. Hours: Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Fridays and Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Thursdays to 8 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Morris Museum, 6 Normandy Heights Road. (973) 971-3700; www.morrismuseum.org. 
 MORRISTOWN Simon Gallery Exhibition of acrylic paintings by Matthew Craig. Through April 19. Hours: Tuesdays through Fridays, noon to 6 p.m.; Saturdays, noon to 5 p.m. Simon Gallery, 48 Bank Street. (973) 538-5456. 
 NEW BRUNSWICK Museum of the American Hungarian Foundation ''Magyar Grafika: Hungarian Posters, Advertising and Ephemera,'' exhibition featuring 75 posters from the 1900s. Through Sept. 14. $5. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 4 p.m. Museum of the American Hungarian Foundation, 300 Somerset Street. (732) 846-5777. 
 NEW BRUNSWICK Rutgers University, Douglass Library ''Tiger by the Tail! Women Artists of India Transforming Culture -- Part 1,'' exhibition of contemporary Indian art. Through July 31. Free. Rutgers University, Douglass Library, 8 Chapel Drive. (732) 932-9407; www.libraries.rutgers.edu/rul/exhibits/dana--womens.shtml. 
 NEW MILFORD Art Center of Northern New Jersey ''Journeys in the Third Dimension,'' group show featuring 17 sculptors. Through Tuesday. Free. Hours: Mondays through Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Art Center of Northern New Jersey, 250 Center Street. (201) 599-2992. 
 NEWARKNewark Museum ''Glass Beads of Ghana,'' exhibition of glass beads made with varied techniques and materials. Through June 15. ''O, Write My Name: American Portraits -- Harlem Heroes,'' exhibition of 50 portraits by Carl Van Vechten between 1930 and 1960. Through June 15. ''Small but Sublime: Intimate Views by Durand, Bierstadt and Inness.'' Wednesday through February 2009. ''Women's Tales: Four Leading Israeli Jewelers,'' exhibition of contemporary jewelry. Through June 25. $3 to $7; members, free. Hours: Wednesdays through Fridays, noon to 5 p.m.; October through June, Saturdays and Sundays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; July through September, Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. The Newark Museum, 49 Washington Street. (973) 596-6493; www.newarkmuseum.org. 
 PATERSON Passaic County Community College ''Mexican Revolutionary Prints,'' from the collection of Kutztown University of Pennsylvania. Through April 30. Free. Passaic County Community College, 1 College Boulevard. (973) 684-6555. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CALENDARS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); LIBRARIES (89%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); MUSIC (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); JAZZ & BLUES (78%); ANIMALS (74%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (73%); MUSIC GENRES (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (71%); FESTIVALS (71%); DANCE (71%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (64%)

PERSON: JAY-Z (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (55%) NEW JERSEY, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2008



554 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; PROTOTYPE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: How Did Your Computer Crash? Check the Instant Replay

BYLINE: By MICHAEL FITZGERALD. 
Michael Fitzgerald writes about business, technology and culture. E-mail: mfitz@nytimes.com

 BODY:
ANYONE who uses a computer knows what it's like to have the system crash. Crashes are the digital world's addition to that short list of inevitables, death and taxes. But what if you could record the crash and play it back, like TiVo for software?
 That idea inspired two software engineers, Jonathan Lindo and Jeffrey Daudel, to figure out such a product. They have succeeded, and are now moving from the niche market where they proved the idea and onto a bigger stage. 
 System crashes and other software flaws are more than an annoyance. A 2002 study by the National Institute of Standards and Technology estimated that software flaws cost the United States economy as much as $59.5 billion a year. 
 For software developers, the flaws that cause crashes rank among their biggest problems, especially the ones that can't be reproduced, like the proverbial noise in the car engine that disappears when you visit the mechanic.
 Mr. Lindo says he and Mr. Daudel found themselves overwhelmed by bugs they couldn't find while working together at an Internet start-up in 2002. ''We were spending almost all of our time not fixing the issues, but trying to get to the point where we could just see the issue, and we said, 'Wouldn't it be great if we could just TiVo this and replay it?''' Mr. Lindo recalls.
 Innovation by analogy is a powerful concept, says Giovanni Gavetti, an associate professor at the Harvard Business School who, with his colleague Jan W. Rivkin, has published research on how businesses can use analogic reasoning as a strategic tool. Human beings are analogy machines, he notes, dealing with new information by comparing it to things they already know something about. 
 It would take time for Mr. Lindo and Mr. Daudel to prove that their analogy worked. They were tackling a daunting problem -- in fact, friends told them that they had a great idea, but one that was probably impossible to carry out. For one thing, they had to account for everything that can affect a program, from keystrokes, mouse movements and other software applications to network traffic and programming instructions that are designed to occur randomly. (For instance, in a computer game, the villain shouldn't always do the same thing.)
 Ideally, their tool would not slow down the system as it recorded what was happening. They were also developing it for game platforms, among the most complex of software environments. 
 There were already programs on the market that could do things like log all the various inputs a program received. But none of them worked as the program was running, which is what developers really want, say analysts like Theresa Lanowitz of Voke, a technology research firm. In effect, that meant these products took snapshots, not the ''video'' that Mr. Lindo and Mr. Daudel thought was necessary.
 Eventually, they got their technology working, and in late December 2003 quit their jobs and started Replay Solutions -- so named because it would replay software crashes. 
 Their product, ReplayDirector, works on the Xbox gaming platform and several versions of the Microsoft Windows operating system. One customer is Electronic Arts, which began using the product in the fall of 2006, according to Steven Giles, its director of online operations. 
 Mr. Giles says he was referred to Replay by a venture capitalist he knows. The venture capitalist was worried that the company's software might be ''smoke and mirrors,'' and Mr. Giles initially felt the same way. But when he realized that it worked, he convinced a number of developer teams at Electronic Arts to license the tool. (The venture capitalist ended up investing in Replay.) 
 Mr. Giles says that he liked a number of things about the tool, but that one stood out: its ability to capture bugs that cannot be reproduced. 
 ''That's something that nobody inside or outside our industry has really been able to solve,'' he says. ''We refer to it almost as magic.'' 
 He declined to say how much Electronic Arts saves by using Replay, but says that ''where it's obvious that there are savings is when you see your most senior and expensive developers working on the game rather than chasing these ghost bugs.''
 Replay's gaming software sells for $50,000 a project, with negotiated pricing for multiple projects. 
 There are still pieces missing from the TiVo analogy. For instance, software developers can't yet fast-forward to see their crashes. Still, having tackled games, Replay is now expanding into new markets. Last week, it released a beta version of its next product, for developers who write code in the Java language. Versions for other markets will also start appearing later this year, and the technology should transfer to almost any kind of software environment, says Vishwanath Venugopalan, an enterprise software analyst at the 451 Group, a research firm in New York.
 THE best news for business is that Replay is one of a number of innovators, big and small, aiming to improve how software is developed, says Dana Gardner, president of Interarbor Solutions, a consulting firm in Gilford, N.H. This burst of innovation, he says, reflects the increasing importance of software across the business world. 
 Even a clever tool like Replay, however, cannot completely eliminate system crashes. With new software applications, ''you're always trying to solve a problem nobody's ever solved before,'' notes Michael D. Ernst, an associate professor of computer science at M.I.T. who studies programmer productivity and has independently been researching the idea of ''replaying'' software.
 New software, then, guarantees new bugs. But having a way to replay problems should make it much faster to find -- and swat -- those bugs. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY STUART GOLDENBERG) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SOFTWARE (91%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (89%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (77%); TOYS & GAMES (76%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (73%); INTERNET & WWW (73%); ENGINEERING (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (66%); COMPUTER GAMES (60%); STARTUPS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF STANDARDS & TECHNOLOGY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2008



555 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; ARCHITECTURE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2279 words

HEADLINE: Nice Tower! Who's Your Architect?

BYLINE: By NICOLAI OUROUSSOFF

 BODY:
THE HL23 tower, planned for a site on 23rd Street in Chelsea, is the kind of commission Neil Denari has being waiting for his entire working life. Mr. Denari, a Los Angeles architect who once ran the Southern California Institute of Architecture, has labored on the profession's periphery for decades. But because of a recent demand for name-brand residential architecture in New York, he is finally getting a chance to test his ideas in the real world. 
 And Mr. Denari is not alone here. His building is part of an eruption of luxury residential towers already constructed or being designed by the profession's most celebrated luminaries. In the last five years more than a dozen have been completed; maybe a dozen more are scheduled to break ground this year. They range from soaring, elaborately decorated towers by international celebrities like Jean Nouvel and Frank Gehry to smaller but equally ambitious architectural statements by lesser-known talents like Mr. Denari. 
 With the financial markets in an ominous roil, the realization of this boomlet is far from guaranteed. But even if only a few more are completed, the final effect of these buildings could be the greatest transformation in the city's physical identity since the 1960s. Bold and formally elaborate -- some would say showy -- they reflect a mix of attitudes and styles that the city has never seen. 
 They also reveal an unmistakable shift in the appetites and aspirations of an elite group of New Yorkers for whom an apartment's architectural pedigree has become a new form of status symbol. Rather than disappear behind the shielding bulwark of Park Avenue apartment houses or into anonymous loft buildings as previous generations of wealthy New Yorkers did, these residents want to live in structures that telegraph their wealth and uniqueness. 
 Decades from now these preening, sometimes beautiful, sometimes obtrusive towers could well be the last testament to this century's first gilded age. 
 Manhattan has a long history of rich people wanting to live in the clouds, wrapped in new architectural marvels. When the city's first luxury residential towers were built in the late 19th century, they were marketed as technological triumphs, packed with new features like elevators, steam heating and gas ranges. Hotel-style amenities like doormen and laundry services cut down on the cost of private servants. And at a time of civil unease and class tensions, the heights of such buildings (some with as many as 11 stories) were seen as a way for the wealthy to escape the grit of the street. 
 Over the next half century or so the obsession with technology was matched by a need to open up the booming metropolis to light and air. Within their elaborate Italianate facades, the internal courtyards of luxury housing blocks like the Dakota and the Ansonia were creative efforts to alleviate urban congestion. Later such buildings were followed by the Modernist white-brick structures of the 1960s, with their light-filled apartments and transparent lobbies overlooking garden courts. 
 The flamboyant exteriors of the recent crop of signature buildings represent yet another shift in architectural priorities. Whereas technological innovation once focused on the interior workings of the machine -- from plumbing to structural innovations like steel frames -- most of today's architectural innovations are expressed through the buildings' exterior forms. 
 Not everyone is happy with this state of affairs. Traditionalists, still stung by the rise of Modernism, see the current crop of signature buildings as a break with the historical street front. Mostly, they criticize these works on aesthetic grounds: as flashy expressions of architectural vanity. 
 It's true that some of the new buildings are ostentatious. When workers broke ground two years ago on Herzog & de Meuron's 40 Bond in the East Village, the building was hailed as one of the city's first serious residential projects by an international celebrity firm. Today the cast green glass facade feels slick and mannered. An elaborate gate meant to resemble a three-dimensional work of graffiti is an embarrassing effort to tap into a bygone underground scene. (Nevertheless all of the multimillion-dollar units were sold before the building was close to completion.) 
 But the city has also been starving for innovative architecture. And to my mind the greatest residential projects of the last decade have managed to balance aesthetic freedom with a nuanced understanding of their surroundings. Rather than mimic period styles, such buildings are a physical expression of the needs and demands of the environments they inhabit.
 The muscular forms of Mr. Gehry's 74-story Beekman Street Tower, being built near City Hall, are like the chiseled setbacks and crisp vertical lines of Rockefeller Center's RCA tower and the neo-Classicism of Stalin-era Moscow. Yet its crinkled stainless steel is a wonder; as light flickers across the facade, it will seem to dissolve into rivulets of water. 
 Similarly the slim, tapered form of Mr. Nouvel's 75-story condominium and hotel tower, planned for a site alongside the Museum of Modern Art on West 53rd Street, is a play on traditional New York skyscrapers like the Chrysler Building. The design of its taut glass skin suggests shards of glass falling from the sky. A weblike pattern of beams crisscross the exterior, as if the building were bracing itself against psychological and economic forces pressing in from all sides. 
 Such towering aesthetic triumphs are being joined by a number of designs that combine a strong structural vision with a critique of Modernist ideas about purity. Their contorted shapes are meant to reflect the collision of forces that shape contemporary cities, from zoning regulations to the private desires of residents. 
 Like many of the smaller luxury high-rises being built today, Mr. Denari's building will be squeezed onto a tiny lot -- in its case, between another high rise on 23rd Street and the High Line, a park to be built on a stretch of abandoned elevated railway. Scheduled to break ground later this month, the 14-story building will twist and swell as it rises to take advantage of views up and down the park. At some junctures its metal skin will peel open to frame the views; at others, a grid of diagonal braces -- their pattern reflecting the uneven stresses placed on the building's frame -- will evoke the stays of a corset. 
 Across town that strategy can be experienced in Bernard Tschumi's recently completed Blue Building. Decorated in a checkerboard pattern of irregular blue and black windows, the structure bulges out to one side as it rises above the surrounding tenements, as if trying to pack as much real estate as possible onto its Lower East Side lot. The effect of the distortions is that the building is constantly changing as you move around it, like an enormous piece of costume jewelry twinkling in the light. 
 In other cases, however, the seemingly noble aim of working within a neighborhood's character leads to lackluster design. The scale and placement of the windows on the facade of Deborah Berke's new limestone-and-steel apartment complex just across from 40 Bond, for example, does echo the neighboring buildings. But the results are tepid.
 The current infatuation with brand names has also opened up the profession to new and unexpected voices. It's been a good while since I have written about a building as crudely cobbled together as Julian Schnabel's Palazzo Chupi, which was completed last year on West 11th Street, for example. A bright pink stucco box adorned with Venetian-style arched windows, it looks as if it had been plopped atop an existing warehouse. Still, the overblown scaleand collision of styles have a refreshing bluntness; in some ways it's closer in spirit to the vernacular architecture of the Far East, an atavistic approach that is a nice counterpoint to the hyper-modernity of so much contemporary work. 
 As a whole, the best of these buildings are gorgeous additions to the skyline, a relief from decades of creative stagnation. 
 This external bravura, however, makes the mind-numbing conventionality of their interiors so much more disappointing. As a rule, most of the architectural fireworks in these buildings tend to stop at the lobby, and there are no compelling ideas about how social spaces should be organized. The interiors of these buildings could have been designed by real-estate marketers, and in many cases they more or less were. Despite the expensive appliances and luxurious finishes at 40 Bond Street, for example, the floor plans are generic: one-, two- and three-bedroom apartments and town houses with loftlike living spaces and kitchens at one end. The same can be said for virtually all of the projects I have mentioned so far. 
 Some architects were able to work around conventional real estate wisdom by forging exteriors that would impose a specific experience on the interior spaces. By the time the consultants at Forest City Ratner, the developer behind Mr. Gehry's Beekman building, realized that the wrinkled walls of the architect's tower would be mirrored inside the apartments, for example, it was too late to change without a costly reworking of the design. 
 Similarly, the canted walls and steel cross bracing of Mr. Denari's HL23 building will have a powerful effect on the interior. But from the point of view of a real-estate consultant, this will only make it harder to hang curtains. 
 Yet neither Mr. Gehry nor Mr. Denari was allowed to tinker with the actual layout of the apartments, which will be the same loftlike interiors that have become as much of an urban cliche as the gated Mediterranean community has in suburbia. 
 Admittedly, New York has never been known for bold experimentation in interior space. There has been nothing comparable in Manhattan to Le Corbusier's 1952 Unite d'Habitation in Marseilles: a giant slab packed with an endless variety of intricately interlocking apartments. Technological innovations here have never been coupled with that type of social experimentation. 
 But the banal interiors of New York's luxury apartment buildings may also have to do with our reactionary times. Among architects it is now common wisdom that today's clients are less willing to upend conventional living arrangements than earlier generations were. Sulan Kolatan and William MacDonald, whose firm is one of the few that has challenged clients to be more adventuresome, have had a typically frustrating experience. In their 1991 design for the Shapiro Fields apartment on the Upper West Side, they transformed a prewar space with the typical formal entry and maid's quarters into a fluid sequence of rooms connected by a sequence of surgical cuts and strategically spaced mirrors.
 Less than two years later the owner sold it, and the new occupant immediately converted it back to its original prewar state.
 Later, in the late '90s these architects built the O/K Apartment, which featured molded orange surfaces that extended seamlessly from the bathtub to the bed to the hall. It was intended as a prototype for a new kind of millennial living. There were no takers.
 This resistance may not be surprising for a class of people who increasingly want the same residential experience whether they are in Moscow, Paris or New York. Arriving in New York by private jet -- or wishing they had -- they tend to view their homes as personalized hotel rooms, and developers are more than happy to indulge them. Many of the new buildings provide the same kind of services you would find in a luxury hotel, from breakfast in bed to spa treatments to dog walkers. 
 Add to this the subtle effects of technology. The discovery of nonreflective glass has meant that the play off reflections that once animated glass high-rises has been replaced by a greater degree of transparency, one that has reinforced the buildings' image as architecture for exhibitionists. Meanwhile the growing use of computer software has tended to smooth out designs' rougher edges, often leading to slick, lifeless interiors in pretty wrappers. 
 Yet the biggest shift of all may have to do with where we focus our most valuable architectural resources today. The city has seen monuments to personal ostentation before, from the Vanderbilt chateau on Fifth Avenue at 52nd Street to the Carnegie mansion 40 blocks north. But for the most part New York's most memorable architectural achievements in the 20th century were either major civic buildings or monuments to corporate power. 
 Carrere & Hastings's New York Public Library. Reed & Stern and Warren & Wetmore's Grand Central Terminal. Raymond Hood's Rockefeller Center. Mies van der Rohe's Seagram building. All were profound reflections of the cultural values of their day. 
 Today that balance has been reversed. While several outstanding new civic buildings have been completed here in recent years, from Sanaa's stacked-box New Museum of Contemporary Art on the Bowery to Renzo Piano's archaeologically artful expansion of the Morgan Library & Museum, the abundance of luxury apartment buildings and the wealth of talent enlisted proclaim their outsize significance. And some of these architects rarely get to work on the kind of public projects that probably would have been part of their portfolio in New York half a century ago. 
 We all like to look at pretty baubles, even if they tend to be hollow. But a generation from now we may look back at these condo buildings as our generation's chief contribution to the city's history: gorgeous tokens of a rampantly narcissistic age.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 6, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on March 23 about new luxury condominium towers in Manhattan misidentified a tower on Bond Street designed by the architect Deborah Berke. The building is just to the east of a new tower at 40 Bond Street, not across the street from it; its facade is constructed primarily from black granite and zinc, not limestone and steel.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ON THE COVER: 1. 166 Perry Street, designed by Hani Rashid and LiseAnne Couture (under construction)
2. West 53rd Street, designed by Jean Nouvel (planned)
3. the Urban Glass House on Spring Street, designed by Philip Johnson
4. West 19th Street, designed by Mr. Nouvel (under way)
5. 40 Bond, designed by Herzog & de Meuron
6. 40 Mercer, designed by Mr. Nouvel
7. One York, designed by Enrique Norten (under way)
8. HL23, West 23rd Street, designed by Neil Denari (planned)
9. Beekman Street Tower, designed by Frank Gehry (under way)
10. Palazzo Chupi at West 11th Street, designed by Julian Schnabel
11. 48 Bond, designed by Deborah Berke. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NEIL DENARI
TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. AR21)
Far left, Bernard Tschumi's Blue Building on the Lower East Side
near left and below left, renderings of Neil Denari's HL23, planned for Chelsea
and the interior of Herzog & de Meuron's 40 Bond in the East Village. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOHN MARSHALL MANTEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 NEIL DENARI) (pg. AR21) (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW RODRIGUEZ) (pg. AR1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (72%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (71%); CITY LIFE (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (67%)

COMPANY: FITT HIGHWAY PRODUCTS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS FOOD MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2008



556 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: Iraq, $5,000 Per Second?

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
The Iraq war is now going better than expected, for a change. Most critics of the war, myself included, blew it: we didn't anticipate the improvements in security that are partly the result of last year's ''surge.'' 
 The improvement is real but fragile and limited. Here's what it amounts to: We've cut our casualty rates to the unacceptable levels that plagued us back in 2005, and we still don't have any exit plan for years to come -- all for a bill that is accumulating at the rate of almost $5,000 every second! 
 More important, while casualties in Baghdad are down, we're beginning to take losses in Florida and California. The United States seems to have slipped into recession; Americans are losing their homes, jobs and health insurance; banks are struggling -- and the Iraq war appears to have aggravated all these domestic woes.
 ''The present economic mess is very much related to the Iraq war,'' says Joseph Stiglitz, the Nobel Prize-winning economist. ''It was at least partially responsible for soaring oil prices. ...Moreover, money spent on Iraq did not stimulate the economy as much as the same dollars spent at home would have done. To cover up these weaknesses in the American economy, the Fed let forth a flood of liquidity; that, together with lax regulations, led to a housing bubble and a consumption boom.''
 Not everyone agrees that the connection between Iraq and our economic hardships is so strong. Robert Hormats, vice chairman of Goldman Sachs International and author of a book on how America pays for wars, argues that the Iraq war is a negative for the economy but still only a minor factor in the present crisis.
 ''Is it a significant cause of the present downturn?'' Mr. Hormats asked. ''I'd say no, but could the money have been better utilized to strengthen our economy? The answer is yes.''
 For all the disagreement, there appears to be at least a modest connection between spending in Iraq and the economic difficulties at home. So as we debate whether to bring our troops home, one central question should be whether Iraq is really the best place to invest $411 million every day in present spending alone.
 I've argued that staying in Iraq indefinitely undermines our national security by empowering jihadis -- just as we now know that our military presence in Saudi Arabia in the 1990s was, in fact, counterproductive by empowering Al Qaeda in its early days. On the other hand, supporters of the war argue that a withdrawal from Iraq would signal weakness and leave a vacuum that extremists would fill, and those are legitimate concerns.
 But if you believe that staying in Iraq does more good than harm, you must answer the next question: Is that presence so valuable that it is worth undermining our economy?
 Granted, the cost estimates are squishy and controversial, partly because the $12.5 billion a month that we're now paying for Iraq is only a down payment. We'll still be making disability payments to Iraq war veterans 50 years from now.
 Professor Stiglitz calculates in a new book, written with Linda Bilmes of Harvard University, that the total costs, including the long-term bills we're incurring, amount to about $25 billion a month. That's $330 a month for a family of four. 
 A Congressional study by the Joint Economic Committee found that the sums spent on the Iraq war each day could enroll an additional 58,000 children in Head Start or give Pell Grants to 153,000 students to attend college. Or if we're sure we want to invest in security, then a day's Iraq spending would finance another 11,000 border patrol agents or 9,000 police officers.
 Imagine the possibilities. We could hire more police and border patrol agents, expand Head Start and rehabilitate America's image in the world by underwriting a global drive to slash maternal mortality, eradicate malaria and deworm every child in Africa. 
 All that would consume less than one month's spending on the Iraq war. 
 Moreover, the Bush administration has financed this war in a way that undermines our national security -- by borrowing. Forty percent of the increased debt will be held by China and other foreign countries. 
 ''This is the first major war in American history where all the additional cost was paid for by borrowing,'' Mr. Hormats notes. If the war backers believe that the Iraq war is so essential, then they should be willing to pay for it partly with taxes rather than charging it. 
 One way or another, now or later, we'll have to pay the bill. Professor Stiglitz calculates that the eventual total cost of the war will be about $3 trillion. For a family of five like mine, that amounts to a bill of almost $50,000. 
 I don't feel that I'm getting my money's worth. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); RECESSION (74%); HOME PRICES (73%); NOBEL PRIZES (72%); AWARDS & PRIZES (72%); WRITERS (71%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (68%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (68%); CONSUMPTION (67%); HOUSING BUBBLE (67%); AL-QAEDA (60%); ARMED FORCES (60%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (60%); HEALTH INSURANCE (53%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (84%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (58%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2008



557 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 5202 words

HEADLINE: Practicing Patients

BYLINE: By THOMAS GOETZ. 
Thomas Goetz is the deputy editor of Wired magazine.

 BODY:
Todd Small was stuck in quicksand again. It happened, as always, on the floor of the Seattle machine shop where he worked. His shift complete, Small was making the 150-yard walk from his workstation to his car, when he realized that his left leg was sinking deep in the stuff. Though this had happened before -- it happened nearly every day now -- he stopped and glanced down at his feet. His Nikes looked normal, still firmly planted on the shop's concrete floor. But he was stuck, just the same. His brain was sending an electrical pulse saying ''walk,'' but as the signal streaked from his cerebellum and down his spinal cord, it snagged on scar tissue where the myelin layer insulating his nerve fibers had broken down. The message wasn't getting to his hip flexors or his hamstrings or his left foot. That connection had been severed by his multiple sclerosis. And once again, Small was left with the feeling that, as he described it, ''I'm up to my waist in quicksand.'' 
 For the 400,000 Americans with multiple sclerosis, Todd Small's description will most likely ring true. Muscle stiffness is a hallmark of the disease, and ''foot drop'' -- the term for Small's quicksand feeling -- is a frequent complaint. The condition is usually treated, as it was in Small's case, with baclofen, a muscle relaxant that works directly on the spinal cord. Every day for 14 years, he took a single 10-milligram pill. ''My neurologist always told me if you take too much it will weaken your muscles. So I never wanted to go over 10 milligrams.'' It didn't seem to have much effect, but he carried on as best he could.
 Small would have continued just as he was had he not logged on last June to a Web site called PatientsLikeMe. He expected the sort of online community he'd tried and abandoned several times before -- one abundant in sympathy and stories but thin on practical information. But he found something altogether different: data. 
 After choosing a user name and filling out a profile, Small was asked to list his symptoms and treatments. He entered the 200 milligrams of Provigil he takes daily to fight fatigue along with the Tysabri injection he takes to slow the progress of his disease. And then he clicked on baclofen, and the Web site informed him that nearly 200 patients registered at PatientsLikeMe were taking the drug. He clicked again, and up popped a bold bar graph, sectoring those 200 across a spectrum of dosages. And there it was. Contrary to what his neurologist told him years ago, 10 milligrams wasn't the maximum dose. In fact, it was at the low end of the scale. ''They're taking 30, 60, sometimes 80 milligrams -- and they're just fine,'' Small recalls. ''So it hits me: I'm not taking nearly enough of this drug.'' 
 A few days later, Small asked his neurologist to up his dosage. Now Small takes 40 milligrams of baclofen a day. His foot drop isn't cured -- there are no miracles in M.S. -- but he has found that after 14 years, he can walk to his car without sinking into quicksand. ''Oh, man, I really dreaded that walk,'' Small recalled when I spoke with him recently. ''All shift, it'd be in the back of my mind. Am I going to have trouble? Is it going to get me? Now I almost got it figured it out. I don't struggle like I used to.'' 
 There are a little more than 7,000 Todd Smalls at PatientsLikeMe, congregating around diseases like Parkinson's, multiple sclerosis (M.S.) and AIDS, all of them contributing their experiences and tweaking their treatments. At first glance, the Web site looks like just any other online community, a kind of MySpace for the afflicted. Members have user names, post pictures of themselves and post updates and encouragements. As such, it's related to the chat rooms and online communities that have inhabited the Internet for more than a decade.
 But PatientsLikeMe seeks to go a mile deeper than health-information sites like WebMD or online support groups like Daily Strength. The members of PatientsLikeMe don't just share their experiences anecdotally; they quantify them, breaking down their symptoms and treatments into hard data. They note what hurts, where and for how long. They list their drugs and dosages and score how well they alleviate their symptoms. All this gets compiled over time, aggregated and crunched into tidy bar graphs and progress curves by the software behind the site. And it's all open for comparison and analysis. By telling so much, the members of PatientsLikeMe are creating a rich database of disease treatment and patient experience.
 And that's no small thing. As modern medicine has reduced infectious disease in the U.S., the country's population -- like those in other developed nations -- has shifted to longer-term, chronic ailments like heart disease and diabetes, diseases that patients must cope with for years and even decades. What's more, conditions like high cholesterol and obesity demand years of vigilance to minimize their chances of leading to more serious health problems. 
 Disease management has become a national reality, a common experience that demands uncommon attention. And PatientsLikeMe is a tool that allows patients to manage their disease with a sophistication and precision that would have been unimaginable just a decade ago. The 7,000 members of PatientsLikeMe, in other words, are beta testers -- they may be the vanguard of how we all will care and treat our resume of chronic diseases. They're not typical patients, in the sense of waiting for advice from a doctor. They are, rather, co-practitioners treating their conditions and guiding their care, with possibly profound implications. ''People who use it will live longer; people who don't won't,'' boasts Jamie Heywood, the provocative co-founder of PatientsLikeMe. ''That's evolution.''
 Of course, turning patients' experiences into usable data raises a host of questions for medicine. When patients take the reins of their own treatment, what role do doctors play? What's to keep patients from misinterpreting the streams of data and finding false hope -- and what's stopping them from embarking on unproven and even risky treatments or dosages? And what happens if the real-world information at PatientsLikeMe contradicts the clinically proved protocols of medical science?
 For many in the medical community, these are unexpected and unsettling questions. And they reflect the broader concern that many doctors have with the Internet's emergence as a powerful source of medical information. According to a 2006 study by the Pew Research Center, 80 percent of Internet users, or about 113 million adults in the U.S., get health information from the Internet. Some physicians disdain this trend, bemoaning their hyperinformed patients as ''Googlers.''
 Yet even doctors who consider themselves advocates of online medical information raise concerns about patients self-medicating or self-treating. Erik Ensrud, a neurologist at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston, specializes in many of the diseases that PatientsLikeMe focuses on. ''The nervous system is the most complicated system in the body,'' he says. ''It's so often much more difficult to quantify and study than we think it will be.''
 For the members of PatientsLikeMe, though, the Web site can seem like a revelation -- it's a community forged not only around shared circumstance but also around a shared purpose. They say they are part of a project that may change the way their disease is treated and could change the way medicine is practiced. It's an experiment in the future of medicine, running in real time.
 PatientsLikeMe started with a single case of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. In 1998, Stephen Heywood, a 29-year-old carpenter, learned that he had A.L.S., a neurodegenerative disorder commonly known as Lou Gehrig's disease. Jamie, his older brother, quit his job to find a cure. An M.I.T.-trained mechanical engineer with a knack for neuroscience, Jamie founded the A.L.S. Therapy Development Institute in Cambridge, Mass., the following year. So began a radical quest to save Stephen's life. They tried experimental drug therapies, they tried a stem-cell transplant and they tried a neural implant, each effort building on the previous one. After six years, Stephen was among the most documented A.L.S. patients in the world. 
 The sheer volume of Stephen's data gave Jamie an idea -- a notion hatched while browsing Match.com, the online dating site. The aspiring singles there had posted a trove of information about themselves -- their likes and dislikes, their dating histories, their height and weight -- all to find a perfect match. Jamie realized that a similar tool might be useful in the realm of disease, for treatment rather than romance. If patients shared their information and could find someone with a similar symptomatology and disease history, then they might better plot their own course of treatment and care. And it didn't just have to be A.L.S. -- it could work for any disease.
 Jamie tapped his brother Ben, who also went to M.I.T. before earning his M.B.A. at U.C.L.A., and Jeff Cole, a college classmate of Ben's who'd spent several years building dot-coms. They started with Stephen's own case history, breaking it down into drug dosages, symptom severities and so on. In March 2006, PatientsLikeMe opened for business. Within a few months, the company added communities for M.S. and Parkinson's disease. Last fall the company opened a community for people with H.I.V. Earlier this month, the company placed its biggest bet on the model of collective experience, creating a community for the millions of Americans with a mental-health condition. 
 The Web site gathers patient information on two levels: first there's a quantitative breakdown of symptoms and dosages, data that the software instantly turns into charts and graphs. Second are the forums, where members share advice and provide more nuanced feedback on a certain drug or treatment issue. The site is designed so that relevant data bolster the conversations in the forums and vice versa.
 ''Our job is to allow a conversation with the computer that will match a conversation between two patients,'' Jamie explains. ''Then we capture that dialogue and turn it into useful, clean data.''
 Stephen died the day after Thanksgiving in 2006, but his profile, under the user name ALSKing101, still contributes to that dialogue. Like many people with advanced A.L.S., in his last three years, Stephen was living in a wheelchair, completely paralyzed and breathing through a mechanical vent. One night his breathing tube snagged and disconnected, and he suffocated while he was sleeping. Such a death isn't unknown for A.L.S. patients, and many PatientsLikeMe members -- about 75 are on ventilators -- have expressed fears about dying that way. Their main concern is that suffocation is a painful, unpleasant way to go. 
 As it turns out, the PatientsLikeMe community tries to allay that fear. At least two other members of the site have, in fact, had their breathing tubes accidentally disconnected and suffocated until passing out -- only to be found and resuscitated, just in time. They have, in other words, almost died in just the way Stephen did, in the way so many have feared, but lived to tell about it: ''Long story short, my vent hose came off in '97, and I was certain I was going to die. I stared at the clock for exactly 10 minutes until I got tunnel vision then passed out. Nothing painful, stressful or anxious about it. It was like I just got sleepy and went to sleep. Suffocation was nothing like what I expected. Lol.'' Laugh out loud, indeed.
 The company is located in the brick-walled basement of a former twine factory, less than a mile from the M.I.T. campus in Cambridge. With just 15 employees, it is very much in start-up mode. Cole, who is 36, manages the site's design and software team; Ben Heywood, also 36, handles overall operations and management; Jamie, 41, is the frenzied visionary, ever eager to sketch out how powerful a database of 7,000 patient profiles can be. The company, which is financed by private investors, eschews advertising; the business model instead seeks to exploit the value of the databank itself. By and large, this means working with pharmaceutical companies. The company has had discussions with several drug firms to sell anonymized patient data on various symptoms and treatments. They have also recruited PatientsLikeMe members to be participants in clinical drug trials. Ultimately, the company expects that the data will generate insights with considerable scientific -- as well as economic -- value. 
 One afternoon in late November when I visited the office, Jamie turned to a nearby whiteboard and traced out an x-y axis, slashing a descending line from left to right. ''We have the ability to run a probability engine,'' he said. ''We can mathematically model each patient. We can tell them what's going to happen in their life. We can tell you when you'll need a wheelchair.'' He made a mark along the line. ''And we can even tell you the day you'll die, with remarkable certainty.''
 Of course, Jamie's spiel is part bravado. The company hasn't started to predict specific patients' prognoses -- though they have filed for a patent covering such prediction tools. And not all quests for scientific precision are likely to succeed or prove worthwhile. But for the patient coping with the cascade of day-to-day decisions that come with managing a disease, the site's aggregations offer a remarkable tool. 
 Every day, like 453 other members with M.S., Leslie Fournier gives herself an injection of Copaxone, a drug that impedes the disease's progress. Together, the group has generated what amounts to a checklist of best practices. Fournier has learned that by doing the injection herself, ''John Wayne-style,'' rather than using an auto injector, she can avoid some of the bruising that's a particularly aggravating side effect. And she has learned that the optimal needle stick goes through the skin and into the fat layer -- but no further. ''You don't want to get muscle,'' she relates. ''Last time I did that, I couldn't use that leg very well for a day and a half.''
 Fournier, a self-described information junkie, relates all these details with a blase precision. Her willingness to put so much information about herself online may seem immodest, even imprudent. But not to her. ''I don't worry too much about that,'' she says. ''Pretty much everybody I know over 45 has some kind of medical condition. Some people have had cataracts surgery, or they have high blood pressure, or high cholesterol or diabetes. Everyone has something. And if everyone has something, that really levels the playing field.''
 ''Any disease that is treated as a mystery and acutely enough feared will be felt to be morally, if not literally, contagious,'' Susan Sontag wrote in 1978, in ''Illness as Metaphor.'' ''Contact with someone afflicted with a disease regarded as a mysterious malevolency inevitably feels like a trespass; worse, like the violation of a taboo.'' The antidote to such stigma, she suggested, is ''to rectify the conception of disease, to demythicize it.'' 
 But the myths surrounding disease are hard to dispel, our impulse to hide in metaphor difficult to shake. We still talk of wars on cancer and plagues of lawyers. ''Leper'' endures as a metaphor for stigma, long after leprosy itself has been eliminated from most of the world.
 Stigma endures in more material ways, as well -- most pointedly in concerns over medical privacy. For decades, our personal health information has been protected largely by disorganization and chaos, suggests Mark Rothstein, a bioethics and health-policy professor at the University of Louisville. But now, with major health-maintenance organizations and hospitals finally adopting electronic records, fallow storerooms of paper records are being converted into neat and portable digital form. ''Technology is racing ahead of society,'' says Rothstein, who advises the Department of Health and Human Services on electronic privacy. ''If this is sensitive information -- sexual history, mental illness, substance abuse -- even if nothing bad happens, people are subject to stigma and embarrassment.''
 The government has tried to protect patient privacy, most notably with the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, or Hipaa. Enacted in 1996 to help streamline the adoption of electronic records, Hipaa was modified in 2002 to address concerns over how those records might be misused or distributed to unauthorized people. The law stipulates that if 18 categories of personally identifiable information are stripped from records then they may be transferred for research purposes without a patient's consent.
 Perhaps not surprisingly, Hipaa satisfies no one -- not the privacy advocates, who argue against most any form of electronic record, and not the medical researchers, who now face onerous restrictions on their work. PatientsLikeMe upends this dialectic; in technology terms, it routes around the problem. Since the company is an opt-in service and not a health-care provider, Hipaa doesn't apply. Good thing, really, since the site identifies members' cities and their ages, two of Hipaa's 18 prohibited categories of personal information. 
 But Hipaa is extraneous not just legally but philosophically as well. Many PatientsLikeMe members volunteer even more information from those 18 categories. They not only post their photos but also post photos of their children and spouses. They add brief autobiographies and describe their conditions in precise detail -- including potentially embarrassing particulars on sexual function, bladder control or constipation. And though they all have user names, most go by their first names on the site's forums. 
 PatientsLikeMe's privacy policy clearly states that this sharing carries risks. It acknowledges that since anybody can register at the Web site, anybody can look at member profiles. It makes clear that there's no guarantee that registered members are, in truth, who they say they are. And it nods to the fact that, yes, this is a business, not a public service -- some personally identifiable information may be sold to ''approved vendors.'' But this is boilerplate. The most striking notice is the company's Openness Philosophy, a manifesto posted prominently on the site.
 ''Currently, most health-care data is inaccessible due to privacy regulations or proprietary tactics,'' it declares. ''As a result, research is slowed, and the development of breakthrough treatments takes decades. . . . When you and thousands like you share your data, you open up the health-care system. . . . We believe that the Internet can democratize patient data and accelerate research like never before.''
 In 1990, Alan Westin, a political scientist at Columbia University and an expert in privacy issues, offered a useful taxonomy of Americans' attitudes toward privacy. On one end of the spectrum were what he called privacy fundamentalists -- the 25 percent of Americans who feel that their privacy is paramount and that no one, not the government or corporations or their family, should have access to their personal information without explicit permission. At the other end of the spectrum were the privacy-unconcerned -- about 15 percent of Americans -- who paid no mind to privacy issues and didn't figure they had anything to hide. In the middle were the vast majority, the 60 percent whom Westin called privacy pragmatists: those who felt that they could give a company they trusted some information -- birth date, ZIP code, telephone number -- for particular benefits.
 The members of PatientsLikeMe aren't all radicals culled from the privacy-unconcerned, though no doubt some are. Most more likely fit the profile of pragmatists. ''I know it sounds like really personal information, but it's not like I'm putting my phone number up,'' says Jennifer Jodoin, a hotel manager in Palm Beach, Fla., who has changed her M.S. medications based on information gleaned at PatientsLikeMe. ''I'm not posting my address and saying, 'Come on by.' It's an exchange of information to get help and to give help.''
 That pretty much defines pragmatism, and it exemplifies these strategic information-for-benefit exchanges people make like taking a blood test to get life insurance or consenting to a background check to secure a new job. Only now, at places like PatientsLikeMe, information has a currency that's far more liquid than ever. Converted into data and bundled with information from those like us, private information can be invested for both immediate gains and long-term returns.
 And there's a fortunate side effect to converting your health history into data -- it strips it of metaphor, of secrecy, of stigma. It becomes concrete, manageable and valuable. It becomes, just as Sontag suggested 30 years ago, demythicized.
 As diseases go, A.L.S. or M.S. or Parkinson's or even H.I.V. are relatively rare afflictions, at least in the United States. Mental illness, on the other hand, afflicts a vast swath of the country. Nearly 60 million Americans have a diagnosable mental disorder, according to the National Institute of Mental Health, a population that includes everything from depression to bipolar syndrome to anxiety. For PatientsLikeMe, that population represents a huge market, not to mention the potentially lucrative bounty of data related to antidepressants and other mood-disorder drugs. But it also presents a challenge. 
 Creating a PatientsLikeMe mental-health community -- or as they call it, a ''mood community'' -- requires a new strategy for measuring mental health. The challenge is in part semantic. Where the argot around A.L.S. or M.S. is largely clinical, the vernacular around mental health is more subjective. The official diagnostic criteria for major depression, for example, include ''feelings of worthlessness'' and ''indecisiveness.'' So PatientsLikeMe faces an input problem: how to convert the ambiguities of mental illness into metrics?
 Whatever its ultimate worth, the site's answer is elegantly straightforward. Members can update their mood status every hour on a scale of 1 to 4, from very bad to very good. How they feel may be subjective, but the resulting data can be mapped across time. The site treats sessions of therapy as if they were a dose of Prozac; the type of therapy (say, group or individual) stands as the treatment, and the length of a session (say, 50 minutes a week) as the dosage. 
 Such efforts at precise measurement and comparison are not the norm in evaluating mental-health treatment. Americans spend about $12 billion a year on antidepressants, but we still have little understanding of how or whether they work. In 2006, the National Institute of Mental Health released the results of the largest and longest depression study ever undertaken, the Sequenced Treatment Alternatives to Relieve Depression Study, or Star-D. Star-D rejected typical clinical study design and aimed to create a real-world representation of how patients actually experience and treat depression: through trial and error, taking one drug after another, searching for one that helps.
 The results were mixed. Star-D found that if you're depressed and spent three months on a potent psychotropic drug, you had a one-third chance of achieving remission. After almost six months on drugs, your chances bump up to about fifty-fifty -- a coin flip -- andyou still risk side effects like sexual dysfunction, insomnia and weight gain. Those may be good odds for the industry, but it seems a poor bet for a patient. 
 At PatientsLikeMe, Ben Heywood sees pure opportunity in such statistics. ''Those odds just aren't good enough,'' he says. ''So you try Wellbutrin, and after six weeks it doesn't work. Then Prozac. Doesn't work. Now what? Where do you go next?'' Plugged in to a community of patients sharing their depression histories and treatments, Ben argues, patients could readily find someone with symptomatology close to their own, compare drug regimens and go straight to the drug that may be more likely to work for them. 
 This, for patients, is the promise of a mental-health community: better tailoring of treatments. It is also the promise of the site as a business. The pharmaceutical industry should be eager to improve the accuracy and efficacy of its treatments. After all, sometimes side effects can turn into blockbusters, most famously when Pfizer scientists learned that their hypertension treatment was causing erections in men, leading the way to Viagra. Since PatientsLikeMe forgoes advertising, selling its data to pharmaceutical companies is its best apparent way to make money. But so far, it seems, the drug industry has balked at the prospect of knowing so precisely what happens to their products after they reach the market.
 If Jamie Heywood talks about his company as an incendiary force in the health-care industry -- ''This is the way it worked before ethics destroyed medicine,'' he told me at one point -- the American Medical Association would pretty much agree. From the perspective of many doctors, 
 PatientsLikeMe raises many more questions and quandaries than it answers.
 Joe Heyman, a practicing physician in Amesbury, Mass., and the chair-elect of the A.M.A.'s board of trustees, praises the potential benefits of a tool like PatientsLikeMe for patients. He's just uncomfortable with who's minding the toolbox. ''The idea of them is a wonderful thing,'' he says. ''But you know, as a physician I have a code of ethics. We have licensing boards and accreditation and all these people keeping an eye on us.'' Heyman suggests that if physicians themselves aren't sole stewards of the patient data -- his first choice -- then there should be some national standards or a law that covers a company like PatientsLikeMe that traffics in such data.
 Heyman is also uncomfortable with how PatientsLikeMe encourages patients to take their medical information and then act on it. ''Sometimes patients misunderstand what a doctor says to them,'' he says, ''so by the time it gets to the third or fourth party it's like a game of telephone. It's not as reliable as coming from the horse's mouth.''
 Heyman may be speaking from the perspective of the injured party -- PatientsLikeMe could be seen as a direct challenge to physicians' omniscience -- but there's still something to his concerns. PatientsLikeMe not only lets members track their disease; it also tacitly encourages them to take action. While PatientsLikeMe advises users to consult a doctor before changing their treatments or dosages -- patients can print out an exhaustive status report, replete with graphs and charts, to take on doctors' visits, and personal physicians can register as caregivers on the site -- there will inevitably be patients who treat the Web site's apparent rigor and depth as a substitute for a physician's training and expertise.
 Erik Ensrud, the neurologist at Brigham and Women's Hospital, worries that patients could spot an animal study or early-stage trial investigating an off-label usage of a drug and then start taking that drug in the hope that the researchers are onto something. ''Even if a treatment seems promising, it could result in a very serious reduction in lifespan,'' he suggests. ''We're talking survival.''
 In fact, some PatientsLikeMe members have already started doing pretty much what Ensrud warns against. Last November, the A.L.S. community was abuzz with word that researchers in Italy had found that taking lithium seemed to slow the progression of A.L.S. significantly. The Italian study hadn't actually been published yet, but that didn't stop 34 members with A.L.S. from soliciting lithium prescriptions from their doctors and coalescing into an ad-hoc clinical trial. There are now 109 members using lithium and tracking their progress with the data tools on the site. The company has rolled out new features to monitor the group with the hope that they will be able to lend a little credence -- or cast a little doubt -- on the Italian study in a matter of months. 
 Jamie insists that PatientsLikeMe isn't encouraging A.L.S. members to start taking lithium. But he is unmistakably excited by the endeavor. As he sees it, the experiment perfectly illustrates how PatientsLikeMe might complement large-scale and long-term clinical research by conducting observational research ''on the fly.'' Drawing on the notion of personalized medicine, Jamie calls this ''personalized research.'' And it has a certain logic: for those who already have A.L.S., traditional science works at far too plodding a pace. ''The system is broken for terminally ill patients,'' says Hanns Riederer, a music producer in Los Angeles who has joined the group of A.L.S. members taking lithium. ''It makes us wait five to seven years for results, when we don't even have that time. Even if it's half-true, it's still groundbreaking. I don't want to wait for something else. I don't have time to wait.''
 While the members of PatientsLikeMe may seem exceptional today, they will be fairly typical tomorrow. As we learn more about disease and are able to identify it earlier, more and more Americans will fall under the rubric of ''patient'' and will need to navigate an array of confusing health decisions. Doctors don't like to admit it, but ''most treatment decisions right now are still based on doctors' judgments that don't have real research behind them,'' says Jodi Halpern, a physician and bioethicist at the U.C. Berkeley School of Public Health. ''But it takes real data to make the right decisions, especially for patients. There's a powerful improvement in health outcomes, people's quality of life, when people are better-informed.''
 Physicians, of course, have known this for decades; the idea of ''evidence-based medicine'' -- that all decisions should be based on real data -- was hatched in the 1980s. But the pace of traditional research is slow, and the number of outstanding questions far exceeds the body of evidence to answer them. Only now, with technologies like PatientsLikeMe, is the pace accelerating. What's more, it's becoming evident that data -- the foundation of evidence and research -- are present not just in laboratories or universities or the proverbial halls of science but in everyday life.
 Really, when you start looking, information can be found everywhere. If we could gather in structured communities and create databanks to inform our approach to life decisions, not just health decisions but also gardening or parenting or car-buying decisions, we could do everything in a more informed manner. Were we all to avow a philosophy of openness and churn our experiences into hard numbers, we could presumably improve our odds in all sorts of decisions. Why not a PregnantLikeMe or a ParentsLikeMe or even, really, an all-encompassing PeopleLikeMe?
 One evening, I suggested this bigger idea to Jamie and Ben. They shared a glance and a mock-conspiratorial smile, and then looked back at me. ''We know,'' Ben said. ''We already own all those domain names.''

CORRECTION-DATE: April 6, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on March 23 about PatientsLikeMe, a medical-information Web site, misstated the given name of a woman with multiple sclerosis who has used the site. She is Laurie Fournier, not Leslie.

GRAPHIC: CHART: USERS PROFILE: A graphical representation of the membership of PatientsLikeMe created with data collected by the site. (CHART BY BARBARA HAHN AND CHRISTINE ZIMMERMANN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS (90%); NEUROSCIENCE (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (88%); BRAIN (75%); IMMUNE SYSTEM DISORDERS (75%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (70%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (67%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (66%); WEB SITES (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2008



558 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1270 words

HEADLINE: Divided and Conquered

BYLINE: By AMY CHUA. 
Amy Chua, a professor of law at Yale University, is the author of ''World on Fire'' and ''Day of Empire: How Hyperpowers Rise to Global Dominance -- and Why They Fall.''

 BODY:
WORLDS AT WAR 
 The 2,500-Year Struggle Between East and West. 
 By Anthony Pagden. 
 625 pp. Random House. $35. 
 When Napoleon Bonaparte led his army into Egypt in 1798, he had more than military conquest on his mind. Along with 30,000 soldiers, his entourage included what amounted to a mobile university, complete with economists and poets, architects and astronomers, a balloonist, and a baritone from the Paris Opera. They carried with them a library of a thousand books, featuring Montesquieu and Rousseau, Montaigne and Voltaire, and other classics of the Western canon. 
 Almost two centuries later, in 1971, Mohammed Reza Pahlavi, the shah of Iran, held a lavish, weeklong fete for foreign dignitaries on the grounds of an ancient Persian palace. Over peacock stuffed with foie gras and 25,000 bottles of Champagne, he declared himself heir to the great Achaemenid kings Darius and Xerxes. The claimed price tag: $200 million. 
 For Anthony Pagden, a professor of political science and history at the University of California, Los Angeles, the shah and Napoleon are archetypes, respectively, of East and West, each seeing himself as heir to a glorious civilization. But as Pagden points out, each man also had his own fascinating ambiguities. The Swiss-educated shah was a highly secular supporter of modernization (and the Champagne for his party came from Maxim's of Paris). Napoleon proclaimed to the Egyptians that he revered the Prophet Muhammad and ''the glorious Koran,'' if only to win over the local clerics. 
 Pagden has a keen eye for the striking detail (a helpful attribute for someone plowing through 2,500 years of history in 12 chapters), and ''Worlds at War,'' like Pagden's earlier work ''Peoples and Empires,'' is bold, panoramic and highly readable, at times a page turner. 
 Through a combination of legend, anecdote and evocative writing, Pagden brings alive the ancient Greco-Persian wars, the rise of Islam and the conquest of Constantinople by the Ottoman emperor Mehmed II. And he turns what might otherwise be dry history about the Investiture Controversy of the 11th century into almost a thriller, with an ''outmaneuvered'' Henry IV standing outside the castle of Canossa ''in a hair shirt and robes of a penitent, barefoot on the ice for three days,'' seeking an audience with Pope Gregory VII, who had excommunicated him. Having obtained Gregory's forgiveness, Henry promptly ''descended on Rome with an army.'' Gregory called on the Normans to defend him, and they defeated Henry. But unfortunately they ''sacked the city themselves,'' causing the Pope ''to flee south, where he died of fever in Salerno.'' 
 But if ''Worlds at War'' is hard to put down, it's also hard to pin down; almost to the end, its thesis is something of a moving target. For starters, Pagden casts his book as an exploration of the ''perpetual enmity,'' as Herodotus called it, between East and West. Yet he excludes from his account China, Japan and the rest of the Far East and, for the most part, India. So his ''East'' consists almost entirely of Islamic societies: Persia/Iran, the Ottoman Empire/Turkey, Egypt and today's Arab world.
 Moreover, Pagden is frequently cagey about whether he thinks fundamental differences actually exist between East and West. In his preface, he says the East-West division is ''often illusory, always metaphorical.'' Elsewhere, he suggests that the West is in many ways rooted in the East. (''Like so much else that became a defining part of the Western world,'' Christianity had also ''begun in the East''; Christ was ''a typical Eastern holy man,'' and ''the slain god, the virgin birth, the incarnation'' of Christianity were ''more Asian still.'') When he does draw out cultural differences, some of them stereotypical, Pagden tends to distance himself through attribution. He cites Herodotus for the contrast between Asian slavishness and Western individuality and love of freedom; Ernest Renan for Islam's hostility to science; Montesquieu and Hegel for ''Oriental despotism.'' 
 In the end, however, ''Worlds at War'' is another book about the clash between the Enlightenment and religion, and its central target is Islam, which, Pagden argues, is incompatible with the Western principle of separation between church and state. The ''fundamental theological difference between Islam and Christianity,'' he tells us, lies in ''the association between religion and the law.'' Unlike Christianity, Islam supports ''the complete identification of the secular realm with the sacred and the corresponding elevation of the ruler.'' Christianity recognizes both the Kingdom of Heaven and the governments of earth. In Islam, by contrast, ''there can be only one law'': the Shariah, which is God's law and thus ''eternal'' and ''unchanging.'' According to Pagden, the history of Islam is unified ''by a continuous and still unfulfilled narrative, the story of the struggle against the 'Infidel' for the ultimate Muslim conquest of the entire world.'' 
 In Pagden's Islam there is an odd echo of the Islam offered by the bearded mullahs who espouse violence from their mosques or caves. Indeed, Pagden quotes Osama bin Laden at length for the view that the greatest crime of the United States -- for which 9/11 was punishment -- was that ''you separate religion from your politics, contradicting the pure nature which affirms Absolute Authority to the Lord your Creator.'' Pagden adds that ''most Muslim theologians and jurists would have to agree'' with bin Laden. 
 Such passages are bound to infuriate many, including those Muslims who see themselves as reaffirming a well-rooted Islamic tradition of diversity in opinion against a rising trend of rigid fanaticism. Pagden tends to treat Islam as a monolith; at one point he describes Islam as intellectually ''simple.'' Given Islam's long and variegated history, not to mention its abstruse jurisprudence, many will disagree. It's a good bet that ''Worlds at War'' will appeal more to admirers of Samuel Huntington's thesis about the clash of civilizations, which Pagden calls ''a crude but useful phrase,'' than to fans of Edward Said's book ''Orientalism.'' 
 To be fair, Pagden also tends to treat Christianity monolithically (although more favorably). For example, some historians of the church will surely take issue with Pagden's assertion that Christianity separated the secular from the sacred, emphasizing ''the ultimate freedom of the individual.'' How exactly do the crusades and the Inquisition fit into this picture, not to mention the many Christian doctrines of predestination?
 The real value of ''Worlds at War'' may lie in a secondary theme: the West's long, tragicomic history of trying to civilize and modernize the East. In the first century B.C., Octavian's defeat of Antony and Egypt was portrayed by the Romans as the triumph of ''a free and virtuous West'' over ''a tyrannical and corrupt East.'' Almost 2,000 years later, in 1920, Shiites and Sunnis were killing each other in Mesopotamia, British officers were dying, and The Times of London wrote, ''How much longer are valuable lives to be sacrificed in the vain endeavor to impose upon the Arab population an elaborate and expensive administration which they never asked for and do not want?''
 And then there was Napoleon. The most ambitious of Western conquerors in that region, he set about to impress the Egyptians with a demonstration of French technology: an elaborate launching of his hot air balloon, painted in red, white and blue. Unfortunately, it crashed and burst into flames. The Egyptians, no doubt, were shocked and awed. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Archetypes of West and East: Napoleon and Mohammed Reza Pahlavi, the former shah of Iran. (DRAWING FROM THE VICTORIA AND ALBERT MUSEUM (LEFT)
 PHOTOGRAPH FROM AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES (1961)) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); ARMIES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); WRITERS (76%); QURAN & ISLAMIC TEXTS (75%); ARMED FORCES (73%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); POETRY (71%); RELIGION (70%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (60%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (88%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); FRANCE (88%); UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: Worlds at War (Book)>; Worlds at War (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2008



559 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: B-Boys and B-Girls

BYLINE: By BAZ DREISINGER. 
Baz Dreisinger, an assistant professor of English at John Jay College of Criminal Justice, is the author of the forthcoming ''Near Black: White-to-Black Passing in American Culture.''

 BODY:
SOMEBODY SCREAM! 
 Rap Music's Rise to Prominence in the Aftershock of Black Power. 
 By Marcus Reeves. 
 320 pp. Faber & Faber. $25. 
 Where do music genres go when they age? To the groves of academe. And so hip-hop, hugging 30, sits confidently alongside jazz and rock 'n' roll in the academy, subject of college courses and scholarly scrutiny. It's been a navel-gazing genre from the get-go, chronicled and dissected since its childhood in the 1980s. But in recent years, as the hip-hop-history industry has thrived like never before, highbrow words spent on the culture have seemed as copious as the platinum on P. Diddy's wrist. 
 Perhaps that's because writing about hip-hop affords critics and scholars an opportunity to cast a wide net; this self-consciously capitalist genre is American culture writ large -- a brasher, bolder, ruder edition of the Horatio Alger myth. Reading it as part and parcel of American social and political history is a way of legitimizing a culture long derided, and the bar for this brand of analysis was set high by Jeff Chang's ''Can't Stop Won't Stop'' (2005), a definitive history of the hip-hop generation. Close on Chang's heels (and treading many of his paths) comes the journalist Marcus Reeves with a sweeping, painstakingly thorough, not especially original history of hip-hop, told through the stories of a dozen celebrated acts and their sociopolitical contexts. 
 ''Somebody Scream! Rap Music's Rise to Prominence in the Aftershock of Black Power'' is eminently readable and occasionally riveting. Its selection of artists is sound yet predictable. (Instead of scrutinizing the usual suspects -- Tupac Shakur, the Notorious B.I.G., et al. -- why not explore major stars over whom fewer gallons of erudite ink have been spilled?) The book, which ends with Eminem, begins in 1971, when black power was ''crumbling'' in real life but was reborn on television. The debut of ''Soul Train,'' Reeves argues, ''provided a national stage for black urban youth culture,'' thus sowing the seeds for hip-hop culture: ''a hard-rock vessel carrying the hopes, anger, disappointments, attitude and history of post-black-power America.'' 
 Hip-hop histories always have the same trajectory: from rags to riches, from America's bastard child to, as Reeves puts it, ''America's new rock 'n' roll.'' This trajectory allows writers to wax nostalgic about ''back in the day,'' when hip-hop was humble, all the while smirking over how far their baby has come. Reeves also does this, so his book sometimes reads like a litany of ever-escalating hip-hop ''firsts'' -- first commercial single (the Sugarhill Gang's ''Rapper's Delight''); first album (''Kurtis Blow''); first double album (Tupac's ''All Eyez on Me''); first act with a sneaker endorsement deal (Run-D.M.C., with Adidas); first Grammy winners (D.J. Jazzy Jeff and the Fresh Prince); first Saturday-morning cartoon (M.C. Hammer's ''Hammerman''). Here, too, are less triumphant firsts: first federal court to find an album obscene (Federal District Court in Fort Lauderdale, ruling on 2 Live Crew's ''As Nasty as They Wanna Be'' in 1990); first Imus-esque controversy over rap lyrics (Tipper Gore versus Russell Simmons, in the mid-'80s) -- affirming that all current debates about hip-hop and America's youth are recycled. 
 Reeves loves context. His meticulous historicizing works in the case of hip-hop's well-documented inception during the mid-'70s: poverty and urban decay in places like the Bronx produced ''an environment that had become comparable to the one in 'Lord of the Flies,' where children stranded on an island with no adult guidance create a new, brutal social order of their own.'' Hip-hop was therapy, after-school program and part-time job rolled into one. Reeves's historicizing works, too, in the case of gangsta rap, a product of Reagan's America: the cutting of social welfare programs led to steep inclines in black poverty rates, which led to crack, thriving gang economies -- and N.W.A., superstar gangsta rappers straight outta Compton. So the rawest hip-hop became the most commercial: ''Words and street jargon usually reserved for the corner or barbershops or neighborhood bars or tenement hallways -- tucked in cozy spaces within black life -- had a pop soundtrack and hit parade.'' 
 But Reeves might keep in mind that correlation is not causation -- or even relation. Take Jay-Z: in the days before having your own clothing line and record label was de rigueur for a rapper, this Brooklyn-born M.C. and entrepreneur indeed represented ''the changing face of the corporate/cultural paradigm.'' But does he really have anything to do with the slavery reparations movement? Likewise, it's insulting to 9/11 victims and Amadou Diallo to read about them in light of the rapper DMX. Is his club single ''Party Up'' (''Y'all gonna make me lose my mind up in here -- up in here!'') really ''a universal anthem for anyone young or old who was fed up with ignorance or ill treatment''? Sometimes a hot beat is just a hot beat. 
 Ultimately, Reeves deserves credit for breadth, though sometimes it's at the expense of depth. Among the rich issues that go unexplored is the one alluded to in his subtitle, which implies that hip-hop reverberates with echoes of the black power movement. This is a contentious claim. Is hip-hop a torchbearer of civil rights or black power -- and should it be? ''Woe be it unto a community that has to rely on rappers for political leadership,'' the pioneering producer Bill Stephney stated in a 1987 Howard University forum. What is the criterion by which a rapper ''has risen to his leadership? He can flow?'' A question worthy of a book in itself.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Boogie days: ''Soul Train'' in 1976. (PHOTOGRAPH FROM MICHAEL OCHS ARCHIVES/CORBIS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAP MUSIC (92%); HIP HOP CULTURE (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); MUSIC GENRES (90%); MUSIC (90%); POP & ROCK (89%); WRITERS (88%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); YOUTH MARKET (74%); JAZZ & BLUES (73%); JOURNALISM (69%)

PERSON: SEAN (DIDDY) COMBS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: Somebody Scream! (Book)>; Somebody Scream! (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2008



560 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: Some Banks (Yes, Banks) May Be Back in Favor

BYLINE: By NORM ALSTER

 BODY:
THERE is blood in the water, but some long-term investors, defying danger, have begun wading into financial stocks. 
 In the eyes of these investors, some financial companies -- particularly those positioned to benefit from the flurry of recent Federal Reserve moves to cut interest rates and restore market liquidity -- have been battered beyond reason and now represent solid value.
 That would be a very welcome turnaround for people whose portfolios have been shredded by seemingly endless bad news -- including the near collapse of Bear Stearns, a stream of enormous write-offs by banks and the freezing of large portions of the credit markets. Since early October, the Financial Select Sector SPDR, an exchange-traded fund, is down roughly 25 percent. Since the beginning of this year alone, the average mutual fund investing chiefly in financials has lost roughly 9 percent. 
 But some regional banks are now poised to benefit from plunging short-term rates, in the view of several money managers.
 David Ellison, lead portfolio manager of the FBR Large Cap Financial and FBR Small Cap Financial funds, said he was buying shares of smaller banks that hew to what he calls an ''It's a Wonderful Life'' model. 
 Such banks, many of them in the Northeast, stuck to conservative standards that now position them to gather capital at low rates and lend it locally to the worthiest borrowers. Astoria Financial, which operates in metropolitan New York, and Hudson City Bancorp, with banks in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, have the capital to lend ''on terms they feel comfortable with'' and to gain loan market share, Mr. Ellison said. 
 Anton Schutz, manager of the Burnham Financial Services and Burnham Financial Industries funds, two of the best-performing financial funds this year -- despite being down slightly -- says that repeated Fed rate cuts have helped banks that adhere to a traditional borrow-low, lend-high formula. ''The Fed is just throwing free money out there,'' he said. ''It's fantastic.'' 
 Banks that do not have to raise capital to compensate for bleeding assets can lend to the worthiest mortgage borrowers at 6 percent after borrowing at rates of 2 percent or even less from their own depositors and federal home loan banks. Mr. Schutz holds Hudson City and Investors Bancorp, based in Short Hills, N.J., and has been adding to his position in People's United Financial. He said that People's, based in Bridgeport, Conn., has close to $3 billion in surplus capital above and beyond its operating needs and ''will see good lending opportunities.'' The bank can also take advantage of capital-constrained rivals, he said, by expanding market share or through outright acquisition. 
 Other attractive financial stocks have little to do with troubled mortgage markets, some investors say.
 Peter Kovalski, portfolio manager for the Alpine Dynamic Financial Services fund, predicts that merger activity will ''begin picking up before the real estate market revives.'' One beneficiary, he said, would be Evercore Partners, which provides merger advice but, unlike the investment banks with huge buyout-related loans on their books, has ''no direct credit risk.'' 
 But how safe are big investment banks that stand knee-deep in the securitized mortgage crisis? Determined to avert a bank failure that could reverberate through the economy, the Fed has made available hundreds of billions of dollars -- which may eventually come out of taxpayer pockets -- in low-interest loans. Many big banks also benefited last week from a capital infusion as a result of the shares they were able to sell in the $18 billion initial public offering of Visa. Can investors now safely assume that the fever has broken? 
 Not quite, Mr. Ellison said. ''The earnings prospects are still declining,'' he said. ''And loan growth won't be there.'' 
 He and other skeptics wonder whether more nasty surprises are to emerge from balance sheets. ''Full disclosure only happens when things are good,'' Mr. Ellison said. ''Even now, we're still peeling back the onion.'' 
 But Richard Bove, a financial strategist at Punk, Ziegel & Company who was among the first to lower ratings on the banks last summer, now says he thinks the selling has gone too far. '' I personally believe that investors should dramatically overweight their portfolios with bank stocks,'' he said. 
 Assets have been devalued and earnings reduced, but most banks -- even those like Citigroup and Bank of America that have taken large write-offs -- still have positive cash flow, he said. 
 Going strictly by the numbers, Derek Rollingson, manager of the quantitative ICON Financial fund, concludes that financial stocks are trading at 45 percent less than true value. ''We've priced in all the bad news,'' he said. ''Has the market overreacted to the news? In the case of the financials, we would say yes.'' 
 Mr. Schutz, the Burnham manager, said he bought shares of JPMorgan Chase on Feb. 29, reasoning that the company had done ''a much better job'' than most large banks in risk management, and that it was better capitalized than many of its peers. While the company has said it would suffer wider-than-expected write-downs in home equity loans, Mr. Schutz described this problem as ''manageable.'' With its relatively strong balance sheet, JPMorgan stands to gain share in jumbo mortgages and other profitable loan categories, he said, adding that it made sense that the Fed chose JPMorgan to buy out Bear Stearns. ''They had the capital position to be the buyer of choice and of last resort,'' he said. 
 It takes strong nerves to buy when bad news keeps coming from new directions. But Mr. Bove, bear turned bull, says he believes that the danger has passed. ''The Bear Stearns event is the last event in the credit crisis,'' he said. ''The crisis is now over.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: JPMorgan Chase emerged the winner in the Bear Stearns crisis. A fund manager said it had done ''a much better job'' than others in managing risk.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL NAGLE/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING (76%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (75%); MARKET SHARE (74%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANKS (70%); MORTGAGE LOANS (69%)

COMPANY: INVESTORS BANCORP INC (62%); PEOPLE'S UNITED FINANCIAL INC (58%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (57%); ASTORIA FINANCIAL CORP (54%); HUDSON CITY BANCORP INC (54%)

TICKER: ISBC (NASDAQ) (62%); PBCT (NASDAQ) (58%); AF (NYSE) (54%); HCBK (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (62%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (62%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (62%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (62%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (54%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (87%); NEW JERSEY, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2008



561 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET VENTURES; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1285 words

HEADLINE: A Bright Spot For Housing Investors?

BYLINE: By VIVIAN MARINO

 BODY:
FALLING prices, tighter credit and rising foreclosures have taken their toll on the housing market, but there is one residential sector that could actually benefit from these economic woes: multifamily rentals.
 The reasoning seems simple enough. ''People still need a place to live,'' said Richard Anderson, a senior real estate analyst at BMO Capital Markets, adding that ''a bad homeowner could be a very good renter.''
 Indeed, occupancy rates for apartments have remained stable, averaging in the mid-90 percent range, and rising in some cities, industry reports show. Homeownership, meanwhile, has fallen steadily nationwide. The ownership rate slipped to 67.8 percent at the end of 2007 from a peak of 69.2 percent in 2004, according to the Census Bureau. 
 Some would-be buyers are now waiting for home prices to bottom out, while others are finding it harder to get a mortgage after the shake-up in the subprime market. 
 All these factors seem favorable for landlords, but only lately have shares of apartment operators and, in particular, the real estate investment trusts that own and manage these multifamily developments, begun to reflect the trend. Many apartment REITs traded near their 52-week lows not too long ago, though they have been moving higher recently. 
 ''People had been painting residential with a broad brush, and that's what held back the stocks in 2007,'' Mr. Anderson said. Many skittish investors seem to have eschewed all companies in the housing market, even those involved in rentals. ''Now they may be looking for ways to play the residential market,'' he said, ''and one way to do that is to take a look at the rental business, which is once removed from the broader housing turmoil going on.''
 Apartment REITs, which had average losses of around 25 percent last year, are up 15.6 percent, on average, this year through Thursday. (All property-holding equity REITs are up 3.2 percent, on average, according to the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index has lost 9.4 percent.)
 So should investors be giving these REITs a closer look?
 Haendel St. Juste, an analyst at Green Street Advisors, a research and consulting firm specializing in the REIT industry, says he thinks that there may be some good values. He estimates that apartment REITs over all are trading at an 18 percent discount, on average, to their net asset value.
 ''Some are trading at very compelling discounts,'' he said.
 But Ross Smotrich, an analyst at Bear Stearns, says investors should probably wait before they buy.
 ''I think it's still premature,'' he said. ''I think we're about 18 months away from where the market will start to improve.'' 
 Mr. Smotrich says he believes that apartment REITs face potential obstacles despite the auspicious fundamentals. ''There's growing concern about softening job creation in 2008,'' he said, which can affect rental demand. The Labor Department estimated that the nation lost 63,000 jobs in February alone.
 But, he said, ''the big issue is competition from unsold single-family houses and condos,'' particularly in weaker markets like South Florida, Phoenix and Las Vegas and parts of the Northeast. ''The landlords will have less pricing power there.'' 
 During the condominium-conversion boom from 2004 through 2006, about 331,000 apartments were sold to condo converters, according to Real Capital Analytics, but 31,500 units have since reverted back to rentals. 
 Mr. Anderson of BMO agreed that ''this state of the economy is going to create a cloud of uncertainty,'' though he was more optimistic about apartment REITs. ''I'm not suggesting the sector's out of the woods, but it's not an entirely grim situation,'' he said. ''There's a balance of negatives and positives right now.''
 For one thing, he said, there seems to be a manageable number of new developments coming on line, which he estimates at around 1 percent of existing supply, down from 2 percent just six or seven years ago. ''The cost of development has been so enormous,'' he explained.
 (Last week, the Commerce Department reported that housing starts in February fell 0.6 percent from the previous month and 28 percent from the same period a year ago.) 
 And plenty of financing is available, Mr. Anderson said, noting that apartment REITs, unlike other commercial property sectors, have access to relatively inexpensive financing from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the government-sponsored mortgage companies. 
 He and other analysts say they also believe that shifting demographics augur well for the big landlords: new households as a result of a rising number of immigrants and young adults leaving the family fold, and aging baby boomers looking to downsize.
 Of course, some apartment REITs may be better positioned than others.
 Mr. Anderson, for one, is positive about Mid-America Apartment Communities, which owns and operates apartments throughout the Sun Belt. ''It's not a market I necessarily like, but they do have a great management team,'' he said, along with growing revenue from property redevelopment. He and others were more cautious about Camden Property Trust. Though they agreed it also had strong management, they were concerned that some of its developments are in softer housing markets like Las Vegas, Phoenix and Florida. 
 Mr. St. Juste said he favored Post Properties, which recently received a $2 billion takeover offer from its founder and former chairman. Some analysts say the Post bid, as well as merger-and-acquisition speculation elsewhere in the sector, may be part of the catalyst for the strength in apartment REITs. 
 He said he also likes UDR Inc., which this month completed the sale of 86 apartment properties in 10 states for $1.7 billion.
 ''It is a better-positioned portfolio now,'' he said. ''They plan to buy back shares, pay down debt and have a special dividend.'' 
 HIGH on the list of most analysts is AvalonBay Communities. This REIT operates 184 apartment communities in markets like California, the Pacific Northwest, the Northeast and the mid-Atlantic region, areas described as having a ''high barrier to entry,'' meaning that developers may encounter obstacles to construction, like strict zoning limitations or community resistance to new developments. (AvalonBay's occupancy rates seem to reflect those conditions -- ranging from a low of 94.6 percent, on average, in San Diego developments to a high of 97.7 percent in San Francisco, according to the company.)
 Mr. Smotrich of Bear Stearns said the company was also ''predominant in places where the housing markets have held up well,'' and therefore less susceptible to the so-called shadow market of unsold homes becoming rentals. ''We think they have incrementally better pricing power,'' he said, ''and they also have a strong development pipeline.''
 Bryce Blair, the chief executive of AvalonBay, said the company now had more than $6 billion in communities under construction or in the planning stages. ''Our strategy is very focused geographically,'' he said. ''We don't operate in the Sun Belt or the Rust Belt markets.'' 
 Mr. Blair says AvalonBay has been steadily expanding its offerings of apartments to keep pace with the growing number of retiring baby boomers and their children who are coming of age. The new Avalon Chrystie Place high-rise in Manhattan includes studio as well as one- and two-bedrooms, along with space for commercial tenants, another way to generate revenue.
 ''We buildfrom two-story wood-frame buildings up to 50-story high-rises and have a wider range of floor plans than before,'' he said. ''We don't want to be too focused on any one customer segment.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Apartment occupancy has been healthy in cities like Los Angeles, home of Avalon del Rey, above, and New York, home of Avalon Chrystie Place, above left. Other Manhattan apartment towers include Equity Residential's 71 Broadway, far left, and Trump Place. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ABOVE LEFT AND RIGHT, AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES
 BELOW LEFT AND RIGHT, TINA FINEBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (91%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (89%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); TRENDS (79%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); CENSUS (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (53%); CONSULTING SERVICES (50%)

COMPANY: GREEN STREET ADVISORS INC (51%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2008



562 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1286 words

HEADLINE: What If a Flu Like 1918's Broke Out Now?

BYLINE: By AVI SALZMAN

 BODY:
 WHEN an outbreak of the Spanish flu spread worldwide in 1918, a doctor in Newark advised his patients that they could cure their illness with red onions and coffee. In Atlantic City, the authorities closed amusement parks and theaters indefinitely. And in upstate New York, public health officials distributed a poster warning people against ''careless spitting, coughing, sneezing.''
 Those precautions had mixed results, and an estimated 675,000 Americans died during that outbreak, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta. 
 Today, New Jersey, Connecticut and New York are much more prepared than they were 90 years ago in the event that an influenza outbreak turns into a pandemic. But five years after an avian flu outbreak in Asia made pandemic flu planning a priority, some experts are concerned that states have not been equally vigilant about preparing, and as attention and federal financing begin to decrease, they fear that preparedness efforts will slacken. 
 ''There is a worry that there was a lot more attention to the issue two or three years ago,'' said Richard Hamburg, government relations director for Trust for America's Health, a Washington-based nonprofit health watchdog. ''The fact is that it's still spreading. There are still cases throughout the world. Preparedness is not a one-shot deal. You don't know if this will hit this year, next year, five years, 10 years from now.''
 Federal officials are tracking the flu worldwide, but it is up to cities and states to prepare their own public health plans. So in 2002, when fears of a new pandemic began to escalate, the federal government agreed to send the states billions of dollars to prepare for a pandemic. The health and human services secretary, Michael O. Leavitt, warned states in 2005 that if they expected the federal government to bail them out when a pandemic hit, they would be ''tragically wrong.''
 Trust for America's Health released a report late last year examining how states were preparing for public health emergencies. The report graded the states on their efforts to protect against a pandemic. Thirty-seven states scored 8 or higher on a scale of 1 to 10, and the lowest score given to any state was 6. 
 In this region, Connecticut received a score of 8; the state lost points for failing to buy enough antivirals and failing to use a disease surveillance system that is compatible with the federal system to track the progress of an outbreak as it moves across the country. New York scored a 9 -- for failing to increase public health financing as quickly as inflation, though state officials said financing has since risen -- and New Jersey received a 10.
 Pandemics occur when the flu virus mutates into a more deadly form and begins to spread easily from person to person. Health officials are worried about pandemic flu now because they fear the avian flu that has spread to Asia and Europe could mutate into a more deadly and transmissible form.
 During the 1918 flu pandemic, which killed about 50 million worldwide, the federal government did not ask states to report their flu tallies until weeks or months after the disease had begun to spread. This time around, the government has been tracking the flu for years. 
 And in 1918, scientists were unable to make an effective vaccine; in an outbreak today, a vaccine could most likely be created within six months.
 Connecticut, New Jersey and New York expect to use two basic methods to keep the flu under control before the vaccine is ready: antiviral drugs and a kind of mass crowd control. The federal government has bought 50 million courses of antiviral drugs that federal officials said could limit the severity of flu infections and possibly serve to protect uninfected people from the disease.
 The Department of Health and Human Services has urged states to buy antivirals through a discount program that offers a federal subsidy, cutting the cost of a course of drugs (enough for one person) to $20 from $80, said Dr. William F. Raub, science adviser to Secretary Leavitt. The eventual goal is to have enough antiviral medication to cover at least one-fourth of the population.
 In the region, the states have taken different approaches to stockpiling antivirals. Connecticut decided not to buy its full share of antivirals, though it has bought about 11,000 courses with federal money and sent a letter to the federal government indicating it wants to buy 8,465 more. Even after including the 520,000 courses in the federal stockpile designated for Connecticut, the state would still have only enough antivirals for about one-sixth of its population.
 William Gerrish, a spokesman for the Connecticut Department of Public Health, said state officials haven't put as much emphasis or money into antivirals as other states because they have ''limited utility and limited shelf life.''
 Indeed, federal officials are uncertain just how effective antivirals would be in the event of a pandemic and whether they could serve some prophylactic purpose. And because antivirals currently have a five-year shelf life, states are spending millions of dollars on medicine they may have to throw away in the next few years. But other state officials said they weren't willing to take chances.
 ''If you had a novel strain causing a pandemic that was responsive to antivirals and your state had no stockpile, I could predict that the public would be pretty upset,'' said Dr. Eddy Bresnitz, the state epidemiologist in New Jersey, which has bought 850,000 of the 900,000 courses available under the federal cost-sharing program. He acknowledged, however, that if the antivirals expire, ''that's a lot of dollars flushed down the drain.''
 Similarly, New York has gone so far as to buy supplies of antiviral medications that were initially designated for other states that decided not to buy them.
 The bulk of the planning, however, has focused on other methods to keep people from getting sick during a pandemic, ranging from surveillance to shutting down public gatherings and schools to quarantining people who are exposed to the flu and isolating those who have it. 
 The states have held drills for public health and safety workers to determine what to do when the flu hits, and they have developed increasingly sophisticated reporting systems that make doctors pick up the telephone immediately after seeing signs of certain diseases. 
 New Jersey has been particularly diligent: the state compiles analyses of school absenteeism and flu diagnoses each week and links to its pandemic flu plans from the top of its Web site. The challenge, state officials say, is keeping their plans current and local officials up to date on flu preparedness.
 Meanwhile, state officials said they have received less money for outreach to local communities that they have done in the past. Congress turned down the president's request for $870 million in this year's budget for flu preparedness, and state officials said they expected future grants to be much more competitive.
 ''It means the system is a little bit thinner,'' said Dr. Gus Birkhead, New York's deputy commissioner for public health.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 30, 2008

 CORRECTION:
 Because of an editing error, an article last Sunday about preparations for a flu pandemic included outdated rankings on emergency-preparedness given to states last year by Trust for America's Health, a Washington-based nonprofit health watchdog group. Thirty-seven states scored 8 or higher on a scale of 1 to 10, and the lowest score given to any state was 6. More than half the states did not receive a score of 5 or lower last year. (Those rankings were from a 2005 report.) (Go to Article)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PLANS: Above, Dr. Eddy Bresnitz, New Jersey's epidemiologist. Left, victims of the 1918 influenza outbreak in Kansas. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LAURA FREDRICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 NATIONAL MUSEUM OF HEALTH AND MEDICINE) (pg.LI3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFLUENZA (94%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (90%); EPIDEMICS (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); DISASTER PLANNING (89%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (89%); AVIAN INFLUENZA (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); VIRUSES (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); DISEASE REPORTING (58%)

COMPANY: AMERICA'S HEALTH PLAN INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (57%)

PERSON: MICHAEL O LEAVITT (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (73%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2008



563 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; BROWSING BOOKS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 300 words

HEADLINE: Editors' Choice: Recent books of particular interest

 BODY:
LUSH LIFE, by Richard Price. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $26.) Chandler -- and Bellow, too -- peeps out from Price's novel, in which an aspiring writer cum restaurant manager, mugged in the gentrifying Lower East Side of Manhattan, himself becomes a suspect. 
 THE MAN WHO MADE LISTS: Love, Death, Madness, and the Creation of Roget's Thesaurus, by Joshua Kendall. (Putnam, $25.95.) Odd compulsions and familial insanity course through this life of Peter Roget. 
 ON DEEP HISTORY AND THE BRAIN, by Daniel Lord Smail. (University of California, $21.95.) A historian looks at human evolution and cultural advances through the lens of mood-altering substances.
 PREDICTABLY IRRATIONAL: The Hidden Forces That Shape Our Decisions, by Dan Ariely. (Harper/HarperCollins, $25.95.) Moving comfortably from the lab to broad social questions to his own life, an M.I.T. economist pokes holes in conventional market theory.
 COMEDY AT THE EDGE: How Stand-Up in the 1970s Changed America, by Richard Zoglin. (Bloomsbury, $24.95.) Profiles of George Carlin, Richard Pryor, Robin Williams, Andy Kaufman, Steve Martin, et al.
 ADAM CANFIELD, WATCH YOUR BACK!, by Michael Winerip. (Candlewick, $15.99; ages 8 to 12.) Further adventures of the junior high journalists at The Slash; Part 2 of a Times reporter's fictional series.
 THE FLOWERS, by Dagoberto Gilb. (Grove, $24.) In the weeks before the 1992 Los Angeles riots, Gilb's precocious Holden Caulfieldesque narrator makes the mistake of believing he's wise beyond his years.
 WHY WE'RE LIBERALS: A Political Handbook for Post-Bush America, by Eric Alterman. (Viking, $24.95.) Intellectual vitamins for run-down liberals. 
 THE PRINCE OF BAGRAM PRISON, by Alex Carr. (Random House, paper, $14.) Carr's Army interrogator heroine knows her job and understands bad odds. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); LIBERALISM (74%); HISTORY (70%); EVOLUTION THEORY (69%); RIOTS (50%)

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2008



564 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 531 words

HEADLINE: The Democrats' Endless Winter

BYLINE: By JENNIFER FINNEY BOYLAN. 
Jennifer Finney Boylan is a professor of English at Colby College and the author of the memoir ''I'm Looking Through You: Growing Up Haunted.''

DATELINE: Belgrade Lakes, Me. 

 BODY:
 IN Maine, March is Mud Season.
 Up here, Mud Season means day after day of tinfoil sky as the snow slowly melts, revealing the oozing, saturated earth below. We get a glimpse or two of lawn before another snowstorm sweeps through, burying everything again and dashing any hopes that winter will soon end.
 In Maine, it's May that comes in like a lion and goes out like a lamb. And June showers bring July flowers. 
 On the national political stage, it's Mud Season as well -- a time of attack ads, a time of questioning character. These are the days of ''red phone'' commercials, of plagiarism accusations, of assertions that ''hope'' is just a four-letter word. 
 I read a lot these days about how we should be grateful for the campaign process and how the long primary season is making the Democratic candidates stronger and tougher. I haven't met a single soul who feels this way. 
 Most people I know just want it to be over, want the Democrats to choose one of their candidates, whether by arm wrestling or meeting with pistols at sunrise or maybe just by having someone surreptitiously slip one candidate a bad clam. 
 Instead of another round of debates, how about a ''battle of wits'' like in ''The Princess Bride,'' in which one of two wine glasses is laced with deadly iocaine powder by a neutral observer (say, Jim Lehrer) and then we find out ''who is right and who is dead''?
 It's as if Groundhog Day coincided with the Texas and Ohio primaries, and Punxsutawney Hillary came out of her hole and saw her shadow. Now we're all doomed to another six weeks of attack ads when -- let's face it -- all we really want are daffodils. 
 An American voter, particularly a member of the Democratic Party, could be forgiven if she yearns for the one thing she cannot have: for Mud Season to be over. All I can say is, now you know how Mainers feel in the spring, every single year.
 March is also the season that brings us that beloved Yankee tradition, the town meeting. On Saturday afternoons these days, you'll find us in town halls from Caribou to Egypt, Styrofoam cups of coffee in hand, all excited about our role in a participatory democracy. 
 By the time the sun's going down on those same afternoons, though, our brains will have turned to mud, as the debate has focused not on the ailing economy or the endless war in Iraq or our need for health care, but on issues like the town budget for filling potholes or the proper administrative duties of the town sexton. 
 The nice old man who lives across the street will get up on his feet and say, ''I'd like to offer a friendly amendment,'' and your first thought will not be, ''How I love the democratic process!'' It will be about shoving a baked bean up the nice man's nose. 
 Later, as the light dies, we will be back in our mud-spattered houses feeding the wood stove, fantasizing about giving up on the whole democracy business and signing on with some kind of benign dictatorship, run by Hillary Clinton or Barack Obama or -- who knows? -- Al Franken. Does it matter at this point which one wins? 
 Not half as much as it matters that somebody, somehow, puts an end to Mud Season and brings the nation back to spring. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (70%); IRAQ WAR (65%); VOTERS & VOTING (63%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (60%); BUDGETS (60%); PLAGIARISM (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%); EGYPT (71%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2008



565 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; ECONOMIC FALLOUT; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: Atlantic City Casinos Go From Giddy to Glum

BYLINE: By ROBERT STRAUSS

 BODY:
ATLANTIC CITY's business administrator, Carol Fredericks, came back to the office after attending the opening of the new Harrah's Atlantic City hotel tower earlier this month, giddy with enthusiasm. The tower, with more than 900 rooms, increased the city's supply by about 7 percent, and became the city's tallest building at 525 feet.
 But that was one of the few bright spots in an otherwise grim time for Atlantic City's casinos. Just before Harrah's tower opening, Pinnacle Entertainment, which bought the old Sands casino site and imploded the old hotel last year, announced that it may delay construction because of the dicey credit market. The Tropicana is operating under a state-appointed overseer after its operators were denied a license renewal. And, for the first time, year-over-year returns from the city's casinos dipped, mainly because of the introduction of slot machines in nearby Pennsylvania. 
 After a seeming gold rush into a new phase of construction and expansion coinciding with the mid-decade boom times, current and potential casino operators in Atlantic City are sounding and acting more cautious in light of the latest economic downturn, at least in the short term.
 ''We are definitely disappointed by all of this,'' Ms. Fredericks said. ''We're worried that people are thinking too short term. It takes visionary individuals, those who take risks, to dive into the casino arena. We can't lose that now just because of a downturn.'' 
 Pinnacle seemed one of those visionaries when it announced, after buying the Sands from the financier Carl C. Icahn for $250 million, that it would build the most expensive casino ever in Atlantic City, outdoing the Borgata Hotel Casino & Spa, the first of the $1 billion casinos here. Now, though, it seems to be running in place.
 ''We are continuing to buy adjacent parcels contiguous to our site,'' said Kim Townsend, chief executive of Pinnacle Atlantic City, a subsidiary of Pinnacle Entertainment. ''It is a large project and it will take years, so we will continue on other fronts and are as excited about Atlantic City as we were before when the economy was better.''
 Jeffrey Vasser, executive director of the Atlantic City Convention and Visitors Authority, was a bit more upbeat, saying, ''When the markets seize up, things can't be what they were.'' But he noted that no other casino project was off schedule, and that the MGM project in the Marina district had hired a general manager in recent weeks, which he viewed as a confident sign.
 ''The slowdown in the capital markets has the potential to delay projects, but it doesn't alter the fundamentals, which are that Atlantic City, long-term, is an attractive market,'' said Michael Pollock, whose Spectrum Gaming Group consults for casino companies. 
 Curtis Bashaw, former head of the Casino Reinvestment Development Authority, a state agency overseeing development in Atlantic City, is bullish long-term on the city. He is now co-chief executive of Cape Advisors, which is redeveloping two old Atlantic City hotels into the 330-room high-end Chelsea and is also getting preliminary approvals for a casino-hotel in the southern end of town.
 ''Two billion dollars is a lot of money to put together,'' he said. ''That said, we are big believers in Atlantic City, which has this storied history, but its gaming potential is still really unharvested.''
 Trump Taj Mahal has a 782-room tower going up that will open by fall. And the Borgata will be opening its own 800-room non-casino hotel, the Water Club, by summer. Its president, Larry Mullin, said it was already fully financed, but he said he hoped no one would stop building just because of the temporary problems.
 ''We hope all the projects get built out because a rising tide lifts all boats, as they say,'' Mr. Mullin said, noting that the Revel Group, backed primarily by Morgan Stanley, has broken ground for a proposed $2 billion project extending the casino district to the far north end of the Boardwalk. 
 At Harrah's, which owns four casino properties in Atlantic City, the downturn is merely a time to take stock.
 ''We're taking a better look at the Atlantic City master plan,'' said R. Scott Barber, the general manager of Harrah's Atlantic City. ''We'll probably be looking at our Caesars property in the center of the Boardwalk next to upgrade. This will give us time to see what's next, but what is next is really only around the corner in Atlantic City.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: STANDING PAT: On the site of the old Sands, Pinnacle Entertainment plans a lavish new casino, but it may delay construction. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHARON STABLEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (76%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (73%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%)

COMPANY: HARRAH'S ATLANTIC CITY INC (58%); PINNACLE ENTERTAINMENT INC (57%)

TICKER: PNK (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (57%); SIC7948 RACING, INCLUDING TRACK OPERATIONS (57%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (57%)

PERSON: CARL ICAHN (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (94%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2008



566 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; AROUND THE BLOCK 2008 NISSAN ALTIMA HYBRID; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: Nice Hybrid, if You Can Get It

BYLINE: By JERRY GARRETT

 BODY:
TESTED 2008 Nissan Altima Hybrid. (New this year: standard mud flaps!)
 WHAT IS IT? An eco-warrior in the guise of a mild-mannered midsize sedan.
 HOW MUCH? $25,795 base including delivery fee; $32,625 as tested.
 WHAT'S UNDER THE HOOD? A 158-horsepower 2.5-liter 4-cylinder gasoline engine and 40-horsepower electric assist motor. Torque-wise it's a stump-puller, with 162 pound-feet from the gas engine and 199 from the electric motor. Let's go tow somethin'! 
 IS IT THIRSTY? The federal rating is 35 miles a gallon in the city and 33 on the open road. With a 20-gallon tank, the car has a theoretical range of 700 miles.
 ALTERNATIVESToyota Camry Hybrid ($25,860 and 33/34 m.p.g.); Chevrolet Malibu Hybrid ($22,790 and 24/32 m.p.g.); and Saturn Aura Green Line ($22,790 and 24/32 m.p.g.).
 IF you've ever owned a Nissan, you will totally get this slogan about the Altima Hybrid: ''It's the first hybrid that drives like a Nissan.'' Non-Nissan owners will think this is just more marketing mumbo-jumbo -- pretty lame, too, considering how much some advertising agency whiz probably got paid to come up with it. 
 But as a former Nissan owner, I get it, and I like this stylish eco-sedan.
 The Altima Hybrid fit me like a pair of Tony Lama Black Label boots, which is to say something akin to house slippers. It was just a good, comfy fit. But that does not mean my time with an Altima Hybrid test car was without a rub here and there.
 The Altima Hybrid shouldn't be much different from the Toyota Camry Hybrid, because they share the same basic hybrid-drive system. Nissan did not invent its own system, instead buying a short-term license to use Toyota's Hybrid Synergy Drive on the Altima.
 Saying something drives like a Toyota doesn't sound much like a compliment -- more like an invitation to fall asleep at the wheel. Toyota is more conservative with the settings of its hybrid systems than the choices on the early-bird menu at a Florida cafeteria: bland, consistent, safe.
 Nissan, however, decided to add a pinch of hot pepper to the recipe. The result is a spicier casserole: I found that the batteries can power the car up to about 40 m.p.h.; the Nissan gasoline engine has a bit more firepower, yet the fuel economy is a smidge better, not worse. It beats the Camry Hybrid at its own game; as hybrids go, it is just a step behind the Prius and the Honda Civic Hybrid. (The Altima also qualifies for a federal tax credit of about $2,400, while under the arcane sales-based rules the Camry does not.) 
 The Altima Hybrid is a bit of a wallower in hard cornering; it steers on the vague side. Its antilock brakes also seem a bit spongy. That has everything to do with the extra 300 pounds or so of nickel-metal hydride batteries and peripherals it is lugging, compared with the gas-only 4-cylinder Altima.
 The hybrid kit actually weighs a bit more than that, and Nissan has tried to compensate by lightening up where possible: a lighter-weight interior part here, a little less insulation there.
 It adds up, literally, and it becomes noticeable in the tactile areas of the cabin and with the amount of additional road and engine noise that leaks in. Is this a result of weight-watcher diligence or an excuse for cutting costs? You be the judge. 
 The fake wood accents, however, are among the best in the industry. The cabin is, over all, a roomy and pleasant place to travel. The seats are comfortable, although materials (including leather) are a cut below, rather than above. The controls are straightforward and well laid out. The driving position and visibility are first-rate. Styling, inside and out, again trumps the Camry, in my view.
 The flat, thin rear seat cushion is a casualty of the battery pack beneath it; trunk capacity is also compromised (15.3 cubic feet for the regular Altima; just 10.1 here). 
 The powertrain switches from full-electric mode to a phase-in of the gasoline engine with the slightest shiver and does the same when switching back. The continuously variable transmission sometimes feels as if it is spooling out, like casting a fishing reel. Acceleration is commendable: about 9 seconds from 0 to 60 m.p.h. for this 3,450-pound sedan.
 The biggest anvil around the Altima Hybrid's neck is Nissan's marketing. The car, rated an ''advanced technology partial zero emissions vehicle,'' is available only in California, New York and several other Northeastern states. Frankly, the company seems lukewarm about it. 
 Be that as it may, or may not, price is also an issue: the base price of almost $26,000 is competitive with its Camry counterpart, but good luck finding one at that price. Most come fully loaded, like the $32,000-plus car I tested. Want to special-order one? Expect a long wait, including a long boat ride from Japan.
 But if you are still interested, act fast. Nissan's agreement with Toyota for this hybrid technology is ending. The Altima Hybrid, as good as it is, faces an uncertain future. JERRY GARRETT

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: HOP IN: The car has recently become part of New York City's taxi fleet.
 SOMETHING BORROWED: The Altima Hybrid uses a Toyota system. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); SEDANS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); HYBRID VEHICLES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (66%)

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (85%)

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (85%); TM (NYSE) (85%); 7203 (TSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (59%) NEW YORK, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (65%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2008



567 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1358 words

HEADLINE: Permalinks

BYLINE: By DAVID KAMP. 
David Kamp, a contributing editor for Vanity Fair, is the author of ''The United States of Arugula.''

 BODY:
ULTIMATE BLOGS 
 Masterworks From the Wild Web. 
 Edited by Sarah Boxer. 
 Illustrated. 343 pp. Vintage Books. Paper, $14.95. 
 Ten years from now, we'll all be inured to blogs. A whole generation will have grown up never knowing a time when there weren't several million Barney Blogspots and Tina TypePads noodling away on their keyboards, and we current adults will no longer concern ourselves with how frisky, naughty, inflammatory, overly confessional or scarily paradigm-threatening these blog things are.
 But right now, we're still very much in the age of the ''Wild Web,'' as Sarah Boxer terms it in the subtitle of the new anthology she has edited, ''Ultimate Blogs.'' The term ''blog'' isn't quite a decade old, and the form itself is still something that many Americans (most of them over 30) are just getting the hang of, whether as readers, writers or both. ''Ultimate Blogs'' is a sifted, vetted sampler of what's out there in the untamed blogosphere, a primer for the uninitiated. 
 Or at least I think it is. Boxer never explicitly explains why she endeavored to take on this project, and in an essay published last month in The New York Review of Books, she indicates that she was put up to it by an editor. ''Two years ago,'' she writes in that piece, ''I was given a dreadful idea for a book: create an anthology of blogs'' -- her wariness stemming from a gut feeling that the two media, books and blogs, were hopelessly incompatible. I'd hazard a guess that what made Boxer overcome her initial qualms was the chance to play curator -- to show, as she puts it in her introduction to ''Ultimate Blogs,'' that ''some bloggers out there actually write good bloggy prose that non-blog readers can read.''
 All that said, assembling a print anthology of ''good bloggy prose'' presented Boxer with some problems. Her selections could not be inordinately ''linky,'' she says, because ''you cannot click on a link in a printed book.'' Nor could they be particularly timely, because most blog posts are pegged to a specific day's events and therefore get stale quickly. So Boxer has selected 27 blogs whose work is (relatively) timeless and link-free yet somehow still, she says, ''bloggy to the core'': ''conversational and reckless, composed on the fly for anonymous intimates ... public and private, grand and niggling.''
 It's an aptly eclectic collection. We get some small-timers, like the cutesie-poo 19-year-old Singaporean who calls her blog It's Raining Noodles and the mock-suave Guatemalan-American dude who blogs from our nation's capital as El Guapo in D.C.; some mainstream-media guys who've found edifying side careers as bloggers, like Matthew Yglesias, an editor at The Atlantic, and Alex Ross, the New Yorker's classical-music critic; some calculatedly histrionic vituperators, like the London-based woman who calls her blog Eurotrash and the Texas-based woman who calls hers I Blame the Patriarchy; some chin-strokers, like the Nobel-winning economist Gary S. Becker and the federal circuit judge Richard Posner, who share a blog in which they bat serious issues back and forth; some alt-comix types whose work appears in panel form; and at least one heavily trafficked Web site, the Smoking Gun, which is best known for the documents it unearths via the Freedom of Information Act and which, to me, doesn't count as a blog.
 Some of the stuff gathered in ''Ultimate Blogs'' does exactly what it's supposed to do: alert readers to engaging voices they might otherwise not get turned on to. I liked being introduced to AngryBlackBitch, who is not so much angry as comically (if sincerely) exercised about matters of race, and who resists wherever possible using the nominative singular pronoun (''I''), instead referring to herself as ''a bitch'' -- e.g., ''A bitch has run the spectrum of emotions about Oprah's new school.'' The blogger behind the curtain is actually a 34-year-old woman named Pamela Merritt who works in sales and marketing at a St. Louis newspaper. (After each excerpt in ''Ultimate Blogs,'' there's a page in which Boxer invites the author to reveal his or her identity and chat a bit -- as when Johnny Carson used to summon stand-up comics to his couch after they'd finished their routines.)
 I also liked being taken off the beaten path and into a blogger's area of obsessive, esoteric interest. In the case of the cartoonist-blogger Nina Paley, it's the Sanskrit epic poem the ''Ramayana,'' which cast its spell on her as her marriage fell apart in Trivandrum, India, to which she'd moved in the first place because her husband had taken a job there. (Her blog posts and drawings document her attempt to create an animated feature based on the ''Ramayana'' but told from the point of view of Sita, the subjugated wife of the epic's hero, Rama.) In the case of the blogger Benjamin Zimmer, a linguistic anthropologist, it's language that turns him on. News reports of the infamously lovelorn NASA astronaut Lisa Nowak inspired Zimmer to write a lengthy, multipost exegesis of singular-versus-plural approaches to the word ''diaper,'' as in ''wearing a diaper'' versus ''wearing diapers.''
 But there's too much stuff in this book that is, well, a snooze. I found it a chore to get through the excerpts from Click Opera, the dullsville blog of the cult musician Momus (ne Nick Currie). What he does -- the political-cultural landscape as seen through the eyes of an obtuse, arty person born in Scotland -- is done a thousand times better by David Byrne, the former Talking Head, on his blog. As for the Becker-Posner joint-blog partnership, the sample on offer in ''Ultimate Blogs'' manages to take a controversial subject -- the relative merits of sex selection, in which parents choose to abort a fetus if it's not of the gender they desire -- and bog it down in soporific wonkery.
 Leafing through much of this book's disparate and painstakingly assembled material -- light verse, earnest essays, everyday musings, recountings of personal travail, the odd bits of drawing and photography -- I was reminded less of the blogosphere than of a dreary high-school literary magazine. ''Ultimate Blogs'' works hard to include a multitude of voices, but it doesn't excite. It is, dare I say it, too preoccupied with being respectably booky rather than wildly bloggy. And that ain't right; a book that promises ''Masterworks From the Wild Web'' needs to live up to that promise.
 I suspect that Boxer's initial ambivalence about doing this anthology never fully went away. Though she proclaims of the finished product, ''I love everything in it,'' and though she's written extensively about blogs (she was this newspaper's first Web critic), there's still a certain nose-holding quality to her introduction. ''I don't have a blogging bone in my body,'' she writes. ''I am not an exhibitionist. I do not crave friends I've never met. I hate gossip. ... Instant messaging makes me feel like I've been cornered at a party with no drink. Yet here I am.''
 Shouldn't a person editing a blog anthology be gung-ho from the get-go? Shouldn't this person be downright besotted with blogs and bloggers, ready to plunge in, get dirty and exult in the form in all its messiness and ephemerality -- non-linkiness and timelessness be damned?
 One more quibble: Nearly all the blog entries that appear in ''Ultimate Blogs'' were originally posted between 2005 and 2007, the period in which Boxer was researching the book. While this time limitation is helpful in providing a snapshot of blogging at a particular moment in its evolution, ''Ultimate Blogs'' would have been more fun if it had reached back further, to when blog writing first took flight at the turn of the 21st century. There's an amazing program run by the Internet Archive project called the Wayback Machine (www.archive.org/web/web.php) that lets you travel back in Web time and see certain sites and blogs, even defunct ones, exactly as they appeared in years past. This could have yielded wonderful results for Boxer's purposes.
 An anthology of blog writing is by no means a dreadful idea for a book. But this particular book is a missed opportunity.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH From Left: NinaPaley.com's ''Ramayana'' cartoon
Click Opera, by the Scottish musician Momus
the anonymously written Guapo in D.C.
 and The Diary of Samuel Pepys.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); WRITERS (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2008



568 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL 2008 JEEP LIBERTY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1317 words

HEADLINE: An Off-Roader Evolves And Yet Goes Nowhere

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER JENSEN

 BODY:
IS the new Jeep Liberty a little homewrecker?
 Could this once-attractive little S.U.V. be the reason the Germans finally gave up on Chrysler, broke up DaimlerChrysler and headed home to Stuttgart with their tails tucked between the legs of their lederhosen?
 I wonder. Here's my theory: The fabulous, charismatic Jeep brand was supposed to have been one of the big attractions when Daimler-Benz took over Chrysler in 1998. But after a week spent driving the redesigned 2008 Jeep Liberty through the White Mountains of New Hampshire, I couldn't find anything admirable about it.
 Maybe the Germans felt the same way and were filled with despair. If the Americans couldn't build a wonderful new Jeep, what hope was there for this German-American conglomeration? 
 The original Liberty wasn't so disappointing. It was introduced in 2001 as a successor to the boxy -- and, in some quarters, much-beloved -- Cherokee. The idea was that the Liberty would be a small S.U.V. that could handle serious off-road chores, unlike like-size competitors such as the Honda CR-V. 
 That first Liberty was moderately successful, although its stout, off-road-worthy construction meant it was quite heavy and thirsty for its size.
 For 2008 there are two models, the Sport and the Limited. The Sport begins at $21,025 for rear-wheel drive and is $22,635 with four-wheel drive. The Limited starts at $25,210 with rear drive and $26,820 with four-wheel drive.
 I tested a four-wheel-drive Sport with $3,000 in options including a tow package, metal skid plates to protect the underbody, a four-speed automatic and an upgraded four-wheel-drive system called Selec-Trac. That brought the total to $25,720.
 The 2008 model, about two inches longer than its predecessor, has an unmistakable Jeep grille combined with squared-off, go-anywhere pugnacity.
 But I was overwhelmed by the cheap look of the cabin, which provided all the charm of being seated in a plastic bucket. In addition, it appears that when the design team did the footwells they took ''footwell'' literally. These are so narrow that it is best to put one foot there at a time. The owner's manual offers no suggestions about what to do with the other limb.
 Cargo capacity is reasonable: 31 cubic feet behind the second-row seat and almost 65 cubic feet with the second row folded. The front passenger seat also folds down to help carry long objects.
 To Jeep's credit, all the good safety equipment is standard. That includes antilock brakes; electronic stability control; seat-mounted air bags in the front for side-impact protection; air curtains to provide head protection by covering the side windows (front and rear); and Brake Assist, which makes sure that all the braking power is used in an emergency.
 In front- and side-impact crash tests by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, the Liberty won top scores. But while it got a ''good'' rating for front crash protection in the more demanding tests by the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety, its side impact rating was only ''marginal.'' 
 On the road, the Jeep's ride and handling could be charitably described as unfortunate. Sometimes a vehicle with a comfortable ride doesn't handle very well. Sometimes a good-handling vehicle has an uncomfortable ride. The Liberty managed both a poor ride and lackluster handling, which is a stunning lack of achievement.
 Not only did the tires slam into pavement imperfections, but with the slightest provocation the front end would bobble a few times before settling down. In addition, the Liberty often rocked side to side, a motion that engineers call ''head toss.'' Some people find head toss merely annoying. In the worst case, it transcends annoying and becomes nauseating.
 Adding to the overall imperfection, the steering isn't very good. There is not much weight and even less of a sense of communicating with the driver.
 To be fair, the Liberty is designed for serious off-road chores. But so is the Toyota FJ Cruiser, a small S.U.V. whose on-pavement performance is far more civilized and agreeable. 
 The 2008 Liberty's handling and ride are inferior to the first generation's, which is not how evolution is supposed to work. Before buying a 2008 model I would think hard about whether going off road is anything more than a goofy dream, because there is a gigantic price to pay in day-to-day driving.
 The only engine is a 3.7-liter V-6 rated at 210 horsepower and 235 pound-feet of torque at 4,000 r.p.m. Two transmissions are available, a six-speed manual or an optional four-speed automatic.
 The powertrain is mediocre at best. Under only moderate acceleration there was a lot of noise as well as vibration. The engine strains to handle the Liberty's considerable weight: about 4,200 pounds without passengers or cargo. 
 With the automatic and four-wheel drive, the Liberty is rated at 15 miles a gallon in the city and 21 m.p.g. on the highway, according to estimates from the Environmental Protection Agency. If you pick the six-speed manual, that goes to 16 city and 22 highway.
 The E.P.A.'s Green Vehicle Guide gives the Liberty I tested 6 out of a maximum best of 10 points for air pollution. On greenhouse gases, which are related to fuel economy, it gets only 4 out of a best score of 10. That is the same as a comparable FJ Cruiser.
 The basic four-wheel-drive unit is called Command-Trac, a part-time system that should be used only on wet or slippery surfaces.
 My test vehicle had the more sophisticated Selec-Trac system. It can be used in four-wheel drive even on a dry surface, in which case it splits the power: 42 percent up front and 58 percent to the rear. If the front or rear wheels begin to slip, the system can shift almost all of the power to either end. A little flipper made it easy to switch from rear-wheel drive to four-wheel drive and then to low-range four-wheel drive. The latter is used for severe off-road activities at low speeds.
 Alas, the test vehicle rebelled intermittently during my week with it. Several times it refused to engage four-wheel drive, and a little warning light declared that the system needed service. 
 The test vehicle had one other malfunction. The gas cap came loose from its tether, suggesting that Chrysler and the Jeep plant in Toledo are still mastering gas-cap-tether design and assembly.
 Unfortunately for those who do plan to go off road, the designers have added a front air dam that drastically reduces the Liberty's ability to climb a steep hill. Well, the Jeep could still climb the steep hill, but it would probably suffer damage to the air dam, a problem that the old model did not have. A Jeep spokeswoman said the air dam could be removed in a few minutes.
 The Liberty also had the optional Hill Descent Control. By pushing a button, while low-range gearing is selected, it easily held the Liberty back on our steep and slippery driveway without the use of the brakes. That is a valuable feature, because using the brakes on a steep descent may cause the vehicle to slide.
 Another feature that worked well was the electronic stability control. This detects whether the front or rear of the vehicle is sliding in a direction that is at odds with what the steering wheel indicates. Then the system tries to correct for the slide. Several times I could drive up steep, snowy hills in rear-wheel drive because the stability control kept the rear from fish-tailing.
 So, where does that leave us? I've spent a lot of time in Jeeps and once owned a Grand Cherokee, so I am not anti-Jeep. But as noted previously, I didn't find much to recommend the Liberty unless one is obsessed with the name or puts a priority on following mountain trails, where it would certainly beat street-bound competitors. 
 If it comes to give me Liberty or give me death, I will gladly take the Liberty. Other than that, no thanks.
 INSIDE TRACK: A failure to proceed.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NOT SO INVITING: Legroom is tight in the Liberty and materials show signs of cost-cutting. Below, optional Sky Slider canvas roof creates a large opening. (pg.AR14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (89%); VEHICLE AIRBAGS (78%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (75%); ELECTRONIC TRACTION & STABILITY CONTROL (69%); ANTILOCK BRAKING SYSTEMS (60%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); DAIMLER AG (91%)

TICKER: DAI (FRA) (91%); DAI (BIT) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (57%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (57%) GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2008



569 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: It's Hard to Thaw a Frozen Market

BYLINE: By TYLER COWEN. 
Tyler Cowen is a professor of economics at George Mason University.

 BODY:
 REAL estate bubbles have burst before, without bringing such trouble to the financial system. What is distinctive today is the drying up of market liquidity -- the inability to buy and sell financial assets -- caused by a lack of good information about asset values. The American economy is suffering from an old conundrum: that liquidity is there when you don't need it, but missing when you do. The results have been a form of financial gridlock.
 If you think that traders have been well informed of late, take another look at the wild path of Bear Stearns shares: A year ago, the stock was selling for $170 a share. At the close on March 14, just before the deal by which Bear Stearns was to be bought by JPMorgan Chase, Bear had a book value of $80 a share -- and a share price of $30. The JPMorgan transaction, arranged two days later, valued the company at about $2 a share. Since then, the shares have been trading above $2, which in part reflects the possibility of the deal breaking up. 
 Every step of the way, the pricing of the stock has surprised the market -- and yet Bear Stearns is a firm with a lengthy history, not an Internet start-up or a biotech whose value is based on a new but untried wonder drug.
 To understand the depths of the current crisis, let's go back to an apparently unrelated episode in economic thought: the socialist calculation debate. Starting in the 1920s, Ludwig von Mises, the leader of the so-called Austrian School of Economics, charged that socialism was unable to engage in rational economic calculation. Without market prices, he reasoned, no one knows how much economic resources are worth. 
 The subsequent poor performance of planned economies bore out his point. For instance, the Soviet Union did a poor job of producing consumer goods and developing innovative industries. In the absence of well-functioning markets for capital goods, these mistakes festered, rather than being rectified by the independent judgments of individual entrepreneurs.
 The irony is that the supercharged capital markets of the American economy are now -- at least temporarily -- in a somewhat comparable position. Starting in August, many asset markets lost their liquidity, as trading in many kinds of junk bonds, mortgage-backed securities and auction-rate securities has virtually vanished.
 Market prices have been drained of their informational value and thus don't much reflect the ''wisdom of crowds,'' as they would under normal circumstances. Investors are instead flocking to the safest of assets, like Treasury bills. 
 The absence of trading is a big problem. Financial institutions have been stuck holding illiquid assets, whose value cannot be easily determined. Who wants to lend to the institutions holding them? No wonder there is a credit crisis and a general attitude of wait and see. 
 This gridlock is especially harmful because leverage is so high, and financial institutions are so interconnected through swaps and loans. Institutions that rely so heavily on debt are precarious and need up-to-date information about valuations. When they don't have it, markets freeze up. This is what has taken policymakers by surprise and turned a real estate crash into a much bigger financial problem.
 You might wonder why asset prices don't simply fall enough so that someone buys them and trading picks up again. First, many bank managers would rather postpone the day of reckoning; why seek ''fire sale'' prices when you might lose your job for doing so? Second, only so many financial institutions have the size and expertise to buy up low-quality assets in large quantities. One scary fact about the Bear Stearns situation is how few buyers were waiting in line.
 So what now? Regulators should apply capital requirements consistently to the off-balance-sheet activities of financial institutions. This will limit dangerous leverage, contain contagion effects and make the system less dependent on the steady flow of good information.
 In the shorter run, economists are generally in three camps when it comes to strategies for recovery. 
 The fundamentalists argue that housing prices need to fall, and rapidly, so that mortgage-backed securities can be valued more accurately. Then trading can resume and financial gridlock will be undone. Advocates of a bailout, by contrast, argue that this process would be a disaster. In their view, the solvency problems are too great and the market is too skittish for the foreseeable future, so the government needs to buy up mortgage securities to prevent catastrophe.
 The third group, the ''wait and see'' faction, finds the first two alternatives unpalatable. This group hopes that if the Fed pumps enough liquidity into banks, the passage of time will improve market information, ease worries and lead to a resumption in asset trading. 
 NO matter your point of view, real-world events are likely to intervene and force an outcome. The Fed and the Treasury have been forced into a mode of emergency response and daily improvisation, not long-term planning. Sooner or later, trading in the illiquid assets is likely to resume, but the major question in all of this is the eventual cost.
 That cost won't be measured only in terms of bailouts and guarantees. The longer this crisis mode drags on, the more the entire reputation of American capital markets will suffer. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (79%); AUCTIONS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); STARTUPS (65%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (63%); TREASURY SECURITIES (60%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (60%); INTERNET & WWW (51%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (94%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (84%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (94%); JPM (LSE) (94%); 8634 (TSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (94%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (94%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (94%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2008



570 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; T: Travel Magazine; Pg. 50

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: We'll Always Have the Paris

BYLINE: EPICENTERS

 BODY:
Against the deadpan sameness of downtown Anchorage, a marquee featuring an Eiffel Tower and the words ''Club Paris'' in cursive neon juts out from a nondescript storefront. Anchorage is an oil boomtown that was built on the remnants of a gold and fur boomtown that was largely wiped out by an earthquake in 1964. Club Paris is that rare elderly building that survived. (Large portions of a J. C. Penney landed around it, but failed to destroy it.) 
 I wandered over to it on a late winter morning in opalescent darkness and fog, passing trees covered in a ghostly dusting of hoarfrost and two moose -- a mama and her calf -- loitering in front of City Hall. 
 By the time I arrived at the Paris's doors, it was past 11 a.m., and the sun had risen to approximately the bridge of my nose. I was sure the place must be closed: no light emanated from inside. But not only was it open, it was jumping. Drinkers filled out the curvature of the bar, and a small crush of diners stood waiting to be seated. ''Where else can you get cocktails at noon?'' bellowed my new best friend, Jennifer. ''That's what we like to do in Alaska!''
 Jennifer is Anchorage born and bred. She has that wide-eyed, guileless look crossed with a daggerlike irony that characterizes women of the grunge-era Northwest. I had met her five minutes earlier, at the cash register of the neighboring bookstore, where she'd insisted that, yes, Club Paris would be open and that she would escort me there. Comfortably seated in a Naugahyde booth, Jennifer explained to me that in Anchorage there is B.P. and A.P.: Before the Pipeline and After the Pipeline. Club Paris is one of the last holdouts of B.P.
 The walls of the Paris are mounted with ocean taxidermy -- stuffed marlin and yellowfin tuna, a giant Alaskan king crab -- but its defining feature is darkness. In other cities, restaurants are places to see and be seen; the Paris is a place to meet and not be recognized. As a local environmental economist explained it to me, ''A lot of major decisions about Alaska's natural resources are made in those booths.'' In the 1960s, the Paris was perfectly situated, by the offices of the Richfield Oil Company and those of the state legislators. Club Paris is still dimly lit, but nothing like the old days. ''You think it's dark now,'' said Sheila Moma, the sister of the current owners and Club Paris's unofficial historian. ''We changed to 25-watt bulbs from 7 watts,'' she said, laughing.
 In the '50s, a World War II veteran named Tommy Straken, who had married a French woman overseas, decided to recreate a Parisian sidewalk cafe in Alaska. He bought a former undertaker's parlor and put a canvas awning and a fake hedgerow inside. Straken sold out to the Taylor brothers; Frankie Taylor, later murdered in a gambling dispute, eventually bought it outright with a partner. In 1976 they sold it to one of the cooks and a geophysicist for the Arco oil company named Charlie Selman, still known as the man who discovered Prudhoe Bay, the largest oilfield in North America. He became sole owner of Club Paris in the 1980s, and after he passed away, his children took over.
 Selman bought the place by leveraging his Arco stock, his son Stan told me. ''My dad was making $250 a month and thought he was in Fat City. Figured he'd always have a place to eat, sleep and drink.'' Stan and his brother Scott have kept Club Paris as they inherited it: ''steak, potatoes and a stiff drink.'' Stan, an affable, low-throttle man of 50, looks more like a geometry teacher than the recovered drug addict he is. ''I'm the world's worst bartender,'' he says. ''I don't tell jokes, I don't follow sports, and I don't drink. But I pour 'em like I used to drink 'em, and that's all they care about.'' Business is brisk, thanks in part to the cruise ships that stop in Anchorage, but the Paris's mainstay remains the locals: ''Governors eat next to bikers eat next to crab fishermen.''
 The gentlemen who made Alaska Alaska by bringing its oil to market -- Stan calls them the Pioneers -- are mostly ''dead, gone, retired or moved out of state.'' For the remaining Pioneer, the Paris has a brass inlay on the bar that reads ''This Seat Reserved for Mr. JOHN GIBBONS (Unless Of Course, He Is Seeking His Virtuous Couch) -- With Love.'' 
 I asked Stan who John Gibbons is. ''Engineer, stuntman, a rancher out in Kodiak. Pretty much everything. A real Pioneer.'' Deep in his 90s, Gibbons still shows up when he can. 
 ''John Gibbons and I spent many a cold night here. One time, apropos of nothing, he said to me, 'Stan, it's a great life, if you never weaken.' '' Just then the Tom Petty song ''Free Fallin''' came on. ''Hey, hey,'' said Stan, suddenly perking up. ''I played that at my first sky dive! Crank that up!'' 
 Club Paris, 417 West Fifth Avenue, Anchorage; (907) 277-6332; clubparisrestaurant.com. Club Paris, Anchorage

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN CLARK) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIES (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); MAMMALS (74%); HISTORY (73%); BOOKSTORES (72%); RESTAURANTS (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); WORLD WAR II (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (95%); PARIS, FRANCE (91%) ALASKA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2008



571 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 628 words

HEADLINE: For the Fed's Next Act ...

 BODY:
As originally scripted, the Federal Reserve was supposed to play the heavy in its role as lender of last resort, charging ailing banks a penalty rate of interest and demanding worthy collateral in exchange for emergency loans. Shame was also part of the deal, because a bank that went to the Fed for help was stigmatized as weak.
 The Fed's chairman, Ben Bernanke, has obviously ditched that script, and rightly so, assuming that his judgment of the risks to the financial system is correct. The open question is whether he and the government officials who support the Fed's recent moves will take the next necessary step -- devising new regulation for a financial system that, on its own, does not control ruinous excesses and is unable to avoid civilian casualties. 
 Sensing a collapse of the financial system unless radical measures were taken, the Fed began extending credit last week to Wall Street securities firms, not just banks, for the first time since the Depression. As collateral, it is accepting hard-to-trade securities tied to mortgages. It has lowered its lending rate. And for hundreds of billions of dollars in loans, it has largely eliminated the shame factor by holding auctions for the funds rather than lending directly, which requires a borrower to show up, hat in hand. 
 It has also promised to guarantee $30 billion in potentially toxic securities held by Bear Stearns, the implosive investment bank. That's a boon not only to JPMorgan Chase, which hopes to buy Bear for a song, but also to the panicked investors on the other side of Bear's complex trades, as well as to investors and traders at other institutions. 
 Sophisticated investment bankers, investors and traders do not deserve special handling from the Fed, but they are getting it anyway, because the Fed believes that allowing them to go on floundering would be worse for the economy than intervening. In effect, the Fed and, ultimately, American taxpayers have assumed the risks of some of the bets placed by people who are complicit in the mayhem the Fed is seeking to quell. 
 That demands a quid pro quo. We're waiting.
 Each time the Fed has ratcheted up its rescue efforts, analysts and critics have raised the specter of moral hazard, the danger that shielding people from the brunt of their decisions will encourage them to keep taking outsize risks. The debate has thus centered on whether the Fed should be stingier with aid, in the form of interest rate cuts or injections of money, to teach the markets a lesson. 
 That misses the point. The Fed has to do what it deems fit, in the moment, to avoid calamity. Moral hazard must be chiefly controlled with rules and supervision to ensure that the rescued do not have the opportunity to get everyone else into the same fix again. 
 As the Fed extends its safety net beyond banks, for instance, nonbank financial firms must be subject to greater regulation, including requiring them to set aside capital commensurate with risk and monitoring the degree of leverage on their balance sheets. They are sure to resist such rules because that would mean limits on lending and borrowing and on investing with borrowed money, a big source of riches during the bubble years. Without rules, however, moral hazard is unchecked. 
 The real danger in the Fed's recent actions is that the necessary rule changes will not be made. The Treasury Department's recent foray into regulatory reform was more public relations than policy making. Members of Congress, notably Barney Frank, chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, has outlined several sound regulatory reforms, and the House has passed mortgage-reform legislation. 
 It appears that a new Senate and a new administration will be needed to actually create new laws.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TOXIC ASSETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (75%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (54%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2008



572 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SUITS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: Well, What He Really Meant to Say Was...

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
Jim Cramer expresses opinions with a certitude, not to mention amplitude, that leaves the audience of his CNBC show, ''Mad Money,'' in no doubt about where he stands on a topic. Yet after being widely ridiculed last week for seeming to dismiss concerns about the future of Bear Stearns days before the bank was rescued and its stock collapsed, Mr. Cramer has complained that he was misunderstood.
 In a March 11 broadcast, viewed tens of thousands of times on YouTube and parsed by satirists like Jon Stewart, Mr. Cramer told a viewer who asked whether he should remove money from Bear: ''No, no, no! Bear Stearns is fine. Bear Stearns is not in trouble.'' He then advised: ''Don't move your money from Bear. That's just being silly.'' 
 Late last week, Mr. Cramer said in an interview that he was referring to assets in Bear Stearns brokerage accounts, not the stock. 
 On the contrary, he said, he later made ''an unbelievable call'' that the stock would end up worthless. A transcript of a broadcast on March 14 has him panning the stock, although he did not say unequivocally that it would fall close to zero. As for his earlier assessment that Bear Stearns was not in trouble, well, that was somewhat off the mark. CONRAD DE AENLLE 
 ANOTHER SIDE OF THE AUTO WORLD
 Finbarr J. O'Neill, who left Hyundai in 2003, is taking up residence at a company whose closely watched consumer surveys helped solidify his reputation as Hyundai's savior. Mr. O'Neill will join J. D. Power & Associates as senior vice president and general manager of international operations, heading development in the Asia-Pacific region, Europe and Canada.
 Mr. O'Neill resurfaces five months after he left Reynolds & Reynolds, an auto dealership software company where he was chief and then vice chairman. Previously, he was C.E.O. of Mitsubishi Motors North America.
 At Hyundai, Mr. O'Neill led a resurgence of the South Korean automaker. By the time he left, J. D. Power rated Hyundai's quality as equal to Toyota's and Honda's. NICK BUNKLEY 
 BOWING OUT AT FERRARI 
 Jean Todt, 62, quit last week as chief executive of Ferrari, the carmaker and Formula One powerhouse. Ferrari may be quintessentially Italian, but it was Mr. Todt, a Frenchman, who engineered its return to glory -- helped by the German race car driver Michael Schumacher. 
 A Ferrari driver had not won a Formula One championship for 15 years when Mr. Todt took over the team in 1993. Under his tenure, the team grabbed six championships. 
 After running Ferrari's Formula One team for more than a decade, Mr. Todt became chief executive in 2006. Though Mr. Todt will remain a Ferrari board member and retain other functions, he will have more time to spend with his girlfriend, the actress Michelle Yeoh, who starred in ''Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon'' and the James Bond film ''Tomorrow Never Dies.''
 Amadeo Felisa, an 18-year Ferrari veteran, will take over as chief executive. ERIC SYLVERS 
 DRUG MARKETING CASE 
 The former chief of a small California biotechnology company had criminal charges brought against him last week for his suspected role in promoting a drug that prosecutors said was not approved to treat a fatal lung disease. 
 The company's former executive, W. Scott Harkonen, a medical doctor who headed Intermune until June 2003, was indicted on wire fraud and other charges over the marketing and selling of the drug Actimmune, which was approved by the Food and Drug Administration only to treat two rare childhood diseases. 
 Prosecutors said Intermune, based in Brisbane, Calif., was illegally marketing the drug to treat idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. The drug had $141 million in sales in 2003. Three years later, it agreed to pay $36.9 million to settle federal claims that it sold Actimmune for unapproved uses. 
 The company noted in a statement that ''the government is bringing charges against a former employee'' -- not against the company or its current employees or directors.
 Mr. Harkonen, 56, is now chief executive of CoMentis, a research firm in South San Francisco, Calif., developing drugs to combat Alzheimer's disease. 
 His lawyer, James J. Brosnahan, issued a statement saying that ''Dr. Harkonen is innocent of the charges brought against him.''
 ELIZABETH OLSON 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: HELPING HANDS: Gathering in Manhattan last week as part of the weeklong TAP Project were, from left, Marcus Samuelsson, the chef and restaurateur
Ann M. Veneman, the executive director of Unicef
and David Granger, editor in chief of Esquire magazine. In the project, patrons of participating restaurants in the United States donated money toward providing safe drinking water to children around the world.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN MARSHALL MANTEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Jim Cramer 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORMULA ONE RACING (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (86%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); TRANSCRIPTS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); AUTOMAKERS (69%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (69%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (69%); MOTOR VEHICLES (69%); NEW CAR DEALERS (64%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (63%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (62%); AUTO RACING (60%)

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS INC (91%); REYNOLDS & REYNOLDS CO (54%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (53%); MITSUBISHI MOTORS CORP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (59%)

TICKER: 7211 (TSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (54%); NAICS323111 COMMERCIAL PRINTING (EXCEPT SCREEN & BOOKS) (54%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (54%); SIC2761 MANIFOLD BUSINESS FORMS (54%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (52%)

PERSON: JIM CRAMER (91%); MICHAEL SCHUMACHER (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (79%); ASIA (53%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2008



573 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1350 words

HEADLINE: You Say Recession, I Say 'Reservations!'

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO and CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY

 BODY:
THE collapse of a major financial institution is usually an occasion for hand-wringing and tut-tutting over potential job losses, lower consumer spending and missed mortgage payments.
 In New York City, it's also seen as an opportunity. 
 For many of the city's middle class, especially those in the creative class, who have felt sidelined as the city seemed to become a high-priced playground for Wall Street bankers, the implosion of the brokerage house Bear Stearns raises a tantalizing possibility: participation in an economy they have been largely shut out of. 
 Few romanticize the nearly bankrupt New York of the 1970s or the recession of the late 1980s. But if the city suffers an economic downturn, as many now predict, there are fantasies of New York returning to a pre-Gilded Age, before the average Manhattan apartment cost $1.4 million, SAT tutors charged $500 an hour and dinner entrees crossed the $40 threshold.
 Andre Anderson, 34, an account executive at TheDeal.com, a financial news Web site, would like to buy a Manhattan apartment with his girlfriend, but he said their combined incomes still make it nearly impossible to afford one. 
 Like many, he is rooting for what could be called a Bear Stearns discount, as newly unemployed financiers cut back on the buying binges that inflate the cost of life in the city. 
 ''If there is greater good for everyone, is it worth a few people losing their jobs?'' Mr. Anderson asked. ''I think so. I hate to see people lose their jobs, but prices in the city have become ridiculous.''
 From the Bronx to Staten Island, the disintegration of a bank known for its seven- and eight-figure salaries seemed to expose just how eager many New Yorkers are to release a little air from the city's wealth bubble. Corey K. Cox, 32, who works at an equity research firm, hopes that the troubles for Bear Stearns workers may make it easier to buy a three-bedroom apartment or even a house in Brooklyn. His wife is expecting their second child in April.
 ''The environment right now is definitely more favorable to people who don't make those Wall Street bonuses,'' Mr. Cox said. 
 On Web sites devoted to New York, there was a healthy dose of schadenfreude. 
 ''I am willing to risk a recession if it means tons of ibankers will be gone,'' wrote one anonymous poster on Curbed.com, a Web site about real estate.
 New York City has always been defined by the yawning gap between its haves and have-nots. But the last 15 years have witnessed the rise of a class of financiers whose salaries and bonuses have reached staggering heights. Over the last five years, the median compensation for a managing director working in investment banking rose from $650,000 to $1.37 million, according to Johnson Associates, a compensation consulting firm. 
 That is a pittance compared with hedge-fund managers. The highest-paid managers earned at least $240 million a year in 2006, according to the Institutional Investor's Alpha magazine, nearly double the amount of 2005 (and up from a minimum of $30 million in 2002).
 Their pay -- and eagerness to spend it -- has encouraged the growth of a luxury market in everything from groceries to restaurants to spas to specialty boutiques. Witness the Marc Jacobs-ization of the West Village, the surging average price of a two-bedroom apartment in Harlem to $1.1 million, and the rise of $15 tubs of ice cream in, of all places, the Lower East Side, at Il Laboratorio del Gelato. 
 In a city where the median household income in 2006 was $46,480, it's no wonder that many people are bitter. 
 Robert H. Frank, an economics professor at Cornell, has written about the phenomenon of Americans who feel impoverished because of the towering wealth of those above them. In New York City, he said, those feelings are compounded by the sense that much of the wealth at the top is derived from financial instruments that merely move money around. 
 ''It's one thing if people are adding value to society,'' Professor Frank said. ''But there is skepticism that this is all a shell game and these guys are not adding value, at least to the extent that justifies their salaries.''
 Kathryn Lyon, 62, who works at a legal staffing firm, and her husband, who works for the city, have wanted to buy an apartment in Manhattan for the last seven years, but have felt priced out by the wealthy. 
 ''The city has been so damaged by this wealth, and the middle class has been forced out,'' Ms. Lyon said. ''You're holding on by your fingernails to stay in the city.''
 ''I love New York,'' she added, ''But there's always the risk of the city being swallowed up by wealth.''
 At the same time, the troubles at Bear Stearns and the rest of Wall Street may well create hard times for New Yorkers. Many of the 8,000 Bear Stearns workers in the city are expected to lose their jobs. Citigroup announced that it will lay off 2,000 employees, and more job cuts are likely at companies like Merrill Lynch and Goldman Sachs. 
 The trickle-down effect may allow people like Ms. Lyon to buy an apartment, but it could also make the city a far less desirable place to live. During the last prolonged slump on Wall Street, after the crash of the stock market in 1987, a combination of large job losses at banks, trouble in the credit markets and a glut of new commercial and residential real estate on the market (sound familiar?) battered the city .
 Office vacancies soared. Housing prices fell, with bad loans leaving some buildings worthless. Crime surged. And tourism plunged. 
 Jonathan Miller, the president and chief executive of Miller Samuel, a Manhattan real estate appraisal company, remembers appraising a studio co-op apartment in the now-exclusive Tudor City for $11,000 in 1990. 
 Even though he could afford to charge the studio on his Visa, he decided that it wasn't worth the risk. ''There was great concern whether many of these co-ops would remain solvent,'' he said.
 That's why the troubles at Bear Stearns are a mixed blessing for New York's lower ranks. The same masters of the universe who have made housing so expensive have beefed up the tax base, its sanitation services and its police force. They have, in many ways, underwritten the ''new'' New York City of the late 1990s and 2000s, defined by pristine parks and low murder rates. 
 Some Bear Stearns executives already are unloading homes. One of them called a Manhattan broker last week to put his town house up for sale. Ray Schmitz, an associate broker at Coldwell Banker Previews International who stood outside of Bear Stearns on Monday morning handing out business cards, said he received calls from two employees interested in selling. 
 But, at least so far, New York real estate prices show few signs of declining. The weak American dollar is encouraging thousands of foreigners to buy what seem like bargain apartments. ''The condo market is not negotiable because we have Europeans throwing so much money at it,'' said Darren Sukenik, an executive vice president for luxury sales at Prudential Douglas Elliman. 
 And don't count on suddenly getting a next-day reservation at New York's most popular restaurants. Waits for prime-time tables at Nobu are still four weeks, said Drew Nieporent, the force behind more than a dozen restaurants, including Rubicon and Tribeca Grill.
 Even at the height of the '80s economic downturn, Mr. Nieporent did not lower prices at his restaurants. But he did make one big concession: a B.Y.O.B. Monday at Montrachet.
 Still, many New Yorkers hope prices decline. Even some on Wall Street.
 Michele Kleier, the president of Gumley Haft Kleier, a Manhattan brokerage,received a call from a giddy client, a financier. The bidding war over a seven-room $4 million apartment had suddenly turned in the client's favor. His rival, it turned out, was an executive at Bear Stearns, a once-glittering credential that might now hurt his chances with the seller and the co-op board. 
 ''It's like an old Western movie where the vultures are gathering,'' Ms. Kleier said between showings for multimillion-dollar listings. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY CENICOLA) (pg.ST1)
BARGAIN CITY: In the wake of the implosion at Bear Stearns, some New Yorkers dare to hope that they can afford top restaurants like Fiamma, center, and more important, that prices will fall in the overheated real estate market. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, OPPOSITE PAGE, CHIP EAST/REUTERS
CENTER, EVAN SUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
AND ABOVE, MARK LENNIHAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.ST8
 pg.ST9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); RECESSION (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); CITIES (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (76%); EQUITY RESEARCH (75%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (73%); DISMISSALS (73%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (72%); BONUS PAY (68%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (57%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2008



574 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 4152 words

HEADLINE: What Created This Monster?

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ and JULIE CRESWELL

 BODY:
LIKE Noah building his ark as thunderheads gathered, Bill Gross has spent the last two years anticipating the flood that swamped Bear Stearns about 10 days ago. As manager of the world's biggest bond fund and custodian of nearly a trillion dollars in assets, Mr. Gross amassed a cash hoard of $50 billion in case trading partners suddenly demanded payment from his firm, Pimco. 
 And every day for the last three weeks he has convened meetings in a war room in Pimco's headquarters in Newport Beach, Calif., ''to make sure the ark doesn't have any leaks,'' Mr. Gross said. ''We come in every day at 3:30 a.m. and leave at 6 p.m. I'm not used to setting my alarm for 2:45 a.m., but these are extraordinary times.''
 Even though Mr. Gross, 63, is a market veteran who has lived through the collapse of other banks and brokerage firms, the 1987 stock market crash, and the near meltdown of the Long-Term Capital Management hedge fund a decade ago, he says the current crisis feels different -- in both size and significance. 
 The Federal Reserve not only taken has action unprecedented since the Great Depression -- by lending money directly to major investment banks -- but also has put taxpayers on the hook for billions of dollars in questionable trades these same bankers made when the good times were rolling.
 ''Bear Stearns has made it obvious that things have gone too far,'' says Mr. Gross, who plans to use some of his cash to bargain-shop. ''The investment community has morphed into something beyond banks and something beyond regulation. We call it the shadow banking system.''
 It is the private trading of complex instruments that lurk in the financial shadows that worries regulators and Wall Street and that have created stresses in the broader economy. Economic downturns and panics have occurred before, of course. Few, however, have posed such a serious threat to the entire financial system that regulators have responded as if they were confronting a potential epidemic. 
 As Congress and Republican and Democratic presidential administrations pushed for financial deregulation over the last decade, the biggest banks and brokerage firms created a dizzying array of innovative products that experts now acknowledge are hard to understand and even harder to value.
 On Wall Street, of course, what you don't see can hurt you. In the past decade, there has been an explosion in complex derivative instruments, such as collateralized debt obligations and credit default swaps, which were intended primarily to transfer risk. 
 These products are virtually hidden from investors, analysts and regulators, even though they have emerged as one of Wall Street's most outsized profit engines. They don't trade openly on public exchanges, and financial services firms disclose few details about them. 
 Used judiciously, derivatives can limit the damage from financial miscues and uncertainty, greasing the wheels of commerce. Used unwisely -- when greed and the urge to gamble with borrowed money overtake sensible risk-taking -- derivatives can become Wall Street's version of nitroglycerin.
 Bear Stearns's vast portfolio of these instruments was among the main reasons for the bank's collapse, but derivatives are buried in the accounts of just about every Wall Street firm, as well as major commercial banks like Citigroup and JPMorgan Chase. What's more, these exotic investments have been exported all over the globe, causing losses in places as distant from Wall Street as a small Norwegian town north of the Arctic Circle.
 With Bear Stearns forced into a sale and the entire financial system still under the threat of further losses, Wall Street executives, regulators and politicians are scrambling to figure out just what went wrong and how it can be fixed.
 But because the forces that have collided in recent weeks were set in motion long before the subprime mortgage mess first made news last year, solutions won't come easily or quickly, analysts say. 
 In fact, while home loans to risky borrowers were among the first to go bad, analysts say that the crisis didn't stem from the housing market alone and that it certainly won't end there.
 ''The problem has been spreading its wings and taking in markets very far afield from mortgages,'' says Alan S. Blinder, former vice chairman of the Federal Reserve and now an economics professor at Princeton. ''It's a failure at a lot of levels. It's hard to find a piece of the system that actually worked well in the lead-up to the bust.''
 Stung by the new focus on their complex products, advocates of the derivatives trade say they are unfairly being made a scapegoat for the recent panic on Wall Street.
 ''Some people want to blame our industry because they have a vested interest in doing so, either by making a name for themselves or by hampering the adaptability and usefulness of our products for competitive purposes,'' said Robert G. Pickel, chief executive of the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, a trade group. ''We believe that there are good investment decisions and bad investment decisions. We don't decry motor vehicles because some have been involved in accidents.''
 Already, legislators in Washington are offering detailed plans for new regulations, including ones to treat Wall Street banks like their more heavily regulated commercial brethren. At the same time, normally wary corporate leaders like James Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, are beginning to acknowledge that maybe, just maybe, new regulations are necessary.
 ''We have a terribly global world and, over all, financial regulation has not kept up with that,'' Mr. Dimon said in an interview on Monday, the day after his bank agreed to take over Bear Stearns at a fire-sale price. ''I can't even describe the seriousness of that. I always talk about how bad things can happen that you can't expect. I didn't fathom this event.''
 TWO months before he resigned as chief executive of Citigroup last year amid nearly $20 billion in write-downs, Charles O. Prince III sat down in Washington with Representative Barney Frank, the chairman of the House Financial Services Committee. Among the topics they discussed were investment vehicles that allowed Citigroup and other banks to keep billions of dollars in potential liabilities off of their balance sheets -- and away from the scrutiny of investors and analysts.
 ''Why aren't they on your balance sheet?'' asked Mr. Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts. The congressman recalled that Mr. Prince said doing so would have put Citigroup at a disadvantage with Wall Street investment banks that were more loosely regulated and were allowed to take far greater risks. (A spokeswoman for Mr. Prince confirmed the conversation.)
 It was at that moment, Mr. Frank says, that he first realized just how much freedom Wall Street firms had, and how lightly regulated they were in comparison with commercial banks, which have to answer to an alphabet soup of government agencies like the Federal Reserve and the comptroller of the currency.
 ''Not only did Wall Street have so much freedom, but it gave commercial banks an incentive to try and evade their regulations,'' Mr. Frank says. When it came to Wall Street, he says, ''we thought we didn't need regulation.''
 In fact, Washington has long followed the financial industry's lead in supporting deregulation, even as newly minted but little-understood products like derivatives proliferated. 
 During the late 1990s, Wall Street fought bitterly against any attempt to regulate the emerging derivatives market, recalls Michael Greenberger, a former senior regulator at the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. Although the Long-Term Capital debacle in 1998 alerted regulators and bankers alike to the dangers of big bets with borrowed money, a rescue effort engineered by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York prevented the damage from spreading.
 ''After that, all was forgotten,'' says Mr. Greenberger, now a professor at the University of Maryland. At the same time, derivatives were being praised as a boon that would make the economy more stable.
 Speaking in Boca Raton, Fla., in March 1999, Alan Greenspan, then the Fed chairman, told the Futures Industry Association, a Wall Street trade group, that ''these instruments enhance the ability to differentiate risk and allocate it to those investors most able and willing to take it.''
 Although Mr. Greenspan acknowledged that the ''possibility of increased systemic risk does appear to be an issue that requires fuller understanding,'' he argued that new regulations ''would be a major mistake.''
 ''Regulatory risk measurement schemes,'' he added, ''are simpler and much less accurate than banks' risk measurement models.''
 Mr. Greenberger, still concerned about regulatory battles he lost a decade ago, says that Mr. Greenspan ''felt derivatives would spread the risk in the economy.''
 ''In reality,'' Mr. Greenberger added, ''it spread a virus through the economy because these products are so opaque and hard to value.'' A representative for Mr. Greenspan said he was preparing to travel and could not comment. 
 A milestone in the deregulation effort came in the fall of 2000, when a lame-duck session of Congress passed a little-noticed piece of legislation called the Commodity Futures Modernization Act. The bill effectively kept much of the market for derivatives and other exotic instruments off-limits to agencies that regulate more conventional assets like stocks, bonds and futures contracts. 
 Supported by Phil Gramm, then a Republican senator from Texas and chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, the legislation was a 262-page amendment to a far larger appropriations bill. It was signed into law by President Bill Clinton that December.
 Mr. Gramm, now the vice chairman of UBS, the Swiss investment banking giant, was unavailable for comment. (UBS has recently seen its fortunes hammered by ill-considered derivative investments.)
 ''I don't believe anybody understood the significance of this,'' says Mr. Greenberger, describing the bill's impact. 
 By the beginning of this decade, according to Mr. Frank and Mr. Blinder, Mr. Greenspan resisted suggestions that the Fed use its powers to regulate the mortgage market or to crack down on practices like providing loans to borrowers with little, if any, documentation. 
 ''Greenspan specifically refused to act,'' Mr. Frank says. ''He had the authority, but he didn't use it.''
 Others on Capitol Hill, like Representative Scott Garrett, Republican of New Jersey and a member of the Financial Services banking subcommittee, reject the idea that loosening financial rules helped to create the current crisis.
 ''I don't think deregulation was the cause,'' he says. ''And had we had additional regulation in place, I'm not sure what we're experiencing now would have been averted.''
 Regardless, with profit margins shrinking in traditional businesses like underwriting and trading, Wall Street firms rushed into the new frontier of lucrative financial products like derivatives. Students with doctorates in physics and other mathematical disciplines were hired directly out of graduate school to design them, and Wall Street firms increasingly made big bets on derivatives linked to mortgages and other products. 
 THREE years ago, many of Wall Street's best and brightest gathered to assess the landscape of financial risk. Top executives from firms like Goldman Sachs, Lehman Brothers and Citigroup -- calling themselves the Counterparty Risk Management Policy Group II -- debated the likelihood of an event that could send a seismic wave across financial markets.
 The group's conclusion, detailed in a 153-page report, was that the chances of a systemic upheaval had declined sharply after the Long-Term Capital bailout. Members recommended some nips and tucks around the market's edges, to ensure that trades were cleared and settled more efficiently. They also recommended that secretive hedge funds volunteer more information about their activities. Yet, over all, they concluded that financial markets were more stable than they had been just a few years earlier.
 Few could argue. Wall Street banks were fat and happy. They were posting record profits and had healthy capital cushions. Money flowed easily as corporate default rates were practically nil and the few bumps and bruises that occurred in the market were readily absorbed.
 More important, innovative products designed to mitigate risk were seen as having reduced the likelihood that a financial cataclysm could put the entire system at risk. 
 ''With the 2005 report, my hope at the time was that that work would help in dealing with future financial shocks, and I confess to being quite frustrated that it didn't do as much as I had hoped,'' says E. Gerald Corrigan, a managing director at Goldman Sachs and a former New York Fed president, who was chairman of the policy group. ''Still, I shudder to think what today would look like if not for the fact that some of the changes were, in fact, implemented.'' 
 ONE of the fastest-growing and most lucrative businesses on Wall Street in the past decade has been in derivatives -- a sector that boomed after the near collapse of Long-Term Capital.
 It is a stealth market that relies on trades conducted by phone between Wall Street dealer desks, away from open securities exchanges. How much changes hands or who holds what is ultimately unknown to analysts, investors and regulators.
 Credit rating agencies, which banks paid to grade some of the new products, slapped high ratings on many of them, despite having only a loose familiarity with the quality of the assets behind these instruments. 
 Even the people running Wall Street firms didn't really understand what they were buying and selling, says Byron Wien, a 40-year veteran of the stock market who is now the chief investment strategist of Pequot Capital, a hedge fund. 
 ''These are ordinary folks who know a spreadsheet, but they are not steeped in the sophistication of these kind of models,'' Mr. Wien says. ''You put a lot of equations in front of them with little Greek letters on their sides, and they won't know what they're looking at.''
 Mr. Blinder, the former Fed vice chairman, holds a doctorate in economics from M.I.T. but says he has only a ''modest understanding'' of complex derivatives. ''I know the basic understanding of how they work,'' he said, ''but if you presented me with one and asked me to put a market value on it, I'd be guessing.''
 Such uncertainty led some to single out derivatives for greater scrutiny and caution. Most famous, perhaps, was Warren E. Buffett, the legendary investor and chairman of Berkshire Hathaway, who in 2003 said derivatives were potential ''weapons of mass destruction.''
 Behind the scenes, however, there was another player who was scrambling to assess the growing power, use and dangers of derivatives.
 Timothy F. Geithner, a career civil servant who took over as president of the New York Fed in 2003, was trying to solve a variety of global crises while at the Treasury Department. As a Fed president, he tried to get a handle on hedge fund activities and the use of leverage on Wall Street, and he zeroed in on the credit derivatives market.
 Mr. Geithner brought together leaders of Wall Street firms in a series of meetings in 2005 and 2006 to discuss credit derivatives, and he pushed many of them to clear and settle derivatives trading electronically, hoping to eliminate a large paper backlog that had clogged the system.
 Even so, Mr. Geithner had one hand tied behind his back. While the Fed regulated large commercial banks like Citigroup and JPMorgan, it had no oversight on activities of the investment banks, hedge funds and other participants in the burgeoning derivatives market. And the industry and sympathetic politicians in Washington fought attempts to regulate the products, arguing that it would force the lucrative business overseas.
 ''Tim has been learning on the job, and he has my sympathy,'' said Christopher Whalen, a managing partner of Institutional Risk Analytics, a risk management firm in Torrance, Calif. ''But I don't think he's enough of a real practitioner to go mano-a-mano with these bankers.''
 Mr. Geithner declined an interview request for this article.
 In a May 2006 speech about credit derivatives, Mr. Geithner praised the benefits of the products: improved risk management and distribution, as well as enhanced market efficiency and resiliency. As he had on earlier occasions, he also warned that the ''formidable complexity of measuring the scale of potential exposure'' to derivatives made it hard to monitor the products and to gauge the financial vulnerability of individual banks, brokerage firms and other institutions. 
 ''Perhaps the more difficult challenge is to capture the broader risks the institution might confront in conditions of a general deterioration in confidence in credit and an erosion in liquidity,'' Mr. Geithner said in the speech. ''Most crises come from the unanticipated.''
 WHEN increased defaults in subprime mortgages began crushing mortgage-linked securities last summer, several credit markets and many firms that play substantial roles in those markets were sideswiped because of a rapid loss of faith in the value of the products.
 Two large Bear Stearns hedge funds collapsed because of bad subprime mortgage bets. The losses were amplified by a hefty dollop of borrowed money that was used to try to juice returns in one of the funds. 
 All around the Street, dealers were having trouble moving exotic securities linked to subprime mortgages, particularly collateralized debt obligations, which were backed by pools of bonds. Within days, the once-booming and actively traded C.D.O. market -- which in three short years had seen issues triple in size, to $486 billion -- ground to a halt.
 Jeremy Grantham, chairman and chief investment strategist at GMO, a Boston investment firm, said: ''When we had the shot across the bow and people realized something was going wrong with subprime, I said: 'Treat this as a dress rehearsal. Stress-test your portfolios because the next time or the time after, the shot won't be across the bow.' '' 
 In the fall, the Treasury Department and several Wall Street banks scrambled to try to put together a bailout plan to save up to $80 billion in troubled securities. The bailout fell apart, quickly replaced by another aimed at major bond guarantors. That crisis was averted after the guarantors raised fresh capital.
 Yet each near miss brought with it growing fears that the stakes were growing bigger and the risks more dangerous. Wall Street banks, as well as banks abroad, took billions of dollars in write-downs, and the chiefs of UBS, Merrill Lynch and Citigroup were all ousted because of huge losses.
 ''It was like watching a slow-motion train wreck,'' Mr. Grantham says. ''After all of the write-downs at the banks in June, July and August, we were in a full-fledged credit crisis with C.E.O.'s of top banks running around like headless chickens. And the U.S. equity market's peak in October? What sort of denial were they in?''
 Finally, last week, with Wall Street about to take a direct hit, the Fed stepped in and bailed out Bear Stearns. 
 It remains unclear, exactly, what doomsday scenario Federal Reserve officials consider themselves to have averted. Some on Wall Street say the fear was that a collapse of Bear could take other banks, including possibly Lehman Brothers or Merrill Lynch, with it. Others say the concern was that Bear, which held $30 billion in mortgage-related assets, would cause further deterioration in that beleaguered market.
 Still others say the primary reason the Fed moved so quickly was to divert an even bigger crisis: a meltdown in an arcane yet huge market known as credit default swaps. Like C.D.O.'s, which few outside of Wall Street had ever heard about before last summer, the credit default swaps market is conducted entirely behind the scenes and is not regulated. 
 Nonetheless, the market's growth has exploded exponentially since Long-Term Capital almost went under. Today, the outstanding value of the swaps stands at more than $45.5 trillion, up from $900 billion in 2001. The contracts act like insurance policies designed to cover losses to banks and bondholders when companies fail to pay their debts. It's a market that also remains largely untested. 
 While there have been a handful of relatively minor defaults that, in some cases, ended in litigation as participants struggled over contract language and other issues, the market has not had to absorb a bankruptcy of one of its biggest players. Bear Stearns held credit default swap contracts carrying an outstanding value of $2.5 trillion, analysts say. 
 ''The rescue was absolutely all about counterparty risk. If Bear went under, everyone's solvency was going to be thrown into question. There could have been a systematic run on counterparties in general,'' said Meredith Whitney, a bank analyst at Oppenheimer. ''It was 100 percent related to credit default swaps.''
 Amid the regulatory swirl surrounding Bear Stearns, analysts have questioned why the Securities and Exchange Commission did not send up any flares about looming problems at that firm or others on Wall Street. After all, they say, it was the S.E.C., not the Federal Reserve, that was Bear's primary regulator.
 Although S.E.C. officials were unavailable for comment, its chairman, Christopher Cox, has maintained that the agency has effectively carried out its regulatory duties. In a letter last week to the nongovernmental Basel Committee of Banking Supervision, Mr. Cox attributed the collapse of Bear to ''a lack of confidence, not a lack of capital.''
 IT'S still too early to assess whether the Federal Reserve's actions have succeeded in protecting the broader economic system. And experts are debating whether the government's intervention in the Bear Stearns debacle will ultimately encourage riskier behavior on the Street.
 ''It showed that anything important is going to be bailed out one way or the other,'' says Kevin Phillips, a former Republican strategist whose new book, ''Bad Money,'' analyzes what he describes as the intersection of reckless finance and poor public policy.
 Mr. Phillips says that it's likely that the Fed's actions have ushered in a new era in financial regulation. 
 ''What we may be looking at is a rethinking of the whole role of the Federal Reserve and what they represent,'' he says. ''If they didn't solve it in this round, I'm not sure they can stretch it out and do it again without creating a new law.''
 On Capitol Hill, leading Democrats like Senator Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut, chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, and Mr. Frank of the House Financial Services Committee are pushing for just that. 
 Last Thursday, Mr. Frank offered up a raft of suggestions, including requiring investment banks to disclose off-balance-sheet risks while also making the firms subject to audits -- much like commercial banks are now. He also wants investment banks to set aside reserves for potential losses to provide a greater cushion during financial panics.
 Earlier in the week, Mr. Dodd said the Fed should be given some supervisory powers over the investment banks. 
 But broad new rules aimed at systemic risk are likely to face strong opposition from both the industry and others traditionally wary of regulation. Analysts expect new, smaller-bore laws aimed at the mortgage industry in particular, which was the first sector hit in the squeeze and which affected Wall Street millionaires as well as millions of ordinary American homeowners.
 THERE is an emerging consensus that the ability of mortgage lenders to package their loans as securities that were then sold off to other parties played a key role in allowing borrowing standards to plummet. 
 Mr. Blinder suggests that mortgage originators be required to hold onto a portion of the loans they make, with the investment banks who securitize them also retaining a chunk. ''That way, they don't simply play hot potato,'' he says.
 Mr. Grantham agrees. ''There is just a terrible risk created when you can underwrite a piece of junk and simply pass it along to someone else,'' he says.
 Ratings agencies have similarly been under fire ever since the credit crisis began to unfold, and new regulations may force them to distance themselves from the investment banks whose products they were paid to rate.
 In the meantime, analysts say, a broader reconsideration of derivatives and the shadow banking system is also in order. ''Not all innovation is good,'' says Mr. Whalen of Institutional Risk Analytics. ''If it is too complicated for most of us to understand in 10 to 15 minutes, then we probably shouldn't be doing it.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: (pg. BU1)
Alan Greenspan, the former chairman of the Federal Reserve. He played a pivotal role in the regulation of derivatives products and oversight of the increasingly complex mortgage market.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BIZUAYEHU TESFAYE/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. BU7)
Credit derivatives concerned Timothy F. Geithner, president of the New York Federal Reserve.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. BU8) CHART: Uncharted Territory: The market for credit default swaps, financial contracts designed to cover losses to banks and bondholders when companies fail to pay their debts, has exploded in recent years. Proponents say these products help make the financial system safer by dispersing risk. Critics worry that the market has grown too fast, is rife with speculation and is unregulated.(Source: International Swaps and Derivatives Association) Chart details Outstanding Value of Credit Default Swaps. (pg. BU1)
 A Ballooning Market: THE NEW YORK TIMES Many commercial banks have increased their credit default swaps, which are designed to cover losses to banks and bondholders when companies cannot pay their debts. Size of circle indicates the outstanding value of credit default swaps in the third quarter of 2007.(Source: Office of the Comptroller of the Currency) Chart details various statistics of banks. (pg. BU7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); BONDS (89%); DEREGULATION (88%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (77%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (77%); BOND FUNDS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); HEDGE FUNDS (72%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (72%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (72%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); GREAT DEPRESSION (67%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (60%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); ARK ASA (91%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY (59%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: BILL GROSS (90%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%); ALAN GREENSPAN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2008



575 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 353 words

HEADLINE: A Matter of Priorities In a Bank Bailout

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Rescue Me: A Fed Bailout Crosses the Line'' (Fair Game, March 16), by Gretchen Morgenson:
 While I admire Ms. Morgenson's work, I disagree with her criticism of the Federal Reserve's bailout of Bear Stearns. In the column, she quotes William Fleckenstein, president of Fleckenstein Capital, as saying of the move: ''This is the perfect time to set an example, but they are not interested in setting an example. We are Bailout Nation.'' 
 A perfect time? When frozen credit markets compound the risk that falling household wealth will cause a self-reinforcing cutback in personal consumption, production, employment and incomes, thereby plunging the American economy, and, conceivably, the entire world economy, into a costly, perhaps long-lasting recession? 
 I share Ms. Morgenson's concern about ''moral hazard'' and so, I am sure, does Ben Bernanke. But his job at the Fed, under the circumstances, is surely to put first things first, and try to protect the real economy from really serious damage. Francis M. Bator
 Cambridge, Mass., March 16
 The writer is the Lucius N. Littauer Professor of Political Economy, emeritus, at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard.
 To the Editor:
 In medical school, we learn early that no virus infection can be treated effectively with antibiotics. Viruses hijack the cellular machinery and replicate within the cell of the host. If you consider the fallout from the subprime debacle as a virus spreading through the economy, the antibiotic treatment was delivered in the Federal Reserve decision to rescue Bear Stearns. As in the human body, this antibiotic treatment will not treat the underlying disease, but has the potential to make matters worse.
 Because the virus infection will continue, the only successful treatment is to let the immune system take over. Let the market regulate itself and let former big players in the mortgage security business be swallowed up or eradicated from the economy. Marcus Friedrich
 Miami Beach, March 17
 The writer is a third-year medical student at the Miller School of Medicine at the University of Miami.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ANTIBIOTICS (89%); WRITERS (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); SUBPRIME LENDING (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (70%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (70%); CONSUMPTION (70%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (67%)

COMPANY: BEAR STEARNS COS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (87%) FLORIDA, USA (87%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2008



576 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1070 words

HEADLINE: Letters

 BODY:
The Money Issue
 You devoted your March 9 issue to a discussion of how the wealthiest Americans can best have an impact on philanthropy. But none of the articles asked a fundamental question: Is the nation's reliance on voluntary, uncoordinated charity -- provided by people who may benefit from massive tax cuts -- the best way to solve pressing social problems?
 Modern American society seems to accept as a given that the wealthiest should have unfettered free choice to spend their billions on vacation homes, multimillion-dollar bequests to their pets or donations to charities, including well-funded medical, cultural and educational institutions. In contrast, most Western European nations tax the wealthy far more equitably, and their societies as a whole, through their democratically elected representatives, determine how excess wealth should be spent. Such countries have stronger social safety nets and less homelessness and poverty than America. JOEL BERG 
 Executive Director
 New York City Coalition 
 Against Hunger
 New York
 Jim Holt (''Good Instincts'') may be accurate in listing cynical reasons for altruism. But what of it? Charitable funding is desperately needed. Those who may be giving for the wrong reasons could just as easily be spending on useless material goods rather than giving to worthy endeavors.
 Francis Bacon said, ''In charity there is no excess.'' I'm reasonably certain he would have agreed that there is also no wrong reason to give. STEVEN R. DISALVO
 New York
 Why all the analysis about altruism? Seems to me it's as basic as wanting a sense of purpose, a reason for our existence. Who cares if that's technically ''selfish''? The bigger question is why people who can afford to be generous choose not to, in spite of the overwhelming evidence that a self-absorbed life is a sad one. 
 LESLIE J. MILLER
 Pittsburgh
 The brightest stars in the Hollywood firmament achieve their exalted status, by and large, by giving thoughtful, nuanced performances on the screen, which in turn create a kind of fungible fame that can be capitalized upon in celebrity activism (''The Celebrity Solution,'' James Traub).
 Unfortunately, the often less-than-nuanced quality of celebrity activism is rarely a match for the stellar performances that created the leverage in the first place.
 James Traub rightly credits George Clooney for being the rare celebrity who is as thoughtful and nuanced in his activism as in his screen work, approaching complex issues with humility and a desire to talk. But all too often, when it comes to real-world interventions, the stars fall flat. PHILIP J. CUNNINGHAM
 Ithaca, N.Y.
 If John List and Dean Karlan (''What Makes People Give?'' David Leonhardt) thought to give a holler over to their respective English literature departments, the rationale behind their economics experiments might be readily explainable via the work of Thomas Hardy, who wrote, ''The rarest offerings of the purest loves are but a self-indulgence and no generosity at all.'' FELICIA HUGHES
 Seymour, Conn.
 Thank you for Joe Nocera's fascinating article about Herb and Marion Sandler's funding of ProPublica (''Self-Made Philanthropists''). It sheds light on an encouraging path for helping newspapers enhance investigative reporting in the face of budget pressures.
 The ''hired gun'' approach of ProPublica, however, may not do much to bolster the day-to-day beat reporting that's the basis of much great newspaper work. In my recent study of a century of journalism awarded the Pulitzer Prize for Public Service, I found at least as many cases of great stories bubbling up from beats like police or courts -- as when The Philadelphia Inquirer uncovered how confessions were routinely beaten out of suspects (the 1990 prize winner). And certainly the 1973 Pulitzer to The Washington Post for its Watergate reporting was a stellar example of such daily, incremental work by young reporters who were freed by editors to pursue their beat.
 For investigative stories to grow from the beat it's necessary for local editors to keep supporting their staff reporters -- and for publishers to keep paying the tab.
 ROY J. HARRIS JR.
 Boston
 Teaching to the Testosterone
 Ideas about education that are ''separate but equal'' in approach, that are gender-exclusive and usually racial in scope are at variance with our civil rights policies that have promoted integration and disfavored group prejudgments and suspect classifications based on race and/or sex (Elizabeth Weil, March 2). If one needs any further evidence of the pitfalls of such segregative thinking and sorrowful patterns in public education, your article provided it, with experts actually touting the need to ''lower the temperature'' in boys' classrooms and to speak softly to girls; to paint boys' classrooms blue and girls' yellow. 
 All of this new science sounds like the discredited scientific racism that for decades studied ''the Negro'' and reinforced and justified segregative policies by public-school officials who argued vociferously that blacks could be effective and more active learners in black schools, and who argued as well that blacks not only did not need integration but that integration was a detriment to their self-esteem and fragile egos (sitting in classrooms with advanced learners who were white and middle class). Color me a dissenter from such gobbledygook.
 MICHAEL MEYERS
 Executive Director
 New York Civil Rights Coalition
 New York
 Leonard Sax paints an idyllic picture of boys at Avon Old Farms school chivalrously requesting dates of their Miss Porter's counterparts. Unfortunately, this paradigm for dealings between the sexes carries a significant social cost. By removing the sexes from commonplace, quotidian contact with one another, educators send children an unmistakable message that the opposite sex is indeed a distant, mysterious, unknowable ''other,'' to be encountered only under the romantically and sexually fraught auspices of dates or school dances. 
 The truth is, in the course of a lifetime, only a minute fraction of intersex interactions will pertain to romantic liaisons; the rest will be between individuals communicating as colleagues, friends, co-workers and the like. Sax's model is actively counterproductive in teaching children to navigate these interactions and serves them ill in their overall social education.
 DANIEL JONES
 Ithaca, N.Y.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEXEI HAY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHILANTHROPY (90%); CHARITIES (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); CELEBRITIES (88%); CHARITABLE GIVING (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (76%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (73%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (72%); FOOD CHARITIES (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); TAX LAW (71%); HOMELESSNESS (68%)

PERSON: GEORGE CLOONEY (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%); WESTERN EUROPE (71%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2008



577 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1280 words

HEADLINE: Good Faith

BYLINE: By EMILY BAZELON. 
Emily Bazelon is a senior editor at Slate.

 BODY:
LIBERTY OF CONSCIENCE 
 In Defense of America's Tradition of Religious Equality. 
 By Martha C. Nussbaum 
 406 pp. Basic Books. $28.95. 
 In Sophocles' tragedy, Antigone is caught between her religion and her state. After her brother is killed assaulting the city, her uncle Creon forbids her to bury him. But according to the tenets of her faith, if Antigone does not bury her brother, she will have disobeyed the gods and forfeit her own afterlife. Eventually, she kills herself. 
 Martha C. Nussbaum tells the ancient Greek story in ''Liberty of Conscience,'' her grand and penetrating discourse on religion and American law, to illustrate how an unbending state can impose a ''tragic burden'' on a member of a religious minority. This demonstrates two of Nussbaum's prodigious strengths. As a teacher and scholar of law, philosophy and religion at the University of Chicago, she brings the insights of each discipline to bear on the others. And because she's attuned to the ''springs of conscience'' that well up from faith -- Nussbaum left the Episcopal Church for Reform Judaism when she married -- she can analyze some of the Supreme Court's recent jurisprudence on religion with sympathy rather than disdain for the enterprise of accommodation. She's no atheist, she's no evangelical, and she's still worried. 
 As Nussbaum unpacks the court's interpretation of the Constitution's free exercise and establishment clauses, her premise is that ''equality is the glue that holds the two clauses together.''A longtime enemy of elitism in a variety of guises, she fiercely resists the power of a majority religion, aided and abetted by the state, to create an in-group while subordinating out-groups. Nussbaum anchors the countervailing equality tradition in the writings of Roger Williams and James Madison. Williams, who had extensive friendly dealings with the Narragansett Indians, wrote into the charter for the Rhode Island colony a right to freedom of conscience that shocked the British. He coined the phrase ''soule rape'' for the limiting of religious expression that does not violate civil law or harm others. 
 Nussbaum draws a straight line from Williams's fusion of respect and fair play for religious groups to John Rawls's vision of people choosing the basis of their common governance without knowing where they will be situated in the society that results. Williams and Rawls also agree that the state has a moral foundation that is religious for some people and nonreligious for others. Nussbaum finds this construct of ''overlapping consensus'' to be ''a much more helpful idea to think with than the bare idea of 'separation''' between church and state. She lauds Madison for seeing tax support for religion as an inevitable source of hierarchy and favoritism. But she does not read the establishment clause as erecting a wall that discounts the contributions of religion; this she sees as another ''type of unfairness.'' 
 How does Nussbaum apply her equality principle to Supreme Court jurisprudence? She thinks the court avoided the trap that snared Antigone with a 1963 ruling in favor of Adell Sherbert, a Seventh-Day Adventist fired from her mill job for refusing to work on Saturdays. According to Justice William Brennan's test, a job requirement violates the right to free exercise when it imposes a ''substantial burden'' without being justified by a ''compelling state interest,'' or being narrowly tailored to achieve such an interest.This is the right standard, Nussbaum argues, because it treats religious outliers as the equals of the majority, who weren't being asked to work on Sunday, their day of rest. 
 In 1990, the Supreme Court moved away from the equality principle in a case that rejected the claim of Al Smith, who fought his denial of unemployment compensation after he was fired for using peyote during ritual Native American worship. Equating accommodation with anarchy, Justice Antonin Scalia's majority opinion declared that religious beliefs had never been held to excuse compliance with a valid law. Nussbaum turns to another conservative, the scholar and judge Michael McConnell, to fend off Scalia's argument on the history and the merits. She notes approvingly that with prodding from Congress, the court seems to be heading back toward acknowledging, as Scalia himself later put it, that ''you can make an exception without the sky falling.''
 Thus far, Nussbaum's equality principle has served as a useful prism for a familiar point of view. The book takes a more surprising turn when Nussbaum examines an 1874 ruling in which the Supreme Court rejected polygamy as an expression of Mormon duty. Nussbaum sides with the Mormons, primarily, it seems, because their opponents hypocritically kept their own wives bound by unequal marriage laws. Polygamy looked pretty good compared to other marriages of the time, and that's good enough, Nussbaum argues; the more obvious point might be that neither type of marriage deserved constitutional protection. She gives a scant few sentences to the contemporary sex-equality argument against polygamy and dismisses as fear-mongering ''Under the Banner of Heaven,'' Jon Krakauer's disturbing 2003 book about women and girls exploited by extremist Mormon sects. (''Krakauer is known for writing about mountaineering and appears to have no credentials in the area of religion,'' Nussbaum sniffs in a footnote -- a strange note for an anti-elitist to sound.) 
 But if Nussbaum is a bit off-key in her defense of the Mormons, her moral clarity snaps back into focus when she turns to the establishment clause clashes of the last half-century. The Supreme Court has gradually turned this area of law into a tangle of not quite abandoned constitutional tests. Nussbaum is particularly good at showing how both liberals and conservatives have contributed to the snarl. 
 In 1984, a majority opinion by Justice Brennan struck down a New York City program that brought remedial teachers into sectarian schools to teach low-income children. Nussbaum stands with Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, casting the New York case as the flip side of Antigone's tragedy. The students could express their faith, but doing so deprived them of a public benefit available to everyone else. The court went on to overrule the 1984 precedent, and Nussbaum's equality principle illuminates why this was the better call.
 Nussbaum also looks closely at a difficult pair of 2005 rulings in which the Supreme Court said no to a Ten Commandments display planned for a Kentucky courthouse, while allowing a less obtrusive Texas monument to remain. In the majority for the Kentucky case, O'Connor and Justice David Souter emphasized equality among people inside and outside the Judeo-Christian tradition as well as believers and nonbelievers. But in the Texas ruling, Justice Stephen Breyer found in favor of keeping the Ten Commandments in place by introducing a new rationale -- the desirability of averting social conflict. 
 Nussbaum thinks the Texas case is a close one that could have gone either way, but she shreds Breyer's methodology. ''Should we really say that a display that everyone likes and that isn't stirring up trouble, because the offended minorities are too powerless to make trouble, is for that reason constitutional?'' she asks. ''This seems to be a very bad theory for an egalitarian nation to adopt.''Worse, Breyer left it ''no longer clear that the equality theory is consistently endorsed in hard cases.''Nussbaum's contribution is to show vividly how the equality tradition leads the court, and the rest of us, to ask the right questions. As she understands, this is what we can ask of the law.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRISTOPH NIEMANN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (96%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (89%); CHURCH & STATE (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); CLASSICS (78%); JEWS & JUDAISM (73%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); PHILOSOPHY (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (93%)

TITLE: Liberty of Conscience (Book)>; Liberty of Conscience (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2008



578 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: The China Card

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. KAPLAN. 
Robert D. Kaplan is a national correspondent for The Atlantic and a senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security.

 BODY:
THE GHOST WAR 
 By Alex Berenson. 
 383 pp. G. P. Putnam's Sons. $24.95. 
 While the United States remains focused on the Middle East, China quietly and relentlessly creeps forward as a national security challenge. Its economic rise is being followed by its military rise. In 2006, a Chinese Song-class attack submarine, equipped with Russian-made wake-homing torpedoes, stalked the U.S.S. Kitty Hawk carrier strike group in the Pacific. The sub surfaced within firing range before being detected only five miles from the carrier itself. 
 In 2007, the Chinese destroyed one of their aging weather satellites with a missile -- effectively ending decades of debate over whether space would be militarized. 
 In ''The Ghost War,'' the New York Times reporter Alex Berenson has fashioned a smart, economically written spy novel that imagines a future clash with the Chinese. As such, it's a novel for policy wonks, with a very sophisticated vision of how a conflict with China could come about, akin to the kind of war-gaming scenarios that occupy Washington strategists. Here, a power struggle between the military and civilian wings of the Chinese leadership and the accidental ramming of a Chinese trawler by an American destroyer ignite an unwelcome conflict. Adding to the complexity is a new alliance between China and Iran, a secret one between China and the Taliban, the attempted defection of a North Korean spy to the West and the usual moles on each side.
 The plot moves quickly, in tight, essayistic paragraphs that show Berenson's command of such disparate worlds as the United States Navy and Chinese migrant workers. I once spent a month aboard a destroyer in the Pacific and can attest to the accuracy of the author's portrayal of one. His description of a semi-starving Chinese laborer who starts a riot, and whose only memory of home and his dead parents is a baseball hat that a policeman grabs from him, is vivid and moving. Elsewhere, Berenson offers an intriguing account of a meeting of the Chinese leadership in a banquet hall that's ''drab'' on the outside, but on the inside ''seemed to have been transported directly from Versailles.'' Here, China's small band of rulers guzzle down a half-case of 1992 Chateau Lafitte at 10,000 yuan, or $1,300, a bottle.
 ''Li sipped his wine,'' Berenson writes. ''His father Hu had worked at a tire factory until his heart gave out on his 52nd birthday. Hu hadn't made 10,000 yuan in his entire life.'' Li Ping, the head of the People's Liberation Army, is Berenson's most studied character: an abstemious military man who would rather be drinking freshly squeezed orange juice than expensive wine, who exercises constantly, and who wants China's new wealth to be more evenly distributed among its poor, especially during a short-term economic slowdown. Li's purity fuses with his political extremism. He concocts a plot to draw China into a limited war with the United States, in order to oust the more personally decadent and free-market-oriented members of the Standing Committee.
 The conflict feeds Chinese nationalism and resentment after the trawler is accidentally rammed -- ''Hegemonists apologize! No more American war crimes!'' the crowds in Beijing cry. When the crisis gets out of control, China's military modernization allows for a submarine-launched torpedo to elude the Navy's electronic defenses and hit the errant destroyer. As Berenson explains, ''Until a few years before, China's armed forces had relied on leaky ships, rusting submarines and fighter jets whose design dated from the Korean War.'' That was all changing, Berenson continues, now that Chinese students in engineering and software at America's top universities were returning home to China; some were going to work for their country's navy, which was now concentrating on undersea warfare, rather than going head-to-head with the United States to develop carriers and other surface warships.
 In reality, when it comes to asymmetrical warfare, there are two ends of the spectrum: the roadside bombs of the Iraqi insurgency represent the crude, low-tech end, and the Chinese, with their focus on submarines, ballistic missiles and space weaponry, are poised to demonstrate the subtle, high-tech end. The object is not a war with America, but rather the ability to deny the United States Navy complete access to coastal Asia. But even this would not be enough to start a limited war. As the novel suggests, China's military development will merely create the conditions for a conflict; the conflict itself could arise only through power plays that lead to accidents and miscalculations.
 Berenson is also geopolitically savvy, and maps out how a single crisis can ripple across several regions. In a fluid, global world, it makes sense that a conflict beginning in Asia soon takes on a Middle East angle, too, owing to trade and military links between eastern and western Asia.
 Like many novels of this genre, ''The Ghost War'' is too mechanical in its plot and lacks the baroque character development for which John le Carre is famous. The protagonist, a Central Intelligence Agency officer named John Wells, is a two-dimensional variation of derring-do types common to other spy books. (Much more successful is Berenson's study of the American mole, Keith Robinson, whose family tragedy leads him in stages to betray his country.) Moreover, the lavish descriptions of military technicalities can sometimes be distracting from the plot and the characters themselves. But Berenson is not trying to be le Carre. Rather, he displays a reporter's fine awareness of headlines over the horizon.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 6, 2008

 CORRECTION:
A review on March 23 about ''The Ghost War,'' by Alex Berenson, a thriller in which a power struggle in China leads to conflict with the United States, misspelled the name of a wine enjoyed by Chinese leaders at a banquet. It is Chateau Lafite, not Lafitte.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TOMER HANUKA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ESPIONAGE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); MILITARY VESSELS (89%); NAVIES (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); NAVAL VESSELS (77%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (73%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (73%); WRITERS (73%); TALIBAN (73%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (66%); MIGRANT WORKERS (63%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (60%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (55%)

COMPANY: G P PUTNAM'S SONS (91%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EAST CHINA (92%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%)

TITLE: Ghost War, The (Book)>; Ghost War, The (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2008



579 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; NEW YORK AUTO SHOW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1205 words

HEADLINE: A Show in Search of a Silver Lining

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE ULRICH

 BODY:
AUTOMAKERS sputtered into Manhattan this week, hoping that mortgage-challenged Americans will soon cut loose and buy cars-- and still have garages to park them in. 
 The New York International Auto Show caps a tough show season for the industry, whose American sales could drop below 15.5 million this year, analysts say, a bruising plunge from the 17 million that had became almost routine.
 The show, which runs through March 30 at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center, will leave car companies looking for bright spots wherever they may find them. More than 130 million people will receive federal economic stimulus checks starting in May, and some analysts say the windfall could help to stimulate auto sales.
 George Pipas, a sales analyst at Ford, said the $168 billion stimulus package would not only put money directly in consumer's pockets, it would lift businesses in general -- and those business-people might also decide to buy a car. 
 ''What little optimism there is, is related to the fact that a lot of that money will be spent,'' Mr. Pipas said. 
 After two days of press previews last week, showgoers in New York are kicking tires at a show that includes several just-unveiled 2009 models and brings together many others from previous spectacles in Frankfurt, Los Angeles, Detroit, Chicago and Geneva. 
 That crowded car-show schedule left many automakers played out, with little new or remarkable to unwrap in New York. Ford, the nation's third-largest automaker, behind General Motors and Toyota, has a display full of 2009 models, but it did not bother to have a press conference to announce additional models or new technology. Nor did Toyota.
 Among production-car debuts at the show, the 2009 Nissan Maxima was among the most significant, a well-known and relatively high-volume nameplate for which Nissan has big hopes. The current Maxima has had disappointing sales and reviews; Nissan executives have acknowledged that it was too close in size and market positioning to the less expensive Altima.
 On paper and in person, the seventh-generation 2009 Maxima is more powerful, with a 3.5-liter V-6 that pumps out about 290 horsepower. The Maxima goes on sale this summer; a high-mileage diesel option is to be added in 2010.
 Acura released its own updated sport sedan, the 2009 Acura TSX. The model addresses a chief criticism of the current version, that it is too small for many midsize sedan buyers. Longer and wider, the new TSX should achieve 30 miles a gallon on the highway with its 2.4-liter 4-cylinder engine. And in 2009, the TSX will carry Honda's diesel hopes, offering an optional 4-cylinder diesel engine that the automaker expects to top 40 m.p.g. on the highway. 
 Fresh from the recent Geneva show, the Volvo XC90 crossover utility wagon was roundly praised for its shapely looks. On sale early next year, the XC60 will get 281 horsepower from an in-line 6-cylinder engine. The model will also introduce a new City Safety system that can automatically apply the brakes if it senses an impending collision. 
 In a show with few truly green production models, Mercedes-Benz tried to drive three S.U.V.s onto the environmental high ground. Bluetec diesel versions of the ML-, GL- and R-Class go on sale in October and will be the first new diesel passenger models to meet the pollution rules of all 50 states. 
 Saab brought its 9-4X Biopower, a crossover concept that gets 300 horsepower from a 2-liter turbocharged 4 that can run on ethanol. A production model with similar styling -- but not the alternative-fuel powertrain -- may be called the Saab 9-1. 
 Subaru announced that it would put a pair of tiny R1e electric cars into service with the New York Power Authority. Subaru said the E.V. could travel 50 miles on a charge, top out at 65 miles an hour and recharge to 80 percent capacity in just 15 minutes through a special high-voltage charging station. 
 After focusing on hybrids, Cadillacs and the Corvette ZR1 at previous shows, G.M. lavished attention on Pontiac. The unveiling of the Pontiac Sport Truck featured the surreal pairing of G.M.'s vice chairman, Robert A. Lutz, with the rapper 50 Cent. The Sport Truck is an Australian import, basically a G8 sedan with a pickup bed, based on the Holden Ute sold by G.M.'s Australian operations. Pontiac also showed the Solstice coupe, a handsome hardtop version of its Solstice roadster, and the G8 GXP, a more powerful version of the G8 sedan with a 402-horsepower 6.2-liter V-8.
 With its hot-performing M3 sport coupe and sedan already in showrooms, BMW showed the M3 convertible that goes on sale in May. 
 For people who can't afford the $42,000 Challenger SRT8, Dodge showed the more frugal side of the Challenger lineup: the SE will have a V-6 and the R/T will have a 370-horse V-8. 
 These were among the production models introduced in New York: 
 HYUNDAI GENESIS COUPE On the heels of a concept version, the production Genesis was one of the show's more intriguing cars. On sale in spring 2009 as a 2010 model, the striking sport coupe will start in the low $20,000 range with a 2-liter turbocharged 4. Hyundai said a model with a 306-horsepower V-6 would start below $26,000, making it the nation's most inexpensive 300-horse car.
 HONDA FIT While the Fit has been available in the United States for only two years, an all-new 2009 model goes on sale this fall. The redesigned Fit is larger and more stylish, with a new 4-cylinder engine.
 Mercedes SL-Class Mercedes brought its revamped SL550, a two-seat luxury convertible with a 382-horsepower engine, and the even stronger SL63 AMG with a 518-horsepower version of the 6.2-liter engine that is the workhorse of the AMG lineup.
 AUDI A4 AVANT On sale in the fall for roughly $28,000 and up, the wagon version of the redesigned A4 gets a roughly five-inch stretch. The Avant will feature a turbocharged 4 or a 265-horse V-6. 
 LAMBORGHINI GALLARDO LP560-4 Lamborghini offered the Gallardo LP560-4, a more potent 560-horsepower upgrade of the exotic sports car. The LP560-4 features a larger 5.2-liter V-10 that raises the top speed to 202 m.p.h.
 PORSCHE BOXSTER RS 60 SPYDER Commemorating the ''giant killer'' Type 718 RS 60 racer that won the Sebring endurance race in 1960, the RS 60 Spyder is a $69,400 limited-edition Boxster. 
 The auto show featured an array of concept cars that let automakers float new ideas and gauge consumer reaction to new designs and ideas.
 SUZUKI KIZASHI 3 Suzuki's surprisingly handsome sport sedan -- Kizashi means prelude -- is indeed a prelude to a similarly styled production model coming in 2010. The Kizashi is powered by a 300-horsepower V-6. 
 SCION HAKO This hot-orange hot-rod box is laden with video screens and animated graphics. 
 SALEEN S5S RAPTOR The company's founder, Steve Saleen, is gone and the sports car company has relocated from California to Troy, Mich. At the New York show, the company offered the S5S Raptor, an aluminum-intensive exotic sports car with a supercharged 5-liter, ethanol-burning V-8 with more than 600 horsepower. Chris Theodore, a former Ford executive who is now Saleen's vice chairman, said the S5S could top 200 m.p.h. and sell for $185,000 if it reaches production. 

CORRECTION-DATE: March 30, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about the New York auto show misidentified a new Volvo utility wagon. As noted in a subsequent reference, it is the XC60 -- not the XC90, a larger vehicle that has been available since 2003.
An article last Sunday about the New York auto show misidentified a new Volvo utility wagon. As noted in a subsequent reference, it is the XC60 -- not the XC90, a larger vehicle that has been available since 2003.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BLUE STATEMENT: An election-theme unveiling for the Mercedes-Benz ML320 Bluetec, right. Above, the Scion Hako coupe concept. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SHANNON STAPLETON/REUTERS
MARK LENNIHAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
RED LINE:Introducing the Honda Fit. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY ALTAFFER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.AU1)
Suzuki Concept Kizashi 3
Nissan Maxima (PHOTOGRAPH BY STAN HONDA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE--GETTY IMAGES)
CHARGE IT: The Subaru R1e electric car will be tested in New York.
Hyundai Genesis coupe
 Kia Koup concept 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); NEW CAR MODELS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); SEDANS (88%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (79%); TRADE SHOWS (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%)

COMPANY: NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (84%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%)

TICKER: 7201 (TSE) (84%); GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2008



580 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; T: Travel Magazine; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 83 words

HEADLINE: Traveling Circus

BYLINE: By ANNA LOUIE SUSSMAN

 BODY:
Now that bureaux de change are doing brisk business in rubles and yuan, it's clear there's a new world order in travel. ''People from everywhere are going everywhere,'' says Ian Bremmer, the president of the consulting firm Eurasia Group. And with new wealth come fresh stereotypes -- remember the Ugly American? Bremmer ascribes cliches to ''pure economics. It's who's spending the most money and annoying the locals.'' Here, a pop-anthropological look at the travel universe now. ANNA LOUIE SUSSMAN 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: AMERICANS: They're the new . . . Germans, spurred by good will, guilt or God to places off the beaten track. They're heading to . . . Africa, Southeast Asia, China and the Middle East. They're traveling because . . . They want to make a difference -- hammering together latrines, teaching English and displaying their newfound modesty. And bringing back . . . Adopted children, colorful crafts from local women's collectives. Their mascots are . . . Angelina Jolie and Madonna (wait -- is she still American?)
BRITISH: They're the new . . . Americans, whose once-dominant dollar used to buy them everything, including a reputation. They're heading to . . . Latvia, Dubai and New York, where everything is half-off, year-round. They're traveling because . . . They want to shop. Period. And bringing back . . . Designer clothes and iPods, Eastern European girlfriends. Their mascots are . . . The Spice Girls, flush from a recent world tour and ready to drop their pence
CHINESE: They're the new . . . Japanese, whose strong economy pushed them out into the world, in herds, laden with cameras. They're heading to . . . Paris, along with nearby destinations like Macau, Singapore and Vietnam. They're traveling because . . . The borders are open, and their assets have already infiltrated the world so what are they waiting for? And bringing back . . . Fond memories of long nights at the craps table.Their mascot is . . . Pansy Ho, the co-owner of the MGM Grand Macau and a budding airline mogul
GULF ARABS: They're the new . . .British, who once roamed the earth looking for places to relax that stiff upper lip. They're heading to . . . The Alps, Dubai, Australia -- just not the States, thanks to visa hurdles. They're traveling because . . . They need to escape the heat and social conservatism and find somewhere to spend all their oil and gas money. And bringing back . . . Investors looking to open up the luxury-brand outposts of which Gulf Arabs have grown so fond. Their mascot is . . . The owner of Villa Moda, Sheikh Majed Al-Sabah of Kuwait, a k a the Sheikh of Chic
RUSSIANS: They're the new. . Gulf Arabs. With huge fortunes in the hands of a well-connected few, they're out to flaunt every ruble. They're heading to . . . London, St. Moritz, Positano, acquiring czar-worthy hotel bills. They're traveling because . . . Finally, they can. And bringing back . . . Keys to villas and yachts, property deeds in Montenegro (for protecting assets), even sports teams. Their mascot is . . . Roman Abramovich, the financier extraordinaire and owner of London's Chelsea Football Club. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TOP: CLOCKWISE FROM TOP LEFT: GETTY (5)
ASSOCIATED PRESS
GETTY (2)
GETTY/WIREIMAGE
 GETTY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

PERSON: MADONNA (70%); ROMAN ABRAMOVICH (59%); ANGELINA JOLIE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (89%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%); ALPS (59%) UNITED STATES (94%); MACAO (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); MONTENEGRO (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GERMANY (79%); KUWAIT (79%); ASIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (75%); LATVIA (59%); EASTERN EUROPE (59%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2008



581 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1150 words

HEADLINE: Gap in Life Expectancy Widens for the Nation

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
New government research has found ''large and growing'' disparities in life expectancy for richer and poorer Americans, paralleling the growth of income inequality in the last two decades.
 Life expectancy for the nation as a whole has increased, the researchers said, but affluent people have experienced greater gains, and this, in turn, has caused a widening gap.
 One of the researchers, Gopal K. Singh, a demographer at the Department of Health and Human Services, said ''the growing inequalities in life expectancy'' mirrored trends in infant mortality and in death from heart disease and certain cancers.
 The gaps have been increasing despite efforts by the federal government to reduce them. One of the top goals of ''Healthy People 2010,'' an official statement of national health objectives issued in 2000, is to ''eliminate health disparities among different segments of the population,'' including higher- and lower-income groups and people of different racial and ethnic background. 
 Dr. Singh said last week that federal officials had found ''widening socioeconomic inequalities in life expectancy'' at birth and at every age level. 
 He and another researcher, Mohammad Siahpush, a professor at the University of Nebraska Medical Center in Omaha, developed an index to measure social and economic conditions in every county, using census data on education, income, poverty, housing and other factors. Counties were then classified into 10 groups of equal population size.
 In 1980-82, Dr. Singh said, people in the most affluent group could expect to live 2.8 years longer than people in the most deprived group (75.8 versus 73 years). By 1998-2000, the difference in life expectancy had increased to 4.5 years (79.2 versus 74.7 years), and it continues to grow, he said.
 After 20 years, the lowest socioeconomic group lagged further behind the most affluent, Dr. Singh said, noting that ''life expectancy was higher for the most affluent in 1980 than for the most deprived group in 2000.''
 ''If you look at the extremes in 2000,'' Dr. Singh said, ''men in the most deprived counties had 10 years' shorter life expectancy than women in the most affluent counties (71.5 years versus 81.3 years).'' The difference between poor black men and affluent white women was more than 14 years (66.9 years vs. 81.1 years).
 The Democratic candidates for president, Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York and Barack Obama of Illinois, have championed legislation to reduce such disparities, as have some Republicans, like Senator Thad Cochran of Mississippi.
 Peter R. Orszag, director of the Congressional Budget Office, said: ''We have heard a lot about growing income inequality. There has been much less attention paid to growing inequality in life expectancy, which is really quite dramatic.''
 Life expectancy is the average number of years of life remaining for people who have attained a given age.
 While researchers do not agree on an explanation for the widening gap, they have suggested many reasons, including these:
 Doctors can detect and treat many forms of cancer and heart disease because of advances in medical science and technology. People who are affluent and better educated are more likely to take advantage of these discoveries.
 Smoking has declined more rapidly among people with greater education and income.
 Lower-income people are more likely to live in unsafe neighborhoods, to engage in risky or unhealthy behavior and to eat unhealthy food. 
 Lower-income people are less likely to have health insurance, so they are less likely to receive checkups, screenings, diagnostic tests, prescription drugs and other types of care.
 Even among people who have insurance, many studies have documented racial disparities.
 In a recent report, the Department of Veterans Affairs found that black patients ''tend to receive less aggressive medical care than whites'' at its hospitals and clinics, in part because doctors provide them with less information and see them as ''less appropriate candidates'' for some types of surgery.
 Some health economists contend that the disparities between rich and poor inevitably widen as doctors make gains in treating the major causes of death.
 Nancy Krieger, a professor at the Harvard School of Public Health, rejected that idea. Professor Krieger investigated changes in the rate of premature mortality (dying before the age of 65) and infant death from 1960 to 2002. She found that inequities shrank from 1966 to 1980, but then widened.
 ''The recent trend of growing disparities in health status is not inevitable,'' she said. ''From 1966 to 1980, socioeconomic disparities declined in tandem with a decline in mortality rates.''
 The creation of Medicaid and Medicare, community health centers, the ''war on poverty'' and the Civil Rights Act of 1964 all probably contributed to the earlier narrowing of health disparities, Professor Krieger said.
 Robert E. Moffit, director of the Center for Health Policy Studies at the conservative Heritage Foundation, said one reason for the growing disparities might be ''a very significant gap in health literacy'' -- what people know about diet, exercise and healthy lifestyles. Middle-class and upper-income people have greater access to the huge amounts of health information on the Internet, Mr. Moffit said.
 Thomas P. Miller, a health economist at the American Enterprise Institute, agreed.
 ''People with more education tend to have a longer time horizon,'' Mr. Miller said. ''They are more likely to look at the long-term consequences of their health behavior. They are more assertive in seeking out treatments and more likely to adhere to treatment advice from physicians.'' 
 A recent study by Ellen R. Meara, a health economist at Harvard Medical School, found that in the 1980s and 1990s, ''virtually all gains in life expectancy occurred among highly educated groups.'' 
 Trends in smoking explain a large part of the widening gap, she said in an article this month in the journal Health Affairs.
 Under federal law, officials must publish an annual report tracking health disparities. In the fifth annual report, issued this month, the Bush administration said, ''Over all, disparities in quality and access for minority groups and poor populations have not been reduced'' since the first report, in 2003. 
 The rate of new AIDS cases is still 10 times as high among blacks as among whites, it said, and the proportion of black children hospitalized for asthma is almost four times the rate for white children.
 The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported last month that heart attack survivors with higher levels of education and income were much more likely to receive cardiac rehabilitation care, which lowers the risk of future heart problems. Likewise, it said, the odds of receiving tests for colon cancer increase with a person's education and income.

GRAPHIC: CHART: GROWING DISPARITIES: New research has found that differences in life expectancy for richer and poorer Americans have grown in the last two decades. (Source: Gopal K. Singh and Mohammad Siahpush, using data from Department of Health and Human Services) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (91%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (91%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); AFFLUENT MARKET (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); CANCER (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); MEN (76%); ETHNIC GROUPS (76%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (76%); VULNERABLE HEALTH POPULATIONS (76%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (76%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); LEGISLATION (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); ETHNICITY (72%); INFANT MORTALITY (70%); CENSUS (69%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA (55%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (74%); THAD COCHRAN (58%); PETER ORSZAG (58%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OMAHA, NE, USA (55%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2008



582 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; CODE-BREAKING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1930 words

HEADLINE: Talk About Race

BYLINE: By JANNY SCOTT

 BODY:
Americans and their political leaders have been tongue-tied on the subject of race. We were reminded of that last week when Senator Barack Obama, the front-runner for the Democratic presidential nomination, took the almost unimaginable step of going before a national audience at a precarious juncture in a close campaign and speaking explicitly about what race means to blacks and whites. He spoke of black anger and white resentment and the significance of race in American history; his purpose was political but he spoke with seriousness and gravity and at length. Whether the speech helped or hurt him remains to be seen. But the moment was unlike virtually any in the more than 40 years since the triumphs of the civil rights struggle tore up party alignments of the past and tamped down explicit discussion of race by presidents and major-party candidates addressing the American people. 
 The dynamic had been different once -- when African-Americans had begun to vote Democratic as well as Republican and presidential candidates of both parties competed for their votes; in 1948, Harry Truman, courting swing voters in a close election, became the first presidential candidate from a major party to campaign in Harlem (and ordered an end to segregation in the armed services right after he won the Democratic nomination). In the early 1960s, opinion polls found that a majority of Americans saw civil rights as the dominant issue facing the country. And President Lyndon B. Johnson, in one of several memorable 1965 speeches on race, said, speaking before a joint session of Congress after the ''Bloody Sunday'' voting-rights march from Selma, Ala.: ''Their cause must be our cause too. Because it is not just Negroes, but really it is all of us, who must overcome the crippling legacy of bigotry and injustice. And we shall overcome.''
 Yet it was President Johnson, too, who foresaw the end of what Glenda Gilmore, a Yale historian and author of ''Defying Dixie: The Radical Roots of Civil Rights, 1919-1950,'' described last week as a 20-year ''national conversation on race'' in the 1950s and 1960s. After signing the Civil Rights Act in July 1964, the president is said to have observed that he had just handed over the South to the Republicans for at least a generation. The Republicans seized the opportunity to peel off Democratic states. They studied the campaigns of George Wallace, the Alabama governor who ran as an independent presidential candidate in 1968, to see how he appealed to whites. They developed the ''Southern strategy'' that helped Richard Nixon and later Ronald Reagan. With blacks voting overwhelmingly Democratic by now, and their party struggling to hold onto white working-class ethnic voters in the North, there was little incentive for presidential candidates of either party to bring up race in a serious way.
 Politicians were not alone in dropping the issue. The Watts riots broke out within days of the signing of the Voting Rights Act of 1965; the Vietnam War increasingly supplanted civil rights in the public's attention. 
 ''Our morale was busted by the war,'' said Richard N. Goodwin, the former Johnson speechwriter who wrote the '65 race speeches. ''The moral energy you needed was not there anymore.'' 
 Middle-class whites who had supported civil rights in the Jim Crow South pulled back when the struggle moved North. They decided it was time to move on. That decision coincided with the rise of some of the thornier issues in civil rights -- poverty, economic justice, black identity, the Black Power movement, Professor Gilmore said. Whites were alarmed in the late 1960s and early 1970s by urban violence; they had grievances about busing, affirmative action and other social programs. Talking about race became increasingly loaded. When word of an internal government report on the condition of the black family, written by Daniel Patrick Moynihan for the speech on race that President Johnson had delivered at Howard University and using the word ''pathology,'' leaked to the press in 1965, a furor ensued, sabotaging a planned conference on future government policy to help blacks. Mr. Moynihan was accused of being racist, although not by black leaders like Roy Wilkins and the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
 Race did not disappear entirely from presidential campaigns; it went under cover. It lay buried in code phrases like ''crime in the streets,'' ''states' rights,'' and ''welfare mothers.'' Michael Klarman, a professor at the University of Virginia Law School who specializes in the constitutional history of race, said, ''Nixon talks about 'law and order,' which is a code term for the urban race riots and rising crime rates. He talks about appointing strict conservatives to the Supreme Court, which is a code term for justices who won't insist on mandatory busing. And he talks explicitly about how we ought to have 'local control of schools.' Without explicitly using the language of race, he is saying whites shouldn't have to go to school with blacks.''
 In 1980, Ronald Reagan, campaigning on a platform that included ''states' rights,'' opened his general election campaign in Philadelphia, Miss. -- a decision criticized because it was where three civil rights workers had been murdered in 1964. 
 Democratic presidents like Jimmy Carter and Bill Clinton addressed the race issue in various forms, but not nearly in the strong terms offered up by Mr. Obama last week, historians say. In June 1997, President Clinton proposed a year-long national ''conversation'' about race and appointed a high-powered advisory board to hold town meetings and report on its findings. The undertaking was plagued by lack of organization and interference from White House officials afraid of political risks. Critics of affirmative action like Abigail Thernstrom, who with her husband, Stephan, wrote ''America in Black and White: One Nation, Indivisible,'' complained that they were excluded from the conversation. ''If you want to do a serious commission, you need to get a variety of voices,'' she said at the time. The commission's report was met with disappointment. John Hope Franklin, the Duke University historian who was chairman of the panel, said last week that the effort was ''knocked down'' by much of America.
 ''It's not an easy subject for black people or white people,'' said Ira Berlin, a historian at the University of Maryland who writes on slavery. ''As Obama indicated, there are lots of legitimate hurts on both sides. It is extremely easy for people to misspeak. In part because we don't speak a lot and because we don't speak a lot you don't understand the language. People don't understand where the land mines are. They sometimes use the wrong words or are condescending or seem to be condescending when they're trying to be honest. It's easy for people to take offense when the wrong language is used, particularly when they've got within them a lot of anger and are looking for someone to beat with a small stick. In those circumstances, it's often better to say nothing.''
 Mr. Obama hardly seemed to be looking for an opening. His hand was forced. For more than a year, he had campaigned in such a way as to appear to transcend race. The son of a white mother and a black father, and educated in elite schools, he emphasized what he has called ''the universal issues that all Americans care about.'' He managed to elude narrow pigeonholing as a black politician. But he finally confronted race head-on in the speech in Philadelphia on Tuesday, responding to an escalating controversy over videotaped snippets of inflammatory anti-white and anti-American rhetoric by the Rev. Jeremiah A. Wright Jr., his longtime spiritual adviser and former pastor.
 Mr. Obama's approach was historical, personal and finally political. He traced the country's racial divide back to the Constitutional Convention, which the question of slavery brought to a stalemate ''until the founders chose to allow the slave trade to continue for at least 20 years.'' He said the answer to slavery lay in the Constitution's promise of liberty, justice and a union to be perfected over time. He said he had hoped his campaign would continue the progress of others toward a more just society. But it would not be possible to solve the challenges without understanding ''that we may have different stories but we hold common hopes.''
 He told his own story, with its many narrative strands: son of a black man from Kenya and a white woman from Kansas, raised in part by a grandfather who survived the Depression and served in Patton's Army, married to a black American ''who carries within her the blood of slaves and slave owners.'' He asked white Americans to try to understand the humiliation, doubt and fear that Mr. Wright and members of his generation, who came of age in the 1950s and '60s, grew up with and still remember. And he asked black Americans to understand the experiences that have bred resentments over what whites saw as unfairly hurting them: busing, affirmative action, crime.
 Those resentments ''helped shape the political landscape for at least a generation,'' he said. Along with black anger, they had distracted attention from ''the real culprits of the middle-class squeeze'' -- a greedy corporate culture, the power of special interests, economic policies that favor the few.
 Whether voters buy into Mr. Obama's analysis and take up his invitation to move on may become apparent in the coming primaries in places like Pennsylvania. It remains to be seen whether he has nudged whites and African-Americans any closer to mutual understanding or simply stoked the anxieties and suspicions that helped close down the conversation before. Shelby Steele, a senior research fellow at the Hoover Institution and author of ''A Bound Man: Why We Are Excited About Obama and Why He Can't Win,'' called the speech ''shallow, beautifully delivered and just disingenuous'' -- coming from Mr. Obama ''who has been blessed with every manner of opportunity in this society.'' Mr. Wright's anger is demagoguery, said Mr. Steele, who like Mr. Obama is biracial. Racism ''no longer remotely accounts for the difficulties in black America,'' Mr. Steele said. As for the lack of discourse about race, it is a product of political correctness, ''the language of white guilt.''
 Asked what is needed to break the stalemate, he said, ''White bravery.''
 Mike Huckabee, the Baptist minister and former governor of Arkansas who abandoned his own campaign for the Republican nomination in March, was quoted saying, ''I grew up in a very segregated South. And I think that you have to cut some slack -- and I'm going to be probably the only conservative in America who's going to say something like this, but I'm just telling you -- we've got to cut some slack to people who grew up being called names, being told, 'You have to sit in the balcony when you go to the movie. You have to go to the back door to go into the restaurant.' ''
 The country is a work in progress, Mr. Obama suggested. People of different races are more likely to live and work near each other than they were in the past. Americans now cry foul when a politician ''plays the race card.'' There are some 10,000 black elected officials. And a front-runner for the Democratic presidential nomination is black. ''I think he is uniquely positioned because he straddles the racial divide very well,'' said David Goldfield, a historian at the University of North Carolina at Charlotte. ''I think some of what he said will resonate. But it's a gamble.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: IN THE OPEN: Barack Obama the day after his speech on race last week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVIS TURNER/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (pg.WK4) DRAWING (DRAWING BY LORNA SIMPSON, ''7 MOUTHS,'' COURTESY OF THE ARTIST AND SALON94) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); HISTORY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); RICHARD NIXON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALABAMA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2008



583 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 374 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL3-9
 Grim Nostalgia in Haiti
 Though Haiti has made significant strides since President Rene Preval's election in 2006, many Haitians feel the changes have been too incremental and too slow. The feelings have led to a new wave of nostalgia for the order and security of the country's years under the Duvalier dictatorships, often among Haitians who are too young to remember the oppression that marked those years. 1 
 Taiwan Elects President
 By a convincing margin, Taiwanese voted for Ma Ying-jeou, a presidential candidate who had campaigned for closer economic relations with Beijing, paving the way for a considerable easing of tensions in one of Asia's oldest flashpoints. 3 Four Americans Killed
 Four American soldiers were killed near Baghdad, the military said, and an American attack helicopter killed six people the Iraqi police said were pro-American Sunni militia fighters. 9 
 Voice for Dubai's Abused
 For years, Sharla Musabih has fought to protect battered wives and victims of human trafficking in Dubai. But a campaign of threats and criticism has intensified against her recently, often singling out her brash style and American upbringing. 4 
 NATIONAL10-16
 McCain on World Stage
 Senator John McCain's trip from the Middle East to Paris was an audition on the world stage for him in his new role as the Republican presidential nominee. 1 
 Discussing Race in Church
 Congregants have been writing and emailingtheir pastors sharing emotional reactions to Senator Barack Obama's speech on race. This outrage has prompted many pastors to include a message on the need to rise above racism and bigotry in their Easter sermons. 1 
 Life Expectancy Gap Widens
 New government research found ''large and growing'' disparities in life expectancy for richer and poorer Americans, paralleling the growth of income inequality in the last two decades. Researchers say affluent people experienced greater gains, and this, in turn, has caused a widening gap. 14 
 NEW YORK/REGION18-19
 Steps to Spitzer's Fall
 Interviews with a handful of people close to former Governor of New York, Eliot Spitzer, suggest that no one has reliably figured out what led to his extraordinarily risky, self-destructive behavior. 18

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (77%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); GOVERNORS (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (72%); WAR & CONFLICT (70%); ARMED FORCES (69%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (69%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (68%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (67%); EASTER SEASON (64%); HELICOPTERS (54%); POLICE FORCES (53%); HUMAN TRAFFICKING (52%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (73%); ELIOT SPITZER (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (90%) HAITI (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%); TAIWAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2008



584 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 161 words

HEADLINE: Laugh Lines

 BODY:
DAVID LETTERMAN
 There was one bit of good news for the economy earlier today. At the last minute, a large investment bank was rescued when it was adopted by Angelina Jolie. 
 I don't know if you are aware of this, but tragedy at the St. Patrick's Day parade. Mayor Bloomberg was marching in the parade, and he was hit by a jumping stockbroker.
 JAY LENO
 As you know, yesterday, Barack Obama gave a big speech on race, and there was one heckler in the audience who kept screaming crazy stuff the whole time. Turns out it was his pastor.
 Even President Bush is starting to get worried about this economy being out of control, you know. I mean, gold is over $1,000 an ounce. Oil, over $100 a barrel. Hookers, $5,000 an hour. Who can afford this? 
 This week marks the fifth anniversary of the Iraq war, and do you remember when critics were saying, ''Oh, the war was just about oil so we could keep the price of gasoline cheap''? Oh, that worked out well, didn't it? 

GRAPHIC: CARTOONS (CARTOONS BY PAT OLIPHANT, UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE
STEVE BENSON, THE ARIZONA REPUBLIC, CREATORS SYNDICATE
BILL DAY, THE COMMERCIAL APPEAL, UNITED FEATURES SYNDICATE
 STEVE KELLEY, THE TIMES-PICAYUNE, CREATORS SYNDICATE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (78%); PARADES & MARCHES (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (72%); ANNIVERSARIES (66%); IRAQ WAR (66%); GASOLINE PRICES (50%)

PERSON: DAVID LETTERMAN (74%); ANGELINA JOLIE (72%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (56%); JAY LENO (55%); BARACK OBAMA (55%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (71%) IRAQ (79%); UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2008



585 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; THE NATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1534 words

HEADLINE: Depression, You Say? Check Those Safety Nets

BYLINE: By CHARLES DUHIGG

 BODY:
The stock markets are spiraling like whirling dervishes, one of the nation's largest financial institutions has flirted with bankruptcy and the former Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan invoked the ghost of past calamities when he wrote that the current economic turmoil is likely to become the ''most wrenching'' since World War II. Meanwhile, home foreclosures are at their fastest pace in at least 30 years and in a survey conducted by USA Today and Gallup, more than half of respondents indicated that they had fears the downturn could become a depression. 
 Some innocent bystanders might be forgiven for wondering why that last word -- ''depression'' -- has started popping up. Is it possible our economy could speed past a recession into a full-blown depression like that of the 1930s, when American unemployment reached 25 percent?
 Well, the economists are here to say that you can dig up the family silver and stop training the kids how to jump onto a moving train. While many who study the nation's economic health agree that a recession has probably already begun, and that it may be long and severe, they also say the odds of a full-blown depression are almost nonexistent. 
 Why? Because so many of them have spent so much time studying the Great Depression and trying to figure out how to react more effectively if things turn really bad again. Take last week, for example. 
 ''I used to give a lecture explaining that the Great Depression could never happen now because of the regulations that emerged from that crisis,'' said Barry Eichengreen, an economist at the University of California at Berkeley. ''But we're learning that there is a shadow banking system, of hedge funds and investment banks, that are outside of those safety nets. What happened to Bear Stearns last week looked a lot like a 19th-century run on the bank. And that's why the Fed reacted so quickly.''
 Indeed, when the government moved last weekend to help save Bear Stearns, the fifth-largest securities firm on Wall Street, from bankruptcy, policy makers were motivated by concerns that the investment bank's failure could start a chain reaction of collapses at other investment houses. Stopping those dominoes was such a priority that the Federal Reserve helped broker the sale of Bear Stearns to its rival JPMorgan Chase.
 A century ago, such government hustle would have been unthinkable. Even the distinction between a recession (a significant decline in economic activity that lasts more than a few months) and a depression (a decline that is much longer and deeper) didn't really matter, because turmoil in the economy was often taken for granted. 
 Between 1857 and 1929, while regulators largely stood idle, the American economy swung through 19 national boom-and-bust gyrations that sometimes threatened to wipe out whole industries within months.
 But in the wake of the Great Depression, American policy makers began actively managing the economy with a handful of tools, including adjusting interest rates and using massive government spending to spur growth. Since 1945, there have only been 10 boom-and-bust cycles, most of them much shallower than earlier ones, and the unemployment rate has never topped 9.7 percent.
 Much of that stability, economic historians say, stems from reforms designed to calm consumers during downturns, like the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, which guarantees most checking and savings accounts up to $100,000 if a bank fails.
 But as the Internet boom and recent housing bubble demonstrate, even relatively stable periods can be part of a cycle of extreme ups and downs. The prolonged expansion that just ended had an unusually long run of more than six years. As a result, some are speculating that the crash will be equally drawn out.
 ''The biggest difference with this recession is that it's starting in the housing market,'' said Victor Zarnowitz, an economist at the Conference Board who is also a member of the National Bureau of Economic Research's business-cycle committee. For the first time in more than 50 years, the nation faces a broad risk ''that people's most important asset, their home, will lose value,'' he said. 
 As homeowners see the value of their homes decline, they become more likely to delay purchases of the big items -- like automobiles, electronics and home appliances -- that are ballasts of the American economy. When those purchases decline, large manufacturing firms, suddenly short on funds, could begin laying off employees. Those workers, uncertain about the future, might in turn stop buying Starbucks lattes and movie tickets, and in a worst-case scenario, that could spur coffee shops and theaters to begin layoffs of their own.
 Such a chain reaction was one reason unemployment during the Great Depression was so persistent and widespread. 
 But today, say economists, fundamental changes make such contagion unlikely. For one thing, incomes are more stable. Many more Americans hold jobs in service sectors, like medicine or education. And more Americans work for the government, which is less inclined to fire people just because the economy turns gloomy. 
 Moreover, there are safety nets that can be traced to the Great Depression, like Social Security, unemployment benefits, food stamp programs. These ''give people a sense of security even when they're out of work,'' said the Harvard economist Benjamin Friedman. ''That establishes a floor for how panicked consumers become.''
 Even if consumer confidence hit rock bottom, that most likely would not be enough, by itself, to cause a depression. For things to become really dire, the nation's financial institutions would have to fail at the same time that unemployment began significantly rising. Only if banks suddenly closed, or it became impossible for companies to access short-term lines of credit, would things begin spiraling out of control.
 A credit shortage, in fact, has played a significant role in today's economic turmoil, and was the reason some economists began invoking the Great Depression. But those comparisons were more to stress how differently policy makers are behaving today than their counterparts did in 1930, when a wave of panics started that eventually caused one-fifth of the nation's banks to fail. 
 Today, the Federal Reserve is so cautious about the stability of major financial institutions that regulators sometimes jump into action almost immediately, as they did in the Bear Stearns case. One goal of such an intervention, say economic historians, is to slow down the turmoil as much as possible. In the 1920s and early 1930s, policy makers became overwhelmed by a cascade of crises they were unable to temper.
 ''In the 1920s, everyone was still reeling from the First World War, which had realigned capital structures and boundaries and had put the defeated countries in positions where they had much less economic flexibility,'' said Peter Temin, an economic historian at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. In particular, one cause of the Great Depression was that policy makers in the United States and elsewhere were either reluctant or unable to increase their countries' supplies of money, which at the time were often backed by gold.
 ''Today, we have a lot more flexibility and we can prop up banks and the economy to give us enough time to let things stabilize,'' Professor Temin added. Already, some lawmakers are proposing to help refinance or purchase failing mortgages in order to slow down how quickly other problems might spread; that approach, however, might carry risks of its own, like encouraging irresponsible behavior and increasing government deficits.
 Of course, all of these techniques do not guarantee an easy path to rosier times. Some economists and financiers say it's likely that the current recession will extend for at least a year. Others think the American economy will suffer from an extended malaise as Japan did in the 1990s. 
 But whatever name economists give the current downturn, we are unlikely to see the bread lines, shantytowns and dust bowl of the Great Depression. More likely, these economists say, would be a sudden increase in the number of people selling belongings on eBay. 
 Hollywood, which until now has largely catered to American tastes, might begin more explicitly choosing scripts based on how they would play in rising economies like India and China. And while exports of manufactured goods might accelerate, the outsourcing trends that sent some American jobs abroad might reverse. Already, Germany-based BMW is expanding a South Carolina plant, betting that the weak dollar will make American workers cheaper than those in Germany or Japan.
 Which isn't to say that anyone is starting to hum ''Happy Days Are Here Again.'' Even the Federal Reserve chief, Ben Bernanke, has warned against becoming too sanguine.
 ''To understand the Great Depression is the Holy Grail of macroeconomics,'' Mr. Bernanke wrote in a 1994 paper, when he was a professor at Princeton focused on analyzing the financial cataclysm that began in 1929. While economists have made great progress, he continued, ''we do not yet have our hands on the Grail by any means.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Residents of a shantytown on Chicago's lakefront after the Panic of 1893.
Joseph M. Stahl of Kokomo, Ind., with his family. He was laid off from a Chrysler plant.
Celeste and Rick Trettin say they lost their home to foreclosure. They now live in their camper in an Ontario, Calif., tent city. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, FROM LEFT, BETTMANN/CORBIS
JEFF ATTEBERRY
 AXEL KOESTER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.WK4) CHART: Boom and Bust and Boom and Bust: Durations of economic recessions and expansions between 1855 and 2008. (CHART BY BILL MARSH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); GREAT DEPRESSION (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (86%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); SECURITIES BROKERS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); WORLD WAR II (57%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (86%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (53%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (86%); JPM (LSE) (86%); 8634 (TSE) (86%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (86%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (86%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (86%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (86%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (78%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (74%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2008



586 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1898 words

HEADLINE: Split Is Forming Over Regulation Of Wall Street

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS and STEPHEN LABATON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
As Congress and the Bush administration struggle to contain the housing and credit crises -- and prevent more Wall Street firms from collapsing as Bear Stearns did -- a split is forming over how to strengthen oversight of financial institutions after decades of deregulation.
 The administration and Democratic lawmakers in Congress agree that the meltdown in credit markets exposed weaknesses in the nation's tangled web of federal and state regulators, which failed to anticipate the effect of so many new players in the industry.
 In Congress, Democrats are drafting bills that would create a powerful new regulator -- or simply confer new powers on the Federal Reserve -- to oversee practices across the entire array of commercial banks, Wall Street firms, hedge funds and nonbank financial companies.
 The Treasury Department is rushing to complete its own blueprint for overhauling what is now an alphabet soup of federal and state regulators that often compete against each other and protect their particular slices of the industry as if they were constituents. 
 But the two sides strongly disagree about whether, after decades of a freewheeling encouragement of exotic new services and new players like hedge funds, the pendulum should swing back to tighter control.
 One central battle is likely to be over tightening supervision of the risk-management practices of Wall Street investment banks and perhaps requiring them to keep higher cash reserves as a cushion against unexpected trading losses.
 The Democratic proposals would subject Wall Street firms to the kind of strict oversight that banks have had for decades. If firms like Goldman Sachs and Merrill Lynch were required to set aside substantially bigger capital reserves, they would have that much less available for lending, trading and underwriting new securities. 
 Wall Street firms played a central role in packaging and financing trillions of dollars in high-risk home mortgages, and the losses tied to those mortgages are at the heart of the deepening crisis in the financial markets that has pushed the economy to the brink of a recession.
 ''You need regulation that is adequate to the scope of innovation and to the scope of activity,'' said Representative Barney Frank, the Democrat of Massachusetts who is chairman of the House Financial Services Committee. 
 Mr. Frank said last week that Congress should consider creating a new regulator -- or giving the Federal Reserve greater powers -- to oversee all financial markets and intervene when necessary. 
 Mr. Frank, saying that government had failed to keep up with the explosion of new financial instruments, said regulators needed to re-examine capital reserves, risk-management practices and consumer protection without regard to whether companies were commercial banks, investment banks or nonbank mortgage lenders. 
 ''You do it right, and it's pro-market,'' Mr. Frank said in an interview. ''Right now, we have an investors' strike going on, and restoring investor confidence is a top priority.''
 But industry groups warn that heavy-handed regulation could dry up investment capital just when the economy needs it most. 
 ''If we don't tread very carefully on restructuring a very complex financial system, we might stifle the necessary animal instincts of a free market,'' said Mark A. Bloomfield, president of the American Council for Capital Formation, a business advocacy group. ''Every day, the cries of populism grow stronger and could trample good economic policy.''
 Wall Street firms have also been major contributors to both political parties, and they are certain to oppose tough new restrictions. The Treasury Department appears torn.
 On the one hand, Treasury officials say they are convinced that today's regulatory system is fragmented and out of date. The Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., has talked about the need to re-examine capital requirements for financial institutions.
 But both President Bush and Mr. Paulson, a former chief executive of Goldman Sachs, remain philosophically opposed to restrictions and requirements that might hamper economic activity.
 ''What we're looking at in our blueprint is how to make our regulatory structure more efficient, less duplicative and more in line with today's capital markets,'' said David G. Nason, assistant secretary of the Treasury for financial institutions. ''We've got five regulatory agencies focused on depository institutions. We're one of the only countries in the world that separates securities from futures, and our regulation of insurance is solely at the state level.'' 
 But the entire discussion took a stunning turn last week after the Federal Reserve abruptly stepped in to prevent a systemic collapse on Wall Street. 
 Invoking its authority as the nation's lender of last resort, the Fed offered a $30 billion credit line to JPMorgan Chase to help it take over Bear Stearns, which was about to go bankrupt. Even more significant, the central bank announced that it would lend hundreds of billions of dollars to big investment banks through its ''discount window'' -- an emergency loan program that had been reserved strictly for commercial banks.
 The Fed's involvement highlighted what many experts see as the growing disparity in regulation between Wall Street firms and commercial banks. Commercial banks submit to greater regulation, partly in exchange for the privilege of being able to borrow from the Fed's discount window. 
 But starting last week, Wall Street firms were getting the same protection without subjecting themselves to additional scrutiny. Some administration officials said they had little choice but to regulate Wall Street firms more closely.
 ''In the short term, it would make sense to have one umbrella regulatory agency,'' said Sheila C. Bair, chairwoman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, which insures deposits at banks and thrift institutions and is one of several federal bank regulatory agencies. ''Capital levels are the most important tool we have at the F.D.I.C., and investment banks have lower capital levels than commercial banks.'' 
 Among Democrats and Republicans alike, there is a growing consensus that the existing regulatory structure, involving more than half a dozen federal agencies as well state offices, were not equipped to prevent a host of questionable practices that aggravated the housing and mortgage meltdowns. 
 The practices included abusive loans by independent mortgage brokers; risky and opaque transactions by financial institutions; credit-rating decisions that turned out to be wildly optimistic; and the underwriting of loans by mortgage brokers that were often based on fraudulent or inaccurate information.
 Just as the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks highlighted deep cracks between the nation's intelligence and law enforcement agencies, the credit and housing crises are forcing policy makers to scrutinize cracks between oversight agencies that aggressive mortgage brokers and deal makers were able to exploit.
 ''To anyone who looks at the regulatory system over the last few months, it is quite clear that the financial world has evolved dramatically and the regulatory system has not caught up,'' said Senator Charles E. Schumer, the Democrat of New York who is the chairman of the Joint Economic Committee. 
 Even though Mr. Schumer represents Wall Street's home state and has many financial supporters on Wall Street, he said he was on ''the same page'' as Mr. Frank and was preparing his own plan for regulatory overhaul. Senator Christopher J. Dodd, the Democrat of Connecticut who is the chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, is preparing legislation as well.
 But Mr. Schumer cautioned that the Bush administration's deregulatory mind-set could make it difficult to do anything this year. 
 The Treasury Department is hoping to unveil its own blueprint for regulatory overhaul in the next few weeks. Last week, Mr. Paulson acknowledged that the problems exposed by the housing crisis were diffuse and complex and could not be solved with a single action. But he suggested that he did not want to take any drastic regulatory steps while the financial markets remained in turmoil.
 ''The objective here is to get the balance right,'' Mr. Paulson said last week. ''Regulation needs to catch up with innovation and help restore investor confidence but not go so far as to create new problems, make our markets less efficient or cut off credit to those who need it.''
 Given the philosophical differences about the value of government regulations, some experts were skeptical that Congress and the Bush administration would agree on more than cosmetic changes.
 ''There is a political will, but I'm not certain that it can overcome longstanding philosophic objections to dealing with free markets in a crisis environment,'' said Arthur Levitt Jr., the chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission under President Bill Clinton.
 The Federal Reserve's recent decisions to lend hundreds of billions of dollars to the nation's biggest investment banks, and to underwrite JPMorgan Chase's takeover of Bear Stearns, may have changed the balance of power.
 The Fed reported on Thursday that investment banks had quickly taken advantage of the lending program and had taken out $28.8 billion in new loans by Wednesday. That did not include any loans that JPMorgan Chase took on through the $30 billion credit line it received as part of its deal to acquire Bear Stearns. 
 Goldman Sachs, Lehman Brothers and Morgan Stanley voluntarily disclosed that they had taken loans under the Fed's new program, in part to reduce any stigma about it. But the volume of borrowing suggests that many other Wall Street firms took advantage as well.
 The new borrowing could strengthen Mr. Frank's hand in calling for tougher regulation, because it immediately raises the question of why investment banks should be allowed to borrow from the Fed without subjecting themselves to the same kind of oversight that commercial banks face.
 But the broader issue for both Congress and the Bush administration is that even bank regulators did little to slow the explosive growth of high-risk subprime mortgages, many of which were ''liar's loans'' that did not require borrowers to verify their incomes. 
 At least four federal agencies -- the Federal Reserve, the F.D.I.C., the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Office of Thrift Supervision -- have some jurisdiction over mortgage lending. Making matters more difficult, state banking regulators had jurisdiction over the fast-growing array of nonbank mortgage lenders, which accounted for about 40 percent of new subprime loans before that market collapsed last August.
 Except for the Federal Reserve, all of the federal bank agencies receive funding from fees paid by member institutions, and some specialists have long argued that the agencies competed with each other to woo institutions with lighter regulation. 
 Ms. Bair of the F.D.I.C. cautioned that industry and government turf battles would make it difficult to agree on a single regulator, especially a strong one. But she said the need for one was clear.
 ''We need to go in the direction of more regulatory consolidation,'' Ms. Bair said. ''It would make more sense to have some type of umbrella agency, if for no other reason than facilitating information.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., urged caution on new regulation: ''The objective here is to get the balance right.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. 14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); RISK MANAGEMENT (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING (74%); CONSUMER LAW (72%); HEDGE FUNDS (69%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (67%); INTERVIEWS (65%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (58%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%)

PERSON: BARNEY FRANK (79%); HENRY PAULSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2008



587 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: Reading File

BYLINE: Compiled by THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
CHINA AS VICTIM
 Mark Magnier, writing in The Los Angeles Times from Lanzhou, China, about China's media strategy in dealing with the protests in Tibet:
 Even as China faces global criticism for its crackdown on Tibetan Buddhists, it's winning the battle that it most cares about: support for its policies among Chinese back home.
 One key factor is a media strategy that, while still blunt and heavily reliant on censorship and propaganda, shows more nuance than usual for the lumbering Communist Party. 
 This last week the government has used something it traditionally viewed as a big negative, any suggestion that it's not in total control, to its advantage by going large with print, still and video coverage of Tibetans attacking Han Chinese in the Tibetan capital, Lhasa, and destroying their property.
 Not only does this rather ironically paint the Chinese state and its massive police force as something of a victim, analysts said, but it also stirs up feelings of fear and anger among many Han, the nation's majority population, that add a personal dimension to the riots.
 At a political level, the coverage has also bolstered the government's assertion that its archenemy, the Dalai Lama, the exiled Tibetan spiritual leader, is masterminding the protests from abroad and the atheist government's long-standing contention that Tibetan monks are anything but neutral, nonpolitical and peace loving.
 Many of the videos of the riots on the state-run CCTV Web site have been shot and edited to point up crimson-robed monks bashing and burning with the best of the mob. And to the extent the Dalai Lama has stopped short of outright condemning the monks and the protest, China gains points.
 ''In this crisis, their strategy has been pretty effective,'' said Xiao Qiang, director of the China Internet Project at the University of California at Berkeley. ''They've been able to portray it as 'we Chinese' versus 'they Tibetans' and seen public opinion go their way.''
 This policy is a case of making a virtue of necessity given that absolute control of information has become increasingly difficult.
 THE PEACE SYMBOL, EXPLAINED
 Kathryn Westcott, writing on the Web site of BBC News, about the origin of the peace symbol:
 It started life as the emblem of the British anti-nuclear movement but it has become an international sign for peace, and arguably the most widely used protest symbol in the world. It has also been adapted, attacked and commercialized. 
 It had its first public outing 50 years ago on a chilly Good Friday as thousands of British anti-nuclear campaigners set off from London's Trafalgar Square on a 50-mile march to the weapons factory at Aldermaston. 
 The demonstration had been organized by the Direct Action Committee Against Nuclear War and the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament joined in. 
 Gerald Holtom, a designer and former World War II conscientious objector from West London, persuaded DAC that their aims would have greater impact if they were conveyed in a visual image. The ''Ban the Bomb'' symbol was born. 
 He considered using a Christian cross motif but, instead, settled on using letters from the semaphore -- or flag-signaling -- alphabet, super-imposing N(uclear) on D(isarmament) and placing them within a circle symbolizing Earth. 
 The sign was quickly adopted by C.N.D. 
 Holtom later explained that the design was ''to mean a human being in despair'' with arms outstretched downwards. 
 THE RISING PRICE OF OIL
 John B. Hess, chairman of the Hess Corporation, the oil and natural gas company, on oil prices and the future, in an interview with Newsweek:
 Why has oil moved over $100 a barrel?
 ''We've moved from a supply-led market to a demand-led one. In the past, the world has relied on OPEC's spare capacity, which in 1985 was 10 million barrels per day. Today that number is about 2.5 million barrels a day. We no longer have a safety margin to ensure price stability in the face of supply interruptions and demand spikes. Right now it's hard to see any relief in sight. Then there's demand. About 50 percent of oil demand is for transportation, and auto ownership in the developing countries is growing swiftly, especially in India and China. Goldman Sachs estimates that by 2050, they could have 1.1 billion cars on the road, up from just 20 million three years ago. That's an overwhelming increase in the need for automotive fuel. Put those two things together -- limited supply and increasing demand -- and you get high oil prices.''
 Are you pessimistic about the future?
 ''To date, a total of one trillion barrels of oil have been produced, and it's conventionally understood that we have two trillion barrels left in the ground. That leads a lot of people to assume things are going to be fine. Unfortunately, the frontiers are getting more difficult to access, and some oil-producing nations are giving priority to their political agendas. The I.E.A. [International Energy Agency] predicts global demand to average 98.5 million barrels a day in 2015; it's hard to see how we can meet that level of production. To have sustainable economic growth 10 years from now, both consumers and producers need to start acting now.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING: An abstraction of the semaphore position for D, combined with the one for N, created the peace symbol. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); RELIGION (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (88%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (77%); POLITICS (75%); RIOTS (73%); CENSORSHIP (73%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); NEWS BRIEFS (64%); WEB SITES (64%); EASTER SEASON (60%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (60%); POLICE FORCES (53%)

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

PERSON: DALAI LAMA (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (75%) SOUTHWEST CHINA (92%); NORTHWEST CHINA (92%); XIZANG, CHINA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) TIBET (99%); CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2008



588 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 693 words

HEADLINE: Obama Adviser Steps Up His Criticism of Bill Clinton

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

DATELINE: MEDFORD, Ore. 

 BODY:
As Senator Barack Obama folded his arms and looked on, a retired Air Force general who is one of his leading military advisers forcefully defended Mr. Obama's patriotism Saturday and accused former President Bill Clinton of trying to use ''divisive attacks'' to promote his wife's candidacy.
 Mr. Clinton, in a speech to voters on Friday in North Carolina, said ''it would be a great thing if we had an election year where you had two people who loved this country and were devoted to the interest of this country.'' 
 At a town meeting here on Saturday, the general, Merrill A. McPeak, read the quote from Mr. Clinton. A few people in the audience gasped and hissed at the former president's words.
 ''Let me say first, we will have such an election this year because both Barack Obama and John McCain are great patriots who love this country and are devoted to it -- so is Hillary Clinton,'' said General McPeak, who is a co-chairman of Mr. Obama's campaign. ''Any suggestion to the contrary is flat wrong.''
 Mr. Obama, of Illinois, did not address the comments from Mr. Clinton. He stood a few feet away as General McPeak made his remarks before a crowd of more than 1,500 people in a Medford community center. 
 ''I'm saddened to see a president employ this kind of tactics,'' said General McPeak, who served as Air Force chief of staff in the early years of the Clinton administration. ''He of all people should know better because he was the target of exactly the same kind of tactic when he first ran 16 years ago.'' 
 Howard Wolfson, a spokesman for Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York, said Saturday that the retired general's comments were a ''deliberately pathetic misreading of what the president said.'' 
 Mr. Wolfson said the remarks by Mr. Clinton had nothing to do with Mr. Obama and were merely meant to underscore the need to keep the presidential race focused on issues.
 Mr. Clinton told voters on Friday in Charlotte, N.C.: ''I think it would be a great thing if we had an election year where you had two people who loved this country and were devoted to the interest of this country. And people could actually ask themselves who is right on these issues, instead of all this other stuff that always seems to intrude itself on our politics.''
 Speaking on Friday to reporters, General McPeak compared the former president to Senator Joseph R. McCarthy, who aggressively pursued those he believed to be communists in the 1950s. 
 ''I was going to college when Joe McCarthy was accusing good Americans of being traitors,'' General McPeak said, ''so I've had enough of it.''
 The bitter exchange between the surrogates for Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama highlighted the rising tensions between the two Democratic presidential candidates in their prolonged fight for the party's nomination.
 ''To liken these comments to McCarthyism is absurd,'' said Phil Singer, a Clinton campaign spokesman. Mr. Singer said General McPeak was misinterpreting the remarks, suggesting it was an intentional effort to divert attention from a controversy involving inflammatory statements by Mr. Obama's former pastor, the Rev. Jeremiah A. Wright Jr.
 Neither Mrs. Clinton nor Mr. Obama personally stepped into the fray. Mrs. Clinton was spending the weekend off the campaign trail; Mr. Obama held one campaign event here in Oregon, which holds its primary on May 20, before taking a few days of vacation over the Easter holiday.
 Mr. Obama summoned General McPeak to the stage here to deliver the criticism, but the candidate then quickly changed the subject to the economy, health care and education. 
 One voter asked Mr. Obama how he maintained his composure after losing Ohio and Texas and enduring a tumultuous period in his candidacy that involved his effort to explain a series of controversial comments by Mr. Wright. Mr. Obama said the controversy would make him a better candidate.
 ''Those two losses as well as the controversy over the last week surrounding my former pastor and some of the dumb things that he said,'' Mr. Obama said, ''all those things actually forced me to dig deep again and say: 'Why am I doing this? What is this about?' '' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Merrill A. McPeak, a retired Air Force general, with Senator Barack Obama on Saturday in Medford, Ore. General McPeak said former President Bill Clinton was trying to use ''divisive attacks.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX BRANDON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); AIR FORCES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (94%); BARACK OBAMA (94%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); OREGON, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2008



589 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1538 words

HEADLINE: The Republican Resurrection

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
THE day before Barack Obama gave The Speech, Hillary Clinton gave a big speech of her own, billed by her campaign as a ''major policy address on the war in Iraq.'' What, you didn't hear about it? 
 Clinton partisans can blame the Obamaphilic press corps for underplaying their candidate's uncompromising antiwar sentiments. But intentionally or not, the press did Mrs. Clinton a favor. Every time she opens her mouth about Iraq, she reminds voters of how she enabled the catastrophe that has devoured American lives and treasure for five years.
 Race has been America's transcendent issue far longer than that. I share the general view that Mr. Obama's speech is the most remarkable utterance on the subject by a public figure in modern memory. But what impressed me most was not Mr. Obama's rhetorical elegance or his nuanced view of both America's undeniable racial divide and equally undeniable racial progress. The real novelty was to find a politician who didn't talk down to his audience but instead trusted it to listen to complete, paragraph-long thoughts that couldn't be reduced to sound bites. 
 In a political culture where even campaign debates can resemble ''Jeopardy,'' this is tantamount to revolution. As if to prove the point, some of the Beltway bloviators who had hyped Mitt Romney's instantly forgotten snake oil on ''Faith in America'' soon fell to fretting about whether ''ordinary Americans'' would comprehend Mr. Obama. 
 Mrs. Clinton is fond of mocking her adversary for offering ''just words.'' But words can matter, and Mrs. Clinton's tragedy is that she never realized they could have mattered for her, too. You have to wonder if her Iraq speech would have been greeted with the same shrug if she had tossed away her usual talking points and seized the opportunity to address the war in the same adult way that Mr. Obama addressed race. Mrs. Clinton might have reconnected with the half of her party that has tuned her out. 
 She is no less bright than Mr. Obama and no less dedicated to public service. It's not her fault that she doesn't have his verbal gifts -- who does? But her real problem isn't her speaking style. It's the content. Mrs. Clinton needn't have Mr. Obama's poetry or pearly oratorical tones to deliver a game-changing speech. She just needs the audacity of candor. Yet she seems incapable of revisiting her history on Iraq (or much else) with the directness that Mr. Obama brought to his reappraisal of his relationship with the Rev. Jeremiah Wright. 
 On Monday she once again pretended her own record didn't exist while misrepresenting her opponent's. ''I've been working day in and day out in the Senate to provide leadership to end this war,'' she said, once more implying he's all words and she's all action. But Mrs. Clinton didn't ratchet up her criticisms of the war until she wrote a letter expressing her misgivings to her constituents in late 2005, two and a half years after Shock and Awe. By then, she was not leading but following -- not just Mr. Obama, who publicly called for an Iraq exit strategy a week before the release of her letter, but John Murtha, the once-hawkish Pennsylvania congressman who called for a prompt withdrawal a few days earlier still. 
 What if Mrs. Clinton had come clean Monday, admitting that she had made a mistake in her original vote and highlighting her efforts to make amends since? John Edwards, arguably a more strident proponent of invading Iraq in 2003 than Mrs. Clinton, did exactly that also in the weeks before her 2005 letter. He succeeded in lifting the cloud, even among those on the left of his party. 
 Instead Mrs. Clinton darkened that cloud by claiming that she was fooled by the prewar intelligence that didn't dupe nearly half her Democratic Senate colleagues, including Bob Graham, Teddy Kennedy and Carl Levin. Even worse, she repeatedly pretends that she didn't know President Bush would regard a bill titled ''Authorization for Use of Military Force Against Iraq Resolution of 2002'' as an authorization to go to war. No one believes this spin for the simple reason that no one believes Mrs. Clinton is an idiot. Her patently bogus explanations for her vote have in the end done far more damage to her credibility than the vote itself. 
 That she has never given a forthright speech on Iraq is what can happen when your chief campaign strategist is a pollster. Focus groups no doubt say it would be hara-kiri for her to admit such a failing. But surely many Americans would have applauded her for confessing to mistakes and saying what she learned from them. As her husband could have told her, that's best done sooner rather than later.
 It's too late now, and so the Democratic stars are rapidly aligning for disaster. Mrs. Clinton is no longer trying to overcome Mr. Obama's lead in the popular vote and among pledged delegates by making bold statements about Iraq or any other issue. Instead of enhancing her own case for the presidency, she's going to tear him down. As Adam Nagourney of The New York Times delicately put it last week, she is ''looking for some development to shake confidence in Mr. Obama'' so that she can win over superdelegates in covert 3 a.m. phone calls. If Mr. Wright doesn't do it, she'll seek another weapon. Mr. Obama, who is, after all, a politician and not a deity, could well respond in kind. 
 For Republicans, the prospect of marathon Democratic trench warfare is an Easter miracle. Saddled with the legacy of both Iraq and a cratering economy, the G.O.P. can only rejoice at its opponents' talent for self-destruction. The Republicans can also count on the help of a political press that, whatever its supposed tilt toward Mr. Obama, remains most benevolent toward John McCain. 
 This was strikingly apparent last week, when Mr. McCain's calamitous behavior was relegated to sideshow status by many, if not most, news media. At a time of serious peril for America, the G.O.P.'s presumptive presidential nominee revealed himself to be alarmingly out of touch on both of the most pressing issues roiling the country. 
 Never mind that Bear Stearns was disposed of in a fire sale, the dollar was collapsing, job losses hit a five-year low, and the price of oil hit an all-time high. Mr. McCain, arriving in Iraq, went AWOL on capitalism's meltdown, delegating his economic adviser to release an anodyne two-sentence statement of confidence in Ben Bernanke. 
 This is consistent with Mr. McCain's laissez-faire approach to economic matters. In January he proposed tasking any problems to ''a committee headed by Alan Greenspan, whether he's alive or dead.'' This witty salvo must be very comforting to the large share of Americans -- the largest since the Great Depression -- who now owe more on their homes than they're worth.
 In Iraq, Mr. McCain did not repeat his April 2007 mistake of touring a ''safe'' market while protected by a small army. (CNN tried to revisit that market last week, but the idea was vetoed as too risky by the network's security advisers.) Instead he made a bigger mistake. As if to emulate Dick Cheney, who arrived in Baghdad a day behind him, he embraced the vice president's habit of manufacturing false links in the war on terror: Mr. McCain told reporters that Iran is training Al Qaeda operatives and sending them into Iraq. 
 His Sancho Panza, Joe Lieberman, whispered in his ear that a correction was in order. But this wasn't a one-time slip, like Gerald Ford's debate gaffe about Poland in 1976. Mr. McCain has said this repeatedly. Troubling as it is that he conflates Shiite Iran with Sunni terrorists, it's even more bizarre that he doesn't acknowledge the identity of Iran's actual ally in Iraq -- the American-sponsored Shiite government led by Nuri al-Maliki. Only two weeks before the Iraqi prime minister welcomed Mr. McCain to Baghdad, he played host to a bubbly state visit by Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.
 Whatever Mrs. Clinton's or Mr. Obama's inconsistencies about how to wind down the war, they are both models of coherence next to Mr. McCain. He keeps saying the surge is a ''success,'' but he can't explain why that success keeps us trapped in Iraq indefinitely. He never says precisely what constitutes that ''victory'' he keeps seeing around the corner. His repeated declaration that he will only bring home the troops ''with honor'' is a Vietnam acid flashback recycled as a non sequitur. Our troops have already piled up more than enough honor in their five years of service under horrific circumstances. Meanwhile, as Al Qaeda proliferates in Afghanistan and Pakistan, a survey by Foreign Policy magazine of 3,400 active and retired American officers finds that 88 percent believe that the Iraq war has ''stretched the U.S. military dangerously thin.''
 But as violence flares up again in Iraq and the American economy skids, the issues consuming the Democrats are Mr. Wright and Geraldine Ferraro, race and gender, unsanctioned primaries and unaccountable superdelegates. Unless Mr. Obama and Mrs. Clinton find a way to come together for the good of their country as well as their party, no speech by either of them may prevent Mr. McCain from making his second unlikely resurrection in a single political year. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BARRY BLITT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); IRAQ WAR (77%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); RACE & RACISM (67%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); JEREMIAH A WRIGHT JR (58%); MITT ROMNEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2008



590 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; IDEAS AND TRENDS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: A Sage for Our Time

BYLINE: By ADAM BRYANT

 BODY:
The world seems an odd place these days.
 Small events cascade into much bigger problems (subprime mortgages end up hobbling the broader economy).
 Banks that dined out on profits from their clever financial engineering tried, and failed, to avoid getting stuck with the bill when it arrived.
 And there are lots of awkward moments. ''We have a marriage like many Americans, maybe even many of you,'' said New York's new governor, David A. Paterson, after admitting to multiple affairs. 
 If only there were some unified field theory to help make sense of it all.
 It exists, arguably, in the dark worldview of Larry David and his HBO series, ''Curb Your Enthusiasm.''
 For those who've missed his show, Larry David first made his name, and a considerable fortune, creating ''Seinfeld'' with his friend Jerry. ''What we had in common,'' Mr. Seinfeld once explained, ''was both of us had the ability to focus deeply on something small, to blow small things out of proportion.''
 Mr. David brings that sensibility to ''Curb Your Enthusiasm,'' minus the sunniness of ''Seinfeld.'' Shot in faux-documentary style, the show, which has run for six seasons, chronicles his impolitic missteps through perceived injustices and indignities, while infuriating everyone he meets.
 The show's title can be taken as a clever way of lowering audience expectations. But ''Curb Your Enthusiasm'' might also be a useful notion for the country to consider.
 To be sure, enthusiasm, a bedrock American trait, can lead to rapid innovations, not to mention the construction of housing developments that somebody, someday, might be able to buy into at the right price.
 But the kind of runaway enthusiasm that leads to bubbles has its price tag, too, one that can be measured in the hundreds of billions of dollars.
 A lot of those losses are piling up at financial firms that repackaged loans to maximize profits while trying to minimize risk. That way, if a bill came due, they would be out of the picture.
 Mr. David understands the impulse. It's called ''The Bathroom Trick.''
 In an episode from the third season, he and his on-screen wife, played by Cheryl Hines, are dining out with another couple. Just as the check arrives, Mr. David's friend bolts to the restroom, putting none-too-subtle pressure on Mr. David to pick up the tab. ''You don't think I know about that bathroom trick?'' he yells later. ''I invented that bathroom trick!''
 In most episodes, Mr. David can be counted on to utter something that nobody else would ever dare say. Lloyd Braun, a former ABC executive and a friend of Mr. David's, has described him as having ''honesty Tourette's.''
 Mr. David plays this to the hilt on his show, particularly during frank talks with his wife about their relationship (the kind of scenes that the Patersons and their predecessors in Albany, the Spitzers, might have found particularly compelling). 
 In the same episode as the ''Bathroom Trick,'' for example, he discusses with Ms. Hines what they should do in light of a tip they get that Los Angeles might be the target of a terrorist attack in the next few days. His wife feels they should stay in town to attend a long-planned fund-raiser by their friends. Mr. David is not so sure, and suggests he could instead go golfing in Pebble Beach until the threat passes. But Ms. Hines has more romantic notions of their final moments on earth.
 ''It just seems like if we're going to go, we should go together,'' she says.
 ''Not necessarily,'' Mr. David counters. ''Almost seems a little selfish that you would want both of us to perish.''
 Political incorrectness can have its place. Margaret Seltzer, the author of ''Love and Consequences,'' a memoir about growing up a gang member in South Central Los Angeles, was exposed earlier this month as a fraud.
 Nobody gave her a grilling like Mr. David would have if he had introduced himself at her book party. After chatting her up, and joking that she didn't look like a gang member, he would probably lean in, grin on his face, and ask: ''Really? You were a gang member?'' And never let it go.
 There is no official word yet on whether Mr. David will sign up for more seasons of ''Curb Your Enthusiasm.'' In the meantime, the world is filling in the gap, with serial shocks and the kind of improvised scripts that are the show's trademark, be it from New York governors (who keep raising the can-you-believe-this ante), from authors who take liberties with the truth in memoirs, or even from Bear Stearns, whose stock was trading above $170 a share earlier last year and is now below $10.
 Before the first episode aired in 2000, Mr. David summed up what ''Curb Your Enthusiasm'' was all about. ''If you like a show where everything goes wrong, you'll like this show,'' he said in an interview with The New York Times.
 Lest anybody think it mirrored his daily existence, he added, ''That's my comedic view of life. It would be pretty tough to live like that.''
 Yes it is.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIO ANZUONI/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MARRIAGE (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); PHYSICS (73%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (73%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (70%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (69%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (79%); LARRY DAVID (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: Curb Your Enthusiasm (TV Program)>; Curb Your Enthusiasm (TV Program)>

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2008



591 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1278 words

HEADLINE: McCain Offers Soothing Tones in Trip Abroad

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
Senator John McCain's trip abroad this week -- which took him from the Middle East to No. 10 Downing Street to the Elysee Palace here -- was more than just a Congressional fact-finding trip, or even a candidate's attempt to appear statesmanlike.
 It was also an audition on the world stage for Mr. McCain in his new role as the Republican presidential nominee. And it offered him the chance to test his hope that he could repair America's tattered reputation by shifting course on some of the policies that have alienated its allies, in areas like global warming and torture. But he is making his foray even as he embraces what much of the world sees as the most hated remnant of the Bush presidency: the war in Iraq.
 At several stops along the trip, Mr. McCain struck a markedly different tone from that of President Bush. Mr. Bush is so unpopular, even with America's allies, that people in Britain and France told pollsters last spring that they had even less confidence in him to do the right thing in world affairs than they had in President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia. 
 Mr. McCain spoke in Britain and France about the need to take action to reduce global warming, a welcome stance in much of Europe, which accused Mr. Bush of doing too little in that area. And in an opinion article that ran in Le Monde and The Financial Times, Mr. McCain called for a ''successor'' to the Kyoto treaty on global warming, which Mr. Bush had opposed, an act that angered much of the world. 
 He also denounced torture and repeated his call to close the detention center in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, that has sparked outrage around the world, writing that the United States should reach an ''international understanding'' about what it should do with its detainees.
 ''We need to listen to the views and respect the collective will of our democratic allies,'' Mr. McCain wrote in the article, signaling a more collaborative tone after years in which the United States has been widely criticized as conducting a headstrong, go-it-alone foreign policy. ''When we believe that international action is necessary, whether military, economic or diplomatic, we will try to persuade our friends that we are right. But we, in return, must also be willing to be persuaded by them.''
 But some analysts question whether a new tone, however welcome, and the adoption of a few policies that are more in line with the rest of the world would be enough by themselves to improve America's image, given the searing unpopularity of the Iraq war -- which Mr. McCain strongly supports -- in much of the world.
 ''In terms of public opinion, I think the war in Iraq is paramount,'' said Nicole Bacharan, an expert on the United States at the Institute of Political Studies in Paris.
 James M. Goldgeier, a political scientist who studies trans-Atlantic relations at the Council on Foreign Relations, said of Mr. McCain: ''There are positions that he's taken that are very different from that of the Bush administration, and sound much better to European ears, on climate change and torture.''
 ''But then you've got Iraq,'' Mr. Goldgeier added. 
 The precipitous decline in America's reputation abroad -- after no unconventional weapons were found in Iraq and the revelations about abuse of prisoners at Abu Ghraib, among other milestones -- is underscored by a series of surveys conducted overseas by the Pew Global Attitudes Project. The percentage of respondents in Britain, America's strongest ally, who said they viewed the United States favorably fell to 51 percent last spring, down from 83 percent before the Iraq war began; in France it fell to 39 percent from 62 percent before the war began, said Andrew Kohut, the director of the project. 
 It is an issue that resonates with some voters back home; Mr. McCain is often asked on the campaign trail what he would do to restore America's reputation. 
 Now, as the world takes Mr. McCain's measure, one of the questions people are likely to grapple with is very much like one of the questions voters in the United States have been asking: to what extent a President McCain would represent a break from Mr. Bush's policies, and to what extent he would be the continuation of them.
 Some of Mr. McCain's differences with Mr. Bush are clear; others go unspoken. Mr. McCain has traveled far more extensively than Mr. Bush had when he was elected president, and has been to all corners of the world. As a Navy officer, Congressional liaison and senator, he has visited dozens of spots around the world, from Antarctica to the Arctic Circle to every nation in NATO. At nearly every stop this week, he was greeted at the formal photo-ops by local officials as an old friend; he noted Friday that his meeting here with Nicolas Sarkozy, the French president, was his third.
 But Mr. McCain remains perhaps the biggest booster of the unpopular Iraq war (though he was critical of the Bush administration's conduct of it before last year). How he winds up being viewed abroad, as at home, will most likely depend on what happens there. At nearly every stop this week Mr. McCain told listeners that the situation in Iraq was improving, and that ''Al Qaeda is on the run, but not defeated.''
 But some of his message of being the most knowledgeable about Iraq was undermined at a stop on Tuesday when he said several times in Amman, Jordan, that Iranians were taking Al Qaeda into Iran, training them, and sending them back -- a mistake he corrected, but which drew criticism from Democrats back home. 
 Military officials have said that they believe that Iran, a Shiite country, has been largely training and financing Shiite extremists in Iraq, and taking select Shiite militants to Iran for training. Al Qaeda in Iraq is a Sunni insurgent group. 
 And while military officials have said that they have found evidence that Iran is also aiding some Sunni insurgents, they have also said that they have not seen evidence that Iran is directly aiding Al Qaeda in Iraq.
 In London, a skeptical editorial in The Independent, headlined ''A hawk lands in London,'' called Mr. McCain's misstatement about Iran and Al Qaeda ''a troubling error'' but went on to say that ''a McCain brand of hawkishness is likely to be less inflexibly, and ignorantly, ideological than George Bush's.''
 A supportive column in The Daily Telegraph credited Mr. McCain as being the architect of the new strategy that has led to diminished violence in Iraq, and went on to say that ''it is unlikely, had Mr. McCain occupied the White House before the invasion, that he would have tolerated the inept handling of prewar diplomacy in Washington that led to the greatest rift in the trans-Atlantic alliance since the 1956 Suez crisis.''
 But, as at home, the hotly contested Democratic primary is garnering more attention in Europe than the Republican nominee, and the Democrats are widely seen as offering the prospect of a more significant break from the Bush years. As Mr. McCain arrived in London, the newspapers were full of Senator Barack Obama's speech this week on race relations. The Times of London even ran a review of it by its theater critic.
 Still, even with the ascendance of Mr. Sarkozy, a pro-American French president, it would have been almost unthinkable four years ago, in the height of anti-French sentiment and freedom fries, to see a Republican presidential candidate praising France. 
 ''I think that our relations with France will continue to improve no matter who is president of the United States,'' Mr. McCain said after leaving Mr. Sarkozy at the Elysee Palace on Friday, ''because this president is committed to great cooperation, and values our friendship.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator John McCain speaking at the Elysee Palace in Paris on Friday after a meeting with President Nicolas Sarkozy.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILIPPE WOJAZER/REUTERS)(pg. 18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); IRAQ WAR (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); GLOBAL WARMING (74%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%)

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (66%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (66%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (56%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (70%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); IRAQ (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); FRANCE (90%); EUROPE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (75%); CUBA (68%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2008



592 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; THE PUBLIC EDITOR; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1141 words

HEADLINE: So Much Sex, but What's Fit to Print?

BYLINE: By CLARK HOYT

 BODY:
IT'S been quite a time for New York's tabloids:
 ''Bad Girl,'' screamed The New York Post a week ago Friday, sporting a front-page photo of the prostitute who was the instrument of Gov. Eliot Spitzer's self-destruction. She wore nothing on top but her hands.
 ''Bed Fellow, Love Gov's boy toy bares 3-ways with wife,'' said The Post on Monday, airing steamy charges by a former driver for James McGreevey, who resigned as governor of New Jersey in 2004 after saying he was gay and had had an affair with a male state official.
 ''Exclusive: Albany Bombshell, New Gov: I Had Affair,'' shouted The Daily News the next day, after David A. Paterson, within hours of replacing the disgraced Spitzer, sat down with one of the newspaper's columnists and acknowledged his own past infidelity. 
 ''Girls! Girls! Girls!,'' screamed The Post on Wednesday, after Paterson said at a press conference that it was several affairs, not one, and that his former lovers included a woman on the state payroll.
 Through this fetid swamp of sexual misdeeds -- real and alleged, involving three governors in two states -- The Times has threaded its way with both careful reporting and good judgment over the past two weeks. It broke and stayed ahead on the most consequential of the stories, the stunning news that Spitzer, who brought a moralistic approach to government, was ''Client 9'' of an international prostitution ring. It handled the Paterson story with appropriate restraint. And it tried hard to ignore the seamy McGreevey story because he is no longer in office and the charges came in the midst of an ugly divorce, hardly Times fare.
 The episodes have presented interesting challenges for a newspaper that normally steers well clear of the salacious and only a month earlier had made what many regarded as an embarrassing misstep by reporting allegations it could not prove of an extramarital affair involving a lobbyist and John McCain.
 With the Spitzer story, The Times had the goods, and the issue was of undeniable public interest. When the newspaper asked the governor's staff two weeks ago, on a Sunday, for records of his travel between Feb. 11 and Feb. 15, he knew the game was up. In that period, he had had a tryst with a call girl, ''Kristen,'' later identified by The Times as Ashley Alexandra Dupre, at the Mayflower Hotel in Washington, the night before he testified at a Congressional hearing.
 At 1:55 p.m. on Monday, March 10, the day after The Times requested the records, it posted on its Web site a headline that took away New York's collective breath: ''Spitzer Is Linked to Prostitution Ring.'' The newspaper said he was expected to make a statement shortly. Within two hours, a grim Spitzer stepped to a lectern in his Manhattan office and said: ''I have acted in a way that violates my obligations to my family and that violates my, or any, sense of right and wrong.'' He gave no details. Two days later, he resigned.
 Readers were transfixed. ''You could not make this stuff up,'' said George Goodburn in a comment on the newspaper's Web site. Nic Leobold said: ''This is probably the greatest article you've ever published,'' though he could not resist adding, ''(considering you're a leftist publication).''
 A few readers complained that the story was diverting attention from more important news like the war in Iraq or the swooning economy. But that's like saying a newspaper cannot walk and chew gum at the same time. On the same front page with the first Spitzer article were stories about a bombing that killed five American soldiers in Baghdad and the problems of private equity firms.
 Some readers were distressed at the initial Spitzer headline on the Web site because it did not make clear that his ''link'' to the prostitution ring was as a customer. Steven Brant of Flushing, Queens, said that when the headline was shown on cable television news, he thought Spitzer ''was involved with running a prostitution business on the side.''
 Times editors, answering readers' questions online, said the early headline reflected what they could confirm for publication at the time: Spitzer had informed top aides that he was involved with a prostitution ring. The story advanced significantly shortly before Spitzer spoke, when The Times felt confident of saying that he had been caught on a federal wiretap arranging to meet with a high-priced prostitute. Not long after the governor's brief apology, the newspaper confirmed that he was ''Client 9'' detailed in a federal complaint against the ring's leaders that had been unsealed the previous week.
 The ambiguous headline stayed up too long on the Web site, even after it was established that Spitzer was a customer, not management, but the following morning's newspaper had it right: ''Spitzer, Linked To a Sex Ring As a Client, Gives an Apology.''
 Several readers, clearly suspicious that Spitzer, a Democrat, was the target of a Justice Department that has been accused of political prosecutions, wanted to know how The Times got the story. The newspaper will not talk about sources. I would not in similar circumstances.
 But what John Geddes, a managing editor, called ''the pedigree'' of the government's Spitzer investigation remains an intriguing question that the newspaper is pursuing. The Times has published two differing accounts. The first said the investigation started with reports from a bank about suspicious transactions by Spitzer. The second said it started at the other end, with suspicious transactions involving shell companies set up by the prostitution ring. Federal officials acknowledged in The Times on Friday that it was a very rare kind of investigation. We still do not know who approved it, or why.
 Still other readers objected to identifying, interviewing and publishing photographs (not of The New York Post variety) of Dupre. ''The need to sniff out and reveal the identify of Spitzer's prostitute strays into the People magazine zone,'' said Josh Ward of Berlin, Germany. 
 But Jodi Rudoren, who edited the article, said on The Times's Web site that Dupre was a major character in a major news story, and there was intense public interest in knowing more about her. You could respond that Spitzer brought himself down, and that was all the public needed to know, but I do not buy it. The story, a tragedy in the classic sense, is all the more powerful when you realize the enormity of the governor's risk: a wealthy, married, 48-year-old political star with the White House possibly in his future, chancing it all for paid sex with a 22-year-old who said she ran as a teenager from abuse and a broken home, came to New York with the dream of becoming a singer, struggled with drugs and homelessness and wound up in prostitution, worried about how to pay the next month's rent.
 That may be People, but it is also Euripides.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PROSTITUTION (89%); ILLEGAL PROSTITUTION (89%); SEX OFFENSES (77%); WRITERS (73%); WEB SITES (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (79%); DAVID PATERSON (78%); JOHN MCCAIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2008



593 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1521 words

HEADLINE: Obama Talk Fuels Easter Sermons

BYLINE: By LAURIE GOODSTEIN and NEELA BANERJEE; Reporting was contributed by Rebecca Cathcart, Catrin Einhorn, Brenda Goodman and Christopher Maag.

 BODY:
This Easter Sunday, the holiest day of the Christian calendar, many pastors will start their sermons about the Resurrection of Jesus and weave in a pointed message about racism and bigotry, and the need to rise above them.
 Some pastors began to rethink their sermons on Tuesday, when Senator Barack Obama gave a speech about race, seeking to calm a furor that had erupted over explosive excerpts of sermons by his pastor, the Rev. Jeremiah A. Wright Jr.
 The controversy drove the nation to the unpatrolled intersection of race and religion, and as many pastors prepared for their Easter message they said they felt compelled to talk about it. Their congregants were writing and e-mailing them: some wanted to share their emotional reactions to Mr. Obama's speech; others asked how Mr. Wright, the minister, could utter such inflammatory things from the pulpit. 
 Some ministers interviewed over the last several days said they would wait until after Easter to preach on it all, because Easter and headlines do not mix. But others said there was no better moment than Easter, when sanctuaries swelled with their biggest crowds of the year, and redemption was the dominant theme. 
 At Mount Ararat Baptist Church in Pittsburgh, the Rev. William H. Curtis said: ''At the end of the day, the Resurrection of Jesus Christ makes it possible for even an African-American and a female to articulate the hopes and dreams of America, and do so with the hope of becoming president. Isn't that wonderful?
 ''It's possible because we do believe that humanity has redeeming qualities, and the resurrection of Christ gives us that faith,'' said Mr. Curtis, who is president of the Hampton Ministers Conference, a national association of black ministers.
 Philip L. Blackwell, senior pastor at the First United Methodist Church at the Chicago Temple, said he would weave an anecdote into his sermon about a black friend of his who had been stopped by the police, who were suspicious because he was driving an expensive car, which he owned. 
 ''The church needs to be a community within which the pain can be shared,'' said Mr. Blackwell, who is white and leads an urban, racially mixed congregation. ''The grievances can be aired, and the power of that can be directed toward the 'new creation' that is portrayed in the Resurrection.''
 The whole controversy started, after all, with a minister, preaching, in a church. 
 Television programs showed recorded parts of sermons by Mr. Wright, who is nationally known for his work in creating economic development programs in the inner city, inspiring many other black pastors to do the same, and for his fiery, prophetic preaching style. In the excerpts, Mr. Wright thunders that the government has inflicted AIDS on black people, and that the United States deserved the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11. 
 Mr. Obama responded with a major address that examined race relations through the eyes of blacks and whites, and called for Americans to open up an honest dialogue about race. 
 Many ministers said they would preach without explicitly mentioning Mr. Obama because they wanted to avoid alienating politically diverse congregations. They are also aware that some churches accused of making political endorsements have seen their tax-exempt status investigated by the Internal Revenue Service.
 The response to the controversy from the pulpit will vary, of course, depending on a church's denomination, racial composition and political and theological leanings, as well the predilections of the pastor. The Wright controversy is a natural topic for those in the United Church of Christ, a predominantly white denomination that includes Mr. Obama's and Mr. Wright's church, Trinity United Church of Christ in Chicago (the largest church in the denomination). 
 Clergy members from Roman Catholic, Eastern Orthodox and white evangelical churches are, very generally, less likely to incorporate the Wright controversy into their sermons than are those at black and mainline Protestant churches. 
 The Rev. Leith Anderson, president of the National Association of Evangelicals and lead pastor of Wooddale Church in Eden Prairie, Minn., said he would not be preaching about the racial issues raised by Mr. Obama's speech and expected few other evangelical pastors to, either. 
 ''Easter is about Easter and the Resurrection of Jesus, and it's pretty unlikely that any other topic would eclipse that,'' Mr. Anderson said. ''That's not to say those other topics aren't important, but this is the most important.''
 Most evangelical churches, he said, ''are Bible-driven, not current-events-driven.''
 In some churches, the evils of racism have long been common fare. In others, it is barely ever mentioned. But with immigration changing the nation's ethnic balance, many congregations are struggling with the kinds of resentments that Mr. Obama touched on in his speech. 
 Monsignor Patrick Bishop, of Transfiguration Catholic Church in Marietta, Ga., said his parish had recently transformed from being almost all white to including blacks, Hispanics and Filipinos.
 He said that next week, on the second Sunday of Easter, he would say in his homily: ''Christ says in Him there is no east or west, north or south, slave or free, male or female. If a person cannot look beyond the color of their skin then they don't really understand the Gospel.''
 The Very Rev. Tracey Lind, dean of Trinity Episcopal Cathedral in Cleveland, said she would preach about when Mary Magdalene and ''the other Mary'' went to Jesus' tomb and were met by an angel who rolled away the stone before the cave to reveal that Christ had risen from the dead.
 ''I'm going to talk about the stones that need to be rolled away from the tombs of lives, that are holding us in places of death and away from God,'' Ms. Lind said. ''One of the main stones in our churches, synagogues, mosques, communities, countries, world is the pervasive stone of racism. What Obama has done is moved the stone a little bit. 
 ''I will ask our congregation to look at the stones in our lives,'' she said.
 Some ministers said their congregants were focused not on white racism, but on Mr. Wright's remarks. The Rev. Dean Snyder, pastor of Foundry United Methodist church, which was the Clintons' home church during President Bill Clinton's tenure, said some of his congregants were aghast at Mr. Wright's remarks. 
 During staff meetings this week at his church, Mr. Snyder said he noticed the rising awareness among some African-Americans of white Americans, he said, ''who don't understand the history of black people in this country and the role of the black church as a prophetic voice, and that in church you can say things that you couldn't in larger society.''
 The Rev. Kent Millard of St. Luke's United Methodist Church in Indianapolis said he felt Mr. Obama had explained the reality of the relationship between a pastor and his congregants. 
 ''Senator Richard Lugar, the ranking Republican on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, is member of our congregation, and I would hope he would never be held accountable for everything I have said in the last 15 years,'' said Dr. Millard, who is white. ''Why is there any assumption that a person in church is expected to agree with everything a pastor says?''
 Some black ministers said that their sermons might address how the reputation of a man many of them revere was reduced to sound bites. They pointed out that sermons in black churches covered a long and circuitous path from crisis to resolution, and it was unfair to judge the entire message on one or two sentences. 
 ''I may not use his exact language,'' said the Rev. Kenneth L. Samuel, pastor of Victory Church in Stone Mountain, Ga., ''but I can tell you that the basic thrust of much of my preaching resonates with Dr. Wright. I don't think I'm necessarily trying to preach people into anger, but I am trying to help people become conscious, become aware, to realize our power to make change in society.''
 Mr. Samuel said his Easter sermon would be titled ''Dangerous Proclamations,'' and would focus on the Apostle Paul, ''who was also under attack for his faith in Jesus, and for preaching the Resurrection.''
 The Rev. Floyd Flake, senior pastor of Greater Allen African Methodist Episcopal Cathedral of New York in Queens, said, ''The black preacher's role is to present a prophetic word that represents a challenge, but also to give a priestly response that enables people to resolve the problem.'' (Mr. Flake, a former member of Congress, has publicly endorsed Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton.) 
 On Easter, one of the nation's foremost preachers, the Rev. James A. Forbes, senior minister emeritus at the Riverside Church in New York, said he would take Mr. Wright's place preaching the 6 p.m. service at Trinity in Chicago. Dr. Forbes plans to preach about how the nation is in a ''night season,'' a dark, destabilizing time, given the war, the economy and the vitriol over race and gender in the political primary.
 ''It is nighttime in America,'' Dr. Forbes said, ''and I want to bring a word of encouragement.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Rev. Kenneth L. Samuel of Stone Mountain, Ga.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID WALTER BANKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A1)
The Rev. Kenneth L. Samuel said he would address Barack Obama's recent speech about race in his sermon this Easter Sunday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID WALTER BANKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Monsignor Patrick Bishop at Transfiguration Catholic Church, which has become more diverse.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIK S. LESSER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 The Rev. Kent Millard of St. Luke's United Methodist Church in Indianapolis says churchgoers may disagree with their pastor.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TOM STRATTMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. 17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EASTER SEASON (92%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); RELIGION (90%); CHRISTIAN HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (60%); TERRORISM (60%); CITY LIFE (60%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (60%); MOUNTAINS (51%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JEREMIAH A WRIGHT JR (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (78%) INDIANA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2008



594 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 604 words

HEADLINE: Millionaires Have Range Of Opinions On Tax Plan

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
The fourth floor of Bergdorf Goodman, where Oscar de la Renta suits and Valentino gowns wait to be given proper Upper East Side homes, has a clientele that possesses few reservations about spending money.
 But how about spending more money on income taxes?
 ''I'm happy to do it,'' said Arlyn Gardner, who did not hesitate to declare herself wholly in favor of a plan to raise income taxes on New Yorkers who earn more than $1 million a year. (That would include Ms. Gardner, a prominent philanthropist who splits her time between two homes, one on Fifth Avenue and one in Rye, N.Y.) 
 ''I read about it, and I thought, 'A lot of people won't agree with this.' But I say, 'Why not?' We pay taxes to help those who need it.''
 Donald Trump is one who does not agree with the idea. ''Foolish,'' as he put it in a recent telephone interview. ''I think it's a great idea -- if you are looking to force rich people to move to states like Florida,'' said Mr. Trump, dismissing the notion that the wealthy should be expected to shoulder the burden when times get tough. 
 ''In times of financial distress, the rich get hurt also,'' Mr. Trump added.
 Such is the rift between the haves and the have-mores in New York today. But it's an argument that goes at least as back as far as 1776, when Adam Smith wrote in ''The Wealth of Nations'': ''It is not very unreasonable that the rich should contribute to the public expense.''
 In 2008, the argument for the ''millionaires' tax,'' which is being proposed by Democrats in the State Assembly, is something like this: Tack on an extra percentage point to the income tax rate of someone like Rupert Murdoch, who earned $23.9 million in the last fiscal year from his News Corporation salary and bonus, and the state can make an extra $200,000. That is enough to pay the salaries of about a half-dozen New York Police Department rookies.
 Of course, if you throw in the other income that contributes to Mr. Murdoch's estimated $8.8 billion net worth, the additional tax revenue could probably pay for at least a couple of new nurses or toll collectors.
 The additional tax revenue from former Gov. Eliot Spitzer's $1.97 million in income in 2006 -- earned mostly from rental property along Madison Avenue that he owns with his family -- would be nearly $17,000, or about the cost of one unequipped police cruiser.
 Add up all the new tax revenue -- from the Trumps and Murdochs and Jeters and 26,000 other New Yorkers who earn more than $1 million a year -- and the state would be able to make an extra $1.5 billion, according to some of the plan's supporters. 
 But whether the tax ever goes into effect is far from certain. It faces opposition from Albany to Avenue of the Americas, where one of Mr. Murdoch's newspapers, The New York Post, has its offices.
 The paper's editorial page wrote recently that the plan was ''reckless'' and ''a harebrained plot,'' although a spokesman for Mr. Murdoch pointed out that those views reflected those of the newspaper's editorial board and not Mr. Murdoch, who declined to comment.
 In Albany, the majority leader of the Republican-controlled State Senate, Joseph L. Bruno, has also said the plan is a non-starter. 
 David A. Paterson, sworn in as governor last week, has not entirely ruled it out.
 But cold, hard economic realities have a way of changing minds. 
 ''The real question is what are the alternatives?'' said Mark Zandi, chief economist with Moody's Economy.com. ''If you want to raise revenue in difficult times, you're almost invariably going to have to raise taxes on wealthy people because that's where the money is.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (91%); TAX LAW (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); RENTAL PROPERTY (73%); POLICE FORCES (73%); TAX INCREASES (72%); INTERVIEWS (67%); BONUS PAY (60%)

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (81%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (81%); NWS (ASX) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (81%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (81%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (81%)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (76%); OSCAR DE LA RENTA (73%); ELIOT SPITZER (55%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (50%); ADAM SMITH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2008



595 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 967 words

HEADLINE: At Cineplexes, Sports, Opera, Maybe a Movie

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- Movie theaters are not just for movies anymore.
Coming soon will be broadcasts of live baseball games, rock concerts, classic TV shows and an array of other offerings not associated with the silver screen.
From nickelodeons to drive-ins to multiplexes, American movie theaters have always evolved with the times. But the latest evolution, set off by stagnating attendance and advances in digital technology, marks the first time that movie theaters have reinvented themselves without motion pictures as the centerpiece.
''Exhibitors are heading toward showing more than just movies faster than anyone expected,'' said Ted Mundorff, chief executive of Landmark Theaters, which operates multiplexes in California, Texas and New York, among other states. ''Live simulcasts of sporting events or whatever won't displace the first week of 'Harry Potter,' but they might displace the fifth week.'' 
Chains in Tennessee and New Jersey sell $25 tickets to performances of La Scala operas. AMC and Regal, two of North America's biggest chains, have promoted concerts (Celine Dion), marathons of classic TV shows (''Star Trek'') and seasonal events (the St. Olaf Christmas Festival). On April 24, hundreds of theaters are scheduled to show highlights from the Drum Corps International World Championships.
Few think nonmovie content will supplant movies as the primary reason people trek to the multiplex. Rather, the hope is that all the niche offerings will add up to steady supplemental income.
''I love film, but the simple fact is that we can't count on movie attendance to grow,'' said Thomas W. Stephenson Jr., president of Rave Motion Pictures, which operates theaters in 11 states.
Movie attendance inched up less than 1 percent in 2007, year-over-year, after a narrow increase in 2006 and three previous years of sharp declines -- even as studios pumped out a record number of blockbuster-style pictures. Movie fans bought about 1.42 billion tickets in 2007, according to Media by Numbers, delivering $9.6 billion in revenues.
As televisions get bigger and the gap between a film's theatrical release and DVD release shrinks, exhibitors worry that attendance could slump further. Video on demand poses another threat. Piracy, meanwhile, eats away more than $600 million annually in movie ticket sales, according to the National Association of Theater Owners.
Exhibitors have long sought to come up with new ways to fill seats. Renting out auditoriums for meetings gained popularity a decade ago. And some theaters have experimented with nonmovie content for years. Screenvision, a New York company that sells on-screen advertising for more than 1,900 theaters, simulcast the 2003 MTV Movie Awards to a handful of theaters.
What is different now? The economic need is greater, and the technology needed to show live broadcasts and high-definition films is now accessible enough, and reliable enough, to make this a real market, operators say.
About 5,000 movie screens in the United States are equipped with digital projectors, up from 200 just three years ago. Within the next two years, that number is expected to be 10,000. Digital projection systems, while expensive, give theaters the ability to pull off live, high-definition simulcasts -- and also open the door for 3-D presentation, something that is expected to lift their core movie business.
''We can now replicate Carnegie Hall across the country,'' said Matthew Kearney, the chief executive of Screenvision.
Perhaps not exactly. But a $40 ticket to hear the New York Philharmonic play at Carnegie Hall gets patrons a balcony seat. At a multiplex, for half that price, customers would get digital surround-sound and a close-up view.
Simulcasts of the Metropolitan Opera over the last year helped turn the tide. National CineMedia, a competitor of Screenvision, said nearly 300,000 people attended screenings in 2007, which was the inaugural season; in 2008, simulcasts of Met performances in movie theaters are expected to draw upwards of a million people.
The New York Mets could not have been happier with a simulcast last August at Ziegfeld Theater in New York, where a live organist and the team mascot led viewers in singalongs as though they were in the ballpark.
''Tickets to watch the game in the theater sold out so quickly that we're in talks to do a bunch more of them this summer,'' said Dave Howard, executive vice president for business operations for the Mets.
Doug and Margarita Gibson, on the other hand, were annoyed two weeks ago during a Landmark simulcast of a Tennis Channel exhibition match between Pete Sampras and Roger Federer. The couple paid $20 for tickets only to discover that the event was not shown in high-definition as advertised. Also, a technical problem interrupted the match for 10 minutes after the first set.
''Next time, we will just stay home and watch it,'' said Mr. Gibson, who asked for, and received, a refund.
Marketing is the biggest puzzle that operators need to figure out, said Jeffrey B. Logsdon, an entertainment analyst at BMO Capital Markets. Trying to contain costs, most have relied on advertising on their Web sites and in movie listings. Still, most people do not think to seek this kind of content at the movies, he said.
Consumer psychology, Mr. Logsdon says, plays as big a role in the shift as economics. Operators want people to think of theaters as vibrant, busy places. But when weekends account for 70 percent of movie ticket sales, multiplex parking lots spend a lot of time sitting empty.
''We want people to get used to coming into our building,'' said Shari Redstone, president of National Amusements, the operator of 1,500 screens and the parent company of both Viacom and CBS. ''It's less 'let's be a movie theater' and more 'let's be a community entertainment destination.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: When Pete Sampras and Roger Federer played recently, some fans took in the match with surround-sound at the movies.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KELLY SHIMODA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. 16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (91%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); MOVIE THEATERS (90%); TICKET SALES (89%); FILM (89%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (78%); MOVIE REVENUES (78%); BASEBALL (78%); POP & ROCK (78%); SPORTS (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); FESTIVALS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); CINEMA ADVERTISING (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); VIDEO ON DEMAND (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); CHRISTMAS (66%); THEATER (58%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: DRUM CORPS INTERNATIONAL (55%)

PERSON: ROGER FEDERER (59%); CELINE DION (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2010



596 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; MAN IN THE NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1150 words

HEADLINE: Discipline First for Taiwan's New Leader

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: TAIPEI, Taiwan 

 BODY:
Growing up in Taiwan as the only boy among five children, Ma Ying-jeou bore the weight of his father's expectations.
 The elder Mr. Ma, determined that his son be a broad-minded gentleman with a sense of national purpose, demanded that he study the Chinese classics and spend hours after school every day mastering Chinese calligraphy. And the father, a champion runner in high school and college, took him on long runs during his late teens after initially viewing him as too lazy to achieve athletic success.
 Out of that upbringing came a fiercely determined man who sleeps five hours a night, jogs regularly at dawn -- and on Saturday won the presidency of Taiwan. 
 ''Although at the time I felt very much -- well, sometimes -- bothered, looking back I appreciate his role,'' Mr. Ma, now 57, said Sunday in an interview, recalling the many evenings he spent practicing brush strokes. 
 President-elect Ma Ying-jeou (roughly pronounced Ma ING-gee-oh) will need that energy and discipline to lead Taiwan, having created high expectations during the campaign. Despite pledging to improve trade relations and calm military and diplomatic tensions with the mainland, he continues to castigate its leaders for human rights abuses and supports the Dalai Lama's calls for Tibetan autonomy.
 He has promised to stimulate Taiwan's struggling economy by opening trade with China and letting in Chinese tourists, but now faces a global economic slowdown. He also has promised to run a clean government. But he leads a party with a long history of corruption and thuggery so ingrained that when Mr. Ma tried to investigate illegal deals while justice minister in the mid-1990s, he quickly lost his job and temporarily had to leave politics. He was an assistant professor at a local university for about a year before he came back by being elected mayor of Taipei. 
 Throughout his career, Mr. Ma, who has a doctorate in legal studies from Harvard, has taken legally precise positions that sometimes have been politically popular and sometimes have not.
 ''He's very lawyerly, and his first reaction to events is to fall back on principles and the legal ramifications,'' said Douglas H. Paal, who was the director from 2002 to 2006 of the American Institute in Taiwan, which handles American diplomatic interests here in the absence of full diplomatic relations. ''It has given him an ability to respond to any issue that comes up in Taiwan, and there seems to be one every three days.''
 Rebuilding Taiwan's relationship with its longtime protector, the United States, is part of a difficult balancing act that awaits Mr. Ma as he prepares for his inauguration on May 20.
 Mr. Ma said Sunday that he wanted to negotiate confidence-building military procedures with China to reduce the risk of an accidental war and eventually a peace agreement ending hostilities across the Taiwan Strait.
 But he also needs to allay the suspicions of American conservatives who value Taiwan as a strategic counterweight to China and who remain distrustful of Mr. Ma's Nationalist Party because of its reluctance for years to approve the purchase of submarines and other military hardware first offered by President Bush in 2001.
 Mr. Ma plans to seek close relations with Japan, another important ally of the United States and one that shares the American commitment to preserving the status quo in the Taiwan Strait. But he has also long infuriated Japan by contending that it should hand over a cluster of small islands to Taiwan, known in Japan as the Senkaku Islands and to Chinese speakers as the Diaoyu Islands. He even wrote his doctoral dissertation at Harvard on the subject.
 At a news conference on Sunday morning, Mr. Ma offered a mechanism and some thoughts on a formula for achieving a peace agreement with the mainland. For starters, he said, negotiations should be handled through two semiofficial foundations set up with government backing in the early 1990s: the Straits Exchange Foundation, which Mr. Ma helped establish on the Taiwan side, and Beijing's Association for Relations Across the Taiwan Straits.
 Using such groups to conduct talks, instead of government agencies, is like shaking hands while wearing white gloves, Mr. Ma said. ''If you wear a white glove, it is still courteous, but it is not your actual flesh,'' he said.
 The trickier task is to find a formula that balances Beijing's position that Taiwan is a breakaway province and Taiwan's position that it is a sovereign country and the legal continuation of the Republic of China. The Republic of China was the formal name for China after the end of imperial rule in 1912 and during the time that the Kuomintang, or Nationalist Party, governed the country. The Nationalists lost China's civil war to Mao's Communist Party and fled to Taiwan in 1949. 
 Mr. Ma said that he accepted the so-called 1992 consensus, in which Taiwanese and mainland officials reached an understanding, never issued as a formal document, that there is one China but that the two sides interpret what that means differently.
 He also offered another approach, saying that sovereignty issues were too hard to resolve but that each side would have to move beyond denying the legal existence of the other. He described this approach as ''mutual nondenial'' but provided few details.
 Ma Ying-jeou was born on July 13, 1950, the son of a mid-ranking functionary in the Nationalist Party. Mr. Ma earned a bachelor of laws degree from National Taiwan University, a master of laws from New York University and a doctor of juridical science degree from Harvard. 
 After obtaining his doctorate, Mr. Ma became a translator for President Chiang Ching-kuo and rose quickly through the Nationalist Party ranks. Mr. Ma became the party's deputy secretary general just three years later. 
 He may be at a disadvantage in reassuring Taiwan's people that he can strike a hard bargain with Beijing because he comes from a mainland family and was born in Hong Kong. He said Sunday morning at a news conference that he had a Taiwan connection from the start nonetheless.
 ''I was biologically conceived in Taiwan, although I was born in Hong Kong, so technically I was made in Taiwan,'' he said.
 Mr. Ma's wife, Chow Mei-ching, is a lawyer for a government-controlled Taiwanese bank and takes pride in riding the bus to work every day. 
 Ms. Chow put her husband through Harvard by working as a research assistant, an assistant librarian and even as maitre d'hotel at a Chinese restaurant. They have two grown daughters, both living in the United States.
 Two of the earliest signs of a likely thaw in relations with Beijing may be shaggy and four-legged: Mr. Ma said Taiwan would be happy to accept China's three-year-old offer of two pandas. ''We have already prepared our zoo for that purpose,'' Mr. Ma said. ''We've already trained our employees to grow the bamboo they eat.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President-elect Ma Ying-jeou of Taiwan, left, and his running mate, Vincent Siew, on Sunday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NICKY LOH/REUTERS) CHART: PROFILE Chart is a profile of president-elect.(Source: Taiwan Government Information Office) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (79%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); INTERVIEWS (73%); POLITICS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); CORRUPTION (70%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); MAYORS (69%); LEGAL EDUCATION (67%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (66%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); DISMISSALS (62%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (51%)

PERSON: DALAI LAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIPEI, TAIWAN (94%) XIZANG, CHINA (58%) TAIWAN (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); TIBET (79%); CHINA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2008



597 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: Do-It-Yourself Logos for Proud Scion Owners

BYLINE: By LYNNLEY BROWNING

 BODY:
TOYOTA likes to think of its quirky, boxy Scion as a 21st-century chariot of the soul -- not just an affordable car, but also a unique expression of the young, hip person who Toyota hopes is driving it.
 Now Toyota's Scion enthusiasts will have even more ''me time'': a marketing campaign with an underground vibe that is intended to show just how much their chosen transportation reflects their personality. 
 With an eye to the social networking ethos that has made Facebook and MySpace wildly popular, Toyota will let Scion owners design their own personal ''coat of arms'' online, a piece of owner-generated art that is meant to reflect their job, hobbies and -- um, O.K. -- karma. 
 In making their personalized crests, Scion owners can choose from among hundreds of symbols, all designed by a professional graffiti artist. The symbols range from an eagle, a jester, a king's crown and a worker's fist to Japanese anime-style flowers, a three-person family and a yin-yang circle. Customers can download their designs and have them made into window decals or take them to an auto airbrushing shop to have them professionally painted onto their cars.
 The Scion is an economy car aimed at younger, stylish drivers, and the design Web site, scionspeak.com, is free. But Scion enthusiasts must pay for the auto shop renderings of their design, an indulgence that can cost thousands of dollars. 
 The campaign, called Scion Speak, was created by StrawberryFrog, an advertising and marketing agency based in New York and Amsterdam that is known for its quirkiness and for representing new or hipster brands. The agency spent six months last year escorting a graffiti artist, Tristan Eaton, around New York, Los Angeles and other cities to talk to Scion owners about their lifestyles. Based on those conversations, Mr. Eaton designed the symbols. 
 ''These guys love to personalize their cars, and we give them a tool to do that,'' said Kevin McKeon, the executive creative director of StrawberryFrog in New York. 
 At the same time, Scion Speak is meant to be about more than the individual. ''We brought the people we're communicating with into the process and had them build the idea with us,'' Mr. McKeon said. ''That's what we find particularly cool from our perspective.''
 StrawberryFrog's clients have included Old Navy and Morgan Stanley. The agency was called upon last month to introduce Mahindra, the first line of cars made in India to be sold in the United States. StrawberryFrog helped to introduce SmartCar, a Mercedes brand, in Europe, and it is the main agency for Mitsubishi Motors.
 With Scion Speak, Toyota is jumping into one of the hottest nascent fields for marketers: harnessing, imitating and creating social networks to promote a brand.
 As social networking Web sites like Friendster, MySpace and Facebook have risen to popularity, consumer brand companies have been trying to figure out where they can fit in. 
 Social networking for brand marketers ''is all very unexplored territory,'' said Jim Nail, the chief strategy and marketing officer of Cymfony, a unit of TNS Media Intelligence, in Boston. ''These places have been for individuals to connect with one another, and brands have been relatively absent. But the benefit of it is having that very intimate direct conversation with customers.''
 Mr. McKeon of StrawberryFrog said that Scion Speak reflected social networking trends because it revolved around input from what he called a rabid base of Scion lovers. In one group, fans call themselves ''Scikotics,'' in another ''a cult without the Kool-aid.''
 The ''wrong way'' to engage in social marketing, Mr. McKeon said, was to ''create an artificial social network and try to draw people to it. You have to walk into the conversation, and if they're talking about Britney Spears, you can't say, 'By the way, do you want to hear about my new car?' '' 
 The Scion Speak campaign is aimed not at future Scion owners but at current ones. StrawberryFrog says that it wants ''to reduce Scion's investment on conquering new customers and increasing the passion for the brand among its core fan base.''
 At least some Scion owners who have created their own coats of arms seem pleased with the results. A Scion driver, writing online as Monsterslovecandy, created a design that included a harlequin pattern, crossed wrenches and a phoenix, and wrote on a fan Web site, ''I think it came out freaking sweet.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Scion drivers can have their coats of arms painted on their cars.
 A new Web site for the Toyota brand Scion lets users design a coat of arms. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); SOCIAL MEDIA (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (88%); VISUAL ARTISTS (88%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (79%); MOTOR VEHICLES (79%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (76%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); ANIMATION (68%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (57%); MORGAN STANLEY (51%); MITSUBISHI MOTORS CORP (50%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (57%); MS (NYSE) (51%); 7211 (TSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (53%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); INDIA (79%); EUROPE (74%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2008



598 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 863 words

HEADLINE: The War Endures, But Where's The Media?

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

 BODY:
Five years later, the United States remains at war in Iraq, but there are days when it would be hard to tell from a quick look at television news, newspapers and the Internet.
 Media attention on Iraq began to wane after the first months of fighting, but as recently as the middle of last year, it was still the most-covered topic. Since then, Iraq coverage by major American news sources has plummeted, to about one-fifth of what it was last summer, according to the Project for Excellence in Journalism.
 The drop in coverage parallels -- and may be explained by -- a decline in public interest. Surveys by the Pew Research Center show that more than 50 percent of Americans said they followed events in Iraq ''very closely'' in the months just before and after the war began, but that slid to an average of 40 percent in 2006, and has been running below 30 percent since last fall. 
 Experts offer many other explanations for the declining media focus, like the danger and expense in covering Iraq, and shrinking newsroom budgets. In the last year, a flagging economy and the most competitive presidential campaign in memory have diverted attention and resources. 
 ''Vietnam held the media's attention a lot better because it was a war with a draft that touched a lot more people; people were sent against their will, and many more Americans were killed,'' said Alex S. Jones, director of the Joan Shorenstein Center on the Press, Politics and Public Policy at Harvard.
 ''In a conventional war, like World War II, there's dramatic change, a moving front line, a compelling narrative,'' he said. But after the triumphal first months, Iraq became a war of insurgents vs. counterinsurgents, harder to make sense of, ''with more of the same grim news, day after day.''
 The three broadcast networks' nightly newscasts devoted more than 4,100 minutes to Iraq in 2003 and 3,000 in 2004, before leveling off at about 2,000 a year, according to Andrew Tyndall, who monitors the broadcasts and posts detailed breakdowns at tyndallreport.com. And by the last months of 2007, he said, the broadcasts were spending half as much time on Iraq as earlier in the year.
 Since the start of last year, the Project for Excellence in Journalism, a part of the nonprofit Pew Research Center, has tracked reporting by several dozen major newspapers, cable stations, broadcast television networks, Web sites and radio programs. Iraq accounted for 18 percent of their prominent news coverage in the first nine months of 2007, but only 9 percent in the following three months, and 3 percent so far this year.
 The policy debate in Washington that dominated last year's Iraq coverage has almost disappeared from the news. And reporting on events in Iraq has fallen by more than two-thirds from a year ago.
 The drop accelerated with a sharp decline in violence in Iraq that began at the end of last summer. The last six months have been safer for American troops than any comparable period since the war began, with about 33 killed each month, compared with about 91 a month over the previous year.
 ''The available news hole got so much smaller because election and economic news took up so much of the space,'' said Andrew Kohut, director of the Pew Center.
 There are no authoritative figures for most media coverage before 2007. But a check of several large and midsize newspapers' archives shows a year-by-year decline in articles about Iraq, and an increase in the proportion supplied by wire services. Experts who follow the coverage say there is no doubt about the trend.
 ''I was getting on average three to five calls a day for interviews about the war'' in the first years, said Michael E. O'Hanlon, a senior fellow on national security at the Brookings Institution. ''Now it's less than one a day.''
 He argued that Americans who support the war might not have wanted to follow the news when it was bad, and that Americans against the war are less interested now that the news is better. And the presidential candidates, he said, have shown ''surprisingly little interest in discussing it in detail.''
 Many news organizations have fewer people in Iraq than they once did, though no definitive numbers are available. Coalition officials have said that although there were several hundred reporters embedded with military units early in the war, the number has been measured in tens in recent months.
 Violence against journalists makes reporting on Iraq costly and difficult; executives of The New York Times have said that the newspaper is spending more than $3 million a year to cover Iraq. The risks have forced news organizations to hire private security forces and Iraqi employees who can go places that Westerners cannot safely explore.
 From the start of the war through 2005, journalists and their support workers were killed in Iraq at a rate of one every 12 days, according to tallies kept by the nonprofit Committee to Protect Journalists. In 2006 and 2007, the rate was one every eight days. Most of those killed have been Iraqis. 
 ''Danger and the expense are gigantic factors,'' Mr. Jones said. ''The news media have to constantly revisit how much money and risk to expend.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IRAQ WAR (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); NEWS REPORTING (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (74%); NETWORK TELEVISION (74%); WORLD WAR II (73%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); CABLE TELEVISION (72%); BUDGETS (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2008



599 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; BIG CITY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 931 words

HEADLINE: Unused Hospital Supplies Get Second Chance Overseas

BYLINE: By SUSAN DOMINUS. 
E-mail: susan.dominus@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Already confounded by their own bodies' insurrections, patients entering hospitals find themselves in a system thick with new codes and contradictions. There's the feeling of widespread economy, in the canned peas and abrasive sheets, clashing with signs of protocol-inspired excess -- the pileup of unused supplies, still wrapped in plastic, that get thrown away with the trash after every operation.
 It's true that there's sometimes money to be made, or at least saved, in hospital waste, but the reasons for that often lie outside a hospital's control. Someone comes up with a better, cheaper gauze, but demands that the hospital use only that gauze the moment the contract takes effect. Out with all the old gauze, barrels of it -- off to the dump. Or a manufacturer won't provide a warranty for some sutures once the outer layer of plastic is off, even if the inner layer of plastic keeps them sterile. Someone has crunched the numbers and decided the hospital can't take the risk of liability; out with the unused sutures. 
 Check into a hospital, and mostly by just lying in bed, you'll generate, on average, 25 pounds of waste a day, according to Hospitals for a Healthy Environment, an environmental advocacy group. Some portion of that waste is safe, fully functioning and no doubt desperately needed somewhere in the world. 
 This system seems patently crazy, but no more crazy than so much else about the through-the-rabbit-hole world of medicine, and probably equally complicated.
 Danielle Butin, a recently downsized managed care executive, started to think in October that she could maybe blast through some of that impenetrable hospital logic with the simplest of solutions. She had time; she had a car. Maybe she could take some of those goods off some New York hospitals' hands and figure out a way to get them someplace they were needed. 
 After losing her job last summer, Ms. Butin had spent a month vacationing in Tanzania, and everywhere she went, she'd run into doctors on vacations from missions who were appalled by the lack of supplies where they worked. 
 ''What would you do with, say, a young boy who's got an open sore on his foot?'' she asked a doctor who'd been working in Uganda. Wrap it with a surgical glove, the doctor told her -- probably one that had already been used and cleaned several times. In October, Ms. Butin started calling around to hospitals. Yes, come, the guys in inventory control told her at NewYork-Presbyterian and Memorial Sloan-Kettering, among other New York hospitals. Come next week, said one manager. Bring a truck, said another. A very big truck.
 ''I didn't even have to make a pitch,'' said Ms. Butin, 44, who has a degree in public health. ''Everybody got it right away.'' (NewYork-Presbyterian's Columbia and Weill Cornell hospitals both declined to comment, given how recently the collaboration started; Sloan-Kettering also declined to comment.) 
 Making weekly trips around the city in a truck that her partner, a photographer in Yonkers, usually drove, Ms. Butin quickly started filling some cheap warehouse space she'd found in Yonkers with boxes and boxes of surgical gloves, sponges, tape and other paraphernalia.
 IF the hospital staffers caught on to the idea right away, that's also partly because many hospitals now have some kind of student group that makes the same kind of effort, or an employee who voluntarily champions the cause. But in New York, there is no organization regularly and reliably serving as a clearinghouse for all the hospitals, processing the inventory before sending it overseas the way an Atlanta group called Medshare does in that city. 
 In any case, Ms. Butin quickly learned that whatever recycling of surplus the hospitals were already doing internally, there was still enough slipping through the cracks, destined for waste management, that she felt she could help.
 ''Hospitals in New York are conscientious about this issue,'' said Ms. Butin, ''but it's their job to deliver care, not spend all their time worrying about how to get surplus to Africa.''
 Ms. Butin knew enough to know just how much she didn't know, and contacted Partners in Health, an established medical nonprofit agency that works in developing nations. She started trying to fill a wish list provided by a hospital Partners in Health worked with in Haiti, where the agency would send her supplies and ensure safe distribution. 
 Ms. Butin, who calls her new project Afya Foundation of America -- afya is Swahili for health -- doesn't believe in wasting supplies. She doesn't believe in wasting time, either. In the time it takes her to get from the first floor of a hospital to the 17th, she'll grill a nurse on the elevator about how to tell the difference between an operating room table and a heavy-duty stretcher (the table is heavier). If she's waiting for a Jamba Juice at Whole Foods, she'll ask the store manager if the market would donate cooking supplies for the kitchens of overseas hospitals in need (yes, she eventually heard from the Union Square store). It's a straightforward system, really: She asks, and usually, people say yes.
 Accustomed to a corporate pace, Ms. Butin works fast. Her first 40-foot container full of supplies went out to Haiti on March 13. She's still waiting for her nonprofit tax exemption, and she has a lot to figure out, like how to sort her onslaught of inventory, how to expand and how to find a free meat grinder, a last urgent item requested by that hospital kitchen in Haiti. 
 By the time she has figured it out, she will have made it all look obvious. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Danielle Butin greases up a donated wheelchair at her warehouse in Yonkers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID GOLDMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSPITALS (90%); MEDICAL WASTE & BIOHAZARDS (78%); WOUND CARE (75%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (65%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); UGANDA (79%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2008



600 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1219 words

HEADLINE: Journalist in Pellicano Case Will Get Her Day in Court

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
The long series of events leading to the trial of the Hollywood private investigator Anthony Pellicano on charges of racketeering and wiretapping began on June 20, 2002, when a journalist, Anita M. Busch, found a note saying ''Stop'' taped to her car, a fish and a rose in a tin tray on the hood, a bulletlike hole piercing the windshield. 
 Nearly six years later, Ms. Busch will finally take the witness stand to tell her side.
 Once a star reporter for Variety, later editor of The Hollywood Reporter and a freelancer for The New York Times, Ms. Busch, 46, had kept silent as an investigation into accusations that Mr. Pellicano wiretapped stars, moguls and castoff spouses transfixed Hollywood. But in her first interview before giving her coming testimony, she recounted her gradual transformation from byline to headline and how it derailed her career. 
 The police, she said, ''never doubted me'' when she reported the threat. At the time, she had just finished chronicling the failed comeback of Michael S. Ovitz, the Hollywood talent agent. And she was two weeks into a contract to work for The Los Angeles Times, collaborating on an article about organized-crime links to the entertainment industry. 
 But for months, Ms. Busch said she endured snickers at The Los Angeles Times, and potshots in other news media. An alternative weekly, the now-defunct New Times in Los Angeles, suggested that she had fabricated the threat entirely, and quoted people in the newsroom to that effect. The Washington Post called her the ''Tawana Brawley of the newsroom.''
 ''I was telling the truth, and no one was believing me,'' she said. ''People started questioning whether I had somehow lost my mind. It's hard to take, when you're telling the truth and people are looking at you sideways and laughing in your face.'' 
 Friends saw jealousy at play. Ms. Busch may have been hard-driving -- she had quit The Hollywood Reporter in an ethics dispute -- but she had enviable contacts and a record of breaking news stories.
 ''Some of it seemed pretty fantastical at first,'' said R. Kinsey Lowe, then a Los Angeles Times editor. ''But even paranoid people do have enemies. And she had a way of getting dirt.''
 A day after she found the package, records show, a man with a criminal record called her out of the blue with information about the threat. A private investigator had hired someone else to blow up her car, he told her. As Ms. Busch and her colleagues met with F.B.I. and police officials to consider their next moves, the newspaper's lawyer, Karlene Goller, spoke up with a suggestion.
 Maybe Anthony Pellicano would know something about this, Ms. Goller said, according to two Times employees.
 Ms. Busch insists that Ms. Goller talked of ''bringing aboard'' Mr. Pellicano. 
 Ms. Goller declined to comment, citing lawyer-client confidentiality. But Paul Lieberman, a reporter who heard the suggestion, said he saw nothing untoward in it. ''He was someone that knew'' the criminal element,'' Mr. Lieberman said. 
 A reporter who had long experience with Mr. Pellicano as a news source, Chuck Philips, said he had tried to reach him at Ms. Goller's urging and did not get through. But, he added, it was ''preposterous'' to think Ms. Goller would have proposed hiring him. 
 At this time, Mr. Pellicano was not suspected in the threat against Ms. Busch. But wrongly or rightly, the discussions left her convinced that the paper was too cozy with him.
 At the urging of the police and F.B.I., Ms. Busch stopped using her credit cards and cellphone. She hid at friends' and relatives' homes until August, using calling cards and pay phones to telephone news sources. She also had a remote starter installed in her car.
 On Aug. 13, unknown to Ms. Busch, an F.B.I. informant recorded a suspect saying that the threat on her had not done any good -- she was ''back at it.'' On Aug. 16, she said, two men in a Mercedes tried to run her down outside her apartment. 
 In October 2002, a man was arrested for the June threat. 
 A few weeks later, court records show, a Pacific Bell repairman found ''some equipment'' on her phone lines; a technician later told her it was a wiretap. 
 After badgering Pacific Bell supervisors for more information, she called investigators on her case. By then, the F.B.I. had already raided Mr. Pellicano's offices, looking for evidence of a threat against Ms. Busch. It was the first public disclosure linking Mr. Pellicano to such a threat.
 Ms. Busch's discovery of the tap on her phones, prosecutors say, led to another search of Mr. Pellicano's offices and a new phase of the investigation -- one that metastasized into racketeering and other charges against him and more than a dozen accused co-conspirators. 
 It also cost Ms. Busch dearly. First, she said, she called news informants and friends and told them that their confidentiality had been compromised. Some deserted her, she said. One man broke down, she related, saying he was scared for his life.
 ''It was, literally, watching your career disappear in front of your eyes, and you can't do anything about it,'' Ms. Busch said. 
 As the investigation grew, and major Hollywood figures were caught up in it, Ms. Busch said she began to recuse herself from writing about them, lest she be accused of a conflict. Eventually, for the first time since moving to Los Angeles from Illinois in 1990, she stopped writing about Hollywood altogether.
 Nearly a year later, in April 2004, with just two articles to her name since her grand jury appearance, she resigned.
 ''It was all I ever wanted to do,'' she said of journalism. ''I loved it -- past tense. It just wasn't in me anymore.''
 David Robb, a friend and former colleague, said he believed that Ms. Busch suffered from a form of post-traumatic stress disorder. ''I think she was as much hurt by the reaction of the journalism community as by the death threats,'' he said. ''It was very unnerving. It made her lose faith in journalism. And what does the journalist do who can't do journalism anymore?'' 
 Since then, Ms. Busch has been stuck in time. She is consumed with the documents and details of her case. She still drives the same old car, and has never repaired a small hole inside it, hidden by the sun visor, where, a security expert told her, a listening device was likely to have been installed. Once in a while, she still starts the car from across the street, just in case.
 She has sued Mr. Ovitz, on the notion that he put Mr. Pellicano up to making the threat against her, whether as retaliation for her articles or as a deterrent to future ones. (Mr. Ovitz has long denied any knowledge of Mr. Pellicano's illegal acts. The civil suit is pending on the outcome of the federal criminal trial.)
 Mr. Pellicano still faces trial in state court on charges of threatening Ms. Busch in June 2002. In the racketeering trial now under way, she is expected to take the stand to describe how her career became undone at his hands.
 For now, unable to find permanent unemployment, Ms. Busch does research, marketing and other odd jobs. She has sold one piece of creative writing, but does not want to say anything more about it. ''I don't really want anybody to know what I'm doing,'' she said. ''I'm trying to find a new career to love.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 26, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about Anita M. Busch, a former reporter who received a threat that began the series of events leading to the trial of a Hollywood private investigator, Anthony Pellicano, misidentified those who doubted her account and called her the ''Tawana Brawley of the newsroom.'' They were people at The Los Angeles Times when she was a contract writer there, according to a 2002 article in The Washington Post, which did not identify them. It was not The Washington Post that referred to her that way.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Anthony Pellicano is being tried on racketeering and wiretapping charges. Anita M. Busch says she has been threatened. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EDWARD CARREON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 GEORGE WILHELM/THE LOS ANGELES TIMES, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); WIRETAPPING (90%); WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); INVESTIGATIVE SERVICES (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); ORGANIZED CRIME (78%); WITNESSES (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); ETHICS (77%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); TALENT AGENTS (73%); POLICE FORCES (68%)

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (93%); WASHINGTON POST CO (54%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (93%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (93%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (54%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (54%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2008

 
